28-11-2021||WE have just returned after a fantastic trip to Lucknow||Magical Lucknow||However, it was the city itself that charmed me. I have a deep connection with Lucknow as my mother lived there for almost 35 years and was an institution in her lifetime. Her old flat and neighbourhood are so deeply imprinted in my mind that I can negotiate my way in that area blindfolded. On my last visit to the city, I was deeply upset to see how this charming bit of old Lucknow was now a shabby, crumbling bit of mouldy buildings. All one saw was the shameless landgrab made by ministers and political parties with statues of elephants and Behenji dominating the area. The old Lucknow of dreamy chattris and domes was slowly fading away.In the Lucknow of my girlhood days, many of these colonial buildings were known by their local Avadhi names: thus, Loreto Convent was called Bhaktin Iskool (its Irish nuns were the bhaktins), the area around La Martiniere was known as Martinpurva (the village of Claud Martin, a famous French mercenary of the Nawabi times), while the old Residency where the Sepoy Mutiny was enacted was called Beli Garad (after the Bailey Guard that protected its white inmates from the mutineers). The zoo was called Zinda Ajayabghar and the museum was known as the Murda Ajayabghar. ‘Gunjing’ was what all the local bankas did when they strutted about Hazratganj, the main shopping avenue.This was the colonial city, but it was in its old city that Lucknow kept its famed tehzeeb (culture) alive with the scents and flavours of its famous kebabs and biryanis, which we always thought were far, far superior to the Mughlai fare of Old Delhi. As for its sweets, where else can you find a balai ki gilori (literally a paan fashioned out of rich creamy layers of milk wrapped around delicately cut dry fruits and misri), or the kulfi nimish (a more refined version of Delhi’s Daulat ki Chaat), a frothy concoction of milk foam and nuts and saffron? If you haven’t ever tasted the chaat of Lucknow, then you haven’t lived, they say. Its names will tell you what it is like: paani ki phulki, dahi ke batashe, matar ki chaat, baigan ki chaat or palak ki chaat. The aloo tikia and chana I’ve eaten in Lucknow haunt me still.We thought all that was gone but I am delighted to tell you it is all there. Of course, the old professionals (such as the King of Chaat thelawala or the Bade Miyan near the Gymkhana) have vanished but their descendants have kept the magic of the Avadhi cuisine alive. Chowk still has Tunday ke kebab, Ram Asrey’s giloris still melt in the mouth and Kunj Bihari’s samosas are still to die for. By now, you must have guessed that we were on a serious foodie tour, but that’s not all. In the last decade, the restoration of Lucknow’s old buildings and historic monuments has given them a new lease of life. The area around the two magnificent Imambaras has been cleared and its streets cobbled to bring back the aura of those years when ghora garis ferried the gentlefolk to Chowk, and when Avadh was the epicentre of gracious living and grand buildings. The Rumi Darwaza, the Kaiserbagh Baradari (that housed Wajid Ali Shah’s Parikhana) have all been cleansed of the muck and squalor of centuries. I went to this part of Lucknow after almost 60 years and was as enchanted as I was when I went there as a child. Some structures (such as the Satkhanda) have also been lit up beautifully to become visible after ages.I am told that all this, as well as the restoration of the old educational institutions there — Lucknow University, Colvin Taluqedar College, La Martiniere’s for Boys, the Vidhan Sabha and the GPO (to name just a few historic buildings) — were started by Akhilesh Yadav in 2015. They are now an architectural legacy for those millennials who have never studied in schools and colleges that were spread over acres of gardens and lawns.One of my mother’s favourite morning walks was to the Dilkusha Palace area. As a young girl, I was never allowed to go there alone because it was an overgrown wilderness and the infamous goondas of that area would stalk and tease any young woman they could terrorise. Today, it is a glorious garden with spruced-up ruins, gardens lovingly tended and Art Nouveau kind of iron benches. Its lakhori bricks have been revealed after the dreadful cement they were hidden under was peeled away and they have stood the test of this painful violation with a dignity that only old nobility possesses.The city is now in the throes of pre-election noise and political parties busy claiming authorship for work done by someone else. Given the high-decibel slanging matches being exchanged, it will be truly interesting to see who ultimately wins UP in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/magical-lucknow-343540
28-11-2021||DUBAI must be one of the most unusual places in the world. It is one of the seven emirates that comprise the United Arab Emirates (UAE)||Prosperous, no-holds-barred Dubai, and its paradoxes||Due to terrorism and the oppression of women in many societies, Islam is unfortunately associated with backwardness and violence. The UAE is a shining exception, with its modernity and liberal outlook. Dubai has been called “the Singapore of the Arab world”, an apt description. Dubai, like Singapore, is squeaky clean, with top-rate public transport, and matchless financial infrastructure. Above all, it is an entirely safe and law-abiding place to live in. A woman can go out alone late at night without any fear. That cannot be said of many developed western countries.I was in Dubai two decades ago, for almost a year, as editor of a daily newspaper. I was there again recently for a few days. The place was unrecognisable: so many new residential buildings and commercial establishments had come up that I was completely lost and disoriented! This time, I tagged along with my tennis-playing buddy, Juzar Khorakiwala, who was leading a 30-member delegation of the Indian Merchants Chamber from Mumbai. The intention was to visit “EXPO2020”, apart from meeting other chambers of commerce.“Four years ago, this was entirely sand,” says Pankaj Savera, a veteran of the UAE. “Today, the Expo covers 125 acres, double the size of Monaco, with 192 countries participating, making it probably one of the largest of its kind.” Clearly, Dubai likes to think big. A humongous $12 billion (Rs100,000 crore) has been spent on EXPO2020. After its planned six months is over, except for five country pavilions (India’s is one of them), everything will be dismantled and something else will take its place! However, by that time, five crore people are expected to have visited the event.The Indian pavilion, the architect of which is Dikshu Kukreja, is one of the largest, three storeys high, with elevators and lifts. It showcases Indian culture and the nation’s major achievements. Prime Minister Modi features prominently throughout, starting with pictures of him in various yoga positions. The only incongruity I noticed was the varying length of his beard in different pictures. A lady from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) informed us that Rs350 crore had been spent on the pavilion, with FICCI adding another Rs180 crore. However, the Japanese and Saudi pavilions were the bigger attractions, with hour-long queues to get inside.The UAE’s, and in particular Dubai’s, success story is in reality an Indian one. Indian enterprise and hard work have been the major contributors, showing what we as a people can achieve, given the right, hassle-free environment. Of the UAE’s total one crore population, 35 lakh — 35 per cent — are Indians. Pakistanis and Bangladeshis make up most of the other “expatriates”. The estimated 6,80,000 Phillippinos in the UAE have lately been making a major impact, their biggest advantage being their fluency in English and their willingness to “dirty their hands”, if necessary, which Indians and Pakistanis are reluctant to do. Incredibly, only 10 per cent of the UAE population is of native Emiratis. Most of them are highly educated, with progressive ideas. They, along with the Sheikhs and their advisers, provide the enlightened leadership.Malayalis seem to thrive in the UAE, especially the Muslims. Their affinity with another Islamic country is certainly a contributing factor, but it goes beyond that. Kerala’s rampant labour unions and repeated agitations have severely dampened its progress. In the UAE, there are no strikes and unions are not permitted.But there is an ugly side to Dubai that may be hidden, but is very real. Underworld and “black money” flows in unimpeded. Hotels are pointed out to you which are apparently owned by the mafia. Bollywood’s connect with the underworld was often made apparent in Dubai.David Lyon, who spent years reporting on Afghanistan, revealed at the recent online Khushwant Singh Literary Festival that much of the billions of dollars that the US had sent to “contractors” for providing arms and training to the Afghan army had, instead, been diverted illegally to the UAE.A free-wheeling economy operates in the country. You can pay for your purchases by credit card, or cash, no questions asked. No income tax is levied, though there are plenty of indirect taxes. Flesh trade, it is said, operates at top-end hotels. But then, that’s the no-holds-barred Dubai that keeps everybody happy. Along with the obvious, hard and honestly-earned prosperity is the undeniable and thriving underbelly.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/prosperous-no-holds-barred-dubai-and-its-paradoxes-343539
28-11-2021||HE was untidy and un-soldierly in appearance||Masalchi Pratap Singh, alias 'Kairon'||His khaki shorts were a cross between bermudas and cargos. Kairon resembled a grizzly bear, his large feet were always in olive green socks and brown PT shoes that had seen better days. A Masalchi’s job is to fire the stoves, clean the utensils, crockery and cutlery, grind the spices and keep the kitchen clean. Kairon was also nominated to carry food from the Company langars to the Officers’ Mess.He would be up before anyone else, would hammer the coal, stroke the stove and fan it till it kindled; next, he placed a kettle for tea and then woke up the cook. The noise he created was an alarm for us that PT was round the corner. He would then pick up his ‘thaila’ and ‘dolu’ and head for the Company langars to collect breakfast for the Mess staff. The unit lines were less than half a kilometre from the Mess, but it took Kairon a good two hours to make the round trip. He would stop at each langar, exchange ‘gupshup’ and taste the food before heading back. He always gave a bit of information and got some. On return, he would convey the ‘gupshup’ of the unit lines.If in the mood, Kairon would help Pandit or Mohan (both cooks) to chop and slice greens for the officers’ breakfast; if not, he would just potter round the kitchen sink. After we had our breakfast, Kairon was ready for his second round of breakfast. After cleaning the dishes, he invariably rested a while before setting out to collect lunch and more ‘gupshup’. After we would be through with lunch, Kairon would cover the sink with the dirty dishes and rest some more, returning again before the others to stroke the stove for the evening tea and clean the lunch dishes.At times, when the cooks were lazy, Kairon brewed our evening tea. It was easy to guess because his tea always had a masalchi flavour! The food and news collection drill was repeated in the evening, the only difference being that with the dinner came orders for the Mess staff for the next day! Come rain, hail or sunshine, Kairon’s routine rarely altered. Nor did his attire, the only exception being a pullover over his vest during winter.Despite his penchant for ‘gupshup’, Kairon was a man of few words. Once, while travelling in a military special, we juniors contrived that Kairon would report that dinner is served. Possibly for the first time, he was kitted in an olive green uniform, tied a turban and wore boots. He was a sight, as were his disjointed movements. As the poor fellow entered, the compartment resounded with laughter. Kairon was his innocent self, “Main report kihnu dawan, sarey saab tan hassi janday han (Who should I report to, all officers are laughing).”Kairon was a loveable character, the kids of the battalion were especially fond of him. He never missed any sports event in the unit, his cheering was the loudest and most effective.In 1979, Kairon bid farewell to the uniform. A special meal was organised by the bachelors for him. A well-deserved, warm sendoff for someone untidy, but dedicated. After retirement, Kairon took up a job with an Amritsar hospital, from where he has finally retired.Havildar Pratap Singh, our dear ‘Kairon’, much happiness and prosperity to you.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/masalchi-pratap-singh-alias-kairon-343538
28-11-2021||A consultative mechanism has to be evolved to ensure that farmers do not have to sell their produce below certain benchmarks. His product is perishable and needs a ready buyer. It can be damaged by rain||Will repeal of laws be enough?||The land of the five rivers has seen much turbulence over the ages — many conquerors have passed through it. People have suffered but prospered despite them. They have learnt from them, they have overcome them. This is the land of Nanak, whose philosophy has shaped the soul of this land and its people. Guru Nanak, after his many travels, spent the last 17 years of his life tilling his land. Among other sections of society, it is the peasantry today who perhaps are one of the best custodians of his message. They have proved it multiple times in their devotion to ‘langar’ and ‘sewa’, which they have selflessly provided continuously, and whenever a dire situation has arisen, they have been at the forefront.The peasantry, moulded by Nanak’s philosophy of ‘Naam Japo, Kirt Karo, Vand Chhako’, has been at the heart of this country’s Green Revolution and food independence. It has also been the stoic defender of our borders as most of the Army regiments are composed of the sons of these same peasants. For, they are nature’s children, toughened by the elements yet compassionate, as taught by their Gurus, by the Bhakti movement, by the philosophy of Kabir, Farid and Bulle Shah. At no stage did they turn violent, even though their own state branded them as terrorists. The Sikh Regiment, the Jat Regiment, the Punjab Regiment and numerous other formations are composed mainly of rural stock. Tragically, when Lakhimpur Kheri happened, the media reflected this ironically by juxtaposing the eulogy they carried for the soldiers martyred in Kashmir and the farmers murdered in Lakhimpur.More than 500 years ago, Babur invaded India (as usual from the north-west) and inflicted untold misery upon the people. His sacking and slaughter of Saidpur (modern-day Eminabad, near Gujranwala) was a human tragedy of untold proportions. It was Guru Nanak who raised his voice against him and he writes about it in ‘Babur Vani’. As a result of this protest, he was imprisoned and later released. But, the bugle had been sounded for peaceful protests, as can be seen from the martyrdom of Guru Arjun Dev and Guru Teg Bahadur. It is the philosophy of Nanak which expounded a simple yet powerful message that awakened the people of the land and inspired the following lines by Iqbal in his ‘kalam’ on Nanak: ‘Phir uthi akhir sada touheed ki Punjab se; Hind ko ek Mard-e-Kamil ne jagaya kahawab se’ .Continuing the tradition, the present agitation of the farmers of Punjab, Haryana and UP with contributions from some other states also has remained peaceful and focused over such a long period of time. In spite of the multi-hued composition of the protesters, there has been no breakdown of law and order or instances of violence, except for one or two which were the handiwork of agent provocateurs. It was altogether a celebration of brotherhood and all families of farmers of this region were involved in making it a success. The challenges of logistics were huge, viz food, shelter, clothing, transport, water, sanitary problems, etc. Provisions had to be made for hundreds of thousands of people. The leadership was excellent and hands-on and was a collective of all the unions of the region. The leadership kept the farmers well-informed from various public platforms and did not strike any bargain behind their back. Everybody was taken into confidence while arriving at decisions.The values given to us are that all humans are born equal, women are equal to men and that rituals should be eschewed. Then, of course, there are the important concepts of ‘sangat and pangat’, that is to sit together in equality in rows and share a meal. These principles led to the conduct of the protest. People lived together, ate together and women made equal contribution in the ‘langar’, on the stage, in dispensaries, etc, and even led the protests as its vanguard.After almost a year of the agitation, the government has thought it fit to respond in the form of the Prime Minister’s announcement regarding the repeal of these three farm laws on Gurpurb. It was accompanied by an admission that the government was unable to convince a small section of farmers regarding the importance of the farm laws. Not a word was said about the other demands like MSP, withdrawal of cases, compensation for the deceased farmers, justice in the Lakhimpur case, etc. In fact, there was not even a mention of the 700 farmers who died at the borders of Delhi or on the way to and from Delhi. In fact, the Minister of State (Home), whose vehicle was used in the commission of crime, should have been questioned and his statement recorded because the use of his vehicle makes him an accessory to the commission of crime.Coming back to the demands of farmers, I quote from an article in The Tribune, dated November 22, written by a distinguished food and agricultural specialist of the region, Devinder Sharma: “The proposed market reforms in agriculture have failed across countries and continents. From the US to Australia, from Chile to the Philippines, markets have only added to the prevailing agrarian distress. In the US, Canada and elsewhere, markets have only increased farm distress and succeeded in pushing small farmers out of agriculture and turned them into major contributors of greenhouse gas emissions. To believe that the same markets would perform a miracle in India was a fallacy… In 2018, the US Department of Agriculture had worked out that the farmers’ share in every dollar of end consumer price had dropped to just 8 cents, pushing them increasingly towards extinction.” This is not the formulation of a farmer leader or sympathiser. This is the considered analysis of a specialist who has proven himself over decades. Even otherwise, the fear of the farmers was that these laws and subsequent rules would lead to crony corporatisation of agriculture. The abolition of the Zamindari system was done to remove the hegemony of a few feudal lords. These laws threatened the farmers to transit from landowners to landless labourers, which would have put the clock back. With the economy being what it is, the farmers would have joined the millions of unemployed, thus adding to drug addicts and crime.Will a simple repeal of laws be enough? A mechanism has to be evolved in consultation with farmer unions to ensure that the farmers do not have to sell their produce below certain benchmarks. There are too many variables to be countered if the farmer is left to the mercy of nature and market forces. His product is perishable and needs a ready buyer. His product can be damaged by rain, hail, drought, temperature, pollution, to name a few factors. In this era of climate change, these factors become even more complex for a fragile crop. Governments all over the developed world realise this and subsidise and protect their farmers, for there is something quintessential that they realise — the farmer provides the food on which humanity survives and thrives. It is the quality and quantity of this produce that literally distinguishes a developed nation from a poor one. Besides, it provides employment for millions who would otherwise rot in urban ghettos. The vast variety of crops grown in India needs to be protected; we have a rich heritage of diversity and organic produce. Any further agriculture reforms or rules made under these Acts should be done so in consultation with the farm unions and keeping regional diversity in mind. Even the other demands of the farmers, as enunciated by them during the course of this agitation, should be discussed to arrive at just solutions.As we emerge from the pandemic, there are forces of change which have been unleashed by this catastrophic event, coupled with the era of climate change we live in. These forces of change can be felt in the vibrations running through the global financial system and the resultant inflation. Prices of commodities are sky-rocketing, making India’s self-reliance even more important. This financial turbulence has political ramifications. Our agriculture, linked to rural India and the peasantry, is the backbone of this nation, providing us not only with food sufficiency but also giving to us the vitality and strength of their children, who in vast numbers join the Army and paramilitary forces and man our borders. It would be a folly to bring chaos to our heartland and deprive us of our strength.I leave you with Oliver Goldsmith’s words: “But a bold peasantry, their country’s pride, When once destroyed, can never be supplied… but times are altered: trade’s unfeeling train usurp the land and dispossess the swain.”— The writer is ex-chairmanof UPSC, former ManipurGovernor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/will-repeal-of-laws-be-enough-343537
