29-11-2021||---||Wellness remains a matter of chance and choice||The government recently released the findings of the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) which was delayed due to the Covid pandemic. Two of its heartening observations are a fall in India’s total fertility rate (TFR) to below the replacement level of 2.1, and an increase in the sex ratio (females per 1,000 males) to more than 1,000, for the first time. A fall in TFR to 2.0 means two parents are being replaced by two off-spring. It will lead to population stabilisation and possibly to accelerated development. The overall TFR has dropped from 2.2 to 2.0 since NFHS-4, with all states showing a fall except Kerala and Tamil Nadu, which had a marginal increase. While this busts the common notion of population explosion, a cause for concern is that the large states of UP (TFR 2.4) and Bihar (TFR 3.0), which account for close to one-third of India’s population, have TFR higher than the replacement level (2.0).The second positive story is an improvement in the sex ratio. It has increased from 991 in NFHS-4 (2015-18) to 1,020 in NFHS-5 (2019-21). Urban sex ratio (985), however, still remains below rural sex ratio (1,037). Other key health indices which have improved are the infant mortality rate (IMR), which is up to 35.2 compared to 40.7 in the last survey, neonatal mortality rate (24.9 versus 29.5) and under-five year mortality rate (41.9 versus 49.7). The number of institutional births has gone up ten points and the percentage of fully vaccinated children (12-23 months) has gone up to 83.8% from 77.9%. This improvement is consequent to a higher number of antenatal and postnatal visits to health facilities and a higher number of pregnant women receiving supplements. All this reflects better public health infrastructure and delivery.The NFHS-5 fieldwork for India was conducted in two phases, from June 2019 to January 2020, and from January 2020 to April 2021, and gathered information from over 6 lakh households. The survey is large-scale, multi-round conducted in a representative sample of households. The survey provides state and national information on fertility, infant and child mortality, the practice of family planning, maternal and child health, reproductive health, nutrition, anaemia, utilisation and quality of health and family planning services.NFHS-5 had included data on lifestyle diseases like diabetes, hypertension and cancer screening for the first time. Each successive round of the NFHS has had two specific goals: a) to provide essential data on health and family welfare needed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and other agencies for policy decisions; and b) to provide information on important emerging health and family welfare issues.The survey has also looked at anaemia among children and adults as well as nutritional parameters in children. There has been a slight improvement in the latter. The proportion of children under five years with stunted growth resulting from poor nutrition and repeated infections dropped marginally from 38.8% to 35.5% with rural children worse off than urban. Similarly, the proportion of under five-year-old children with wasting (recent and marked weight loss) was marginally lower at 19.3% as compared to 21% in NFHS-4.However, anaemia in under-five-year children has increased from 58.8% to 67%. The same trend was seen in adult men (25% versus 22.7%) and adult women (57% versus 53.1%). In the northern states, Punjab has the highest prevalence of anaemia among men (22.6%) and Chandigarh (75.9%) among women. In contrast, the figures for Kerala are 17.8% for men and 36.3% for women. A part of the under-nutrition and anaemia can be attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic with lockdowns and loss of earning capacity, but other factors too need attention.NFHS-5 has also looked at hypertension and diabetes mellitus for the first time. Alarmingly, 15.6% of men and 13.5% of women screened had blood sugar elevated or were consuming drugs to lower the blood sugar. In the northern states, the prevalence of diabetes varied from 11.9% to 19% in men and 13.5% to 16.6% in women. Kerala tops the list for men at 22.1% and Tamil Nadu for women at 24.8%. All northern states also had higher than national prevalence of hypertension with Punjab at top at 37.7% for men and 31.2% for women.A sizeable population (24% women and 22.9% men) suffer from being overweight or obese (body mass index of more than 25kg/sq metre), there being a 4% increase since the last survey. Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh had a higher prevalence of obesity than the national average with Chandigarh being on top with 44% of men and 34.4% of women having a BMI greater than 25 kg/sq metre. Kerala has the dubious distinction of highest prevalence of obesity in both men and women among the states.There is a dichotomy in disease spectrum in India, as on the one hand, malnutrition afflicts poorer states, and on the other, lifestyle diseases affect prosperous states. It is disconcerting to note that obesity, hypertension and diabetes, all lifestyle diseases are increasing in India. According to the WHO, there are four major risk factors for non-communicable diseases — alcohol, tobacco, poor diet and lack of physical activity. Over 60% of deaths in India are now attributed to lifestyle diseases with 26% of all deaths happening due to cardiovascular diseases (heart attack, stroke etc.). There has been an enormous increase in the proportion of deaths due to ischemic heart disease (40.8%), diabetes (54.2%), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (35%) and stroke (28.4%) between 2009 and 2019. During this period, diarrhoeal, infectious and neonatal diseases have shown a downward trend. What is worrisome is that lifestyle diseases are increasingly being seen in rural areas now.Cancer is the other non-communicable disease increasing in India. Close to 20 lakh new cases of cancer are reported every year with air pollution, tobacco, alcohol, obesity and diet accounting for many of these. NFHS-5, for the first time, has also looked at screening for some of the common cancers like breast, cervix and oral cancer. Strikingly, only 1-2% of the subjects questioned had undergone screening tests to detect three of these common cancers.The government has initiated schemes like Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman, Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matrutava Abhiyan and Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram apart from the PM-JAY/Ayushman Bharat scheme to address many of the health issues. The findings and other recent data suggest that India needs to work more on nutritional deficiencies, on women’s health and at the same time on non-communicable diseases as well. For the latter, it is imperative that people are made aware of the consequences of unhealthy living.While the government does its bit through improvements in healthcare infrastructure and its delivery, the onus lies on the individual to prevent lifestyle diseases. Punjab, Haryana and Himachal, along with Chandigarh, are among the worst affected. While we do have a World Stroke Day (October 29), a World Heart Day (September 29), a World Diabetes Day (November 14) and Breast Cancer Awareness Month (October), we need more than mere symbolism to combat the new-age epidemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/wellness-remains-a-matter-of-chance-choice-343979
29-11-2021||---||Xi’s grip on power may extend status quo||On November 19, Xinhua and the Legal Daily announced that Wang Xiaohong, a long time associate of Chinese President Xi Jinping, has been appointed Secretary of the Ministry of Public Security’s Party Committee, making it certain that he will replace Zhao Kezhi as Minister of the Ministry of Public Security (MPS). News of the appointment comes within days of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Central Committee’s (CC) recently (November 8-11) concluded the Sixth Plenum. Sixtyfour-year-old Wang Xiaohong will probably hold this powerful post till almost the 21st Party Congress in 2027. The announcement hints that the intensive part of the ruthless purge, or cleansing, of China’s security apparatus is in its final stages.Installing a loyalist to head the ubiquitous security apparatus, known among party cadres as “the knife handle”, is important because the months leading up to the 20th Party Congress, scheduled for late next year, are crucial for Chinese President Xi Jinping as he makes a bid for a third term, unprecedented since Mao Zedong. There are, additionally, signs of enhanced political activity, albeit subterranean, which suggest that Xi’s opponents are also active, thus raising the stakes. The uncertainty implies that Xi will not give even a hint of weakness by relaxing policies. This includes his aggressive foreign policy which will continue to pose a risk for China’s neighbours.There have been indications that elements within the security establishment are not entirely loyal to Xi. Examples include the numerous instances during 2017-18 and between 2020 and early 2021 when posts opposing Xi and the CCP were permitted to stay for long periods on Chinese social media websites before being deleted. Xi has now begun addressing this issue.Early in July 2020, Chen Yixin, a loyalist handpicked by Xi as Secretary General of the powerful Political and Legal Affairs Commission (PLAC) which oversees the entire security apparatus, announced a three-month (July-October) pilot ‘rectification’ programme for the security apparatus. He said it was the beginning of “a self-restoration with the blade inward and bone scraping to cure the poison”. By June 10, 2021, Chen Yixin announced that in the initial phase itself, 75,084 security personnel had been disciplined, 1,760 were placed in ‘liuzhi’ (detention), and 1,012 sent for prosecution. By October this year, the rectification drive had felled 1,78,431 security personnel and 1,258 heads of departments. A total of five Vice Ministers have been dismissed till now, the most prominent cases being those of Vice Minister Sun Lijun and former Justice Minister Fu Zhenghua.A notification issued by the CCP’s powerful anti-corruption watchdog body, the Central Discipline Inspection Commission (CDIC), indicated that the rectification is not yet over. It disclosed that over 90 “leading cadres” of the political and legal system at the department level or above were investigated and dealt with in the first half of the year. Cadres from the eastern seaboard’s Jiangsu province were also reportedly involved. Indicating that dissatisfaction is widespread, the campaign was expanded a month ago to include all of China’s 1,355 counties.While senior cadres who have been in the system for many years could have been expected to forge loyalties to previous General Secretaries of the CCP, the dismissal of Fu Zhenghua and Sun Lijun were surprising. Both were promoted by Xi and considered by Beijing-based observers to be his supporters. Sun Lijun was dismissed as Vice Minister of Public Security on September 29, and on October 2, the CDIC announced that Fu Zhenghua, former Justice Minister and at the time Deputy Director of the Social and Legal Affairs Committee of the CPPCC National Committee, was under investigation on suspicion of “serious violations of discipline and law”. Fu Zhenghua and Sun Lijun had worked together in the Ministry of Public Security from 2013-18. Their dismissal appears to have had repercussions in the public security apparatus with top leaders holding a series of meetings, warning cadres to oppose factions and stressing the need for loyalty.On September 30, China’s official media reported that 52-year-old Sun Lijun has been sacked and expelled from the CCP and will face trial for “serious violation of discipline rules and law”. The official news agency Xinhua said he “never had any real faith or ideals... harboured hugely inflated political ambitions, and was of extremely bad political quality. To achieve his political objectives... [he] resorted to whatever means... forming gangs and factions, seizing control of key [security] departments, seriously undermining the unity of the party, and causing extreme danger to the political security [of the party].” It added that Sun Lijun “had secretly possessed a large amount of confidential materials, and engaged in superstitious activities for a long time”.The case of Sun Lijun, a security cadre on the fast-track, is of particular interest. The charges clearly suggest that he was actively conspiring and working against Xi. However, the accusation that he was “causing extreme danger to the political security (of the party)” points to him plotting a coup against Xi.Sun Lijun was, incidentally, secretary to Meng Jianzhu, a former Politburo member and Minister of Public Security (2012-2017) with strong patron-client ties to former CCP General Secretary Jiang Zemin. He also reportedly has ties to Politburo Standing Committee member and Vice Premier Han Zheng.As Xi tries to make sure of the loyalty of the security apparatus through ‘rectification’ and personnel changes, the Ministry of Public Security introduced a new oath for all police officers earlier this month. This mandates all new police officers to “resolutely support the absolute leadership of the Party” and “defend political security”, instead of only swearing loyalty to the Party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xis-grip-on-power-may-extend-status-quo-343976
29-11-2021||---||Not our war to fight||The announcement last Tuesday that India will release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its emergency stockpile comes as a surprise. The government statement said, ‘India strongly believes that the pricing of liquid hydrocarbons should be reasonable, responsible and be determined by market forces. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the supply of oil being artificially adjusted below demand levels by oil-producing countries, leading to rising prices and negative attendant consequences.’Delhi has taken a political decision to release 5 million barrels of crude from its emergency stock with the hope of pleasing Biden — and that is not warranted. The release ‘will happen in parallel and in consultation with other major global energy consumers, including the USA, People’s Republic of China, Japan and the Republic of Korea.’ A White House announcement claimed that ‘as a result of President Biden’s leadership and our diplomatic efforts, this release will be taken in parallel with other major energy consuming nations, including China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom. This culminates weeks of consultations.’India’s 5 million-barrel release compares with Britain’s 1.5 million from privately held reserves. Japan’s industry minister Koichi Hagiuda says Tokyo will release a token few hundred thousand kilolitres of oil only from its national reserve, without providing a timeline. China clarifies it will release oil reserves ‘based on its own needs and take other necessary measures to stabilise the market, and will release the information in a timely manner.’ Alas, India rushed into a turf where angels fear to tread.The government went overboard, knowing well that a clutch of states cannot scatter away the gathering storm in the world oil market and is dissimulating. In fact, this is the first time ever that India, which stores about 38 million barrels of crude oil in underground caverns at three locations on the east and west coast, is releasing stocks for such purposes. Why India is making a splash is incomprehensible.President Biden’s motivations are understandable. Facing low approval ratings amid rising inflation ahead of next year’s congressional elections, he has to appease American consumers feeling the pain of the increase in fuel costs with retail gasoline prices up more than 60% in the last year — largely because people have returned to the roads as pandemic-induced restrictions have eased and demand rebounded.However, such a situation doesn’t exist in India where through the seven-year period since it came to power, the Modi government kept raising petrol and diesel prices by 40 and 56 per cent, respectively, despite a fall in crude costs. And that has come due to higher taxes. In July 2021, nearly 60 per cent of the retail selling price accounted for taxes and levies. In the last financial year, the excise duty collected from selling fuel formed roughly 12 per cent of the government’s gross tax receipts. In February, an exasperated RBI Governor urged the government to cut indirect taxes on petrol and diesel in order to keep inflation under control!On the state of play, Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri made some incisive comments in an interview at the recent Adipec conference in Abu Dhabi. He said India had made a ‘concerted push’ with OPEC+ on oil production, but doubted that a coordinated sale of strategic petroleum reserves by major consumers would help. He flagged that strategic oil reserves weren’t ‘ever intended for a situation like this; it’s for force majeure situation, if there’s an earthquake, a global outbreak of hostilities, and oil supplies are shut.’Puri underscored that the oil producers and consumers are joint stakeholders in managing the present post-pandemic transition and that is the crux of the matter in the world oil market. This is also the general assessment of global experts.Delhi took a political decision on the oil release with the hope of pleasing Biden — and that is not warranted. Ironically, on November 23, the day Delhi cozied up to Biden, the US-India Trade Policy Forum (TPF) met in Delhi after four years, but again the US rebuffed the Indian plea for restoration of its beneficiary status under the US Generalised System of Preferences program. Trump’s ‘America First’ still rules Biden’s trade policies.To add salt to the wound, two days later, the Biden administration slammed an anti-dumping duty rate of 7.15 per cent on shrimp exports from India, which constitute almost 74.31 per cent of the value of India’s total seafood exports. This is a most unkind cut, as India’s seafood exports, already reeling under the shock of sluggish demand due to Covid, have slumped to $5.96 billion.The TPF session in Delhi ought to be a morality play for India’s policy-makers. The USTR, Katherine Tai, eloquently espoused ‘the Biden-Harris Administration’s worker-centred trade policy, emphasising the potential for the United States and India, as vibrant, market-oriented democracies, to cooperate more extensively as strategic partners to implement trade policies that benefit the working people of both countries.’ But when it got down to brass tacks, the US simply disowned that hyperbole and ignored that the tariff barrier to India’s marine exports will have a deleterious effect on the numerous aquaculture farms spread all over coastal India.India shouldn’t be opinionated in a brewing oil war that quintessentially threatens the dollar. There are too many variables to be overweening — the decline of US’ global standing; the diffused world power; supply-chain disruptions, inflation, labour shortages, etc., that impact global economic sentiment. And then, there is the ‘X’ factor — Omicron, the Covid variant WHO has designated as a ‘variant of concern’ which contains multiple mutations associated with increased antibody resistance, potentially dealing a heavy blow to global economic recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-our-war-to-fight-343970
