30-11-2021||---||Sense of deja vu in Pakistan’s civil-military ties||There have been a series of contentious developments in Pakistan in the past few weeks, reminding us of the dominance of the all-powerful Pakistan military and intensifying domestic challenges for Prime Minister Imran Khan. Historical evidence suggests a classic cycle of events in Pakistan’s democratic landscape. A promising and confident civilian leadership comes into power with full-fledged support of the military, but typically the civil-military romance seems to have a short-term expiry date and the civilian leadership struggles to complete its full tenure. In case the military has a choice of appointing another political face, the ruling party takes a blow and political leaders land behind bars on charges of corruption. At present, the political options for the military are lacking, even though its trust and relationship with Imran Khan have been seriously dented. Imran, who managed to eclipse Nawaz Sharif’s popularity and charisma in the 2018 General Election with the military’s overwhelming support, has breached the ‘red lines’ of civilian leadership by dissenting on the issue of appointment of the new ISI chief.Imran has been facing the heat within his country from three crucial fronts. The military and the ISI have been unhappy with him on various issues of governance. However, the latest highlight of the tussle has been an unprecedented delay in an official approval of the appointment of the new ISI chief, Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum, and Imran’s eagerness to sustain former DG ISI, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed. Imran Khan has undoubtedly gone beyond the unwritten but clearly established limits of the civilian leadership in Pakistan by challenging the military’s position.People of Pakistan are unhappy with the government due to its inability to deliver on the election promise of ‘Naya Pakistan’, the unaffordable rise in prices of consumer goods, rising inflation and the looming energy crisis. Inflation is estimated at 8.9%. According to a consumer confidence survey conducted by Ipsos, a Paris-based market research and consulting firm, the majority of the Pakistanis hold an opinion that the nation is moving in the wrong direction (Dawn, November 25). Anger of the masses has strengthened the position of the Opposition parties who have repeatedly highlighted Imran Khan’s failures to deliver on his commitments and his inability to control Pakistan’s worsening economic challenges. The increasing debt burden is a prime concern and reports suggest that Pakistan requires gross external financing of close to $51.6 billion within a two-year period (2021-23). The external liabilities are at an alarming figure of Rs 50.2 trillion and approximately 70% of the liabilities have been added during the tenure of the PTI government. Pakistani rupee has dropped to a historic low of Rs 176 to the US dollar.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), led by Maulana Fazlur Rehman, is trying to be back in the limelight, staging anti-government protests and rallies and accusing the PTI government of damaging Pakistan’s Islamic identity. PTI’s efforts to negotiate peace with militant group Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which has been responsible for a series of terror attacks targeting civilians and the security establishment, has drawn immense criticism.In another complex development, the banned Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), an extremist Sunni Islamist group, seems to have gained ground and legitimacy. The chief of TLP, Saad Rizvi, was arrested in April under the Maintenance of Public Order Ordinance ahead of the TLP’s planned protests demanding the expulsion of the French envoy to Pakistan over the caricatures of Prophet Mohammad published in French magazine Charlie Hebdo. He was recently released in Lahore just before the death anniversary of TLP’s founder (and Saad Rizvi’s father), Khadim Rizvi. Reports suggest that with the help of the military’s mediation (facilitated by leading clerics), the government has signed an undisclosed agreement with the TLP and the outfit will now be functioning as a regular political party. Imran Khan’s concessional approach came as a surprise, given the fact that TLP protests were disconcertingly violent, causing deaths and destruction. The 2018 elections saw an active participation of the religious group in Pakistan’s political arena. The TLP is looking to leverage its growing popularity in the next elections. The group’s success in terms of establishing a favourable narrative and agreement is an additional indicator of alarming extremism in the political and social landscape of Pakistan.While there was speculation regarding Imran’s thin majority and likelihood of the Opposition actually pushing to oust him, in the joint session of Parliament held on November 17, he proved his majority rather comfortably. The historic joint session passed 33 Bills, including crucial electoral Bills — the use of electronic voting machines (EVMs) in the next elections and allowing overseas Pakistanis to vote in the 2023 elections.Does Imran’s victory in the joint session indicate a compromise between the military and him? Even though Imran’s decisions are not in sync with the military and he has failed to tackle the economic situation, he has managed to maintain his position primarily due to two factors. One, clearly the military doesn’t have an alternative. The two likely candidates, Shahbaz Sharif and Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, don’t seem to hold sufficient ground. Shahbaz lacks popularity and Bilawal doesn’t have a support base in Punjab. Two, holding the General Election at this point of time would not be in Pakistan’s favour given the fact that it requires international financial and strategic support. The civil-military dynamics are likely to remain stressful in Pakistan in the near future, leading to consistent challenges for Imran’s survival. It is highly unlikely that the all-powerful army will sit back and absorb Imran’s dissenting actions. While a premature termination of his tenure would not be easy, there is a probability of Imran and his party being reined in, further intensifying Pakistan’s socio-economic challenges. The people of Pakistan will continue to pay a heavy price for the unremitting civil-military altercations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sense-of-d%C3%A9j%C3%A0-vu-in-pakistans-civil-military-ties-344309
30-11-2021||---||Modi alone knows best||Amid a largely non-dialogic and personality-centric politics, we have been repeatedly asked to consume diverse images of the all-powerful Prime Minister, and accept that it is Modi who alone matters, and like a messiah, he is endowed with the extraordinary power to dictate the fate of the nation. Hence, in this age of media simulations and propaganda machinery, the spectrum of dramaturgical performances seems to hypnotise the captive audience. Yes, Modi is ‘unpredictable’; from demonetisation to lockdown — his decision would surprise us, shock us, charm us, puzzle us; and we must accept it because he alone understands what is good for us. He is eternally energetic; he doesn’t rest; he only works and thinks of the nation. And hence, despite his busy schedule, he could be seen with the Army jawans in Kashmir, or construction workers engaged in the Central Vista project; and these images must be circulated with the speed of light. And he is all-pervading; the billboards in cities, small towns and even villages remind us time and again that his heart aches for us; he gives us free vaccines; he deposits money in the bank accounts of farmers; and he gives us all sorts of gifts — a temple at Ayodhya, an airport at Noida, and above all, a set of surgical strikes to give a tough lesson to the enemy of the nation. You and I are ‘safe’ because he is there to think for us. None should have any doubt of it!We must regain our voice, scrutinise the discourse of power, and make our representatives accountable.Think of it. Can a truly participatory/dialogic/democratic culture be reconciled with this sort of personality cult? Does democracy mean that we remain passive and lose our own voice, and keep waiting for the ‘supreme leader’ to decide our fate? Sometimes, I feel that we need not know the names and portfolios of the Union Cabinet. The reason is that we have been asked to believe that it is only Modi (or his deputy Amit Shah) who matters; and the other ministers exist only for condemning the Opposition, finding ‘Khalistanis’ or the brigade of ‘tukde-tukde gang’ in the farmers’ movement, and organising press conferences to inform us of the ‘stupidity’ of Rahul Gandhi whenever he refers to the Rafale deal controversy, or pathetic handling of the Covid situation.It is sad that these days, we never say that it is our government; we regard it as ‘Modi government’. And this annihilates the very spirit of democracy. Well, personalities do matter; and even charisma has its role. However, a democratic leader is one who loves to sharpen the art of listening, and respects the creative/critical faculty of ordinary people. A democratic leader is not God; instead, she/he walks with people, and collectively moves towards a better society. In other words, a democratic leader cannot afford to be a narcissist; she/he ought to be humble and dialogic. And this truth cannot be nullified by giving a counter-argument: Indira Gandhi, too, behaved in a similar way!See the way the historic farmers’ movement — characterised by intellectual clarity, people’s participation, and Gandhian endurance and moral power — was seeking to convey a message: we ought to be listened to; and Modi or his deputies cannot assume that they alone know what is good for the farmers. But then, for almost one year, we witnessed the rigidity of stubbornness on the part of the government resulting from the assertion of Modi’s image: almost like Friedrich Nietzsche’s ‘Superman’ driven by the will to power! He alone knows what is good for Indian agriculture and our farmers; he is, therefore, ‘firm’ and ‘determined’; and those who are against these farm laws are either stupid or misdirected. The irony is that even when he apologised, felt some shortcomings in his ‘tapasya’, and decided to repeal the farm laws with his characteristic monologue (no consultation with the farmers, no dialogue with the Opposition leaders, no parliamentary discussion, and just another dramatic surprise), he was not willing to accept that he was wrong; in fact, he thought that somehow, despite his best efforts, he could not convince a section of farmers of the efficacy of these three laws. Possibly, one’s egotistic pride does not wither away so easily.We need not be surprised that if even this gesture of Modi is now used to construct yet another image of the ultimate messiah — ‘compassionate’/ ‘pro-farmer’ Modi! And the billboards throughout the country might remind us that we must thank Modi for his compassion. Furthermore, the propaganda machinery has already begun to popularise the idea that Modi withdrew the farm laws because the ‘anti-national’ conspirators were trying to exploit the situation, and cause severe damage to the country. Nothing is more important to Modi than the interest of the nation! What else these ‘shiny’ anchors of toxic television channels could do as they were never tired of castigating and demonising this historic movement? Now they must evolve their ways to handle Modi’s unpredictability (or, is it a masterstroke for winning the elections in Uttar Pradesh?).Our existence should not depend on the mercy or compassion of the messiah. Instead, it requires the spirit of a creatively nuanced critical thinking. You and I must recover our agency, regain our voice, scrutinise the discourse of power, and make our representatives accountable: they are not our masters; they ought to be humble; and they must listen to us. Possibly, amid the cult of narcissism, the perseverance of innumerable unknown farmers arouses our hope in this democratic possibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/modi-alone-knows-best-344308
30-11-2021||---||Omicron variant has most mutations||Omicron (B.1.1.529), a new SARS-CoV-2 variant has been designated as Variant of Concern (VOC) by the World Health Organisation. Overall, it is the fifth VOC and the first since the Delta (B.1.617) variant. Omicron was first detected from the samples collected in South Africa (November 9) and Botswana (November 11). In the days which followed, South Africa witnessed a steep rise in new Covid-19 cases alongside detection of the new variant. The cases of Omicron have since been reported from other countries including Israel, Hong Kong, the UK, Belgium, Italy, Czech Republic, Germany and Australia, amongst others. No confirmed case of Omicron has been reported from India so far.The variant is a form of virus, which is slightly different from the original and has different characteristics. The variants are developed as in the replication of any virus, some changes in the genetic sequence may happen, which are termed as ‘mutations’. Most mutations remain insignificant; however, a few may result in change in properties. Once that happens, it becomes a new variant of the virus. In SARS-CoV-2, a variant is considered ‘of concern’ if associated with one or more of the following: (a) increased transmissibility; (b) increase in ability to cause serious disease or change in clinical presentation and (c) ability to escape/bypass (natural or vaccine) induced immunity or decrease in the effectiveness of available diagnostics and therapeutics.There is a lot unknown and unconfirmed about Omicron. However, what we know is that it has around 50 mutations — maximum for any SARS-CoV-2 variant so far — including 32 in spike proteins. Ten of those mutations and deletions are in spike proteins in N-terminal, furin cleavage sites and the receptor-binding domains. Some of these mutations independently predict enhanced transmissibility (H655Y, N679K and P681H); increased infectivity (R203K, G204R) and immune escape (deletion at nsp6).In a period of less than two weeks since the first detection, B.1.1.529 became the most circulating variant in a few provinces of South Africa, which indicates higher transmissibility. The mutations in Omicron have been reported in Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Lambda variants with proven change in transmissibility, immune escape and virulence. It is in this backdrop that Omicron has been designated as VOC. However, that is not enough and detailed scientific exploration is needed as it cannot be said that the mutations when reported in combination would have a similar effect or not when reported standalone. A number of studies on aspects such as performance of neutralising antibodies produced by currently licensed Covid-19 vaccines and to understand linkage between mutations and symptoms have been initiated.Omicron is ‘an apparent cocktail of all previous mutations’ and that partly explains the descriptions for this variant with multiple superlatives even by scientists, an exaggerated response by some countries, with fear and ‘knee-jerk’ reactions evident in the sudden closure of air travel by some nations.However, with every passing day as new information is becoming available, the responses are becoming more balanced. Authorities in South Africa have reported that ‘no new or unusual symptoms’ have been reported from people infected with Omicron. Experts agree that the high number of mutations alone is not enough to predict the behaviour of the virus. The Beta (B.1. 351) variant had immune escape ability and was detected in around 100 countries, yet it did not become the dominant variant. A more transmissible variant would be of some risk for all countries but more so for countries with low vaccine coverage. Immune escape, even if proven, at best would mean some reduced effectiveness but vaccines are likely to continue to work. It will be a few more weeks before we will get a sense of how serious the threat Omicron is. The combination of transmissibility, clinical outcome and immune escape will determine the level of impact.India needs to be prepared for all eventualities. The complacency which seems to have settled at different levels needs to be shaken off. The Covid-19 testing and genome sequencing, especially at the international ports of entry, should be strengthened. A cautionary note is that Omicron should not result in hurried policy decisions on reducing Covishield dose intervals or administering boosters, which should continue to be determined by a calm assessment of emerging scientific data and available evidence.One of the weakest components of India’s pandemic response has been science communication. Indian policymakers need to learn from the past and deal with the current situation with timely and transparent communication and information shared through trusted sources. For citizens, even though the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is low, it is very important to keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour and especially avoid large gatherings. The adults should get fully vaccinated at the earliest.As long as the virus is circulating in any setting, it has the opportunity to develop mutations and become a VOC. Omicron is another reminder that the world has to be together in the fight against the pandemic. It is worrying that some nations are piling up vaccines, offering booster shots and even allowing vaccine stocks to expire while a large proportion of the population, including health workers, in many low and middle-income countries are waiting for their first shot.India should show the way to the world by accelerating the ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme. The rich and vaccine-manufacturing countries needto share Covid-19 vaccines to stop this pandemic, reduce the possibility of any new variant and mitigate the possible impact. It is possible through vaccine equity and global solidarity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/omicron-variant-has-most-mutations-344303
