09-12-2020||Archit Watts||Married to a cause: Muktsar family refuses ‘shagun’, asks wedding invitees to put money in a box for farmers’ protest||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 9In a heart-warming gesture, a farmer's family at Sheikhu village in Muktsar district recently placed a donation box at a wedding reception, asking invitees not to give 'shagun' to them but to donate for the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi border.Village sarpanch Jasdeep Singh Jassi Brar said, “It was my nephew Abhijeet’s wedding reception at our village on December 7. We placed a donation box near the dance floor to collect money for the farmers’ protest rather than receiving ‘shagun’. We have collected around Rs 1 lakh and will soon send it to the farmers.”“Many people have been calling us, appreciating the move. Punjabi singer Kanwar Grewal also shared a video on his Facebook page,” he added.Jasdeep said, “We are god-fearing people and don’t believe in dowry. On the wedding day too, we did not accept ‘shagun’. However, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal who attended the marriage gave us ‘shagun’, which we have put in the donation box.”A video of the reception is being shared on social media, wherein the DJ is appealing to the gathering to put the ‘shagun’ amount in the donation box.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/married-to-a-cause-muktsar-family-refuses-shagun-asks-wedding-invitees-to-put-money-in-a-box-for-farmers-protest-181952
09-12-2020||Bathinda||2 duped of Rs 54 lakh in Bathinda||Two locals have been duped of Rs 54 lakh on the pretext of sending them abroad.In the first case, the Civil Line police have booked three residents of Zirakpur for duping a person of Rs 40 lakh. In a police complaint, Vijay Kumar of Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, said the accused, Ravi Kumar, his wife Ruby Garg and son Arun Garg, were known to him. Vijay said the accused had promised to send his son Kamaldeep abroad, for which they sought Rs 30 lakh.However, when they failed to send Kamaldeep abroad, Vijay asked for a refund and warned of filing a case against them. Later, Arun pressurised Vijay to compromise and introduced him to Davidar Garg and his wife of Green City Colony. The duo told Vijay that instead of Rs 30 lakh that the accused owed him they would give him his shop worth Rs 40 lakh. But they asked Vijay to first pay Rs 10 lakh to them.Vijay gave the money but even after a year, the shop was not transferred in his name.In the second case, the Maur police booked a Patiala resident for committing a fraud of Rs 14 lakh. Jaskaran Singh of Bathinda’s Dhadde village said the accused, Parviner Singh of Ghagga village, use to send people abroad. He was known to him. Parvinder promised to send Jaskaran to Canada on work permit. For this, he took around Rs 14 lakh from him, but even after two years the accused neither sent him abroad nor returned the amount. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/2-duped-of-rs-54-lakh-in-bathinda-181660
