14-12-2020||---||Scholars of Punjabi University, Patiala, develop language software for specially abled||Bathinda, December 13Learning English will now be easier for people with speech and hearing impairment as a group of scholars of Punjabi University, Patiala, has developed a software that will translate English text into video interactive animation in Indian Sign Language (ISL).Talking to The Tribune, Deepali Goyal, a PHD scholar in computer science at the research centre for technology development for specially abled persons, Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University, who developed the software with other scholars, said: “Our team has worked day and night to introduce this software that will help the deaf and dumb learn English through animated videos in Indian sign language. Learners can simply insert the text in English in the software and click on a button to watch animated interactive videos explaining the meaning in sign language.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/scholars-of-punjabi-university-patiala-develop-language-software-for-specially-abled-183868
14-12-2020||---||Punjab water supply department yet to pay Rs 31 cr power bill||Bathinda, December 13The pending electricity bill of waterworks operating in rural areas of the Malwa region have been running into crores of rupees for the past many years. Data accessed by The Tribune revealed that an outstanding electricity bill to the tune of Rs 31.80 crore of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department in Bathinda and Mansa districts was pending for the past over two years.Senior officials of the Powercom said despite serving notices for payment of pending bills on numerous occasions, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department had failed to clear outstanding bills running into crores of rupees now.Jaspreet Kaur Talwar, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation Dept‘Will clear dues on priority’At its end, the department has paid all electricity bills but if there is anything pending, we will clear it on priority.A total of Rs 28,54,74,949 pending electricity bill of the Bathinda unit and Rs 3,26,09,683 of Mansa unit has not been cleared by the department. Powercom officials said payments of a miniscule part of the total outstanding electricity bills were made some time back but a large amount still remained unpaid.A senior functionary in the Powercom said the department or panchayats in villages could not solely be held accountable for non-clearance of outstanding electricity bills. The lackadaisical approach of the Powercom and political patronage were to be equally blamed.He said, “It is for the senior officials in the department to get these electricity bills cleared provided they are willing to do so. If payments were not made in time, the Powercom could have disconnected the electricity meters. But by and large, all this is done with political pressure.”Jeevan Kansal, Chief Engineer, Powercom, Bathinda and Mansa‘Payment not cleared despite reminders’Our constant efforts to get the payments cleared from the department have barely yielded any result. We have served several notices to the respective departments but to no avail. Talking to The Tribune, Jaspreet Kaur Talwar, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, said, “The department at its end has made payments of electricity bills but if there are any pending bills, we will clear them on a priority basis.”SK Sharma, Superintending Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, Bathinda and Mansa, said, “The payment of outstanding electricity bills has been made partly by the department. We will make sure that rest of the pending amount is cleared soon.”Jeevan Kansal, Chief Engineer, Powercom, Bathinda and Mansa, said, “Our constant efforts to get the payments cleared from the department have barely garnered any result as the pending bills continue to mount over the years. We have served notices for making payments to the respective departments on numerous occasions but to no avail.” Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punjab-water-supply-department-yet-to-pay-rs-31-cr-power-bill-183887
14-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||‘Cancer train’ suspended for 9 months, treatment hit||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 13Cancer treatment in the region took a massive hit during the Covid lockdown as the Abohar-Jodhpur Express, also known as the ‘cancer train’, has been lying suspended for nine months.As a result, many patients have not been able to travel to Bikaner for treatment. These patients have shifted their treatment to the Advanced Cancer Institute at Bathinda and Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot.Gurpreet Singh, Bathinda residentHospitals reluctant to admit My father was having health issues during the lockdown but most hospitals turned us away. Later, when we got him checked, he was diagnosed with cancer. Due to this, the Bathinda institute has witnessed a huge rush of patients. The conditions at the institute have become such that minor surgeries have been stopped to clear the backlog of major surgeries. The most remarkable feature of this train was that 60 per cent of its passengers were cancer patients of all ages who came from all across Punjab. On an average, the train was the lifeline of 100 cancer patients daily along with 200 other co-travellers. It was almost always packed to near capacity.The train would leave Abohar every day carrying patients, mostly small farmers from Punjab’s cotton belt — Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka — for treatment at Acharya Tulsi Regional Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Bikaner. Although the numbers dipped with the opening of Advanced Cancer Institute and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Sangrur, yet many continued to take treatment in Bikaner.The ticket was priced at Rs 210, but for cancer patients, the eight-hour journey to Bikaner was free. One accompanying attendant got a concession of 75 per cent.Even after the lockdown was relaxed gradually, the fear of Covid infection kept cancer patients away from hospitals. Those who sought treatment didn’t get it because of health systems prioritising Covid treatment. A floor of the cancer institute was made a Covid ward. Later, it was shifted after a hue and cry was made over the issue.Angrej Kaur of Maur had to face problems due to the lockdown. She was getting treatment of breast cancer from a hospital in Bikaner, but due to the stopping of the train, she had to get her surgery done from the Advanced Cancer Institute.Gurpreet Singh of Bathinda city said, “My father was having health issues during the lockdown but most hospitals turned us away. Later, when we got him checked, he was diagnosed with cancer. Had he been tested earlier, we could have controlled cancer at an earlier stage.”“The disease has advanced in among 10 per cent patients who could not come to the hospital because of the pandemic,” said Dr Deepak Arora, Director, Advanced Cancer Institute, Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cancer-train-suspended-for-9-months-treatment-hit-183866
