22-12-2020||Bathinda||Youths open fire on car, arrested||Two youths opened fire on a car and attacked one of its occupants with a sharp-edged weapon on the Ajit road today. The injured has been identified as Gursimranjit Singh Dhillon of Model Town, Phase-2.Both accused were arrested from the spot. SHO, Civil Lines police station, Ravinder Singh said one of the accused stated that Gursimranjit used to tease his sister. However, the accused have been booked on the basis of the victim’s statement.In his statement, Gursimranjeet said he, along with one of his cousins Vijay, was travelling on the road around noon. En route, Ranjit Singh of Puree village, and his accomplice Prithpal Singh opened fire on his car. When he got out of the vehicle to save his life, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/youths-open-fire-on-car-arrested-187760
22-12-2020||Bathinda||Centre’s effigy burnt over  raids on arhtiyas||Farmer unions and other organisations today staged a protest in front of the Income Tax Department office in Mansa district and burnt an effigy of the Union Government to express their resentment over I-T raids on the premises of several arhtiyas amid the farmers’ agitation.Earlier, the protesters gathered at the city railway station and raised slogans against the Centre and the department.Gurjant Singh, a leader of the Punjab Kisan Union, said, “People from all walks of life have extended their support to the farmers’ agitation, and this has not gone down well with the Central Government. It is now resorting to such tactics to sabotage the farmers’ movement.” Krantikari Kisan Union leader Bhajan Singh said, “We condemn this move of the department. If the raids continued, we will chalk out the future course of action and intensify our protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/centres-effigy-burnt-over-raids-on-arhtiyas-187741
22-12-2020||---||No job to family of deceased farmer, BKU Sidhupur faction threatens to intensify stir||Bathinda, December 21The BKU Sidhupur faction continued their protest outside the district administrative complex for four months now, demanding a government job to next to the kin of farmer who died after consuming some poisonous substance in Jaito.The union members rued that the administration had been making “hollow promises” over the matter and it’s time that they intensify their stir now.Resham Singh Yatri, a union leader, said, “The administration has merely been giving assurances but it has failed to deliver on them till now. We have been staging protests for the past over four months and will continue to do so until the family member of the deceased farmer, Jagsheer Singh, is given a government job.”A meeting in this regard was conducted with Bathinda Deputy Commissioner on Monday, who has given an assurance that a senior official from the tehsil office has been tasked to get the matter resolved on priority basis. Meanwhile, farmers observed a two-minute silence to pay homage to deceased farmers, who have died during the agitation at the Delhi borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-job-to-family-of-deceased-farmer-bku-sidhupur-faction-threatens-to-intensify-stir-187744
22-12-2020||---||Under scanner for foreign funds, BKU says will reply soon||Bathinda, December 21Asked by a central agency to submit its registration particulars which permit it to obtain overseas funds, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), the largest farmer union in Punjab, has said it is consulting its chartered accountant and legal adviser and would soon file the reply.The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) is under the scanner of the Central Government for receiving foreign funds. This could spell trouble for the unions as some of them are getting funds from NRIs and they are not registered under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), which stipulates mandatory registration of any outfit receiving foreign funds.Centre rattledThe Union Government is adopting such tactics as the farmer unions are getting a huge response against the farm laws. We have enough funds to keep the protest going till the farm laws are repealed. — Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, BKU leaderIndividuals and organisations are barred from receiving foreign funds without having registered first with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The contributions received by farmer unions will have to be reportedly sent back to international donors if they are not following the FCRA norms.“The forex department under the Centre has sent an email which we have received through our bank’s branch in Moga. The e-mail states that we should give registration details in respect of these donations from abroad otherwise these will be sent back,” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said. He added the union had received around Rs 8 lakh as donation from abroad in his bank account. Kokri Kalan said the BKU had contacted its CA and legal adviser to file the reply.Lashing out at the Centre, he said: “The Union Government is adopting such tactics as they are getting a huge response against the farm laws. We have enough funds to keep the protest going till the farm laws are repealed”.BKU (Dakonda), the second largest farm union in Punjab, is also getting funds from abroad, but it is not registered under the FCRA. BKU (Rajewal) general secretary Onkar Singh said: “We are not getting any funds directly into the account. But proper accounts are being maintained”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/under-scanner-for-foreign-funds-bku-says-will-reply-soon-187745
