01-10-2020||City||Illegal parking outside Kalyan station irks commuters||With more people moving out for work after relaxations in lockdown, the road outside Kalyan railway station is obstructed with illegally-parked two-wheelers on a daily basis throughout the day.This has irked other commuters, autorickshaw drivers and pedestrians as there is little space for commuting. Commuters claim that no action is being taken on these vehicles.The road also has a no parking sign board. However, the entire road has two-wheelers parked.Rupali Kadam, 35, who travels to Mumbai by local train from Kalyan, said, “The authorities should tow these illegally-parked vehicles, especially during the peak hours. It is very difficult to walk along the station road because of this illegal parking. Once the trains resume for everyone, the situation will be chaotic.”Kadam added that no traffic police is seen stopping this illegal parking.Auto drivers claimed that the lane that they use to form a queue has been taken over by the private vehicles parked illegally.“Those autos that ply for emergency have no way to reach the station now as the road is blocked with illegal parking. All our three stands were closed during the lockdown. When lockdown was relaxed, people started parking everywhere including the space where rickshaws used to stand. We have requested the traffic police to take note of this and clear the area,” said Santosh Navale, representative, Autorickshaw Driver Owner Union, Kalyan.Sukhdev Patil, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan (W) unit, said, “The reason behind increase in illegal parking on road is because of the closure of the civic body’s parking lot near the station. We have asked the civic body to start it soon so that vehicles can be parked there on a daily basis.”An official from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) who did not wish to be named said, “The civic body will hold meeting in the coming days and then decide whether to open the parking lot or not.”QUOTE BOX:“The reason behind increase in illegal parking is because of the closure of the civic body’s parking lot near the station. We have asked the civic body to start it soon so that vehicles can be parked there on a daily basis.”Sukhdev Patil, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan (W) unit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-parking-outside-kalyan-station-irks-commuters/story-9PGPNjse2EFJrXzm5qAdCK.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dyeing industry’s petition: Waive water-sewer charges for lockdown period, HC tells Ludhiana MC||In huge relief for the dyeing industry, the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation to waive their water-sewer user charges pertaining to the lockdown period. Disposing of a petition filed by the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) on September 28, the single-judge bench of Justice Augustine George Masih on Wednesday directed MC to issue fresh bills within a week after deducting the amount pertaining to the lockdown period in a week. The remaining dues have to be cleared by the petitioners (dyeing industry) within three days of issuance of bills, the high court said.PDA general secretary, Bobby Jindal said, “The dyeing industry remained shut during the Covid-19 lockdown in Punjab from March 23 to May 17. How can the industrialists pay water-sewer charges for the months when no industrial operations took place? MC had issued unjustified bills, but the court has provided us major relief.”In their petition, the association, which has over 350 members, also stated that common effluent treatment plants (CETP) were being established for the dyeing industry and were expected to be completed by October 31. Following this, the discharge will not be released in MC sewer lines. Hence, the industry should not be made to pay the user charges for using MC sewer lines till March 2021. The association had also filed another petition in the court against the annual water-sewer bills issued by MC, contending that the charges were not levied on actual usage, but against the maximum discharge permissible as granted by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). This matter will come up for hearing in December.“Even if the owners use less water in comparison to the permission they have taken from PPCB, MC levies bills as per the permissible limit,” Jindal said.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said, “The corporation will revise the bills after removing the lockdown period from the total billable months. This may take some time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dyeing-industry-s-petition-waive-water-sewer-charges-for-lockdown-period-hc-tells-ludhiana-mc/story-FzBKGJrYJwzyo4RlxKQToJ.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Theft’ of costly equipment: PGI to take ‘careless’ staffers to task||Noting the escalation in cases of theft and pilferage of costly diagnostic machines and their parts, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has decided to make recoveries from the staff ‘responsible’ in case of such events. The circular that has been sent to all department and other administrative heads reads: “It has been observed that the incidence of the theft and pilferage of the machine, machine parts and equipment in the institute are increasing and most of the time it has been found that such type of incidents happened due to leaving the room, lab unattended and unlocked where such machines have been installed.”Officials said this has prompted them to fix responsibility of the staff members, who have shown carelessness and thus cause extra monetary stress on the institute’s finances.The administration has also told the in-charge of the out-patient departments (OPDs) to issue appropriate directions to prevent such incidents in future. “Appropriate directions to the staff concerned working under them on not to leave the room/lab unattended/unlocked where costly equipment/machines are installed have also been issued to the in-charges of such labs and rooms,” officials said.The order also states that in case of occurrence of theft or pilferage of any equipment or machine, the staff working in the said area will be responsible for the incident and the recovery of the loss will be made from the official concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/theft-of-costly-equipment-pgi-to-take-careless-staffers-to-task/story-PGf8RqW3uMy5JF250NgtYO.html
01-10-2020||City||Jagraon man kills elderly uncle, walks to cops with bloodied hands||A man allegedly hacked his 82-year-old paternal uncle to death with an axe in Kothe Khajuran village of Jagraon and then walked into the local police station with his bloodied hands and the weapon. Police said the accused, Varinder Singh, 44, had confessed to have murdered his father’s elder brother, Gurdial Singh.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s son, Hardev Singh, said he and his father had gone to visit his uncle and Varinder’s father, Hardial Singh, to condole the death of his daughter. Meanwhile, Varinder turned up there with an axe and suddenly attacked his father. He repeatedly hit his neck with the axe and fled the scene.Hardev said he immediately rushed his father to a local hospital, but he died on the way.Inspector Nidhan Singh, station house officer (SHO), Jagraon City police station, said in his disclosure, Varinder claimed that he was not on good terms with his uncle, and on seeing him in his house, he lost his cool and murdered him. He has been booked in a murder case.He added that according to his family, Varinder was under depression since his other sister left for Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-man-kills-elderly-uncle-walks-to-cops-with-bloodied-hands/story-RroXpxr3RwOJzcf5duIBLM.html
01-10-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: Accidents on Navi Mumbai highways down by 58%||The accidents along the major highways, connecting Navi Mumbai to other cities have shown over 58 per cent decrease during the lockdown.Though the number of accidents is less, the fatalities are almost the same as those of the previous year despite lockdown as most accidents reported were major.Highways like the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Thane-Belapur Road, Sion-Panvel Highway and Palm Beach Road pass through Navi Mumbai.In 2019, a total of 403 accidents were recorded on all the four highways. The corresponding number this year is 169, a drop by more than half. An officer said, “Though the number of accidents have reduced, most of the accidents this year were fatal accidents. Last year, 79 fatal accidents were reported, killing 89 people while this year 76 fatal accidents were reported, killing 83.”The major affected highways are the Mumbai-Pune Expressway and the Sion-Panvel Highway.Arun Patil, Assistant Commissioner of Police, traffic, said, “The highways face issue of bad roads and poor lighting. These are the main reasons behind fatal accidents. While Palm Beach Road is properly lit, Thane-Belapur Road and Sion-Panvel Road face lighting issues. We have written several times to the concerned department about the same. Besides, not following proper traffic rules is another reason for fatal accidents.”The data of the accidents of Mumbai-Pune Expressway from Highway Safety Patrol is of the whole 94.5 km stretch, of which only 11 km stretch from Kalamboli to Bhatanbhogda falls under the jurisdiction of Navi Mumbai police commissionerate. The traffic department claimed that efforts are on to intercept the speeding vehicles.“Currently, we have two interceptor vehicles on the move, especially on major highways to detect the speed of the vehicles approaching. These vehicles play a major role in identifying speeding vehicles. We have also sent a proposal to Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation regarding installation of Number Plate Recognition (NPR) cameras on major highways. While the interceptor vans would be on the move, the static cameras will help in identifying speeding vehicles at many locations,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (traffic), Sunil Lokhande, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-accidents-on-navi-mumbai-highways-down-by-58/story-DMtmGZxiX3t6JajTigqAoM.html
01-10-2020||City||Waiver of unipole advertisers’ licence fee costs Mohali MC ₹7 crore||Already reeling under fiscal crisis, the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) is now staring at a loss of about ₹7 crore which it has incurred after the Punjab local bodies department waived the licence fee of unipole advertisers for six months (March to September). The department has also given relaxation to the advertisers, allowing them to deposit only 50% of the licence fee till March 2021.Every month, the Mohali civic body used to earn around ₹88 lakh from 102 unipoles within its limits. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have suffered a huge loss as we were earning ₹88 lakh per month from unipole ads. We will ask the state government for more funds.” In May this year, unipole advertisers had refused to pay their fee for five months amounting to ₹5 crore. They instead wrote to the civic body, seeking a waiver citing no revenue generation. MC had referred the case to the local bodies department for approval, following which the fee was waived. In February this year, in a major setback to the Mohali civic body, the Punjab local bodies department had imposed a cut of ₹141 crore in its budget for 2020-21. Against the proposal of ₹268 crore, which MC had forwarded in February, the local bodies department sanctioned only ₹127 crore. Every month, Mohali MC spends ₹5 crore on paying salaries, power bills, fuel charges and maintaining city’s sanitation. With the pandemic affecting its income, the civic body is now left with only ₹15 crore to meet its expenses for the remaining financial year. While it expected to earn ₹10 crore in lieu of octroi, a duty levied on various goods entering Mohali, the civic body got just ₹5 crore from the state government. Besides, neither the ₹25-lakh rent nor the tehbazaari fee (licence to squat and sell goods at a particular location) that generally amount to ₹5 lakh per month was collected by MC for the past five months. On the account of property tax, residents have so far paid just ₹15 crore against estimated ₹25 crore, and water bill payments come to around ₹8 lakh instead of ₹25 lakh. 200 tenders await allotmentMeanwhile, more than 200 tenders of development works worth ₹30 crore have not been allotted in last one year. These projects pertain to development of parks, laying of paver blocks and construction of footpaths, repairing of roads and setting up outdoor gyms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waiver-of-unipole-advertisers-licence-fee-costs-mohali-mc-7-crore/story-1XKWddIVoHshYEiwmDYEZK.html
01-10-2020||City||ATM card swapping, two held: Accused learnt fraud tactics from father||Mohit Kumar, 36, of Vijayinder Nagar, arrested for stealing money from bank accounts after swapping debit cards of unwary people, learnt the unscrupulous tactic from none other than his father, Ashok Kumar, alias Pataka.“Ashok was arrested by the CIA Staff-2 in 2019, also for ATM frauds, and 56 debit cards were recovered from his possession. He was later bailed out from jail, and taught the con job to his son,” said Surinder Mohan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Detective 2).“His son, Mohit, a drug addict, is already facing trial in a snatching case. After being released on bail, he started swapping ATM cards like his father,” the ACP said.The CIA staff-2 had nabbed Mohit, along with his accomplice, Sandeep Kumar, alias Kala, of Gurpal Nagar, Daba, from Jamalpur Chowk on Tuesday and recovered Rs 9,000 in cash and nine debit cards from them.MODUS OPERANDIThe police official said Mohit and Sandeep used to recce the city to find ATM kiosks without security guards. They would then lurk around for customers and target the elderly or labourers. On the pretext of helping them withdraw cash from the ATM, the duo would swap their debit cards with a fake one, and later steal cash from their bank accounts using the valid card.To avoid being caught, they would keep changing their area of operation after swindling a few customers. Sandeep had dropped out from school after Class 8, while Mohit had cleared Class 12, and both were now unemployed, the ACP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atm-card-swapping-two-held-accused-learnt-fraud-tactics-from-father/story-bkCDPZee4nZ6h60OOrqySO.html
01-10-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: Death by accident in Navi Mumbai, Panvel down by 37%||With the city under lockdown for more than six months, deaths by accidents on major highways in Navi Mumbai and Panvel are down by around 37% this year compared to last year.The death rate was especially low in the lockdown period by 62% from March to August. The Panvel Division, however, still continues to report a high number of accidents largely due to potholes and also the fact that the division includes the Mumbai-Pune Expressway.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Sunil Lokhande, said, “The major reason behind the drop in the number of accidents is the lockdown that happened. No vehicles, except the ones providing essential services, were on the road when the lockdown was in place. Even as places began to open up, most of them still continue to work from home and that is making all the difference in the accident rates.”The total number of accidents that occurred from January to August 2020 was reported to be 308 while the corresponding figure for the same period in 2019 was 490.In this year, 111 people have died and 200 suffered serious injuries in road accidents, a drop from 179 and 390, respectively, in 2019.The months of January and February this year reported higher number of accidents and fatalities as compared to last year, but from March, when the coronavirus pandemic started spreading and the lockdown began, the numbers could be seen decreasing.Of the four divisions of traffic in Navi Mumbai – Panvel, Port, Turbhe and Vashi – the maximum number of accidents were reported in Panvel division, which includes Kalamboli, Panvel Taluka and New Panvel traffic units. The number of accidents is high in Panvel division due to Mumbai-Pune Expressway.Police Inspector Madhukar Bhatte from New Panvel traffic unit said, “The stretch from Bhatanbhogda to Kalamboli falls under Navi Mumbai traffic unit. While some of the parts fall under New Panvel unit, some comes under Kalamboli unit. In the past, there have been many initiatives to curb the accidents on the expressway but now since the pandemic started, all of them have been stalled.”Meanwhile, Deepak Singh, a Kharghar-based activist said, “Panvel is always an accident-prone zone and the reason is bad condition of roads, non-availability of lights and proper safety sign boards. Lack of discipline in following traffic rule is also a reason for accidents. As per my Right to Information application to police zone II, more than 300 people lost their lives in three years only in Panvel zone. The reply said that there were a total of 341 deaths and 598 accidents in three years from 2016 to 2018.”Executive engineer Kishore Patil from PWD said, “The patch from Kalamboli to BARC junction is completely concretised and hence there is no way that there could be any potholes. We are conducting regular surveys and if we find any patch that needs repair, we get the work done immediately.”Pandemic has affected safety initiatives (SUBHEAD)‘Campus with Helmet’ and ‘Traffic Family Cop’ programmes were initiated in 2019 and 2020, respectively, in schools, colleges and industrial areas. “Around 100 campuses including private and government offices, and colleges were introduced to ‘Campus with Helmet. We had sought public participation and were receiving good response. But with the lockdown and colleges being shut, the programmes have been stalled for the moment. The programmes ensure that nobody enters the campus without a helmet and none leaves without one,” Assistant Commissioner of Police (traffic), Arun Patil, said.Meanwhile, the Family Traffic Cop initiative involves students. Each student poses as a family traffic cop to make sure his/her family followed the traffic rules. During the Road Safety Week in January this year, children were approached to help traffic police in educating their families in following traffic rules.“We planned to carry on with the initiative and involve the young ‘cops’ but it has now taken a back seat,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-death-by-accident-in-navi-mumbai-panvel-down-by-37/story-bOWX33BCHMg6nH9IQBYMGJ.html
01-10-2020||City||3 mobile phones, 20 tobacco packets seized from Ludhiana Central Jail inmates||Three days after the arrest of a jail employee for possessing tobacco packets, the staff at the Ludhiana Central Jail recovered three mobile phones and another 20 packets of tobacco from two inmates during special checking on Wednesday night.The accused have been identified as Varinder Singh and Gurpreet Singh.They were booked on the statement of Pardyuman Kumar, assistant jail superintendent. In his complaint, Kumar said that while two mobile phones and 20 tobacco packets were found in possession of the two inmates, another abandoned phone was also recovered from the jail premises.A case under Sections 42, 45 and 52-A of the Prison Act was lodged against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station.On Sunday, a jail employee was arrested during a special checking for possessing tobacco packets that were allegedly meant to be supplied to inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-mobile-phones-20-tobacco-packets-seized-from-ludhiana-central-jail-inmates/story-3e89P36kC7gH3wyP8bqMiL.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hospital develops app to beat fake info on Covid||With an aim to provide clear and concise information regarding Covid-19, doctors at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) have developed a mobile app.Available on Google Play, the ‘CMCL App’ covers all essential aspects of the disease, which have been collated through concerted efforts over three months by a team led by Dr Jeyaraj Pandian, the principal investigator for the app.The team working on this app has garnered evidence and information from various guidelines and has attempted to present it in a precise manner. Other members of the team are Dr Pranay Pawar, Dr Atul Phillips, Dr Parvez Haque, Dr John Abraham and Dr Divya Varghese. The senior faculty of CMCH has also contributed many articles for the app.Dr William Bhatti, director, CMCH, said, “With a pandemic comes an ‘infodemic’, a short term for information epidemic. All kinds of wrong information is spread, creating panic in society and even among the healthcare staff. To control this, the app will provide medically correct information,” he said.Dr Jeyarak Pandian, principal and professor of neurology, CMC, and vice-president of the World Stroke Organisation, said there was much panic in the initial months when the pandemic started. “Even lab attendants and clerical staff at hospitals were confused. We will be discussing the app and its uses with the Punjab government for a wider reach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-hospital-develops-app-to-beat-fake-info-on-covid/story-H0x0Z8tqD1GuEgukBKxvyM.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Charanjit Singh Sohal is new SSP of Ludhiana rural||Charanjit Singh Sohal, IPS officer of 2103 batch has taken charge as senior superintendent of police (Ludhiana Rural) on Thursday. He has replaced Vivek Sheel Soni, who has been transferred to Sangrur as SSP.Before joining, the SSP received a guard of honour by the police team.Sohal said that his priority will be the prevention of crime in the area. His emphasis will be on deterring drug peddling.He said that the police will take stern action against drug peddlers. He added that the police need support from the public for maintaining peace. He will be available for the public 24x7 for redressal of their grievances.Earlier, Sohal was a joint commissioner of police in Jalandhar. He has served in Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Abohar, Amritsar, and chief minister’s security also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/charanjit-singh-sohal-is-new-ssp-of-ludhiana-rural/story-FRHoRPpb9M28iiW10MBKDO.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Three of gang arrested after brief shoot-out in Kavi Nagar area||The Ghaziabad police on Thursday morning arrested three members of a gang allegedly involved in robbery after a brief shoot-out in Kavi Nagar Industrial Area. The shoot-out, investigators said, took place when the suspected robbers opened fire at a police patrol team which had launched a raid in Kavi Nagar area The police team fired back in self defence and later arrested all three suspected robbers, two of whom had sustained gunshot injuries. Investigators said that the three men were involved in cash loot from an ATM in Vasundhara in August. The three suspects were identified as Kamruddin, Shahrun and Usman — who all go by single names and are residents of Mewat region in Haryana. The cops said that Kamruddin and Usman were serving life sentences at a jail in Delhi in connection to a gangrape incident of 2010 and had come our on parole during the month of March. They later went missing. “The three men are part of gang which conducts recce at different locations and target ATMs and shops to loots cash or valuables. On the night of August 31 they had targeted an ATM at Vasundhara locality and fled with cash after cutting through the machine with the help of gas-cutter. The bank having the ATM has not given us the amount of cash lost during the incident, but our assessment is that it is between Rs 4-5 lakh,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). During the Vasundhara robbery, the men had entered the ATM and sprayed black paint over the CCTV cameras to disable them before cutting through the machine and fleeing on cash. During the incident, they used a Santro car which was captured on one of the CCTVs in the locality during investigations. “During an early morning check, the three men in the same Santro car were captured on a CCTV in Kavi Nagar. A raid was conducted but they opened fire at the police. We fired back and two of them sustained gunshot injuries to their legs. We have recovered Rs 40,000 in cash, gas-cutter machine and cylinder, besides the spray which they used to blind CCTVs during their robberies. We have also recovered several mobiles, which they stole from several shops during an incident at Shastri Nagar and Avantika on the night of July 22,” Verma, added. According to investigators, suspect Kamruddin has 16 cases of heinous crime against him at Delhi, Haryana and Ghaziabad, while Shahrun and Usman have 12 and nine cases, respectively, against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-of-gang-arrested-after-brief-shoot-out-in-kavi-nagar-area/story-LC53KSuvUFUuRAinGd5QaM.html
01-10-2020||City||Four pose as cops to kidnap and extort money from couple in Nallasopara, arrested||Tulinj police arrested four persons for allegedly kidnapping and extorting money from a couple on Monday. According to police, the victims - Sonu Kumar Sharma, 27, and his wife, Rakhi, 24, are residents of Pragati Nagar in Nallasopara (East). On Monday late night, the four accused posing as policemen, knocked at the door of the couple and asked to accompany them to the police station. Sharma asked for their identity cards and arrest warrants, but the accused assaulted them and dragged the couple to a car. After the car reached Tulinj police station, the accused threatened to file a drug trafficking case against them and demanded money. However, the couple refused. “The accused then drove them near Kashimira and took away cash, mobile phones and gold jewellery from them and threw away Sharma on the road. Rakhi was later dropped at Nallasopara,” said senior inspector DS Patil.“We have registered a case of kidnapping, extortion and impersonation against the accused. We have arrested the four accused based on the CCTV footage and are investigating the case,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-pose-as-cops-to-kidnap-and-extort-money-from-couple-in-nallasopara-arrested/story-VvwfNP9FrFAPjBQxrGo2qO.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Noida authority frees up government land worth ₹40 crore in Phase 2||The Noida authority on Thursday freed up land worth ₹40 crore in a demolition drive in Bhooda village, said officials.The authority’s land department freed up around 6,800 square metres of land from encroachers in Bhooda village near sector Phase 2.“A team of 60 staff members with four earth moving machines demolished the illegal structures built on the government land. Construction on government land is against the law and a punishable offence,” said Santosh Upadhyay, officer on special duty, Noida authority.Officials said land grabbers had illegally built boundary walls, some rooms, swimming pool and other facilities on the plot. The land mafia wanted to build more of such structures and then sell them, they added.As per the Noida authority, developing any housing societies or building without requisite permissions and map approvals is against the law. “We have been issuing public notices in the newspapers and also on our website wherein we warn developers of building such illegal localities in or face legal action. Apart from this, we keep asking the homebuyers not to invest in such illegal projects and stay away from buying flats and plots in such unauthorised areas,” said Upadhayaya.The authority said since July when lockdown norms were considerably relaxed, it has continued to take action against illegal construction. “We have been carrying out demolition drives against illegal construction wherever land grabbers are trying to encroach upon land in villages. In some villages, the authority has acquired the land for planned development but hasn’t started work so far as the project will be developed later. Eyeing such opportunities, the land mafia try to grab such plots and develop illegal buildings to sell flats. We have been appealing to homebuyers not to invest in it as they will be cheated,” said an official requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-frees-up-government-land-worth-40-crore-in-phase-2/story-buZGWYjDiMVxPAuqtNvGOI.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Pre-booking may be must in BMC’s SOP for eateries in Mumbai||With the state government’s announcement of reopening of hotels and restaurants from Monday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to encourage customers to pre-book their seats and direct restaurants not to accept customers without pre-booking.This will be part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) for restaurant owners and customers to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. The SOP is being drafted and is expected to be finalised by Monday. The SOP will be divided into two parts – for customers and restaurant owners – and will include sanitising, wearing masks, social distancing and getting restaurant staff to wear gloves and masks throughout. The notification issued by the state government on Wednesday allowed hotels, bars, restaurants, food courts, shut for more than six months, to operate at 50% of their capacity. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “We have planned to ensure an arrangement of pre-booking of seats at restaurants to avoid unnecessary crowding. The restaurant owners will have to take precautions to ensure this transition, of opening up their spaces for customers, takes place smoothly. Their seating arrangement should be made in a way that social distancing is maintained.” Restaurant owners will have to ensure regular sanitising of the eating space and maintain hygiene in the kitchen. Also, periodic testing of its staff will be mandatory, as per the upcoming SOP of the BMC. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India, said, “I think people are more cautious to wait outside the restaurants in this pandemic and so pre-booking will work. I don’t agree that there will be overcrowding the moment we open restaurants as consumers’ confidence is low. We are on a wait-and-watch mode and will see how it unfolds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pre-booking-may-be-must-in-bmc-s-sop-for-eateries-in-mumbai/story-51NKqAmQyQLsPkKgue69KJ.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||16-year-boy dies of leptospirosis, first fatality in Mumbai this year||Mumbai recorded its first leptospirosis fatality of this year with the death of a 16-year-old boy due to the blood infection last month. Till September 27, 54 civilians in the city have been infected with leptospirosis. The deceased, who was a resident of F-North ward that covers Matunga, developed fever with chills on August 31. He was admitted to a hospital on September 2 after he complained of breathlessness and was coughing up blood. He was then tested for Covid-19 along with malaria, dengue and leptospirosis. Though he came negative of the first three diseases, he tested positive for leptospirosis. “Despite providing treatment, his condition didn’t improve and he succumbed to the infection. When we checked with the family, we were informed that he recently waded in rainwater. Thus, he got exposed to the infection,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.Leptospirosis is an infection in rodents and other wild and domesticated species. Rodents are implicated most often in human cases. It can pass from animals to humans when an unhealed break in the skin comes in contact with water or soil, where the animal urine is present.Last year in the month of September, 56 leptospirosis cases were reported. Last month, till September 27, 54 civilians in the city were infected with leptospirosis.The BMC has advised people with a history of wading through floodwater should consult a doctor for prophylactic treatment of leptospirosis within 72 hours. “All private practitioners are hereby requested to start doxycycline to all fever patients during monsoon season as early treatment with doxycycline prevents organ involvement and other complications thereby preventing deaths due to leptospirosis,” reads the advisory. However, there is a silver lining. As per the data provided by the BMC, the cases of malaria have fallen drastically in the city. In the month of August, 1,163 cases of malaria were reported which has plunged to 661 cases as reported till September 27.Dr Vikrant Shah, infectious disease specialist, Zen Multispeciality Hospital, said “I have seen around 10 cases of malaria and two dengue in the last two-three months. However, I haven’t seen any patients with leptospirosis. People must follow all the precautions, as symptoms of malaria mimic the symptoms of Covid-19. See to it that there is no waterlogging around your house. Wear full-sleeved clothes if you are venturing out of the house to prevent mosquito bites. Use mosquito repellents and mosquito nets in the house to keep mosquitoes at bay.”People can contact the helpline number of the BMC at 022-2411-4000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/16-year-boy-dies-of-leptospirosis-first-fatality-in-mumbai-this-year/story-7C8DIhO5ldYSnAHoqQavZN.html
01-10-2020||Noida||New Development Bank approves $500 million loan for RRTS rail project||In another major boost for the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor, that will provide high-speed rail connectivity between Delhi and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, the New Development Bank (NDB) has approved a $500 million loan for the project, officials of the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC), the body executing the venture, said on Thursday.The development comes more than a month after the Asian Development Bank had sanctioned a loan of $1 billion for the project towards August-end.The RRTS project stretches over a distance of 82km between Delhi and Meerut and once ready,high-speed trains will run between the corridor reducing the travel time. Civil construction work on the project is in full swing over a 50km stretch between Sahibabad in Ghaziabad and Shatabdipuram in Meerut.The project is pegged at ₹30,274 crore including planned loans to the tune of $2.049 billion.Approval from the NDB—a multilateral development bank established by the BRICS countries— for the loan came after a board meeting on September 29.“After the approval from the ADB, the board of the NDB has also approved a loan of $500 million. For the project, loans valued at about $2.049 billion are need. Apart from the two recent approvals, one more loan approval (from a development bank) of $500 million is in the pipeline. The recent development will provide a major boost to the RRTS project,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief public relations officer, NCRTC.“The NDB Board approved a loan of $500 million to the Republic of India for the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) Project...The project will develop an efficient and sustainable regional transport system and reduce congestion in Delhi, by offering people the alternative of settling in surrounding cities and being able to commute to Delhi through a fast, reliable, safe and comfortable public transport system,” the NDB said in a press statement.On September 25, the Ministry of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had unveiled the first look of the RRTS train. For RRTS, NCRTC has proposed 30 trains of six coaches each, which will operate on the main RRTS track of 82kms. The corporation has also proposed 10 trains with three coaches each, which will serve as a local transit module in Meerut. NCRTC had said the prototype is scheduled to roll off the production line in 2022.The 82km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor is one of the three prioritised RRTS corridors being implemented in phase-1. This is the first RRTS corridor in the country and will overall have 24 stations, including 21 in Uttar Pradesh.The other two Phase-I corridors are Delhi-Gurugram-SNB and Delhi-Panipat. Officials said pre-construction activities are in full swing for Delhi-Gurugram-SNB corridor and its detailed project report (DPR) is under active consideration of the Centre for sanction. They added that DPR of the Delhi-Panipat RRTS corridor is also under active consideration of the respective state governments for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-development-bank-approves-500-million-loan-for-rrts-rail-project/story-CqfsVTrMW3sZO8O1IlBFhM.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Power Corp starts tab on 60 feeders to reduce line loss to less than 15% in October||The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has identified 60 of the 550 feeders in Gautam Budh Nagar district in an effort to reduce line losses to less than 15% in October.Line losses refer to loss of power during transmission or distribution, which includes materials and equipment use and power theft and metering, among others. At present, line losses were estimated to be over 30%. UPPCL superintending engineer (Noida), Sarvesh Khare, said that by keeping a close tab on these feeders, not only the line loss could be reduced, but it will ensure uninterrupted power supply to consumers. “In the first phase, we have identified 60 feeders in the district, 30 each from circle 1 and 2 of power corporation. These feeders are located in sector 8, 10 and 47, Sarfabad, Bahlolpur, Sorkha, Dadri, Jewar and Dankaur areas. Power supply is being given mostly to jhuggis, rural areas and sites under construction from these feeders,” he said. He further said that the possibility of power theft in the areas connected with feeders can’t be ruled out. “We are also looking into it. We are also trying to get information that whether power department employees are involved in this power theft or not,” Khare said. The Uttar Pradesh energy minister Shrikant Sharma, had recently asked the power distribution companies in Noida and Ghaziabad to bringdown line loss to below 15%, to ensure uninterrupted power supply. The minister also asked the distribution companies to upgrade the existing 10 and 16 kVA transformers to higher capacity as soon as possible. “The line loss and tripping from these power stations can’t be tolerated in any case as the bona fide consumers also suffer due to frequent power cuts in these areas. Stern actions will be taken against all the officials concerned, if the problems of line loss and frequent power cuts are not corrected within two months. Without ensuring uninterrupted power supply, making power corporations self-reliant will remain a mirage,” the minister had said, warning the power officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/power-corp-starts-tab-on-60-feeders-to-reduce-line-loss-to-less-than-15-in-october/story-T4vwDFGOBKcix72Ov5udhJ.html
01-10-2020||City||Jeweller shot at for resisting robbery in Badalpur||A 32-year-old jeweller was shot at in the left hand while resisting a robbery at his shop in Chhapraula of Badalpur on Thursday afternoon. The victim, Sunny Kumar, runs a store – Verma Jewellers – in the village and lives with his family in the neighbourhood. According to the complaint, the incident occurred at around 2:45pm when five suspects reached the spot on two motorcycles. “Three men entered the shop while the two others stood guard outside. They pointed a gun at him and told him to hand over valuables. Kumar put up a resistance and tried to snatch the revolver from them. The suspects opened fire in which Kumar was injured in his left hand,” said Rajneesh Yadav, Kumar’s friend.Locals gathered at the shop after hearing the gunshot, following which the suspects fled the spot on their motorcycles. The incident was recorded in CCTV cameras installed at the shop.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said locals rushed Kumar to a private hospital. Later, a complaint was filed and the police registered an FIR under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Badalpur police station. “Primary investigation shows that the victim has a dispute property with some people. A police team reached the spot but found no valuables were stolen from the shop. We have retrieved the CCTV footage and are examining it to identify the suspects. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said. The jeweller, however, said he suspects it was a failed robbery bid. “We want the police to swiftly arrest the suspects involved in the attack,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jeweller-shot-at-for-resisting-robbery-in-badalpur/story-GI56T0DRxyoRgrKDSuY9JM.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Uttar Pradesh roadways bus driver arrested for molesting, assaulting passenger on board moving bus||The driver of an Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) bus was arrested for allegedly molesting a 23-year-old woman from Bareilly on September 29.According to the complaint filed by the woman, who is a college student and also an office bearer of a human rights’ organisation, she was returning from Delhi to her home in Bareilly along with two others and had boarded a UPSRTC bus Tuesday evening. “Soon, after we boarded the bus and it started to move, the driver, who was in an inebriated state, asked me to come and sit near to his seat. When I objected, he started misbehaving with me and also hurled verbal abuses. He started to get violent and then I confronted him. We were the only three women passengers aboard. Thereafter, other male passengers intervened and some of them also captured the entire incident through video,” the complainant alleged. In her complaint given to the police, the woman stated that the driver also told her that he is a government driver and offered her to stay with him. “The driver also assaulted me when I objected to his actions. Later, I went to the police station and gave a police complaint. The police were initially not ready to lodge the FIR but later they did as there were many passengers in the bus and videos of the incident had also been taken,” she added. The purported videos of the incident went viral over social media. They purportedly showed the suspect misbehaving and assaulting the victim. Based on the complaint, the police registered an FIR against the driver identified as Sheodan Lal, who is stated to be a UPSRTC driver based at Hapur depot. The FIR was registered under IPC sections of 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354a (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) at the Sahibabad police station. According to the police, however, they registered the complaint promptly. “Based on the complaint given by the woman, we immediately registered an FIR under different IPC sections and the driver was arrested immediately. He was sent to jail,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (Sahibabad). Regional officials UPSRTC said the alleged conduct of the driver shown towards the passenger cannot be justified at all. They said they have written to the concerned Hapur depot officials for initiating strict action against him. “The driver was suspended immediately after we came to know about the incident. He has a service record of about 15 years and was attached to the Hapur depot. I have written to his in-charge officer to initiate departmental action,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uttar-pradesh-roadways-bus-driver-arrested-for-molesting-assaulting-passenger-on-board-moving-bus/story-snlHSlsvC9CtNR1VAIzXrO.html
01-10-2020||Noida||GB Nagar’s Covid-19 tally: 39% of all cases came in September||The number of cases rose sharply in Gautam Budh Nagar in September, with the month seeing 5,098 fresh cases, almost 170 per day, the highest since the outbreak was first recorded in March. The month accounted for 39% of all cases till date.Deaths, at eight in September, was five higher than in August but lower than the 20 of July.Much of the high number of cases could be attributed to the increased testing.In March this year, the district reported 38 Covid-19 cases, which indicated a rate of a little over one patient per day at 626 total tests that month. In April, there were 100 cases (three cases per day, 3290 tests), May had 315 cases and seven deaths (10 cases per day, 40,100 total tests), June had 1,851 cases and 15 deaths (62 cases per day, 44,016 total tests); July had 2781 cases and 20 deaths (90 cases per day, 65,418 total tests); August had 2,864 new cases and three deaths (92 cases per day, 58,029 total tests). September had 82,304 total tests.District magistrate Suhas LY said that with nearly all commercial activities opened up, the main aim of the administration now is to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR) to the minimum possible level and ensure maximum testing. “Our methodology of ‘track, test and treat’ for checking the spread of Covid-19, has so far yielded expected results. Due to this method, the GB Nagar’s CFR has gone down to 0.40%, which is much better than national figure of 1.62% and state’s 1.39%,” he said. The DM also said that GB Nagar’s testing rate is best among all districts of north India. “Our testing rate per million per day is over 1,750, which is much better than other best districts in north India. We have also issued instructions for industrial establishments, to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols. Our teams are regularly monitoring the factories and other business establishments, to ensure the safety protocols being followed there,” he said. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that to check the spread of Covid-19 in the district, daily testing has been increased and regular rapid antigen kit testing camps are being organized at different places in the district. “Besides ramping up testing and started effective monitoring of patients under home isolation, the health department’s surveillance staff have also started implementing stringent containment. Timely hospitalisation for patients needing medical support and efficient infection control in healthcare facilities are in our top priorities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-s-covid-19-tally-39-of-all-cases-came-in-september/story-ikSRykVXAi24UGciAazLyO.html
01-10-2020||City||Private schools plan to continue with online classes as parents prefer keeping children at home||Gurugram: After staying closed for over six months now in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, schools can be expected to reopen after October 15 subject to state guidelines and consent of parents. Most schools have already readied protocols and measures that would be place as and when they reopen. At the same time, schools said they are likely to continue with online classes for now since parents were not in favour of sending their kids and had not been enthusiastic about the academic guidance sessions either. The central government has part of its fresh unlock guidelines has allowed state governments to take a call on reopening of schools after October 15. Students will be allowed in schools with consent from parents.Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14, said the school had sought feedback from parents of students in classes 11 and 12 this week and around 65-75% were not okay with physical classes. “The guidelines mention that even if the state government allows schools to open, it has to be done with the consent of parents. Two days ago, we had floated a google form for students of classes 11 and 12, seeking feedback from parents regarding school visits. Most parents are not in favour of school visits,” said Erry. She said parents were not keen on sending children to school for short duration, limited classes either. “We gave various choices to parents. Overwhelming majority of parents are not in favour of short duration visits to school either. Looking at the response of parents of students in senior classes, we are not expecting any favourable response from parents whose children are in junior classes,” Erry said. The school already has a sanitisation protocol in place as part of which the whole school campus is sanitised on a daily basis. From the entry gate till the classrooms, sanitisers are in place at various points and to regulate movement, the teaching staff is called to the school on a rotational basis. “We have done the groundwork and these measures can be scaled up whenever schools reopen,” Erry said. Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said chances of initiation of physical visits looked bleak since parents were not yet willing to send children for guidance sessions. Misra said the number of students visiting the school for guidance visits was dwindling, which could indicate the mood of parents. “While initially, some children had applied for guidance visits, only a few children came to school,” said Misra. She said the school had sought feedback from parents regarding school visits twice in the past six months. “Parents have clearly stated that they are happy with online classes. They don’t want to send children to school due to the fear of jeopardising their health,” said Misra. The school had served as a centre for the CBSE board compartment exams and has a Covid-19 safety protocol in place. It has placed sanitisers at various points in common areas. Within classrooms, desks have been marked with signs so that distancing rules are complied with. Throughout the school, arrows have been marked for one-way traffic apart from regular sanitisation measures. “Getting some 100 students for a compartment exam is quite different from calling 6,000 children to school. Due to the increase in strength, the sanitisation will be much more stringent and in-depth when schools start fully. We will have to increase manpower,” Misra said. Most parents said they would prefer online classes over physical classes till there was a significant improvement in the situation. “As long as online classes are taking place and a regular continuum of learning is being maintained, I don’t think I would be willing to send my son to school. The pandemic continues to be sensitive and it does not make much sense for schools to reopen due to the health concerns,” said Sonal Kaushik, whose son studies in Class 9 in a private school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-schools-plan-to-continue-with-online-classes-as-parents-prefer-keeping-children-at-home/story-HSsY6x90V6KsGjact2M4UJ.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram MP lauds new farm bills, criticises the opposition||Gurugram member of Parliament (MP) and union minister Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday said that the three farm bills passed by the Central government on September 20 were aimed at helping the farmers by allowing them to sell their produce in open markets and across the country without any hindrance. Singh said that the purpose of these bills was to ensure that income of farmers is augmented and they are able to get better prices for their produce. Singh, who is union minister of state for statistics, was speaking at a press conference in Gurugram on Thursday. He said that opposition parties were falsely creating the an impression that these decisions will eliminate the MSP (minimum support price) system and agriculture mandis (markets) across the country. He also said that only six per cent of the farming households have been able to get benefit from the MSP system. “These farm bills enable the farmers to sell their produce across the country and it allows them to sell their produce wherever they want. It will help them to get better prices. The opposition parties, particularly the Congress, are trying to take advantage of the situation. But this should not happen at the cost of the society and nation. We must rise above petty interests,” said Singh. Singh said that the BJP government has increased the allocation for agriculture in the Union budget from 8.5 percent to 38.8 per cent. This is a clear indication that interests of the farmers won’t be hurt. Farmers in several states have been protesting against the three bills that got the President’s assent last Sunday.Taking a dig at the opposition parties, Singh said that eliminating the Agriculture Price Market Committee was part of the Congress party’s manifesto of 2019 and the opposition parties were taking an opportunistic view of the current situation. “The politics on this issue should not hurt the interests of the common man and the farmers. I left the Congress party because of its failures on these issues,” he said. Singh said that the ownership of the farmers’ land cannot be compromised in case of contract farming. “As far as Swaminathan recommendations are concerned, the BJP government has raised the MSP prices of various crops by more that 50 percent of the cost. It is to be noted that Congress government in 2007 had refused to implement these recommendations,” he said.Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla and district BJP president Gargi Kakkar were also present on the occasion. Senior Congress leader and former state minister Captain (Retd) Ajay Singh Yadav said that the three farm bills brought by Union government will destroy the future of Indian agriculture. The government is aiming to bring agriculture under the control of private and corporate sector. “The Gurugram MP and the BJP will have to bear the consequences of such disastrous policies. The people of the state will give a befitting reply when the time comes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mp-lauds-new-farm-bills-criticises-the-opposition/story-hjIVOPYgoQARkuOkonnjrI.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Former wrestling coach held for murdering taekwondo player||Over 11 months after a 25-year-old woman, a taekwondo player, was shot dead in Bilaspur area, the police on Wednesday arrested a former wrestling coach for allegedly murdering her, after she had turned down his marriage proposal. The police said since the murder, he had been hiding at several locations and selling rat poison in Dausa, Rajasthan, to evade the police. The police had announced a reward of ₹25,000 for information leading to his arrest. The police said the deceased, Sarita, who had taken part in several national-level competitions in taekwondo, was shot dead by Sombir, a former wrestling coach, at 4am on November 12, 2019, at her house in Bhora Khurd in Bilaspur. Her mother, Savitri Devi, a witness, had allegedly told the police that Sombir had been pestering her daughter to get married to him and despite her repeated refusals, he had been after their family. “My daughter had met him several years ago when she had gone for a tournament. He had been threatening us for some time after my daughter refused to marry him. On November 12, he came to our house and at gun point, asked my daughter to agree to the marriage. When she refused, he shot her in the chest and threatened to kill me too before running away,” Savitri Devi had said in the complaint to the police. Sarita was rushed to a private hospital in Manesar, where doctors had declared her dead-on-arrival. The police said a few months before the murder, Sombir was booked in two criminal cases for allegedly molesting, harassing and threatening Sarita and her family. In one of these cases, he was arrested but later released on bail. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “After the murder, his whereabouts were not known for several months. He kept changing his locations and went to Alwar before taking a room on rent in Ganeshpura village in Dausa, Rajasthan. To evade the police, he had changed his look and had started selling rat poison. Probe found that he had snatched a phone from Kapriwas and was booked in a case in Dharuhera.” The police said, on September 26, Sombir and his aide, Jitendra Nayak, from Dausa, made an extortion call to a businessman in Bilaspur and asked him to pay ₹50 lakh or face dire consequences. Bilaspur Police had registered an FIR against unknown persons the following day. “A probe found that the snatched phone was used to make the extortion call, following which the crime branch of Sector 40 traced his location to Dausa and both were arrested. At least five cases have been registered against Sombir. Jitendra was sent to judicial custody,” said ACP, adding that the gun used by the accused and other pieces of evidences are yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/former-wrestling-coach-held-for-murdering-taekwondo-player/story-h1hRo3mYkCpLxvfb4TsyuK.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||NHM workers call off protest after their demands for changes in contract are met||About 750 contractual workers of the National Health Mission (NHM) in Gurugram — comprising doctors, auxiliary midwife nurses, emergency medical technicians and ambulance drivers, among others — have called off their decision to protest after their demands were met by the district health department on Thursday. The workers had earlier objected to two specific clauses in their employment contracts, which, they alleged, would hamper their job security for the health workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. During a meeting with the district chief medical officer(CMO) on Thursday, however, it was decided that the two clauses will be rescinded from their contracts. The specific clauses (numbered 9 and 10) in the ‘Letter of Contract’ affidavit, which NHM workers are expected to sign and submit by the end of the month in order to renew their employment, remove the provision of a month-long notice period in case of termination of employment. The affidavit (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times) also stated that this may be done “without making payment of remuneration in advance”.Dr Virender Yadav, CMO, Gurugram, said of the matter, “We will be renewing their contracts as per the old terms.” He declined to comment further, adding that this was a state issue which did not concern his office. “We are simply following orders as received,” he said.Hari Raj, district president of the NHM Karmachari Sangh (Haryana), said, “The move comes as a relief. We will sign identical copies of our old contracts in the next day or two and submit it to the CMO’s office to formally renew our contracts. All 750 workers in the district have also been granted extensions on their employment, which is a relief, especially since we are in the middle of a job scarcity.” Prabjot Singh, mission director, NHM Haryana, could not be reached for comment on Thursday despite multiple attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhm-workers-call-off-protest-after-their-demands-for-changes-in-contract-are-met/story-5jYmX87HnHs5HysRzyjQJO.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||22-year-old held for raping minor girl in Faridabad||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl while she was asleep in her room in Faridabad.The minor was taken to the district civil hospital and later referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi for treatment and her condition is stable, said police. According to police, the incident took place at around 1am when the girl was sleeping next to her five-year-old sister in her room. Her father was asleep on the terrace while her mother was sleeping in the verandah, outside the room. Police said according to the girl’s mother, who lodged the complaint, her younger daughter woke her up and informed her that her sister had been crying. Police said when her mother went to her room to check, she noticed that her elder daughter was bleeding. She saw the suspect, their neighbour, fleeing the room. Dharna Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime against women, said, “The girl’s mother and her relatives took her to civil hospital. The victim had suffered a cut and required stitches. At the time, a paediatric surgeon was not available at the civil hospital in Faridabad, so she was referred to Safdarjung hospital. She is stable and has been provided counselling. The doctors at the civil hospital informed us of the incident.” Police said the suspect, a native of Buxar in Bihar, was a labourer. He was arrested within half an hour of the incident being reported, said police. “The victim is likely to be discharged on Friday. As per preliminary probe, the suspect does not have a criminal history. He was produced in a district court and sent to judicial custody,” said ACP Yadav. In a statement, Sube Singh, spokesperson, Faridabad police, said, “We have written to the district administration officials to offer all possible legal and financial assistance to the victim and her family.” A case was registered against the under section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) at on Thursday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/22-year-old-held-for-raping-minor-girl-in-faridabad/story-jo4keFNqVHyicSuLriU4vJ.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Road in Ludhiana develops cracks a day after construction||Despite tall claims made by mayor Balkar Sandhu over checks being kept on quality of development works in the city, complaints against poor quality works continue to pour in. Residents of Street Number 3 of Laxman Nagar in Giaspura area complained that a road in their area has developed a crack in a day as the soil was not removed properly before laying the hotmix on Wednesday night.Intriguingly, the civic body has not even issued the work order to construct the street and the contractor laid the hotmix without apprising authorities. One of the residents, RK Yadav said, “The road has been constructed after eight years but the contractor has used inferior quality material. Hotmix has not been laid for the entire portion of the road and the required amount of material has also not been used. The road was constructed in a hurry on Wednesday night and has already developed cracks. I have forwarded a complaint to municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and he had sent a team for inspection in the evening.”Area councillor Sonia Sharma said, “The contractor did not even tell the authorities before starting the road construction work and poor quality work has been done in a hurry. I have also asked the MC chief to take action against the contractor and the road should be constructed properly.”MC sub-divisional officer Ravneet Singh said, “We have inspected the site after receiving a complaint from the residents. There are certain flaws in the work and a report will be forwarded to senior authorities so that action can be taken in this matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-in-giaspura-develops-cracks-a-day-after-construction/story-9JyY6gSDHTfnX18AvTOzrI.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||District administration to consult all stakeholders on reopening of schools||A day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued Unlock 5 guidelines that permitted the reopening of schools in a graded manner after October 15, officials from the district administration said that a decision on the same will be taken after consultation with all stakeholders. Reacting to the MHA guidelines, a senior official from the district administration said any order regarding the opening of institutes will be taken after due consultation with various stakeholders and departments. “The guidelines say that schools can be reopened after October 15 depending on certain conditions. Any order in this context will be issued only after consultation with various stakeholders and departments and taking cognisance of the ground realities. The education department will share the feedback it receives from parents on this matter with the administration on the basis of which the order will be passed. We will implement the order as and when it’s passed,” said the official, who did not wish to be quoted. According to the latest guidelines issued by the MHA, the decision for opening schools in a graded manner can be taken by the states/union territories after October 15 “in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”. Schools across the country were shut in March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Students in government schools in Haryana have been visiting the campuses for academic guidance sessions on a regular basis since September 21. District elementary education officer Premlata Yadav said that schools would continue to remain open for students for classes 9 to 12 who need academic guidance. “Senior students from classes 9 to 12 are already visiting the school for academic guidance visits with the consent of parents. These visits will continue to take place. As far as the opening of schools for students in junior classes is concerned, the decision will be taken in due course of time. A discussion on the subject of reopening schools for remaining classes has not taken place,” said Yadav. Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the school was open for all practical purposes since senior students were already visiting the school for academic guidance sessions regularly. “Students in classes 9 to 12 are already visiting the school on alternate days. For us, the school is already open since regular guidance sessions are taking place with the consent of parents. Now, the issue of reopening schools for students of classes 6 to 8 needs to be dealt with,” said Raghav. He said that it seemed unlikely that parents would be willing to send children in junior classes to school even after October 15.“Based on the feedback received from parents, it seems unlikely that they would give consent for routine classes after October 15. Even if the state government were to give a go-ahead for junior classes, parents might remain reluctant about sending children to school,” said Raghav. Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari also confirmed that the number of students visiting the school for academic guidance visits was steadily increasing. “We are seeing an improvement in the number of students visiting the school for guidance sessions on a daily basis. Every day, there is an increase of 1%. This week we saw, around 6% of students attending these sessions,” said Kumari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-to-consult-all-stakeholders-on-reopening-of-schools/story-jMcVynexNSA59H5Pw1pemM.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Few takers for ‘non-medical tests’ at Gurugram Civil Hospital||There are few takers for the Covid-19 facility dedicated to test people for “non-medical” reasons -- work or travel that required a negative certificate -- in Gurugram.On September 19, the Haryana government had directed districts to set up such centres to reduce the burden on labs after it had removed the requirement for a doctor’s prescription for a test. These centres would charge people depending on the type of test -- ₹1,600 for RT-PCR, ₹650 for antigen and ₹250 for antibody tests. Those who sought the test for medical reasons, however, would continue to be tested free of charge.Since the order, there have been only 220 tests at the centre in Gurugram -- the sector 10 Civil Hospital set up from September 21.“After walk-in tests (without prescription) were introduced, we were getting about 40 people a day who needed a Covid-negative certificate in order to travel or return to work. After we started charging for these kinds of tests, the number of those coming in for ‘non-medical’ reasons has come down to about 15 to 20,” said Anantha K, a senior lab technician with the health department.“The removal of the mandatory prescription rider had resulted in many individuals, in both blue- and white-collar jobs, seeking tests. We also have to keep tests available for people who show symptoms. Not everyone can get tested for free,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The district tested 3355 tests on Thursday, which, officials said, was on target.Health department officials said that people relied on private laboratories for ”non-medical” tests. “This is mainly because private labs offer home visits, and reports are sent to the patients within a day. At Civil Hospital, the reports take longer, about 36 to 48 hours. Most people wanting non-medical tests generally need the results sooner,” said a senior medical officer with the health department, seeking anonymity.There are a total of 12 labs and medical facilities in the district offering tests privately.Rishabh Rajput, director of Covid-19 and microbiology divisions at Modern Diagnostics, a certified testing lab in Jawahar Nagar, said, “Approximately speaking, 80 percent of our clients need RT PCR tests for medical purposes. They have some symptoms or may just generally be feeling unwell. The rest are what the health department is calling ‘non-medical’ tests.”Experts have viewed the health department’s move critically. Dr Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former head of the department of community medicine at PGIMER, Chandigarh, said, “Every single Covid-19 test administered by the government should ideally be free. Allowing people to go back to work is as much a part of the public health response as preventing deaths. If there is a paucity of equipment, you must manufacture or procure more kits. A price barrier will exclude many people who cannot afford the test, even with Haryana’s relatively low pricing. When enough tests are available the price should be removed or lowered.”Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer in Gurugram, added, “We have put up notices at all PHCs where tests are being conducted stating that non-medical tests will be chargeable. People do approach us for tests without any signs or symptoms of Covid-19. They are diverted to the facility in Civil Hospital. Maybe they are choosing not to go ahead because of the pricing, or maybe they are heading to private labs.” While he was unable to provide specific numbers, Sharma added that of the 220 paid tests conducted since September 21, a large portion were RT PCR tests.On September 5, the ICMR had issued a revised testing advisory to all states, paving the way for walk-in tests. Prior to this, the ICMR’s testing advisory required people to either have flu-like symptoms or come in close contact with an infected person, following which a doctor could issue a prescription for a test. The revised criteria was implemented in Gurugram on September 7, after which the demand for non-medical tests rose, at both private labs and PHCs in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/few-takers-for-non-medical-tests-at-gurugram-civil-hospital/story-n249qGcSVUyBD2igW1GWbI.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Three years after he went missing, minor reunited with family in Kapashera||Three years after he went missing, a 13-year-old boy was reunited with his family members in Delhi on Thursday. The boy, who was ten years old at the time, had gone missing from Kapashera in 2017. The police officials said the boy had strayed from his house in Kapashera and was later found roaming on the streets in Gurugram. He was handed over to the child welfare committee(CWC) and was shifted to a shelter home in Rajiv Nagar, where he had been staying since then. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The boy was unable to articulate any information about his background apart from his name and state. He could not recollect any information, perhaps due to shock and trauma.” Recently, the city police had opened a missing cell and tasked officials to counsel people in the homeless shelters and upload information of their cases on zonal integrated police network (Zipnet) in an effort to trace their families. During counselling, police collected information from Zipnet and found the photograph of the boy who had been living in a shelter home in Rajiv Nagar in Gurugram. “Further probe found that the boy had gone missing from Kapashera and a missing persons’ complaint had been filed at Kapashera police station in Delhi in 2017. We got information of his parents from Kapashera police station, but at the time, his parents were in their native town in Vaishali district in Bihar due to the lockdown,” said Boken. The police said they contacted the boy’s maternal aunt, who was in Delhi, who then arrived and identified him and informed his parents in Bihar. His parents arrived in the city earlier this week. On Thursday, after background checks, a medical examination and on the directions of CWC officials, the boy was reunited with his family. K K Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram, has announced a cash reward and a certificate of appreciation for the investigating officers of the missing cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-years-after-he-went-missing-minor-reunited-with-family-in-kapashera/story-TcGAa4KA28tkDkqGQxMVGN.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Head constable thrashed in argument over face mask in Delhi||A Delhi Police head constable was thrashed allegedly by civil defence volunteers deployed in west Delhi’s Naraina following an argument over not wearing a face mask on Wednesday evening. The policeman was not wearing his uniform at the time of incident. A video of the assault was widely shared on social media after which the police registered a case of assault against the volunteers on Thursday to probe the incident.Police said the fracas took place around 7.30pm at the Naraina Vihar traffic signal when head constable Naresh, posted at the Connaught Place police station, was returning home on his motorcycle. In his complaint, Naresh said a team of civil defence volunteers who were penalising people for not wearing mask stopped him.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said initial inquiry suggests that Naresh was also not wearing a face mask. “After he was stopped, he had an argument with the volunteers that later turned violent,” he said.The officer also said they are checking who these volunteers were and on whose orders they were deployed in the area.Police are also looking into allegations against the head constable of having misbehaved with a woman volunteer when she stopped him for not wearing a mask. However, no complaint was received against the head constable till Thursday evening, police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Sameer Sharma said a case of assault has been registered. “During preliminary probe, it was found that the argument started over the head constable not wearing a mask. We are verifying allegations made by both sides,” Sharma said.SDM Delhi Cantonment Piyush Rohankar said the administration is waiting for the outcome of the police inquiry as it was a matter of law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/head-constable-thrashed-in-argument-over-face-mask-in-delhi/story-7kXm3rDSyRnREu1g9OnO3M.html
01-10-2020||City||With eye on 2022 MCD polls, Delhi BJP announces new team||New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced its new state team with an eye on securing a fourth term in the municipal polls scheduled in 2022. The 46-member team has seven sitting and former councillors, excluding state unit president Adesh Gupta (councillor from west Patel Nagar). Former youth wing head of Delhi BJP Sunil Yadav, who contested the assembly elections against Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this year, has been made the vice-president. While the party has accommodated Congress and AAP rebels in the new team, BJP leader Kapil Mishra, a former minister in the Arvind Kejriwal government in 2015, didn’t find a place. Mishra has been in the news recently related to his speech in north-east Delhi, a day before communal riots broke out in the area. Congress rebel Barkha Singh, former Delhi Commission for Women chairperson, and Richa Pandey Misha, former head of AAP’s women’s wing, have been appointed vice-president and spokesperson respectively. Richa Pandey Mishra and Kapil Mishra had joined the BJP together in August last year. With over a year left for the municipal polls and the AAP stepping up its attack on the BJP, which is ruling all the three civic bodies, Gupta said the new team will be instrumental in “party’s victory once again”. “This team will work to win the party its fourth consecutive term in the municipal polls. It is a mixed bag with a lot of people with organisational experience and newcomers, youth and members of the SC and OBC communities,” Gupta said. The party has given key appointments to seven former and sitting councillors, including three former mayors. Former East Delhi mayor Harsh Malhotra has been made the general secretary along with Kuljeet Chahal and Dinesh Pratap Singh. Former East Delhi Mayor Neema Bhagat and former South Delhi Mayor Sunita Kangra has been appointed as secretaries. Of the seven, four are sitting councillors. The party has also appointed eight leaders who had contested the assembly elections in 2020, including Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga. While Bagga has been retained as the spokesperson along with Harish Khurana and Praveen Shankar Kapoor, Laxmi Nagar MLA Abhay Verma has been made the chief spokesperson of the Delhi BJP. Party members say that very few people from the old team have been retained. While Rajiv Babbar has been retained as the vice-president, current media in-charge Ashok Goyal has been elevated to the post of vice-president. Virendra Sachdeva, member of the national BJP’s good governance team, has been appointed as the vice-president. By replacing Purvanchali leader and North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari with Gupta as Delhi BJP chief, the BJP had made a move to woo its core support base in the Punjabi-Baniya community. But the party has appointed close to five people from the Purvanchali community in the new team. There are nine women and two Muslims in the new team. Sanjay Kumar, director, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), said the in the reorganisation of the Delhi unit, the BJP has tried to strike a balance between two key communities -- Purvanchalis and Baniyas. “By making Gupta the state chief the BJP tried to keep the trading community (its core support base) happy. But at the same time, they have given representation to the Purvanchal community. Though the party’s attempt to woo the Purvanchalis did little good for them, it did play a role in increasing the party’s vote share in the assembly elections, especially in east Delhi. The recent appointments show that they have devised a strategy to keep both the trading community and the Purvanchalis happy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-eye-on-2022-mcd-polls-delhi-bjp-announces-new-team/story-zAPy7FidY5J3Gd6ROoe9fO.html
01-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: 104 government school students clear JEE Main||As many as 104 students from government schools have cleared the Joint Entrance Examination Main, or JEE Main 2020. Of them, 44 students are from the meritorious school run by the state government. The district topped the state with the highest number of students clearing the coveted engineering entrance exam this year.In Ludhiana, there are 52 Government Senior Secondary Schools that offer medical stream and 60 students from these schools cleared the JEE Main. The graph has gone up this year with 104 candidates clearing the JEE Main as last year only 60 passed the exam. Students from other districts Jalandhar (60), Hoshiarpur (13), Kapurthala (10), Nawanshahr (6), Amritsar (41), Bathinda (32), Fazilka (23), Ferozepur (46), Gurdaspur (42), Moga (1), Muktsar (2), Pathankot (7), Patiala (50), Rupnagar (8), Sangrur (59) and Mohali (44) have cleared the entrance examination to seek admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs)Teachers of government senior secondary schools guided students and cleared their doubts. District education officer, (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur, said, “Teachers have put in a lot of efforts and despite the pandemic and schools being closed, students have worked hard to clear the exam.”“Schools have been asked to share the names of teachers who have guided students for the entrance exam,” she said.District mentor, (science) Jasvir, said, “The teachers have been guiding the students since last year and when the lockdown was imposed, subject experts took online classes to clear their doubts. Teachers prepared videos on certain topics and regular tests helped students to achieve this goal.”As per data from the district education office, one student each from Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Jawahar Nagar, Government Senior Secondary School, Dakha, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gill road, Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, Government Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal, Government Senior Secondary School (girls), Jagraon, GSSS (girls) Rupalon cleared the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-104-government-school-students-clear-jee-main/story-fC3tGKH2ZbAklpb65fjZHP.html
01-10-2020||City||As ridership increases, Metro to run trains on peak frequency in some corridors||New Delhi: With the rush at Metro stations increasing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has decided to run trains at quick intervals or at “peak hour frequency” between 8am and 8pm. Metro officials say the decision has been taken to “break the peak”, with occupancy touching 100% on several lines during peak hours. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “DMRC also introduced peak hour frequency of trains from 8am to 8pm to provide better occupancy. We are doing away with the concept of off-peak hours from 11am to 4pm where services were available with less trains/trips earlier.” Currently, the frequency of trains during peak hours is between 2 and 5 minutes whereas during off-peak hours is 8-15 minutes. Metro officials said, on five sections-- Dilshad Garden to Shastri Park, Mundka to Kirti Nagar, Kirti Nagar to Mandi House, New Bus Adda to Dilshad Garden and Escorts Mujesar to Badarpur—the train occupancy is almost 100% of the allowed capacity. The Metro started its full-scale operations from September 12. Since then it has seen a gradual rise in ridership. According to DMRC officials, the line utilisation is around 9-10 lakh daily. Dayal said, “It has been observed that certain sections of the Metro network as given below are showing a trend where occupancy is touching 100% mark during morning and evening peak hours whereas during off-peak hours the occupancy in the same sections is in the range of 30-50% only. This leaves ample scope for people to stagger their travel from peak hours to the extent possible and have hassle-free travel with social distancing in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-ridership-increases-metro-to-run-trains-on-peak-frequency-in-some-corridors/story-5vpIxFgntXpOGzhO5rOllI.html
01-10-2020||City||Youth Congress workers try to ‘vandalise’ BJP office in Ludhiana||BJP leaders have lodged a complaint against Youth Congress workers for allegedly trying to vandalise the BJP office located near Clock Tower on Thursday.In a hurriedly called press conference, State BJP vice-president Parveen Bansal, general secretary Jeevan Gupta and spokesperson Anil Sareen condemned the act and demanded stringent action against the Congres workers for attempting to vandalise the BJP office.The incident, they said, took place on Thursday afternoon when the Youth Congress workers gathered near the Clock Tower to burn the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protest against the rape and brutal killing of a girl in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh (UP).BJP leader Jeevan Gupta said that the Youth Congress workers took the effigy at the BJP party office located on the first floor and tried to set it on fire. They alleged that some of the Congress workers even tried to vandalise the party office.However, the BJP workers swung into action and prevented the incident. Later, the BJP workers lodged a police complaint in this regard, said Gupta.It is being alleged that the act of burning effigy was carried out by the same group of Congressmen who were involved in assaulting Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Sunny Kainth.Sharing details, Anil Sareen accused the police of remaining a mute spectator. “The Congress workers reached the first floor and tried to vandalise the BJP office. All this happened right in front of the police but the cops did nothing. It was when the BJP workers stopped them from vandalising the office that the police intervened and took the workers downstairs,” said Sareen.SHO of Division Number 1 police station Inspector Harjit Singh said that the complaint has been received and the matter was being investigated. He admitted that the Youth Congress workers had reached till the first floor but soon they have rushed downstairs. “No attempt to burn effigy was made,” said the SHO.Speaking on the issue, district president of Youth Congress Yogesh Handa said that it was a peaceful protest being carried out in the presence of mediapersons. “The protest was to wake up the BJP government and its blind followers from their slumber. Our national security is being compromised, our GDP is at an all-time low, businesses have ruined completely. The government has failed to keep a tab on the Covid-19 pandemic. To top it all, the government has introduced a pro-corporate farmer bill to crush the poor farmers and then the news of the gruesome gang-rape case at UP has sent shockwaves across the country. Our peaceful protest was pertaining to all these issues. We have not burnt the effigy of PM Modi. We had visited the market, where the BJP office is also located, to protest. BJP workers are making false complaints,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-congress-workers-try-to-vandalise-bjp-office-in-ludhiana/story-ZjHuBpfyDZ2P5m4jKsPUGL.html
01-10-2020||City||Hathras gangrape: Protesters force shutters down in Chaura Bazaar||High drama was witnessed at Chaura Bazaar after members of Valmiki Samaj allegedly forced traders to shut shops in protest against the brutal gangrape of a woman in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh. A heavy police force was deployed in the market to avoid any untoward situation. The protesters demanded strict action against the culprits.Several other organisations on Thursday staged protests in different areas of the city.Members of Bhartiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj led by national convener and Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) councillor (ward number 8) Chaudhary Yashpal marched towards Chaura Bazaar to stage a protest there. High drama was witnessed in the area after the protesters forced shopkeepers to keep shutters down. However, the shops were opened after the protesters left the area.Chaudhary Yashpal said that they are demanding action against the police personnel who had forcibly cremated the woman’s body in the middle of the night. He said that they have not forced anyone to shut shop and only requested shopkeepers to come forward for the cause.Members of Bhartiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj led by national director Naresh Dhingan marched towards Mini Secretariat and handed over a memorandum to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma seeking registration of a murder case against police personnel for cremating the woman’s body without the consent of her parents.Member of Bhartiya Valmiki Teerath Shrine board and chief of Bhartiya Valmiki Sewa Dal Surinder Kalyan chided the Uttar Pradesh government on the matter. Protesters also staged a protest at Bharat Nagar chowk and handed over a memorandum to the additional deputy commissioner seeking action against the police personnel.Kalyan said that atrocities on Dalits have increased under the Yogi Adityanath government regime.Members of Shiv Sena Hindustan staged a protest outside the BJP office near Clock Tower. Led by party’s spokesperson (Punjab) Chandarkant Chaddha, protesters burnt the effigy of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Chadha said that the UP government has failed in maintaining the law and order situation in the state.The district unit of Aam Aadmi Party organised a candle march in the Basti Jodhewal area seeking capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-gangrape-protesters-force-shutters-down-in-chaura-bazaar/story-P0uecSw4vxzduUES933G4I.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hathras gangrape: Protests held across Haryana||Protest marches were taken out at many places in Haryana against the gangrape in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, with some demonstrators demanding capital punishment for the culprits.The protests were organised by various social outfits and Dalit organisations on Thursday at several places including Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Fatehabad and Rohtak. At Bahadurgarh, the protesters burnt an effigy of the Uttar Pradesh government and raised slogans against the BJP led regime for its alleged failure to manage law and order.“Our demand is that the culprits should be hanged,” said a protester in Yamunanagar’s Radaur. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja hit out at the UP government over the incident, asking “why did they delay registering a case?” “Is it a crime being a daughter of a poor Dalit, does she not have a right to seek justice?,” she said in a tweet. Selja also asked, “why did the victim’s family not get the right to conduct her last rites?” Dalit protesters pelt stones at police in KaithalIn Kaithal, the agitated members of the Valmiki community blocked the road near Chhotu Ram Chowk and pelted stones at the police, also affecting the traffic for several hours.Superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said the protesters turned violent when a police team tried to stop them from blocking the road and damaging private property. He said some police officials sustained minor injuries but they were controlled by the police later and the blockade was lifted after half an hour.The SP said a FIR will be registered as per the findings of the investigation into the incident and they were looking into the CCTV footage to identify the protesters who pelted stones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hathras-gangrape-protests-held-across-haryana/story-XEsATaHpefQYzmkjzyCF8O.html
01-10-2020||Noida||District administration stops sale, purchase of land, buildings on floodplains||To put a check on illegal construction on floodplains, the Gautam Budh Nagar district disaster management committee passed an order regulating sale and purchase of illegal/unauthorised buildings in notified areas of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway as well as land/buildings on the floodplains of the Yamuna and Hindon rivers. District magistrate Suhas LY, who is the also the chairman of the committee, said this order will not only stop the illegal construction of high-rises in notified areas, but also protect the floodplains of Hindon and Yamuna rivers. The registration of properties in these areas will no more be possible for buyers or sellers, the DM said. “As per the powers vested under section 34 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, the committee has asked the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna authorities, along with police, irrigation, revenue and registration departments, to control plotting, colonization and construction in notified areas under the three authorities. The authorities and police have been asked to take immediate action against persons involved in such illegal/unauthorised constructions,” he said. The DM further said it will be mandatory for both buyers and sellers, to mention the height and floors of any commercial, industrial, institutional or residential building before the registry of the said property is executed. “Any building having a height of more than 15 metres or having more than four floors will not be registered, partially or completely, by the deputy registrar concerned as that may cause major loss of lives in the event of a collapse,” Suhas said. About the constructions on the flood plains of Hindon and Yamuna rivers, Suhas said without producing bona fide documents ( in context of sections 2(d), 6(g), 9(i) and 10 of UP Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 and Rule 20.2, 20.3 and 24.1 of Noida/ Greater Noida Industrial Development Area Building Regulation, 2010) no construction will be permitted. “Even the agricultural land on the floodplains of these rivers will not be registered, if there is illegal or unauthorised construction on it,” he said.The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), has welcomed the move. Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai (western UP), said it will put a big check on land mafias in these areas, who are selling the land hoodwinking people, on the basis of fake powers of attorney. “This order will also alert prospective buyers. But, the district administration must soften its stand against buyers, who have already purchased land or houses in these areas. The administration should also consider their displacement. It will be a double blow for them,” he said. Vikrant Tongad, an environment conservationist, said by restricting illegal construction on floodplains and notified belts, the areas will more safe and greener. “The administration must not allow construction on even a single inch of floodplain. If we restrict the course of nature, it may destroy us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/district-administration-stops-sale-purchase-of-land-buildings-on-floodplains/story-zCbF6suDbGVcpFKymgP2HI.html
01-10-2020||Patna||Bihar: Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients stands at 92.72%; 1,370 new cases logged||The Bihar health department’s bulletin showed that the recovery rate of coronavirus (Covid-19) patients in the state stood at 92.72% on Thursday. A total of 1,370 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours, which pushed the tally to 184,275.The recovery rate on Wednesday was 92.74%. As many as 1,242 people have recovered from Covid-19 in last 24 hours which pushed total recoveries to nearly 171,000, the bulletin added.The active cases have climbed to 12,502.Out of the fresh cases recorded, Patna contributed the maximum (259) followed by followed by Rohtas (96), East Champaran (80), Saharsa (46). Gopalganj and Jamui reported 43 cases each whereas Madhepura and Madhubani reported 42 cases each.The capital city of Patna has the highest number of cases (28,143). Districts such as Muzaffarpur and Bhagulpur follow the line with 8,346 and 7,453 cases, respectively.A total of 906 people have succumbed to the infection in Bihar. Patna along with registering the highest number of cases also has the highest death toll (213). Bhagalpur is on the second spot with 62 deaths so far followed by Gaya (45), Nalanda (39).Meanwhile, the state has tested nearly 7.4 million samples for Covid-19 till now out of which 120,371 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-stands-at-92-72-1-370-new-cases-logged/story-S2Z4B9hvKEVUPayDId3FUK.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Three persons booked for kidnapping woman call centre staffer from Noida||A 19-year-old woman was kidnapped allegedly by three suspects from Sadarpur village in Noida’s Sector 39 area four days ago, on September 28. The family alleged that despite filing a police complaint the very next day, the police are still clueless about her whereabouts. The woman, Shradha Verma works in a call centre in Noida’s Sector 16 and lives with her four siblings and mother at a rented accommodation in the village. The woman’s mother Kanta Devi said on September 28, Verma had left for office in the morning but she did not return home that evening. “When she did not return, we started searching for her but in vain. Her mobile phone was also coming as switched off,” she said. Devi said she filed a complaint to the Sector 39 police station against three suspects – Kapil, Mohit and Awneesh. “We suspect Kapil kidnapped my daughter along with his two accomplices. Kapil used to stalk my daughter on her way to office. He used to visit his uncle’s house, which is in our neighbourhood, and that is how came to know Shradha,” she said. The woman said two weeks ago, Kapil had called the Shradha’s younger brother to a local park and threatened to abduct Shradha if the family did not accept his marriage proposal. “Once my daughter went missing, we tried Kapil’s mobile phone number but that was also switched off. We suspect his role in her disappearance. We are concerned about Shradha’s safety,” she said. Azad Singh Tomar, SHO, Sector 39 police station, said primary investigation revealed that Shradha and Kapil knew each other. “We have registered a case against the three named suspects under Section 506 (criminal intimidation), Section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code. Tomar said police teams are conducting searches in Noida and Greater Noida to arrest the suspects and rescue the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-persons-booked-for-kidnapping-woman-call-centre-staffer-from-noida/story-3CZ9SJFzMgxz9jgGDK7d3I.html
01-10-2020||City||PMPML board meeting puts fare hike on hold… for now||PUNE The directors of the city’s public bus service, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), cleared the organisations focus on increasing revenue at a meeting held on Thursday, but avoided raising ticket fares for the moment. A loss of Rs 183 crore was attributed to the Covid-19 lockdown in the city at the meeting.“At today’s (Thursday) meeting, a total of nine subjects were up for discussion, of which three were postponed for the next board meeting. One of these is the revision and hike of fares, which is important for us to increase revenue,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML’s chairman and managing director. “The other six issues before the board of directors included the sanction of a circular to be published, detailing profit and loss during the lockdown period. The board also cleared 10 damaged vehicles to be scrapped and 10 buses to be rented out to the Pune Zilla Parishad. A separate bank account for corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds was also cleared,” Jagtap said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-board-meeting-puts-fare-hike-on-hold-for-now/story-nEwIBW8U9EmLPFzErP6eiO.html
01-10-2020||City||Haryana farmers heave a sigh of relief as paddy procurement begins again||In a big relief to farmers in Haryana, procurement of paddy in the mandis started again on Thursday, ending four days impasse following Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s assurance to arhtiyas and rice millers.Though the Haryana government had announced to start procurement from September 27, procurement agencies and rice-millers had refused to cooperate in the process. This left the farmers to suffer as many had already turned up at the mandis with their produce. In some grain markets, farmers had accused the government agencies of not procuring their produce despite the moisture content being below 16%. On Thursday, the government agencies started the procurement operations after a meeting of district administration officials, procurement agencies, arhtiyas and rice millers.As per the officials of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board, the agencies will also procure paddy with moisture content up to 19%. However, the arhtiyas have also complained that their paddy was procured but has not been lifted yet due to non-availability of gunny bags.Also, a group of rice millers has allowed the procurement agencies to use their godowns for storage of procured paddy. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The procurement has started and over 60,000 quintals of paddy or 25% of total paddy in the mandis has been procured so far.”The district administrations has also held meetings with the ricemillers, arhtiyas, officials of agriculture marketing board and procurement agencies as well as concerned officials to keep a watch on the procurement process and ensure smooth procurement and lifting from the grain market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-paddy-procurement-begins-again/story-xzPFBwbBWXT5sGr7KnQu4K.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer friendly BJP-JJP leaders should resign: Abhay Chautala||Mounting more pressure on his estranged nephew and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) secretary general Abhay Singh Chautala on Thursday said politicians who call themselves farmer friendly whether in the ruling BJP or the JJP should resign immediately in wake of enactment of three ‘anti-farmers’ laws by the Centre.Abhay said he is writing to every farmers’ organisation to stand with the peasants against the farm laws. He said the INLD has also submitted memorandums seeking a fourth farm law which guarantees minimum support price (MSP) for farmers and registration of a criminal case against those who purchase the farm produce below MSP. “The government stands exposed. Our farmers are being looted in the mandis. The MSP of paddy, millet and maize is ₹ 1,888, ₹ 2,100 and ₹ 1,800 respectively but due to the government’s anti-farmer policies it is being sold for less amount. Farmers are also forced to sell paddy at a much lower price than the MSP,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-friendly-bjp-jjp-leaders-should-resign-abhay-chautala/story-dB33HSnr5AMpSUci3HnBZO.html
01-10-2020||City||Farm bills row: Won’t allow Rahul Gandhi, Congress workers to enter Haryana, says Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will not be allowed to enter the state to protest against the three farm legislations.According to the Congress, Rahul Gandhi will hold tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana from October 3 to 5 to protest against the farm laws.Speaking to reporters here, Vij said Rahul Gandhi is free to do anything in Punjab. “But if the Punjab government, like it has done twice earlier and sent protestors from their state to spoil law and order in Haryana, will try to replicate it, then we will again block their entry,” he said.“The farmers protests in Punjab are sponsored by the government. The Congress government is doing what their high-command is telling them to do. But as far as farmers are concerned, they have understood the matter completely and their issues have been resolved after Prime Minister’s assurance,” Vij added.On October 5, the protest will begin from Dudhan Sadhan (Patiala) with a public meeting, and the tractors will then travel 10km to Pehowa border, from where Rahul Gandhi will enter Haryana, for a series of programmes there, a Congress spokesperson said. According to sources in Haryana Congress, Rahul Gandhi is likely to address rallies at Kaithal and Pipli in Kurukshetra district along the national highway on October 5 after which he will return to Delhi.Meanwhile, state BJP president OP Dhankar also said that the government will not welcome Congress leader Rahul Gandhi if he intends to damage the atmosphere of Haryana.“We will not welcome him if he is coming to damage the atmosphere of Haryana for political advantages,” Dhankar said. He also took a jibe at Congress president Sonia Gandhi saying that she was struggling to see her son as the Prime Minister of the country. “People should understand that Modiji is giving money for the procurement, not Sonia Gandhi,” he said.Dhankar, who was in Kurukshetra for a meeting of BJP district-level office bearers, said, “Congress leaders are spreading lies and false information about the new legislations as the Centre has already issued Rs 12,500 crore for paddy procurement in the state,” he said.Dhankar also slammed the Congress for not implementing the recommendations of Swaminathan commission.On the delay in paddy procurement, he said rice millers are affecting the procurement operations by not supporting the agencies but the government has already taken some decisions in this regard and every single grain of the farmers will be procured. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-row-won-t-allow-rahul-gandhi-congress-workers-to-enter-haryana-says-anil-vij/story-VFxM4EvVK5iRH1m5kCVPdL.html
01-10-2020||City||Farm bills row: Farmers gherao Fatehabad MLA’s office, demand his resignation||The farmers of 16 villages under the aegis of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Kisan committee staged a protest outside the office of Jannayak Janata party MLA Devinder Babli in Fatehabad on Thursday over the three farm legislations.The protesters raised slogans against Babli and asked him to clear his stand on the farm bills that were approved by President Ram Nath Kovind. Gurpal Singh, a farm leader, said the Fatehabad MLA should join their protest or tender his resignation as an MLA against these three farm bills. “We want to ask why Babli and his party leaders did not register their protest before Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and home minister Anil Vij over the lathicharge on farmers and middlemen. Khattar had said the police resorted to lathicharge on farmers in self defence while Vij said no such incident was reported. This shows that the JJP leaders, including Babli, failed to stand by farmers during the tough time,” he said.Singh said it was shameful that the BJP ministers had lodged FIRs against the protesters and called them Congress workers. “People have voted for Babli to raise their grievances and not to enjoy power. If he considers himself as a farmer’s son, he should resign and support the farming community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-row-farmers-gherao-fatehabad-mla-s-office-demand-his-resignation/story-DgDGrt3Bm7ZqoeevyrrT4J.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||CMs flying squad arrests four fake doctors in Hisar||Haryana chief minister’s flying squads have arrested four people for impersonating as doctors and illegally running private hospitals at Hansi town of Hisar district in violation of medical guidelines. An official spokesperson said as part of the drive against bogus doctors, four teams of CM’s flying squad along with teams from civil hospital in Hisar on Wednesday arrested four people who had been allegedly treating people without holding medical degrees. In the first raid, it was found that Jaivindra Saini,42, owner of Barfi Devi and Lilu Ram Saini Nursing Home and resident of Gosai Gate Hansi, was not able to produce his BAMS degree. A case was registered. The flying squad team also raided Pradeep Health and Care Center at Chaupata Bazaar of Hansi run by Pradeep Kumar, 35, a resident of Jagdish Colony of Hansi. During the investigation, the accused could not produce any documents related to his degree, after which a case was registered, the spokesperson said. Another team raided Raman Hospital and Raman Lab near Kali Devi Road Hansi and found that Anand Kumar, 31, a resident of Dhana Khurd, produced a bogus degree. At Mangalam Arogya Peeth in Model Town Hansi, Rajesh Kumar, 40, a resident of new Kathmandi Hansi, who is also the owner of the above mentioned hospital, gave fake papers related to his degree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cms-flying-squad-arrests-four-fake-doctors-in-hisar/story-PE01GfvhEzvVFqEYXqBQrM.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Unlock 5: UP issues guidelines for graded opening of schools after Oct 15, allows public gatherings||The Uttar Pradesh government Thursday announced the guidelines under Unlock 5 and said all schools and coaching institutes, outside containment zones, will be allowed to open in a graded manner after October 15. However, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari said the decision to open schools will be taken by the district administration on the basis of local Covid-19 situation and in consultation with schools. The state also gave permission for religious gatherings, which means that public celebrations on the occasions of Durga Puja and Ram Lila and Diwali will be allowed. The Centre Wednesday had issued new guidelines for the reopening of movie theatres, schools and colleges, among others, and for allowing religious gatherings after a period of six months since the lockdown was imposed in March. “The online and distance education will continue and will be encouraged. Where the schools are conducting online classes, students who wish to continue with that instead of being physically present in school, they can do so. Students will be allowed to come to schools only with the written consent of parents. No school will be allowed to make parent consent mandatory,” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), said. Most of the schools since the lockdown have been imparting online education. On September 21, the Ghaziabad district administration has deferred the decision to allow students of classes 9 to 12 to come to school on a voluntary basis for seeking academic guidance. The fresh directions have also paved way for Durga Puja and Ram Lila celebrations. The government in its order said permission for gatherings of 100 persons has already been given for social, educational, cultural and religious activities outside the containment zones. Regarding the Unlock 5 directions, members of parents’ associations said most parents were not in favour of sending children to school even after October 15. “There is still no vaccine for Covid-19 and most parents are unwilling to send children to schools even after October 15. Above all, since a major part of the academic year has been lost to the pandemic, the government must declare the session void for students up to class 8 and promote them to the higher classes,” Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of Ghaziabad parents’ association, said. “Even after the roll-out of the vaccine, there will be issues regarding the school fee. We have always maintained that the fee should be charged for online education. So, before opening, all such decisions have to be sorted out by the government or the administration,” he said. The schools are waiting for the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and will also have a meeting with the officials of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) before a final decision is taken. “There is a meeting scheduled for October 10 of various principals with the officials of the CBSE. Further, the CBSE will also issue SOPs regarding the reopening and send it to the state government. It is after these SOPs are notified by the government that the procedure for reopening schools will be decided,” Subhash Jain, president of the Independent Schools’ Federation of India, said. With regard to gatherings, Tiwari said, “Gatherings of more than 100 persons, outside containment zones, will be allowed from October 15 but with certain restrictions. Inside an enclosed space such as a hall, the permission would be for 50% of its capacity, or a maximum of 200 persons wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing and following other protocols. Gatherings will be allowed in open spaces with mandatory conditions of social distancing and face masks.” The state will soon issue SOPs for regulating the number of people. Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate, said that he has assigned several officials to take up assessment of opening of sports facilities, schools and theatres, among others. “The officials will deliberate on what all activities will be allowed after October 15 and make an assessment as per norms. I have deputed the district inspector of schools, district sports officer and the entertainment department officer to make this assessment,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unlock-5-up-issues-guidelines-for-graded-opening-of-schools-after-oct-15-allows-public-gatherings/story-TIsYARFoLAcruRmbeJTplI.html
01-10-2020||City||Hooda dares Khattar to contest Baroda bypoll||Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday challenged Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to contest the Baroda by election slated to be held on November 3.The seat fell vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.Interacting with reporters in Sonepat’s Gohana, Hooda said he is willing to contest Baroda by election against Khattar to check the performance of development works done during their respective tenures as chief minister.“I challenge Khattar to resign from Karnal and contest against me in Baroda bypoll to check the anger of farming community against the three laws. This election is not going to be an ordinary election and the people of Baroda will change the political atmosphere of the state. After our win the BJP-JJP government’s countdown will start and it will fall on its own,” he added.The leader of opposition said the results of Baroda bypoll will oust the BJP-JJP governments from Haryana in the same way Chautala government was thrown out of power after the Meham by election in which candidate Anand Singh Dangi fought against then chief minister OP Chautala.He said the state is at present known for highest unemployment and crime rate whereas during his regime, Haryana was leading in per capita income, investment and other development indicators.Announces statewide tour against three farm laws after bypollHooda announced that he will launch a statewide tour against the three ‘anti-farmer laws’ passed by the government after winning the Baroda by election.“We will not allow the government to implement the anti-farmer laws in Haryana. If the government wants to implement these laws, there is only one way and that is to add a provision that guarantees MSP to the farmer,” he said.Sharing the draft of the Contract Farming Act enacted in 2007 during his tenure, Hooda saidit was clearly written in it that there could be no contract with the farmer for less than the MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooda-dares-khattar-to-contest-baroda-bypoll/story-5Ddp5Cgx6rDyVpv02IAcFP.html
01-10-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 1,111 new Covid-19 cases, 13 fresh fatalities||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 83,651 as 1,111 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said on Thursday.Thirteen more patients succumbed to the disease, taking the state’s coronavirus death toll to 713, he said.Of the fresh fatalities, four were registered in Ramgarh, two each in East Singhbhum, Koderma and Bokaro and one each in Ranchi, Palamau and Lohardaga, the official said.Ranchi district reported the maximum number of fresh cases at 507, followed by East Singbhum at 113.Jharkhand now has 11,596 active Covid-19 cases, while 71,342 people have been cured of the disease so far, the official said.The state has tested 21,797 samples for Covid-19 on Wednesday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-1-111-new-covid-19-cases-13-fresh-fatalities/story-XGBCDQxUWGwdZ3Oeled1XP.html
01-10-2020||City||Shift to dairy complex in a week or face action: Yamunanagar MC to 250 dairies||The Yamunanagar municipal corporation has served notices to 250 dairies in the district asking them to shift to the dairy complex in a week or face action.The MC in a statement said a survey was conducted on behalf of the civic body and more than 300 dairies were found in 19 wards. “These dairies are operating in various colonies of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri towns and each of them have a minimum of five and a maximum of 20 to 25 animals. The MC has built four dairy complexes in Dadwa and Kail areas of Jagadhari and in Raipur and Aurangabad areas of Yamunanagar for the purpose,” it said.Anil Nain, chief sanitary inspector said the dairies will be sealed and animals will be seized if they do not shift within seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shift-to-dairy-complex-in-a-week-or-face-action-yamunanagar-mc-to-250-dairies/story-9d9RGNWmcBZ6il408xSEcP.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Work with honesty, meet deadlines: Haryana chief secretary to officials||Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Thursday said working with honesty, empathy and finishing the task as per deadlines is utmost duty of every government officer and employee. After assuming the charge of Haryana chief secretary here on Thursday, Vardhan said among his priorities will be to ensure that officers and employees work with swiftness and in a transparent manner as per the vision of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The 1985-batch IAS officer Vardhan, who will superannuate in November 2021, has replaced Keshni Anand Arora who retired on Wednesday. “Timely disposal of the problems faced by common people and curbing corruption is the top most priority of the state government,” the newly appointed chief secretary said. “Therefore, officers and employees at both headquarter level and district administration should address the problems of public on priority, ensure immediate disposal and speed up their working.” Born on November 11, 1961, Vardhan is a graduate and post-graduate in History from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi University. A keen historian, Vardhan has authored seven books so far, besides three well researched monographs about the history and heritage of Haryana titled ‘Buddha’s Trail in Haryana, The Magnificent Monuments of Narnaul and ‘RakhiGarhi Rediscovered’. Haryana to spread awareness on Covid-19 containment The chief secretary said the information, education and communication (IEC) activities will be accelerated in the state to spread awareness on containing Covid-19 pandemic. In a meeting with chief secretaries through video conferencing, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said a nationwide campaign will be launched from October 7 to spread awareness on prevention of coronavirus. He has asked all chief secretaries should speed up all information, education and communication (IEC) activities in their respective states. The campaign will be started in view of the possibility of spread of virus amid the festival season. During the meeting, Vardhan said participation of religious leaders, renowned sports personalities and NGOs will also be ensured for successful implementation of this campaign. Besides, work will also be done to spread awareness through social media. He said a detailed action plan about IEC activities will be prepared and sent to the Centre. Vardhan said there is no shortage of production and availability of medical and liquid oxygen in Haryana and adequate arrangement of oxygen in government and private hospitals is being ensured by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/work-with-honesty-meet-deadlines-haryana-chief-secretary-to-officials/story-p5UDwIJbncG82Y37PYyS4H.html
01-10-2020||Patna||Parties still shy of big ‘ticket’ change for women in Bihar||As Bihar’s chief minister for 15 years, Nitish Kumar has indeed taken a slew of initiatives for women, but their political empowerment, particularly in the context of assembly elections, remains a concern even today.Initiatives like cycle scheme for girls, 50% reservation to women in panchayats, primary agriculture credit societies, cooperative societies and school teachers’ recruitment, or even total prohibition in Bihar have found favour with women, which manifested itself in their turnout during 2019 Lok Sabha election, which was 60% compared to 55% male voters. But their representation in the state assembly remains low. The present assembly has just 28 women, which comes to mere 11% of the House strength of 243. The high point was the 2010 assembly polls, when 34 women (14%) made it to the Assembly, the highest representation in the last six decades. The year 2010 also witnessed the highest number of women in the election fray at 307, which dropped to 272 five years later. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections also, only three women could win from Bihar. The 17th Lok Sabha got 78 woman MPs, an increase of 16 from the 16th but it was still just 14.31%. With another Assembly elections round the corner, the issue of woman representation has again started drawing attention, as it depends on how many tickets mainstream political parties actually give to women. Most political parties shy away from giving tickets to women citing the winnability factor in the male-dominated electoral politics.Shakti, along with 120 grassroots organisations, has very timely appealed to all political parties in Bihar, national and smaller parties, urging them to field 50% female candidates.Tara Krishnswamy, co-founder of Shakti, said, “The last 68 years of elections in Bihar show that men have 90% reservations in the Assembly, which implies that voters have no choice. Shockingly, if we add up all the women who have ever been MLAs in Bihar, it adds up to only 277! Just a little more than the size of the Assembly.”“How can Bihar become a glorious state by leaving 50% of the talent untapped for state governance? We are putting public pressure on the parties to be fair, and field 50% women candidates. It is the only democratic thing to do,” she says.Dr Maya Shankar Prasad, historian and retired professor, department of history, Patna University, says, “21st century should be a gender equality century, especially when it comes to representation in the Parliament and state assemblies. It would be a good gesture on the part of our leaders to offer them at least 33% to start with.”Earlier this month, an endeavour to groom woman leaders by a social organization ‘Netri Foundation’ and involving experts from World Bank, UN Women, Indian School of democracy and other organisations also got underway with the support from all the mainstream political parties to prepare woman leaders for 2020 polls. “We have trained over 250 women in UP and MP for panchayat politicians, but this is the first time we doing it for assembly elections. The objective is to let women themselves champion the cause of gender in politics, which remains largely neglected. The response has been very good,” said Netri founder Kanchi Agarwal, adding the programme ends on October 3. Congress MLA Amita Bhushan too pitched for at least 33% reservation for women in the legislature. “Rest they can do themselves, as they have amply proved with whatever opportunities have come their way. It is high time all the political parties came forward to give women the representation they deserve and stop rhetoric. Women today are ready to take the mantle, but they are being denied their rights,” she says. RJD MLA EjyaYadav said it was for the woman to take the initiative to make a place for themselves the male-dominated field. “They need to have the leadership quality and family support, as politics requires a lot of sacrifice. Things are gradually changing, but it will take time, as nothing comes easy,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/parties-still-shy-of-big-ticket-change-for-women-in-bihar/story-Xuqg9JsnHjaElmZw1po1qK.html
01-10-2020||City||After Rohtang, more high-altitude tunnels to come up on Manali-Leh highway||Once the strategic Atal Tunnel under the Rohtang Pass is inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, the defence ministry will expedite work on building more high-altitude tunnels, including three on the Manali-Leh highway, to facilitate troop movement to the China border. “Atal Tunnel at Rohtang will not only open new vistas of development in landlocked Lahaul-Spiti district but will also ensure better connectivity to the border areas. The Government of India is contemplating building three more tunnels on the Manali-Leh highway to have all-weather connectivity to the border areas of Ladakh,” Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday. Fifteen years ago, the defence ministry proposed tunnels under the Shinku La (Pass), Zoji La, Baralacha La, Tanglang La and Lachung La. The tunnels on the Manali-Leh highway are the 13.2-km stretch under the 16,040-foot Baralacha Pass; the 14.78-km tunnel under Lachung Pass; and the 7.32-km tunnel under the Tanglang Pass located at 17,480-ft above sea level. DETAILED PROJECT REPORT OF SHINKU LA BEING MADE The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) has begun preparing a detailed project report for the tunnel under Shinku La. A high-level team recently inspected the north end of the proposed 13.5-km tunnel. Though Shinku La does not have glaciers, it’s prone to avalanches during the snow season that hampers vehicular movement. Three years ago, the Border Road Organisation completed the 39.6-km stretch from Lahaul valley to Zanskar. The stretch connecting Darcha with Shinku La also cuts the distance between Manali and Leh. Besides the road’s strategic importance, it has brought relief for the 15-odd villages in Zanskar valley where residents had to walk for five days to either reach Leh or Manali. The road is significant for the proposed tunnel beneath Shinku La. TALL CHALLENGES The defence ministry has proposed to excavate a 13.2-km tunnel beneath the Baralacha Pass in the Zanskar range. At present, crossing it on the 470-km highway connecting Manali and Leh is a nightmare for travellers. It remains closed for traffic in winter, while melting glaciers create streams, making it one of the country’s most treacherous roads. A 7.32-km tunnel has been mooted under the 17,480-ft Tanglang Pass, the second highest motorable pass in the world. The last tunnel on the highway has been planned under the 16,666-ft Lachung Pass on the boundary of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Located just 25 km from Sarchu, the tunnel will measure 14.7km. Defence sources said the need for all-weather connectivity to the forward areas on the 475-km Manali-Leh road is priority in view of the tense border ties with China. TUNNELS IN THE MAKING The defence ministry will expedite work on building more high-altitude tunnels, including three on the Manali-Leh highway, to facilitate troop movement to the China border. Tanglang Pass: 17,480 ft, tunnel of 7.32km Shinku Pass: 16,703 ft, tunnel of 13.5km Lachung Pass: 16,666 ft, tunnel of 14.7km Baralacha Pass: 16,040 ft, tunnel of 13.2km Zoji La: 11,570 ft||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-rohtang-more-high-altitude-tunnels-to-come-up-on-manali-leh-highway/story-INv0t7ftiERrL0oXRBU2DL.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sets up task force to ensure supply of oxygen for Covid patients||To augment the supply and distribution of oxygen amid the Covid pandemic, the Punjab government has set up state and district level task forces to ensure that there is no shortfall, and is set to float tenders for installing generation plants and storage tanks in all three government medical college and hospitals, with generation facilities at civil hospitals in Jalandhar and Ludhiana. These decisions were announced by an official spokesperson after a virtual Covid review chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The estimated requirement for liquid medical oxygen generators and storage facilities at the three government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot has been estimated at Rs 9.92 crore, and tenders for the same will be issued soon, medical education and research secretary Dr DK Tiwari said. Health secretary Hussan Lal said all efforts were being made to ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen for Covid patients even in the coming weeks. Besides setting up a state-level task force under the departments of industries and commerce, in collaboration with transport and medical education, district-level task forces have been set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-sets-up-task-force-to-ensure-supply-of-oxygen-for-covid-patients/story-gPaAZWMC1LhRy2bNZBOuPI.html
01-10-2020||City||Covid-19 testing falls in Jalandhar, kiosks set up outside govt offices||Jalandhar With a sharp dip in daily sampling and contact-tracing of covid-19 cases due to farmers’ protests, the district health department is setting up testing centres outside government offices and densely populated localities.The Jalandhar health department was taking, on average, 5,000 samples per day for two weeks before the protests broke out. Last week, the deputy commissioner asked the department to increase the sampling. However, with people in rural areas refusing to undergo the test, the department is finding it difficult to collect 3,000 samples per day. For daily sampling, 78 health department teams comprising four-five employees in each are enrolled in daily sampling.Responding to the situation, officials have deployed health teams outside the district administration complex, transport department, SDM’s office and Sewa Kendras of the district for mandatory covid testing.In addition, teams have been deployed at the PSPCL office, the municipal corporation office, containment zones, Surya Enclave locality, Krishan Pura, Amar Nagar, Basti Gujja, PAP etc for conducting the covid-19 test. “The farmers’ protest has impacted daily sampling. We have now deployed teams outside government offices. Health officials are taking the sample of all government employees to contain the virus and meet targets,” said Dr Harish Bhardwaj, nodal officer for covid testing in Jalandhar.Jalandhar is the second-worst district of the state with 12,920 positive cases and 390 deaths from the virus till September 30. The number of samples taken was 3,698 on Thursday. Officials said they conduct antigen tests that detect certain proteins in the virus by using a nasal or throat swab to get a fluid sample. The report is updated on the website the next day, concealing the identity, while information is provided to the individual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-testing-falls-in-jalandhar-kiosks-set-up-outside-govt-offices/story-FrqbFRgbNhappkTwWSQEOP.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||WNS Global group CEO interacts with Chitkara University students||WNS Global Services group CEO and former NASSCOM (a not-for-profit industry association) chairperson Keshav R Murugesh spoke to Chitkara University students on ‘The new normal: What to stop, start and accelerate’ on Thursday. He offered students advice on how to build an illustrious career. He told students to ‘start’ having an effective game plan for skill and capability development, multi-skill oneself and develop out-of-the-box thinking and flexibility. He told them to ‘stop’ waiting for the green signal for to getting to normal and embrace the new way of working and to ‘accelerate’ one’s agility to reflect, reboot, and reinvent oneself.An expert in his domain, he is popularly known as the ‘Turnaround Turk.’ He has been responsible for executing business strategy and directing the overall performance and growth of at least 43,000 employees across 16 countries. Murugesh has been at the helm of global majors such as Syntel and ITC (an affiliate of BAT Plc) and chaired the NASSCOM BPM Council for two consecutive terms.Murugesh is credited with rewriting the Business Process Management (BPM) industry rules with the first verticalised model. He has also led the industry rebranding campaign ‘Become World Worthy’ and created a conducive ecosystem for building the talent pool through closer ties between industry and academia.During his stint as NASSCOM chairperson (2019-20), he led the efforts to nurture India’s innovation quotient, talent development, and global trade development. He also led the initiative to work closely with central and state governments for work-from-home (WFH) transition for the IT-ITeS industry employees when a nation-wide lockdown was announced in March 2020 due to Covid.He has been awarded the “executive of the year” Award by Stevie International Business Awards, ‘OutstandingCEO’ by Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards, and CNBC’s ‘Asia India Disruptor of the Year’ besides other notable achievements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wns-global-group-ceo-interacts-with-chitkara-university-students/story-HOWwfPvo4qjjK1WSsqRvrJ.html
01-10-2020||Lucknow||Bodies of woman, three children found hanging, probe underway||A woman and her three daughters were found hanging at their home in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya on Thursday. The youngest of three was just 21-day-old, police said and added it appeared the woman first hanged her daughters before ending her life. Forensic experts have been called in to help with the investigation.The bodies were found when the woman’s husband, a labourer, who had gone out looking for work, returned at noon and found the door of their house closed.When no one responded to his calls, he went to the roof of his neighbour and looked inside his house to find his wife and kids hanging.Additional police superintendent Kamlesh Dixit said the other two daughters were seven and six. He added the police were investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bodies-of-woman-three-children-found-hanging-probe-underway/story-BBnPlVEKGcbP47D55yqE9O.html
01-10-2020||Patna||Patna: BJP functionary shot dead||Two unidentified masked men on a motorcycle on Thursday shot dead a 45-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary in Patna when he stepped out of his residence for a morning walk, a police officer said.One of the attackers held Rajesh Kumar Jha while the other fired bullets at him from a very close range before fleeing from the scene. Jha died on the spot.Police said the motive behind the murder could be old enmity or property dispute.“An FSL [Forensic Science Lab] team collected samples from the spot. The police are also scanning CCTV footage of the crime scene. After the incident, a massive motorcycle checking drive was launched at all exit points to trace the criminals involved in the murder,” said Phuldeo Choudhary, the police officer investigating the case.Jha’s family said he was the vice president of BJP Jayant Mandal and had recently got involved in the real estate business.Senior police superintendent Upendra Kumar Sharma said they have gathered some vital clues about the assailants. “Three persons were detained for further interrogation.” He declined to elaborate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-bjp-functionary-shot-dead/story-HqQAAFZqHlHxoOFGRgYYNL.html
01-10-2020||City||‘Re-open’ norms pave way for restart of schools, Durga Puja, by-poll rallies in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced “Reopen” guidelines, moving the state closer to unlocking almost all activities by allowing a graded restart of schools, a partial reopening of movie theatres, and large gatherings, including political and religious events.Also read: Punjab lifts night curfew, Sunday lockdown as Covid cases declineThe guidelines have paved the way for public celebration of Durga Puja, larger political activities including those for the Uttar Pradesh assembly by-polls for seven seats, and larger marriage gatherings.“Durga Puja and visarjan (immersion of idols) will be allowed across the state and district magistrates in each district will take decisions on their shape at the local level,” additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi saidThe guidelines have come over six months after the Centre imposed a hard lockdown on March 25 for the Covid-19 containment.Chief secretary RK Tiwari issued the guidelines which are similar to those of the Union government issued on Wednesday.The latest easing of curbs permits more activities in areas outside the containment zones, including opening of cinemas, theatres, and multiplexes with up to 50% of their seating capacity from October 15. The government has also allowed the reopening of schools, coaching institutions, public libraries from mid-October in a phased manner.Swimming pools for the training of sportspersons and entertainment parks too will be allowed to open from October 15 under the guidelines of the Centre.The “Reopen” exercise comes after four unlock phases since June 1. The new guidelines allow political, religious, social, cultural, and sports gatherings in open spaces with no limit, provided people wear masks, observe social distancing and there are adequate provisions to observe such rules from mid-October.With the by-polls to seven assembly seats to be held in early November, allowing political gatherings in open spaces could pave the way for parties to hold rallies and campaigns.The decision will also allow larger marriage functions and other social and cultural activities during the upcoming festive season.In closed spaces, gatherings with a maximum of 50% of hall capacity and with a ceiling of 200 people have been allowed. Till now, the number of people allowed at such gatherings was 100.The government imposed strict curbs on activities and travel across the country on March 25. After the 68-days hard lockdown, the government began implementing a graded plan to reopen businesses and bring economic activities, hit hard by the pandemic and the restrictions that followed, back on track in June. It was then that the Unlock 1 phase guidelines came into place. Shops, malls, hotels and restaurants, offices and religious places have been allowed to open in a phased manner over the past few months. Restrictions on the interstate and intrastate travel too were lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/re-open-norms-pave-way-for-restart-of-schools-durga-puja-by-poll-rallies-in-uttar-pradesh/story-Jfs5oPGVTs7QNGUnq83bjI.html
01-10-2020||Dehradun||Car falls in Uttarakhand’s Koteshwar dam; one body recovered, search on for other 3||The body of one of the four passengers (23), who were travelling by a car that had fallen into the backwaters of Koteshwar dam in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district, has been recovered while a search operation is in progress for the missing three. The missing persons are suspected to be dead by the district authorities, who launched the search operation on Thursday morning.Barjesh Bhatt, disaster management officer (DDO), Tehri Garhwal, said four passengers had started from Dehradun for Rudraprayag by a car on Tuesday. Also read: Uttarakhand reports highest single-day Covid-19 casualties of 20“Their family members got in touch with the police when they failed to connect with them over their mobile phones. On Wednesday, the police started the search for the missing persons, including tracking the closed circuit TV (CCTV) footage, along the route and the last location on their mobile phones, which turned out to be Bhagirathipuram zero point near Koteshwar dam. Some bags and other stuff were found floating in the backwaters of the dam in the evening. This made us suspect that the car was likely to have fallen into the dam,” said Bhatt.State disaster response force (SDRF) and local personnel along with divers launched the search operation on Thursday morning to retrieve the bodies from the backwaters. “The body of the woman, who has been identified as Diksha Rawat, was found floating in the water. We are trying to retrieve the car. We are expecting that the bodies of the three missing passengers will be inside the vehicle,” he added.The other three passengers, who are feared dead, have been identified as Abhishek Rawat (25), Ashutosh Rawat (22), and the driver, Avtar Singh Rana (25), Bhatt added. Koteshwar dam is located on the Bhagirathi river. It is situated around 22 kilometres (km) downstream of Tehri dam in Tehri Garhwal district. It receives water from the Tehri dam and the reservoir’s surface area is around 29 kilometres (km).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/car-falls-in-uttarakhand-s-koteshwar-dam-one-body-recovered-search-on-for-other-3/story-rC0rjBDwrrOY1426TGcYaP.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab lifts night curfew, Sunday lockdown as Covid cases decline||Amid the declining Covid cases and deaths, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered lifting of night curfew and end to the Sunday lockdown, while directing the state police chief to strictly enforce wearing of masks and other safety norms. The limit for marriage functions and funerals has been increased to 100 people, in line with the Centre’s guidelines, and three people in a car and 50% capacity in buses are allowed, subject to windows being open. Captain Amarinder Singh directed director general of police Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict adherence to Covid guidelines with immediate action against those violating the mandatory masks condition. “There should be no laxity, especially in view of the ongoing paddy procurement operations and the festival season,” he said. HOME SECY, EDUCATION DEPT TO DECIDE ON SCHOOLS On the issue of reopening schools and educational institutions, which the Centre has left to the states to decide post-October 15 under Unlock 5.0, a decision will be announced after deliberations between the home secretary and the education department. During a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation, the chief minister took note of the decline in the cases/deaths and said the restrictions imposed earlier by the state government had helped. However, he expressed concern over the increase in cases in rural areas, even though numbers in urban areas were going down. Captain Amarinder directed chief secretary Vini Mahajan to look into arranging for provision of vitamins to poor Covid patients discharged from hospitals. POSITIVITY RATE DOWN TO 5.12% In a brief presentation earlier, the state’s expert health committee head, Dr KK Talwar, said the positivity rate in the state had come down from 10.85% on September 14 to 5.12% on September 28. The number of deaths and patients on ventilators had also shown a decline during this period, he said. The state’s Covid death rate stands at 2.9% at present, with deaths per million at 112.5%. The recovery rate has gone up to 82.1%. Health minister Balbir Sidhu, health secretary Hussan Lal and medical education and research secretary Dr DK Tiwari also attended the virtual meeting. “54 Covid patients have been given plasma donation at the three government medical colleges,” Dr Tiwari added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-lifts-night-curfew-sunday-lockdown-as-covid-cases-decline/story-AXKs68qM5h0SEcih4OKuNM.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Pune reports excess of 442.6mm rainfall this year||The city received a total 442.6mm in excess rainfall at the end of its four months of monsoon, June-September. The Pune seasonal rainfall for this season was reported at 794.9mm and the actual normal rainfall is 566.3mm. For Pune city (Shivajinagar) the season began in June with cyclone Nisarga and after that, though rainfall activity decreased, by the end of July it had received 56.3 mm of excess rain as compared to its annual average for the same period. The trend of city receiving excess rainfall continued thereafter for the next two months as well. “Although rainfall activity was low in the initial days, the impact of Nisarga completed the excess quota of rainfall. Conditions for a good monsoon became favourable at the start of August”, said Anupam Kashyapi, head, India Meteorological Department, Pune. September turned out to be the most active monsoon month, as it received 228.6mm rainfall. “September saw heavy spells of rain on most of the days with thunder activity. On some days, the city received very heavy showers in evening, with high temperatures during the day, which occurred due to a low-pressure area which developed over north east Bay of Bengal,” added Kashyapi. Pune district received 41 per cent more rainfall than normal. The rest of Maharashtra received 1163.8mm of rainfall, which is 164mm more than the normal (999.8 mm). Only three districts in Maharashtra – Yavatmal, Akola and Amravati received less than normal rainfall this season. Dams full ; no water scarcity Of the four dams in Pune district – Khadakwasala, Panshet and Warasgaon are at 100 per cent capacity, while Temghar is 98.64 per cent filled up. “Good rains in the catchment area will be helpful for farming activity and he city will also not face a water scarcity until the next monsoon season,” added Kashyapi The rainfall picture from June-September In June, the city reported 167.1mm rainfall, the normal rainfall during this period is 132.7mm. An excess of 34.4mm rainfall was reported. In July, the city reported 350.3mm rainfall, the normal rainfall during this period is 328.4mm. An excess of 21.9mm rainfall was reported. In August, the city reported 596.9mm rainfall, the normal rainfall during this period is 439.2mm. An excess of 157.7mm rainfall was reported. In September, the city reported 794.9mm rainfall, the normal rainfall during this period is 566.3mm. An excess of 228.6mm rainfall was reported. In total, from June to September, Pune city reported an excess of 442.6mm rainfall this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-excess-of-442-6mm-rainfall-this-year/story-rPOeSXvULiU2wh2WtxCFZN.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Form commission for grievances against private hospitals: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court has said the state has the power to cancel the registrations of private hospitals and nursing homes found guilty of overcharging Covid-19 patients, but shutting them would not be a viable option. It has said compensation to such patients could be a remedy. The court also suggested the state could form a redressal mechanism in the form of a commission on the lines of a similar set up in West Bengal that has been effective in addressing grievances of such overcharging. It observed that mere entrustment of duty to administrative officers may not be enough and the Maharashtra government can consider similar solutions. The court said this while disposing of a petition seeking directions for capping rates of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits in private hospitals and nursing homes.Also Read: Respond to PIL on lack of POCSO implementation: Bombay HC to MaharashtraThe court was told the state government has issued notifications warning hospitals against overcharging. But in the absence of a redressal mechanism, the assurances and notifications have been ineffective.Abhijit Mangade, the petitioner, submitted bills of a private hospital which charged Rs 1.37 lakhs for PPE kits from a patient under treatment for 20 days. Mangade told a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that the patient was given a regulated bed. He added though there was a cap on the rate of PPE kits, the hospital charged the man for 11 PPE kits per day, thus making the entire purpose of the rate chart useless.A notification issued by the government said private hospitals could charge only Rs 600 for a PPE kit.Also Read: Fatal injury not a must to invoke attempt to murder charge: Bombay high courtManagade told the court that a hospital run by a charitable trust had also charged a Covid-19 patient Rs 46,000 for one-day hospitalisation. Mangade added flying squads constituted to ensure that private hospitals and nursing homes did not exploit patients had also been ineffective as overcharging continued.Mangade submitted the court should direct the state to constitute a grievance redressal mechanism, which is effective and complies with the provisions stipulated in the government notifications.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted the notifications had empowered municipal and district officials to address the grievances of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/form-commission-for-grievances-against-private-hospitals-bombay-high-court/story-PiMta1WRuWipBMr1i3FUEL.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Woman in police custody for killing husband with suspected boyfriend in PCMC||A 20-year-old woman was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the murder of her 28-year-old husband with the help of a man believed to be her boyfriend. The woman was identified as Ritu Gaikwad (20), while her deceased husband was identified as Mayur Gaikwad (28), both residents of Dahivade Mamurdi. The woman was remanded to police custody as the police are looking for the man who helped her in the murder. The complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s younger brother Omkar Gaikwad (25) who works in a local hospital along with his mother. While his mother was working a night shift, the complainant was with a friend at the time of the murder. The complainant told the police that he received a call from his neighbour at 9:30am on Tuesday that his brother was lying in a pool of blood in their house, according to the police. The two pet dogs of the family were shut in another room of the house when he returned and found his brother dead, he told the police. “We have arrested her today. She will be produced in court tomorrow. She said her phone was taken away for the past few months and nobody was listening to her requests of not staying married to him. She wanted to marry her cousin brother who lives in Mumbai. But since her parents and his parents were not ready to listen, she says she took this step,” said senior police inspector Manish Kalyankar of Dehuroad police station. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehuroad police station against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-in-police-custody-for-killing-husband-with-suspected-boyfriend-in-pcmc/story-VYY2Q48hPuK6kQ70gCPV1O.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Was expecting a different verdict, says fmr home secy Godbole on Babri demolition case||Madhav Godbole, who was Union home secretary in 1992, when the Babri mosque was demolished in Ayodhya, said that he was expecting a “different” court order, as he believes the act wasn’t “unplanned”.Godbole had resigned post the incident.Speaking after the CBI court’s verdict on Wednesday, Godbole said that he does not believe that the structure could be demolished without any planning, even if it wasn’t a conspiracy. “I do not believe that so many people just climbed the structure. I will not say conspiracy, but there has to be some preparation behind the act. Without preparation, bringing down the structure in five hours, was not possible,” Godbole said. A special CBI court in Lucknow ruled out conspiracy and acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi, ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, due to lack of conclusive evidence. The court held that the demolition on December 6, 1992 was a spontaneous act and not pre-plannedRecalling the chain of events in 1992, Godbole said that the then Kalyan Singh government in Uttar Pradesh was not inclined to protect mosque. “This has been brought out even in Liberhan commission report,” he said. The commission was constituted by the centre as an inquiry into the sequence of events that led to demolition of mosque. Godbole said when the result related to the Ram Janma Bhoomi came, he thought there could be a dispute over the claims as who owns the land. “But in this case, where a criminal offence was registered, I thought the court would do the proper verification and some result will come,” he said.The former home secretary said he believes the latest verdict by the Lucknow court has come because the Supreme Court was insistent on a verdict, because of which, the case had reached this stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/was-expecting-a-different-verdict-says-fmr-home-secy-godbole-on-babri-demolition-case/story-TF34fOWWycno1AH2oyZl6I.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Cong corporator claims huge waste of public money by PMC||The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has spent Rs 8 crore on rent for a “chain bulldozer” used to excavate sites at Phursungi and Uruli Devachi, Congress corporator and former standing committee chairman Arvind Shinde said on Wednesday. “The said bulldozer is priced at Rs 1.70 crore and buying it would have added to PMC’s assets,” Shinde said, building his case for a “wastage of public money”. “There is a need for chain bulldozers for landfill work, but the PMC has spent Rs 8 crores on rent, when it could have bought the asset. Both, Phursungi and Uruli Devachi garbage yards are currently shut as per NGT orders, so why has the PMC released a tender seeking bulldozers on rent?” he questioned. Shinde furnished copies of the tender as part of a petition filed before the PMC commissioner seeking immediate action. “The tender has come up before the standing committee for approval. Moreover, a 30-year-old bulldozer was deployed in violation of Supreme Court norms,” the petition lodged by Shinde stated. The head of PMC’s solid waste management division, Dnyaneshwar Molak, who is incharge of the project said, “I am on leave. Please contact PMC property tax head Vilas Kanade.” Kanade said, “I don’t know much about the issue and I am only officiating for a few days.” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar could not be reached for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cong-corporator-claims-huge-waste-of-public-money-by-pmc/story-9ynKVhxuelx38Qor3A3P1J.html
01-10-2020||Bhopal||MP pharma factory murder: Police make 3 more arrests||Police on Thursday made three more arrests, including that of a minor, for beating two men to death inside a defunct pharmaceutical factory in the Pithampur industrial area of Madhya Pradesh’s Dhar district. This brings the total arrests made in the case this far to five. The murder took place on Tuesday night when six people entered the factory premises, allegedly to steal scrap. The accused, also six in number, were security guards at the factory, said Taresh Soni, town inspector, Pithampur police station.The accused thwarted the break-in and managed to nab two of the alleged thieves. They then went on to beat the teenager (17), a resident of Khera village, and Roshan Bhargava (25), a resident of Pithampur. While Bhargava died on the spot, the boy succumbed to his injuries on the way to a hospital, Soni said.Also read: Kin refuse to cremate MP custodial death victim until cops are booked for murder Two of the accused were arrested on Wednesday, said the police. The arrested accused have been identified as Rishi Yadav (22), a resident of Siwan district in Bihar; Harishankar Patel (27) from Jaunpur district in Uttar Pradesh (UP); Abhishek Thakur (28) and Harvijay Singh (32) from Faizabad district in UP, a juvenile (17) from Pithampur area; and Kapil Yadav, from UP’s Faizabad. Yadav is still on the run. Police said the arrested men have confessed to their crime. They have been booked under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a court on Thursday and were remanded to judicial custody, Soni added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-pharma-factory-murder-police-make-3-more-arrests/story-vQtm2x5UmemSvHWRfmsceO.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Respond to PIL on lack of POCSO implementation: Bombay HC to Maharashtra||The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) complaining about the lack of implementation of certain provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.A bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni has asked the government to file its affidavit in a reply to the PIL filed by social activist Arjun Malge complaining about the lack of implementation of certain provisions of the POCSO Act which mandate that the police must report all developments in a case, such as the arrest of the accused, applications filed before courts in connection with the case, etc.His counsel, advocate Som Shekhar Sundar pointed out to the high court that Section 40 of the POCSO Act confers the right of engaging legal counsel of their choice on the family or guardian of the child (victim of the crime) and Rule 4(13) of the POCSO Rules, 2020 mandate the police keep them informed about the developments in the case.Also Read: Fatal injury not a must to invoke attempt to murder charge: Bombay high courtSundar complained that there was no implementation of these legal provisions in Maharashtra and the study conducted by the petitioner revealed that “these provisions are followed more in breach than in practice in the state,” said the lawyer.He also mentioned several orders passed by various special POCSO courts in Mumbai, none of which mentioned any notice having been sent to the child or his or her family about the legal proceedings.Sundar also pointed out that Orissa and Manipur high courts have passed appropriate orders in this regard, and urged the high court to issue a circular to the lower courts in Maharashtra to be mindful of the legal provisions and the rights of the children.The high court, however, thought it necessary to first ask the state government for its response to the PIL, and posted the PIL for further hearing on October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/respond-to-pil-on-lack-of-pocso-implementation-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra/story-pvqybCKHTNuhJKiLlPbzTM.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Pune civic body may review decision to open public gardens||Pune Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar stated on Monday that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will review its decision about opening up public gardens in the city.With malls open in the city, and restaurants to follow next, Punekars have begun to press for the opening up of public gardens in the city.Pune city has 200 public gardens several of which have jogging tracks and open gyms.Vikram Kumar said, “Many gardens have open gyms in the city. Citizens used it continuously. It might be more dangerous. It was the rainy season, so gardens were closed, but we will meet and review our decision.”Ashok Ghorpade, chief of PMC’s garden department, said, “No other municipal corporation has opened gardens yet. Even the state government’s guidelines are to keep gardens shut. The PMC opened up 13 gardens two months ago, but citizens did not follow guidelines. They were coming without masks and arguing with security guards. Mainly senior citizens and children come to gardens and both are in the high-risk age group for Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-may-review-decision-to-open-public-gardens/story-mPsOyfVF0ZKwwo6ldsGPuN.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Experts will train Pune city doctors on SOPs||A team of specialists from Mumbai will arrive in the city on Thursday to impart training on post-Covid complications and treatment thereof, at the jumbo Covid facility at COEP. The doctors from Nair Hospital in Mumbai would also help formulate a standard operating procedure (SOP) for patients who have recovered from the Covid-19 infection, but still face health issues. Earlier in August four extremely critical Covid-19 patients who were on a ventilator for about four to six weeks were successfully discharged from Pune’s Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences (AICTS) after they were treated with anti-fibrotic drugs which was also the first such feat in the country. By the end of June, four kids who were admitted to Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital who lived in Covid-19 containment zones also showed signs of Kawasaki disease like swelling of hands and feet, peeling of skin of fingers and Coronary artery (heart blood vessel) dilatation and persistent fever and other inflammation signs.City doctors and hospitals have been reporting multiple complications, post Covid-19, including Kawasaki disease-like symptoms in children and lung fibrosis. The draft SOP prepared by the Pune administration covers a wide array of issues including drug-related complications and neuromuscular problems. The SOP, which is in the possession of HT, mentions what symptoms should be looked in patients that have recovered and what should be a probable line of diagnosis. As of Tuesday, of the total number of reported Covid-19 positives of 2,89,803, 2,27,250 have recovered. Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, said, “Cuttack university has given a detailed presentation and draft SOP based on which we will prepare our own SOP. We will have a decentralised system for post-Covid-19 treatment because we do not want rural patients who might have sought treatment in the city to travel back to the city for post-infection treatment.” The draft SOP speaks of multiple tests including blood investigations, to ascertain the stoppage of cytokine storm for moderate cases. A chest X-ray and HRCT is to detect residual lung damage. A six-minute walk test is offered to all to detect a fall in saturation after exercise. Pulmonary complications include exertional hypoxia or the need for low-dose oxygen therapy, which points to lung fibrosis. Post-Covid Kawasaki disease symptoms with rashes in the adolescent age group, and a variety of skin manifestations should be looked for six weeks. Post Covid-19 stroke is also a factor, with viral fatigue syndrome, weakness and extreme fatigue, mentioned in the draft SOP. As per the SOP, for those with comorbidities, anti-diabetic therapy should be titrated with blood glucose control as sugars will settle down with reduction in steroid dose. This is applicable to hypertension also. Patients needing dialysis therapy during acute stage should be monitored for residual renal damage, the SOP states. The SOP also speaks of drug related complications during the course of treatment. Physiotherapy is needed for all patients who have recovered from Covid-19. As per the SOP, respiratory physiotherapy with respiratory exercise for a period of six weeks to three months is recommended. Other possible complications include weight loss, depression, episodes of mania and social deprivation, also of which needs to be tackled by a clinical psychologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/experts-will-train-pune-city-docs-on-sops/story-oW5tPpdyPJJ8fk46ua6nPP.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Sero survey: Prevalence of antibodies at former hotspots in Pune||Although the scientific community is still studying and understanding herd immunity with respect to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covd-19, fewer cases being reported from former virus hotspot areas like Bhavani peth, are indicative of antibodies developed in a majority of the population there. The city’s first sero survey was conducted by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). The report, accessed by HT on Wednesday, claims a 45.7% prevalence of antibodies in Bhavani peth, which includes Rasta peth and Raviwar peth. Ward number 19, Lohiyanagar-Kasewadi, showed a 65.4% prevalence, indicative of a majority of the population in these areas developing antibodies. A senior official requesting anonymity said, “Both the sero survey and the current scenario is indicative of herd immunity in these wards. Although this requires an in-depth study, but the positivity rate and the numbers of cases being reported from these areas is now lower than ever before.” Dr Sarang Kalekar, the health officer in Bhavani peth, said, “The positivity rate for the ward is now close to nine-10 per cent. On Tuesday we tested 70 samples, of which six tested positive, while on Monday, when we tested 60 samples, five tested positive. A total of 4,900 have tested positive in Bhavani peth since March, till September 30. The positivity rate has gone down drastically in the past one week. We will keep a watch on this and if the trend continues for another 10 days, it will be great. We are fulfilling out daily target of 120-130 tests daily, and fewer new positives are being recorded.” In Dhole Patil road, another former Covid hotspot in the city, of the 2,773 tests conducted by the PMC in September, 388 are positive. Dr Rekha Galande, Pune municipal corporation (PMC) health officer with Dhole Patil road, said, “We have not brought down the number of tests, but there is no requirement, because fewer new Covid-19 positives are coming up. With every new test, four contacts are tested, but most test negative and so the spread is not as much as it used to be.” Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC said, “Every ward has a target of 150-300 tests, daily, depending on fresh cases, contacts that have to be tested and the population of each ward. It is true that the current positivity rate of both these wards, Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road, is low. We have not deliberately brought down the number of tests being carried out, but it is done as per requirement.” As of latest report, the percentage growth of Covid-19 cases from both these wards is the lowest in the city. From September 17 to September 23, Bhavani peth reported 5.2% growth in positive cases, and Dhole Patil road, reported 5.4%. Sinhgad road, in comparison reported a growth 12.8% in the same period, the highest in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sero-survey-prevalence-of-antibodies-at-former-hotspots-in-pune/story-g8Aurl9Tp9nTVWPEDDi7tM.html
01-10-2020||City||Farmers protest overnight blocking Ambala-Hisar road||Ambala Scores of farmers associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) continue to block the Ambala-Hisar highway with their tractors and trolleys, in protest against the non-procurement of paddy at mandis. Farmers have alleged that the procurement process that was to begin on September 26, has not started, despite tonnes of grain reaching the mandis. The protests had started about 10am on Wednesday, with the protesters staying put at the dharna even for the night outside the Ambala City grain market, blocking the major road. Ambala Police erected barricades on the intersection at the Agrasen Chowk that lead towards Hisar road, restricting the movement of traffic from the city. Former Congress leader and ex-municipal corporator Himmat Singh was among a number of political and social leaders, who had addressed the gathering late night in support of the farmers. Malkit Singh, district president of BKU, said no one from the administration had contacted them to resolve the issue or give any assurance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-overnight-blocking-ambala-hisar-road/story-pzN3P8KGNIuJfcQELDKjcM.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||To protest farm laws, Rahul Gandhi will hold tractor rallies in Punjab from October 3 to 5||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will hold tractor rallies in Punjab from October 3 to 5 to protest the “unconstitutional and anti-farmer” agriculture laws passed by Parliament recently. Chief minister Capt Amarinder, all ministers and Congress legislators will participate in the protest rallies along with party general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat, and state party president Sunil Jakhar. “Efforts are being made to ensure Amritsar East MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s presence to present a united face,” a party leaders said, requesting anonymity. Sidhu has been in a sulk ever since he quit the state cabinet last year after being stripped of key portfolios by the chief minister. Rahul’s tractor rallies will cover more than 50 km over three days, a Punjab Congress spokesperson said. The tractor rallies are scheduled to begin at 11am on each of the three days, and will adhere to Covid-19 guidelines. The protest rally on October 3 will cover a total distance of 22 km, starting with a public meeting at Badni Kalan in Nihal Singh Wala in Moga district before moving through Lopon. The rally will then head for Jagraon in Ludhiana district, where it will be received at Chakar, Lakha and Manoke, culminating at a public meeting in Raikot. On Day 2, a total of 20 km will be covered, beginning with a reception at Barnala Chowk, Sangrur, from where Rahul and his team will travel by car to Bhawanigarh for a public meeting, before embarking on tractors to Samana in Patiala district, where receptions will be held at Fatehgarh Chhana and Bahmna, before ending the day with a public meeting at Grain Market, Samana. On October 5, the protest will begin from Dudhan Sadhan in Patiala district with a public meeting, and the tractors will then head for Pehowa border, which is 10km away. Rahul will enter Haryana from there for a series of programmes in the neighbouring state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/to-protest-farm-laws-rahul-gandhi-will-hold-tractor-rallies-in-punjab-from-october-3-to-5/story-Q5xDtXOYqPMFlZWIcZDNeL.html
01-10-2020||City||Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma removes 2 ministers; 2 new faces to be sworn in||Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma late on Wednesday night reshuffled his 12-member Cabinet. He dropped two ministers and replaced them with as many new faces.Sangma refused to comment on the sudden reshuffle even as he had last week hinted it was on the cards and was subject to the go-ahead from his coalition partners.Also Read: ‘Northeast can become economic, political superpower’: Meghalaya CMA statement from the state government said the two new faces will be sworn in at 5 pm on Thursday.With these new entrants, now there will be two families with two members each in the Cabinet. Dasakhiatbha Lamare, the nephew of Commerce and Industries minister Sngiawbhalang Dhar, will replace Comingone Ymbon in the Cabinet. Conrad Sangma and his brother, James, are the other two in the Cabinet from the same family.Ymbon said it is the prerogative of the chief minister whom he wants in his Cabinet. “I’ll just go by his decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meghalaya-cm-conrad-sangma-removes-2-ministers-2-new-faces-to-be-sworn-in/story-plvR86nl1l5B3ixW3qu4cO.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Day 1 of increased toll: Long queue of vehicles at two toll gates in Thane||On the first day of increased toll, Anandnagar and LBS Marg toll gates in Thane saw traffic during peak morning hours on Thursday. The traffic stayed jammed for over an hour despite the lockdown.“The stretch of road that usually takes me hardly 10 minutes, took around an hour to cross. Not many were aware of the hike in toll prices which led to confusion and traffic in the morning hours,” said Satish Raje, a resident of Ghodbunder Road, who was travelling to Chembur via the Eastern Express Highway.“There was slow-moving traffic but the situation was under control. Once people became aware of the hike in toll, the traffic returned to normal,” said a traffic policeman, requesting anonymity.Jayant Mhaiskar, chairman and managing director of MEP Infra, which manages the toll gates, said, “We have deployed additional staff for toll collection; as people get used to the new rates, the situation will stabilise within a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/day-1-of-increased-toll-long-queue-of-vehicles-at-two-toll-gates-in-thane/story-lXkjmjzkc9MGy8U7owrO9H.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Gandhi Jayanti: Drama returns to Delhi’s stage with Bapu’s footsteps||Like a drop of water on parched earth, theatre has returned in its original format to where its heart lies. The recent commotion within the premises of National School of Drama (NSD) isn’t for no reason. The stage is being set for its first live performance since the pandemic brought the life in Mandi House to a standstill, just like in most other parts of the country. On Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, the return of theatre to its most prominent genesis will be marked with the staging of the play, Pehla Satyagrahi. Though this play was introduced to audience last year, the stage on which it will be presented now is newly built, in the lawns of NSD. “When MHA guidelines for Unlock 4 allowed us to restart operations, we called our actors back, asked them to submit their Covid-19 report, and then made a roster to ensure that only about 9-10 people are present at a time for rehearsals. This stage on which we will perform now is bigger, but is in open space so we will be well within the guidelines of social distancing. Also, no visitor without a mask will be allowed entry plus the stage and audience gallery will be sanitised before and after the show, which will be for only 100 people,” informs Suresh Sharma, director of this play and director-in-charge at NSD. “A new play takes about 45 days to be conceived and well executed on the stage. Since we had limited time after our repertory actors joined back on September 7, there wasn’t much time to start work on a new play. And for that we would have had to work with 40 people in one go, which would be a risky affair in these times! But, we knew that our audience has been waiting. Aur jab tak ek artiste perform na kare, toh depress ho jata hai... ab toh cheh mahine se zyada ho gaye perform kiye...,” adds Sharma. The play an apt choice for Covid-19 times, this play certainly talks about Bapu’s journey of becoming a Mahatma from Gandhi, and unravels many lesser-known aspects of his life. But, the director feels that it’s Gandhi who taught us the relevance of “swachchta and self-discipline”, and in the Covid era “Hume apne aap ko anushasit karna hoga, sarkar kitna karegi (We will have to discipline ourselves, how much will the government do)?” says Sharma opining that the comeback to stage was much needed and he isn’t in favour of theatre going online. “Theatre’s definition, around the world, is a performance that is live. It has to be an interaction between the actors and with the audience. Theatre can’t be online... And if there arises a situation that the actors have to wear masks and perform, then in that case there shouldn’t be any performance because a mask hides 70% of the face; in theatre we convey a lot through our body language. Aise hi karna hai toh phir toh hum puppet ke through kar lenge.”              If this format turns out to be a success then the performances will resume fortnightly, over weekends, according to the plan so far. And actors, who were out of work are in a way welcoming this decision. “During the rehearsals we wore masks,” says Raju Roy, who plays the protagonist Gandhi, in the play. A guest artiste with NSD Repertory, Roy says it wasn’t easy for him to leave his ailing mother back home in Guwahati, Assam, to return to Delhi for work. His words, “Natak ki bhookh hai,” echo as he shares how he had to quarantine himself for 10 days to meet his mother in his hometown before he returned to the Capital. “Almost all of my friends who are artistes called me up during the lockdown saying they are going back home because they were unable to pay their house rent in absence of a livelihood. Some said they were feeling depressed; and now I’ve been calling them up saying that work has resumed.... Lekin, is baar jab Delhi aaya to ek ajeeb sa mahaul dikha... ab dimag ke ek hisse me corona hai aur dusre me natak. Savdhan hoke manch pe chalna padega.”                               Catch It LiveWhat: Pehla Satyagrahi  Where: Open Air Auditorium, National School of Drama When: October 2 to 4 Timing: 6.30pm Nearest Metro Station: Mandi House on Blue and Violet Line          Author tweets @HennaRakheja Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gandhi-jayanti-drama-returns-to-delhi-s-stage-with-bapu-s-footsteps/story-CpsIiZr4bMFPtdmVLJygeJ.html
01-10-2020||City||Tripura man held for raping, attempting to murder woman||A man (28) has been arrested on charges of sexually assaulting a woman (45) and then trying to kill her by strangulation, the police said. The incident occurred at Melagarh, which is around 55 kilometres from Tripura’s capital Agartala, on Wednesday afternoon.The accused, identified as Maman Hussein, a daily-wage labour, would soon be produced in court, the police said.The survivor had gone to her brother’s house, which is situated around one and a km away from her home. On her way back home, Hussein, a local resident, forcibly took her to an adjacent paddy field and allegedly sexually assaulted her. The survivor had a narrow escape, as Hussein tried to strangulate her following the sexual assault, the police said.Hussein was unknown to the rape survivor, who was released by local hospital authorities after a preliminary medical check-up, the police added.Her family members have registered a complaint against Hussein.The police have booked Hussein under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 376 (rape), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“We arrested the accused (Hussein) on Wednesday. He will be produced in a court today (Thursday). We are investigating the case,” said Sukanta Bhattacharya, officer in-charge, Melagarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-man-held-for-raping-attempting-to-murder-woman/story-vUS2rvAh5yCIYHbmlfzD2O.html
01-10-2020||Pune||Fire at chemical unit in Pune; 12 workers rescued, none hurt||A major fire broke out at a chemical solvent manufacturing unit in Maharashtra’s Pune district in the wee hours of Thursday, a fire brigade official said.No casualty was reported as the plant, located in Kurkumbh industrial area on Pune-Solapur Road, around 80 km from the district headquarters, was closed at the time of the incident, he said.Twelve workers and two dogs were rescued from the unit, and some vehicles were also moved out of the plant to safety, fire officer Sudhir Khandekar said.“The fire broke out at Shiv Shakti Oxalate Pvt Ltd, located in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area in Kurkumbh, around 1.30 am. Drums containing mixed solvent were kept at the plant and after the blaze they started exploding,” the official said.Eight to nine water tankers were rushed to the spot and fire personnel took about four-and-a-half hours to douse the flames, he said.“No one was injured in the incident. Cooling operation is currently going on,” the official said, adding that the cause of the fire is not yet known. Pune Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said he has sought a report on the incident from local authorities. PTI SPK GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fire-at-chemical-unit-in-pune-12-workers-rescued-none-hurt/story-SWLXw72W18yXaY9PTn6PfI.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: With 91 deaths, 8,254 new cases, September worst month for Maharashtra Police so far||September proved to be the worst month in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths for Maharashtra’s police force as it witnessed the most fatalities (91) that month. In August, 54; in July, 43; in June, 33; in May, 23; and in April, three policemen had succumbed to the contagion. The number of deaths among the Maharashtra Police now stands at 247.In September, 8,254 cases of infection were reported from various police units in Maharashtra. Before that the police department had recorded 6,077 cases of infection among its personnel in August and around 5,000 in July, as per the information provided by the state police.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.3 million mark with 86,821 fresh cases, 1,181 fatalitiesAccording to the state police, 188 personnel tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. With this, the overall caseload of the state police now stands at 23,548. According to information provided by Manoj Patil, superintendent of police control room, and assistant inspector general of police (law and order), 2,956 are active cases while 20,345 have recovered fully. At present, 10,892 policemen are in quarantine.So far Mumbai police has been at the top of the list, with the highest number of cases and casualties. In Mumbai, around 6,043 cases were reported till Wednesday, of which 84 have succumbed. A senior IPS officer said that 75% of infected policemen in Mumbai have already recovered and rejoined duty and the city police’s mortality rate is 1.38%.After the Mumbai police, the Thane city police, Nagpur police and Navi Mumbai police have recorded a high number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities.Also Read: Sena reluctant to share power with MVA allies in running BMC“Due to the delay in reporting the infection to doctors, the fatality rate among police personnel is increasing,” said Rajkumar Vhatkar, joint commissioner of police (administration).Around 65-70% of the deceased police personnel were above the age of 50. “We are focusing on intensifying awareness drives among the police personnel and pushing ‘Majha Kutumb, Majhi Jawabdari’ (My Family, My Responsibility) initiative for effective awareness and prevention among policemen and their family members,” Vhatkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-with-91-deaths-8-254-new-cases-september-worst-month-for-maharashtra-police-so-far/story-Vd5SosUpXM8eseiDRf2EFP.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: ITPO will not host trade fair this year||With the Centre allowing only business to business (B2B) exhibitions in its guidelines for reopening, the India Trade and Promotion Organisation has decided not to organise the 40th edition of the India International Trade Fair (IITF) this year.This is the second time in history that IITF, which was first held in 1979, will not be organised. The first time it was not held was 1980, said an ITPO official.When contacted, LC Goyal, chairman and managing director of ITPO, said, “Under the Unlock 5 guidelines, only B2B exhibitions are allowed from October 15. The trade fair, ITPO’s flagship event, is largely a business-to-consumer event. Therefore, we have decided not to hold the event this time. In any case, we need at least two months to prepare for the event.”For the past two years, the trade fair is being organised at a much smaller scale due to the ongoing redevelopment work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-itpo-will-not-host-trade-fair-this-year/story-pFkGpFvpYodEs7AORWTN1K.html
01-10-2020||Noida||Congress workers protest at DND flyway against Hathras gang-rape case||A number of Congress workers are protesting at the Delhi Noida Delhi (DND) flyway against the brutal gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh. The woman succumbed to her injuries in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday.Party workers have blocked five lanes of the Delhi-Noida side of the flyway by squatting on the road. Priyanka Gandhi, Congress general secretary, is likely to visit Hathras via DND flyway and the party workers said they wanted to meet her. UP Congress leader Badruddin Quraishi alleged that the UP government has failed in maintaining law and order in the state and claimed that rape and murder cases are happening every day. “We demand President’s rule in Uttar Pradesh. We also demand safety and security of victim’s kin, as in the past in UP, there were instances where rape victim’s kin have been murdered. The government should also give decent compensation to the family,” he said. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka to meet Hathras rape victim’s family todayManoj Chaudhry, Gautam Budh Nagar Congress president, said the party workers have gathered to demand justice for the rape and murder victim. Ganesh Saha, DCP traffic Noida, said the police have reserved one lane for two-wheelers and two lanes for four-wheelers for Delhi-Noida traffic. “The traffic is moving slow but there is no jam,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/congress-workers-protest-at-dnd-flyway-against-hathras-gang-rape-case/story-r4fNwnAcFRjWSnSP7v630L.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Economic crimes on rise in Maharashtra, Mumbai tops metropolitan cities||Maharashtra recorded 15,686 cases of economic offences in the year 2019 and was the only state in the country to have recorded 6 offences involving a sum of over Rs 100 crore.According to the national crime records bureau (NCRB), Maharashtra registered an increase in economic offences in 2019 from 14,854 cases registered in 2018 and 13,941 cases logged in 2017.Rajasthan topped the list for economic offences with 26,920 cases registered in 2019 followed by Uttar Pradesh with 19,968 cases. NCRB statistics claimed that Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra accounted for 38 % of all economic crimes registered in India in 2019. Among metropolitan cities, Mumbai saw 5,556 cases-- the maximum number of economic offences in 2019 followed by Delhi, which recorded 4,817 cases.Also Read: Developer asked to pay Rs 5 cr for delay in property hand over in MumbaiThe data showed that Mumbai leads the list of offences recorded under criminal breach of trust and cheating with 902 cases followed by Lucknow with 762 cases and Delhi with 315 cases. Officers with the economic offenses wing in Mumbai police said since the city is the financial capital of India maximum number of cases related to economic offenses are recorded here. Apart from criminal breach of trust, Mumbai recorded 4,642 cases of forgery and cheating after Jaipur, which recorded 5,905 such cases. Also Read: Fatal injury not a must to invoke attempt to murder charge: Bombay high court“We are urging people to come forward and report cases even if it involves smaller amounts which has resulted in an increase in the number of cases,” said an officer with the EOW, who didn’t wish to be quoted.Another officer said that creating awareness about economic frauds and cheating is a major part of policing now, especially during the lockdown, when people are at home and looking for investments options to hedge against the anticipated slowdown and growing unemployment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/economic-crimes-on-rise-in-maharashtra-mumbai-tops-metropolitan-cities/story-joRr9tOpX0yb2vNiJIuvHN.html
01-10-2020||City||Assam BJP leader arrested in connection with police recruitment scam||A leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Assam has been arrested for his alleged involvement in a paper leak scam related to a written examination to recruit 587 police sub-inspectors (S-Is). The examination to recruit the S-Is was cancelled following the paper leak on social media on September 20. Diban Deka (43), who had unsuccessfully contested as a BJP candidate from the Barkhetri assembly seat in Assam’s Nalbari district in 2011, was arrested from Patacharkuchi in newly created Bajali district late at night on Wednesday, 10 days after the scam was unearthed.According to the police, a team from the crime branch of Guwahati police was dispatched to lower Assam on Wednesday morning based on credible information about movement of Deka. “At about 2345 hours (11.45pm), during checking near Pathsala town, Diban Deka was found travelling with his wife. He was detained and brought to Guwahati under a strong police escort,” said an Assam Police release. He was produced in a city court which remanded him to five days of police custody. “Deka was not an office bearer of any unit of the party. He was a primary member of BJP and following his arrest and involvement in the job scam, we have removed him from the party’s primary membership,” Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass told journalists on Thursday. Following the cancellation of the written exam, Deka, in a Facebook post, had admitted that he was associated with the company that was to conduct the recruitment of SIs. But he denied any involvement in the paper leak. PK Dutta, another prime accused in the case and a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who is suspected to have lured the aspirants with the promise of S-I’s jobs in exchange for cash, is still absconding.Nearly 66,000 aspirants were scheduled to appear for the cancelled examination. Assam Police’s crime branch and the CID are probing the case and have arrested over a dozen suspects in the case. Deka and Dutta are accused of getting hold of the question paper and giving it to select candidates, who had allegedly paid them in cash.Investigation has revealed that several job aspirants had stayed at a hotel in Guwahati, which is owned by Dutta, and had appeared for a mock test in another hotel a day ahead of the written examination that was slated to be held on September 20.“Deka had arranged for the question paper for the mock test conducted at a Guwahati hotel. We need to establish the link between Deka and Dutta,” Gyanendra Pratap Singh, additional director-general of police (ADGP) (law and order), Assam Police, had told media persons on Monday.Earlier this week, Assam Police had issued a lookout notice for both Dutta and Deka and announced a cash reward of Rs 100,000 each for any information leading to the arrest of these absconders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-bjp-leader-arrested-in-connection-with-police-recruitment-scam/story-joYoOK8NLkvRaILNKQzx1K.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Anurag Kashyap appears before police for questioning in alleged sexual assault case||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap reached Versova police station Thursday morning to record his statement in connection with the alleged sexual assault case filed by a 30-year-old actor. On Tuesday, Mumbai police had asked Kashyap to be present at the police station to join the probe. Kashyap reached Versova police station with his advocate at around 10am. Police personnel were deployed outside the police station. After Kashyap’s car entered the police station’s premises, officials closed the police station’s gate and only those called in by police or there to register a complaint were allowed entry. Meanwhile, Versova police officials have taken the woman actor, the complainant in the case, to Cooper hospital for her medical examination. On September 22, Mumbai Police had filed a first information report (FIR) against Kashyap after the complainant had accused him of sexual misconduct in 2013. The complainant stated in her FIR that Kashyap had called her to his flat on Yari road in Andheri (West) in August 2013 to have a discussion about casting her in one of his upcoming films. Kashyap had allegedly sexually assaulted her there. She filed a case against Kashyap under sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Versova police station on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anurag-kashyap-appears-before-police-to-record-statement-in-alleged-sexual-assault-case/story-DSFq3okXa31mAy6Qhxv9vJ.html
01-10-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot calls for apolitical Covid-19 campaign, Raje, Kataria extend support||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday appealed to leaders of all parties, MPs, MLAs to actively participate in the mass movement against coronavirus-- being launched on October 2—by rising above the political divide and making it successful. He also held discussions with elected representatives of various political parties through video conferences. The public movement against the disease will also include free distribution of face masks to encourage people to follow the prescribed protocol for protection against the virus. Gehlot has called upon everybody to take a pledge to make the movement an effective weapon against the virus.“If the number of corona positive cases increases then it will be a big challenge for us,” said Gehlot before adding that the movement starting from October 2 is not a political campaign, but a non-political campaign against coronavirus, requiring cooperation from everyone. “Saving life is our top priority. There will be no shortage of funds to prevent the coronavirus infection,” said the CM.Former chief minister and senior BJP leader Vasundhara Raje thanked Gehlot for reaching out to public representatives from all parties. She said that the corona infection was in its most dangerous phase now and everyone was required to work together, rising above party politics, to defeat it. She suggested that no event or program should be organised when there are chances of the infection increasing further. Also Read: Demand for tribal state surfaced in violence in Rajasthan, say policeState minister Shanti Dhariwal said that the public movement against corona will be started in 11 district headquarters initially and later extended to other districts.“One crore masks will be distributed to the general public during this event. If required, more masks will be made available. Awareness work will be done by dividing urban areas into 10 parts,” said Dhariwal. Leader of opposition, Gulab Chand Kataria said that public representatives and government employees will also have to take a pledge to follow all the health protocols. He said that the party will extend full cooperation for the programme’s publicity and success. Apart from distribution of free masks, announcement will be made through public address systems at all mandis, markets, railway stations, hospitals, bus depots, public places, religious places, government and private offices and construction labourers ghettos among other places to spread awareness against the disease, during the campaign.Also Read: How the new farm bills are exploitativeThe sanitation employees of urban bodies in the identified cities will put campaign stickers on the houses in their areas. Stickers with awareness messages will be put up on means of public transport like buses, trains, autos, e-rickshaws etc. As of September 30, the state has recorded a total of 1,33,119 positive cases and 1471 deaths. Currently, 20,376 active coronavirus cases are in the state. While the disease positivity rate is 4.31%, lower than the country average of 8.51%.Similarly, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 fatality rate is 1.11%, marginally better than the national average of 1.57%. State’s recovery rate of 83.59% is also higher than the 83% recovery rate logged by the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-calls-for-apolitical-covid-19-campaign-raje-kataria-extend-support/story-TWeeUAxbMwHzBabJTMfAGP.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Fatal injury not a must to invoke attempt to murder charge: Bombay high court||For justifying to invoke the charge of attempt to murder, it is not essential that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been inflicted, the Bombay high court observed last week.“Section 307 (of the Indian Penal Code) draws a distinction between the act of the accused and its result, if any,” said justice Bharati Dangre.“Such an act may not be attended by any result so far as the person assaulted is concerned, but still there can be cases in which a person could be held liable under the section,” the judge added.The high court made the observation while rejecting bail applications of Sachin Gurav (27) and his brother Samir (21), both of whom have been arrested by Vijaydurg police on September 5, 2019 for “attempting to murder” one Bhikaji Gurav.Also Read: ‘Don’t want anyone homeless during pandemic’: Bombay HC refuses to allow demolitions, evictionsPolice claimed that Bhikaji was prosecuted for killing Sachin and Samir’s father, and the brothers were perturbed by Bhikaji’s acquittal, and therefore they assaulted him on September 4, when he returned to their village.It was argued on behalf of the Gurav brothers that it was unfortunate that Bhikaji lost his left hand in the attack, but the applicants did not intend to kill him, as they did not attack any vital organ, and therefore the attack could not be termed as an attempt to murder.Justice Dangre, however, refused to accept the argument. The judge said for ascertaining whether an act would fall within the ambit of Section 307, it necessary to look into the nature of the act, circumstances under which the act is committed and the intention or knowledge of the accused.The judge said in the case at hand “the applicants nurtured motive”.“The applicants can be attributed of clear knowledge and intention,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fatal-injury-not-a-must-to-invoke-attempt-to-murder-charge-bombay-high-court/story-P8H846c4bakcymqSqs5w7N.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 impact: Menstrual hygiene worsens for girls in capital’s slums||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has aggravated menstrual woes for young girls in the national capital slum clusters. They are facing an acute fund crunch to buy sanitary napkins coupled with unhygienic and crowded washrooms and toilets in their tenements. There is also a perennial scarcity of water and a lack of awareness about menstrual hygiene products. The contagion-induced economic crisis has led many young girls to abandon sanitary napkins for menstrual pads made of cloth, which has raised the spectre of a looming health hazard. Also read: Life a struggle, can’t SC rethink decision, ask residents of Delhi slums along railway linesTeenager Babita Kumari (16), a resident of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh camp in Delhi, is the sole breadwinner for her family. She lives with her widowed mother and siblings. “Earlier, we could ask our neighbours for sanitary pads or at times use the ones given to my sister from her school. We have stopped asking the neighbours because everyone is hard up for cash these days and schools are closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. What I earn isn’t enough for us to even afford two square meals a day or buy my mother’s medicines. Sanitary pads are a luxury,” said Kumari, a domestic help.Her switch to cloth as a poor substitute for sanitary pads has led to constant itches and painful rashes. “I can’t even move around freely in my home, because I am, too, worried about the blood stains. Other girls in our slum cluster are facing a similar problem,” she added. Komal Kumari (15), another teenager and a resident of the Nehru camp in the national capital, said: “The biggest problem that we faced during the Covid-19 pandemic was during our menstrual cycles. We have to wash our dirty cloth pads, dry, and reuse them. Since all our family members were at home during the pandemic-induced lockdown restrictions, we had to hide the cloth pads and take it to the community toilet, where scarcity of water is a perennial problem.” Lack of adequate toilets and washrooms are a commonplace problem across various slum clusters in Delhi for thousands of families living cheek by jowl in these tenements. Teenage girls, who have attained puberty, are the worst victims of the infrastructure woes and are finding it increasingly difficult to overcome the stigma of menstruation.Gunja (15), who lives at a camp in west Delhi, said it was uncomfortable to even walk to the toilets in her slum cluster. “At times, blood stains remain, despite being careful. Once, local rowdies made lewd remarks against me while I was on my way back home,” she said.Experts said that though the problem was prevalent earlier, the Covid-19 outbreak has aggravated the crisis. “Young girls living on the streets are not even able to manage menstrual hygiene even during pre-Covid times. The viral outbreak has deepened their woes. The difficulty in obtaining old clothes from various sources, lack of water, growing job losses, privacy issues and myths are collectively responsible for the travails at hand,” said Sanjay Gupta, director at CHETNA, a non-governmental organisation (NGO). The NGO has been distributing sanitary napkins among young girls living on the streets, night-shelters and slums across Delhi after their internal survey pointed out to this glaring need, he said.Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court (SC)-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters, said, “This is a major issue among underprivileged female children because there is no money or work. If food can be provided at these shelters, then why not sanitary napkins? The government can create programmes for distributing sanitary pads, preferably biodegradable, among such sections of the society to address this pressing need.”Though the Central government has ensured that Suvidha sanitary napkins are available at Jan-Aushadhi Kendras under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Aushadhi Yojana (PMJAY) across the country at Re.1 per pad, experts said lack of awareness remains a major deterrent. “The public doesn’t know about Jan Aushudi Kendras or there is no established link between the beneficiaries and the options available,” said Prakash.Ranjana Prasad, a member of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, said, “We distributed around 1.48 lakh sanitary pads on a priority basis to young girls in child care institutions, night-shelters and slum clusters during the Covid-19-induced lockdown in the city. The sanitary napkins were also added to ration kits because we were aware that this is an important issue among underprivileged families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-impact-menstrual-hygiene-worsens-for-girls-in-capital-s-slums/story-z8G0IlSx9CMbknK9fb4sKO.html
01-10-2020||City||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka to meet Hathras rape victim’s family today||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and his sister and party general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will visit the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday a fortnight after she was gang-raped at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The woman was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. A Congress leader said some members of the party’s Scheduled Castes department – Akshay Maurya, Shivram Singh, Ritu Choudhary, Pramod Kumar and Pradeep Narwal -- will also accompany them. Hundreds of Congress workers have started gathering at the Delhi-Noida border to accompany the two leaders, he added. Before leaving for Hathras, Rahul Gandhi attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over “jungle raj” in Uttar Pradesh. “The atrocities on daughters continue in UP’s jungle raj. They were not given respect when alive and now the dignity has been taken away even in death. The BJP’s slogan of ‘Beti Bachao’ is not to save girls but to hide facts and save power,” he tweeted. Also read: Samajwadi Party to take vow of silence in protest against UP govt on Gandhi JayantiPriyanka Gandhi too attacked chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the rise in incidents of rape in UP. “Hathras-like gruesome incident has happened in Balrampur. The girl’s feet and back were broken. There have been atrocities on girls in Azamgarh, Baghpat and Bulandshahr. There is no limit to UP’s jungle raj. Law and order cannot be implemented through marketing and speeches. This is the time for the chief minister’s accountability. People want answers,” she tweeted in Hindi. On Wednesday, the Congress demanded Adityanath’s resignation over the incident. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the people of the country are sad and angry over the gruesome incident and said the ‘Nirbhaya of Hathras’ did not die but was killed by a “cruel and insensitive” government and its administration. In a video message, she said the country will speak up against this injustice and not allow the BJP to divide the country and violate the Constitution. “This incident is a blot on our society. I want to ask is it a sin to be a girl? Is it a crime to be the daughter of a poor? What was the UP government doing? For weeks, the family’s cry for justice was not heard. There was an attempt to cover up the issue. The girl was not given proper treatment. Today, our daughter has left us. I want to say that the Nirbhaya of Hathras did not die, she was killed by an insensitive government and its administration,” Gandhi said. Also read: After Hathras, another Dalit woman gangraped in Balrampur; UP govt faces backlash“Even after her death, the girl was denied dignity and not handed over to her family. A weeping mother could not see her daughter for the last time. This is a grave sin. Her body was cremated by force. There is dignity in death. Our Hindu religion is clear about it. But she was cremated like an orphan by the police,” she added. “What kind of justice is this? What kind of a government is this? You think you can do anything and the nation will sit and watch. The nation will speak against your injustice. On behalf of the Congress party, I demand justice for the family. India belongs to everyone. Everyone has the right to live with dignity. The Constitution has given us this right. We will not allow the BJP to break the country and violate the Constitution,” the Congress president said. Rahul Gandhi attacked the BJP government over the alleged rise in atrocities on Dalits in the state. “A daughter of India is raped-murdered, facts are suppressed and in the end, the right to perform the last rites is also taken away from the victim’s family. It is insulting and unjust,” he tweeted in Hindi using the hashtag ‘Hathras Horror Shocks India’. Gandhi tagged a video purportedly of the cremation site showing a police officer not answering questions on whether the body of the victim was being cremated there. “This is a shameful move of the UP government to suppress Dalits and show them their ‘place’ in the society. The Congress’ fight is against this disgusting thinking,” he said. Priyanka Gandhi said, “I was on the phone with the Hathras victim’s father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair.” “He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night, the victim’s father was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites,” she said in a series of tweets. Tagging Adityanath, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, “RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as chief minister.” In another tweet in Hindi, she alleged that at 2.30 am Wednesday, the victim’s kin kept requesting but the UP administration forcibly cremated the deceased. “The government did not protect her when she was alive. The government did not provide her timely treatment when she was attacked. After her death, the government took away the right of the family to perform the last rites of their daughter and did not respect the deceased,” she said. “Gross inhumanity. You did not stop the crime but behaved like criminals. You did not stop the atrocities, but committed atrocity on an innocent child and her family twice,” she added. At a press briefing, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said there must be an inquiry into the whole incident, but the subject matter of the inquiry must go beyond the activities of the rapists. There should be an inquiry into the “gross and criminal negligence” by the UP chief minister, who is also the home minister of the state, in the matter, Dev said. “The way she was cremated is a gross violation of her human rights. The way she was left in a normal ward for more than six days is a gross violation of her human rights. For eight days, there is no FIR and when there is an FIR, look at the sections this hopeless and ruthless government gives, no sections of rape,” she alleged. “The way the cremation was carried out at 2.30 am in an unjust manner, to give justice, the only answer is that the Prime Minister should ask for UP CM’s resignation. If the PM does not do so, then there will be no justice to her,” Dev said. She also attacked union minister Smriti Irani for not speaking out on the issue. “She would go down in history as the worst women and child development minister. She should resign as an MP of the Lok Sabha given the state of crime and women security in UP,” Dev said. “Don’t you tell us we are politicising this. The same PM who told us ‘Nirbhaya ko yaad rakhna’ is silent. Ajay Bisht (Yogi Adityanath) will have to resign. We will take to the streets till he leaves his post and we will not let this government sleep,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rahul-priyanka-to-visit-hathras-to-meet-family-of-dalit-girl/story-Lytjte9uFyqheBIy5EKtoJ.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to get 1000 state transport buses to ease burden on BEST due to Covid 19||In a move to ease commuting woes in Mumbai, Brihanmumbai electric supply and transport (BEST) will be hiring 1000 buses from Maharashtra state road transport corporation (MSRTC) for operation on congested and long routes including Thane and Navi Mumbai.The move is aimed at reducing the increased pressure on BEST buses, built up due to restrictions on the number of passengers allowed inside each bus and the bar on general commuters’ travel in suburban trains, which are running limited services only for essential services staff due to the threat of infections posed by coronavirus. Currently 200 MSRTC buses are being operated on BEST bus routes in the city, starting from Thursday.The Brihanmumbai municipal corporation (BMC) on Wednesday stated that the buses will be hired as per a decision taken by the BEST administration in a meeting chaired by municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal. “The buses will be operated throughout the city. Passengers travelling by the BEST buses have increased substantially after the unlock (phase) and more buses are required to ease the load.” said a senior BEST employee.Also Read: Sena reluctant to share power with MVA allies in running BMCBEST has a fleet of 3,400 buses that operate within the city. BEST bus service resumed in the city on June 8 under the state governments’ ‘Mission begin again’. Only 30 passengers are allowed to travel in the buses including 25 sitting and five standing passengers. Queues and overcrowding inside the buses have been witnessed resulting in the authorities deciding to add additional buses to the existing fleet. The MSRTC has a fleet of over 18 thousand buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-1000-state-transport-buses-to-ease-burden-on-best-due-to-covid-19/story-57TiDIsMyv2rrOxAidAjjO.html
01-10-2020||Environment||Mumbai records most environmental offences among major cities for second consecutive year||Mumbai, the country’s financial capital, recorded the highest number of offences under the Environment (Protection) Act (EPA), 1986, in 2019 among 19 major Indian cities for the second consecutive year, the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) latest report has revealed.In the backdrop of the report, the Mumbai city collector on Wednesday directed the Mumbai Police to file first information reports (FIRs) against Indian Army personnel at the Sagarmatha Club in Colaba and landowners at a wetland in Wadala following alleged violations of the EPA, 1986. “Violators in both the cases must be booked within the next seven days,” said Rajeev Nivatkar, collector, Mumbai city.EPA, 1986 violations are related to felling of trees, cutting of mangroves, flouting of coastal regulation zones (CRZs), dumping debris in eco-sensitive zones, illegal quarrying and cutting of hills, and other offences related to air and water pollution.Also Read: Maharashtra government submits action plan before NGT to tackle waste at Mumbai mangrovesNCRB data revealed that of the 20 cases recorded under EPA, 1986 in 2019, Mumbai was the worst offender at eight, followed by Hyderabad (6), Nagpur (5), and Chennai (1). In 2018, a city-wise environmental crime data was published by the NCRB for the first time, where Mumbai had recorded 10 cases, which was the highest among the 19 cities surveyed. However, the NCRB figure was a fraction, as compared to the data collated by the Maharashtra revenue department. According to the Mumbai suburban collector’s office, violations under the EPA, 1986 were 244 in 2019 against 286 in 2018. While similar violations in Mumbai city were 56 in 2019, as compared to 68 in 2018.“The reason for fewer cases documented by the NCRB vis-à-vis revenue department data is because environmental offence information is submitted by the Mumbai Police, who record fewer cases as compared to the revenue department, which is empowered to file offences under the EPA Act, 1986,” said an Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) official, the monitoring agency for such violations. Also Read: Maharashtra cabinet decides to withdraw cases against green activists for Aarey protests“NCRB and revenue department data are indicative of proper reporting and documentation of cases in both Mumbai and Maharashtra, as compared to other states,” he added.The NCRB data for EPA, 1986 offences for Maharashtra showed 42 cases in 2019, as compared to 45 in 2018. It was the second-highest offence last year after Uttar Pradesh (UP), which had recorded 382 cases. However, the tally of environment-related offences -- all acts clubbed under environmental crime such as the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972; the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000; the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981; EPA, 1986; and Indian Forest Act, 1927 -- was 1,004 across Maharashtra last year. The corresponding cases in 2016 and 2017 were 176 and 439, respectively. The offences had gone up exponentially to 1,010 cases in 2018.“Better detection and a rigorous follow up by the state authorities coupled with awareness among the public for reporting cases led to the marginal decline last year,” said Sanjay Sandanshiv, undersecretary, environment department, Maharashtra.No cases were reported for offences under forest laws, air and noise pollution or the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Act, 2010. While four cases were reported under violations of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.The environmentalists have welcomed the Mumbai city collector’s move to book offenders in the two cases. The first one involved repeated complaints by environment group, Conservation Action Trust (CAT), alleging dumping of illegal debris to reclaim land along the periphery of Sagarmatha club in Navy Nagar Colaba by the Indian Army. The alleged move has led to wanton mangrove destruction.The Army claims that the debris is intended to fortify the club against sea erosion.“We are happy that the Mumbai city collector has again reiterated his decision to book the club authorities. Reclamation and destruction of mangroves has been continuing for years, despite innumerable complaints. The collector has also agreed to order the removal of the debris and undertake mangrove plantation for trees destroyed in the area. This is the most important step that was long overdue,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, CAT.The second case is on the basis of complaints filed by Vanashakti, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), regarding dumping of debris and encroachments across an 80-acre wetland located 500 metres (m) from Bhakti Park Monorail station along the eastern freeway in Wadala. The area is identified as wetland under the Maharashtra National Wetland Atlas, 2011 and is home to a 10-acre water body. However, encroachers built a road for the movement of trucks to the site to dump construction waste. “The state machinery seems to have woken up after almost 19 months to remove the debris and also initiate prosecution. We hope it won’t be delayed further and the culprits will be booked soon,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL CRIMES IN MAHARASHTRA IN 2019Maharashtra also recorded 89 and 53 cases under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules,2000, respectively, according to the NCRB data. These are the third and the fourth-highest cases in the country, respectively. Data revealed that only two cases were filed under various forest laws.But no case was registered under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act,1974 even though Maharashtra recorded the highest number of polluted cities. The state is also home to the maximum number of polluted river stretches (54) in the country.HIGHEST CASES IN INDIATamil Nadu (13,316), followed by Rajasthan (10,782), and Kerala (5,054) recorded the maximum number of environmental cases last year, according to the NCRB data. While the least number of environmental crimes were reported from the north-eastern states, Himachal Pradesh (HP), Goa, and Odisha, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/mumbai-records-most-environmental-offences-among-major-cities-for-second-consecutive-year/story-zebQ9RypEZZ5AFdoGiFmFJ.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi government likely to issue order for reopening of cinema halls, swimming pools today||After being shut for more than six months because of the Covid-19 pandemic, cinema halls and swimming pools may be opened in Delhi in a restricted manner while social functions like marriages are likely to be allowed with over 100 guests.The Delhi government is likely to issue orders regarding these decisions on Thursday a day after the central government issued guidelines for further relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions. Cinema halls and swimming pools are likely to be allowed to reopen only from October 15.The guidelines would apply in Delhi after they are notified through a separate order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and its vice-chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Centre’s guidelines also said that decisions for opening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner can be taken by the states and Union Territories after October 15 “in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”. However, if students preferred to attend online classes, they would be permitted to do so. The guidelines said attendance must not be enforced and must depend entirely on parental consent.Officials of the Delhi government’s education department will hold a meeting on Thursday to discuss the rules issued by the Centre. “(We will) go through the guidelines, consult stakeholders, and take the decision on the reopening of schools in the national capital. We will hold a meeting on Thursday,” a senior official from Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.3 million mark with 86,821 fresh cases, 1,181 fatalitiesThe Union home ministry on Wednesday said cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres will be allowed to open from October 15 in areas outside containment zones. But they shall have to operate at 50% seating capacity, it said, adding that detailed standard operating procedures will be issued soon by the Union information and broadcasting ministry.In Delhi, cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres have been closed since March 12. They were shut days before the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 to slow the spread of the pandemic.The Multiplex Association of India said in a statement: “We are committed to ensuring a safe, secure and hygienic cinema-going experience for the movie lovers… Urgent permission from the state governments to reopen cinemas in their states would go a substantial distance in ensuring that the cinema exhibition sector is able to quickly recover from the dire economic and financial impact of the epidemic. We look forward to welcoming back moviegoers to a safe and amazing brand-new experience at our cinemas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-likely-to-issue-order-for-reopening-of-cinema-halls-swimming-pools-today/story-LmhIRaHwuhjyCfwXOfh0cM.html
01-10-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party to take vow of silence in protest against UP govt on Gandhi Jayanti||Samajwadi Party (SP) will observe a two-hour long ‘vow of silence’ on Gandhi Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, on October 2, at Gandhi statues across Uttar Pradesh to protest against alleged deterioration of law and order, crime against women, unemployment and the recent farm and labour laws.“It would be a ‘satyagrah’ against the ‘suppression and oppression’ of farmers, youth, common man, and the opposition by the BJP’s union and the state government in Uttar Pradesh. It will be held at Gandhi’s statutes in all districts of the state. Crime against women has become a daily affair and the law and order has collapsed,” said SP state president, Naresh Uttam Patel in a statement.Patel said the people were agitated over the BJP government’s policies. “The government has conspired to make the farmers mortgage their farms and become labourers in their own fields. In the name of the open market, the big traders and business houses will get the freedom to buy farmers’ produce at lower rates. Mandi system is being abolished,” said Patel. Also Read: More outrage, protests after Hathras victim’s cremationHe asked SP members to highlight and oppose state and Union government’s policies, which he claimed were anti workers.“At the same time, labourers have lost jobs during the lockdown because of lack of investments in the state and unemployment has emerged as a crisis. Despite this, the government, in the name of labour reforms law, has given the freedom to factory owners to arbitrarily retrench employees. When the youth try to raise their voice, the police lathi-charges them,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-to-take-vow-of-silence-in-protest-against-up-govt-on-gandhi-jayanti/story-jeExIAEPQXirf1uduOs6VJ.html
01-10-2020||City||Shopian fake encounter: Kin demand justice, say innocent men killed for ‘awards, rewards’||Imtiyaz Ahmad, 21, wanted to continue his studies after clearing his class 12 exam but did not have enough money to do so. With not much work available in the remote mountainous region of Rajouri, he left this summer for Shopian in Kashmir Valley to work as a labourer to earn enough money to secure admission to a college back home.Ahmad did not live to see his dream of becoming the first person in his family to have a college degree come true. He was among the three men killed in a staged gunfight and passed off as terrorists in July. The two other men--Abrar Ahmad, 26 and Mohammad Ibrar, 18--were Imtiyaz Ahmad’s cousins.The Army initially said the three were “terrorists”. It later said an inquiry has prima facie brought out evidence indicating “during the operation [in which the three were killed], powers vested under the AFSPA [Armed Forces Special Powers Act] 1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened”. The army added consequently, the “competent disciplinary authority has directed initiation of disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable”.The Jammu & Kashmir police last week said the DNA samples of the three have matched with their family members in Rajouri. “My son, who had passed class 12th this year, wanted to pursue his studies and had gone to Shopian to work as a labourer and collect enough money to get admission to the Rajouri Degree College,” said Ahmad’s mother, Shamim Akhter, 40, over the phone from her Dhar Sakiri village in Rajouri.She added she wants justice. “Those who killed my son and nephews [Abrar Ahmed and Mohammad Ibrar] should also meet the same fate. The barbarians did not allow them to have food and picked them up from their rented room...before killing them...” Akhter said the whole truth about their killing should be made public and the perpetrators should be hanged. She added they are yet to get any compensation.Lal Hussain, an uncle of the three men, said they stand vindicated after the Army’s inquiry. “They were poor labourers, who were branded terrorists and killed for rewards and awards.” He demanded that the “source” who branded the three young men as terrorists to the Army for “rewards and awards” be exposed. “I demand that those involved in the fake encounter and the contact who branded my nephews as terrorists and passed on the information security forces be punished under the law.”Two men believed to be informers of security forces were arrested in connection with the staged gunbattle on Wednesday.Rajouri deputy commissioner Mohammad Nazir Sheikh said he has received no instructions for the compensation yet. “Nothing has come to us as of now but whatever under rules is required shall be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopian-fake-encounter-kin-demand-justice-say-innocent-men-killed-for-awards-rewards/story-R91DYqNEDGg8VMrsH9CtyN.html
01-10-2020||City||Poonch: Indian soldier dies in shelling along LoC||An Indian army soldier was killed during shelling by Pakistan along the 744km-long Line of Control (LoC) in Krishna Ghati (KG) sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district late Wednesday. The deceased soldier has been identified as Lance Naik Karnail Singh from Sangrur, Punjab. Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, “The braveheart Lance Naik Karnail Singh made the supreme sacrifice in Mankote area of Krishna Ghati Sector on the night of Wednesday.” “The nation will remain indebted to his supreme sacrifice. We offer condolences to his family. The Army stands by his family in this hour of grief,” he added. Also Read: OFB dismisses army’s report on faulty ammoLate Wednesday, Pakistan opened heavy fire in Mankote area around 6.45pm. Around 8.30pm, they started firing along the entire KG sector, prompting India to retaliate. “During the exchange, Lance Naik Karnail Sing suffered fatal injuries and eventually lost his life,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poonch-indian-soldier-dies-in-shelling-along-loc/story-RV9FUlEVbLvg266K292CvN.html
01-10-2020||Lucknow||Mathura court dismisses plea for mosque removal, petitioners to move higher court||The lawyer of the petitioner whose suit filed on behalf of child deity Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid near Mathura’s Sri Krishna temple complex was dismissed by a local court has said they will now move a higher court against the dismissal.Hari Shankar Jain, the lawyer, said he had left for Delhi after arguing the case and is still to study the reasons for the dismissal of the suit. “We would move an upper court if we failed to get justice from the lower court in Mathura.”The suit was heard by Additional District Judge Chhaya Sharma, who refused to admit the suit citing the bar under the Place of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquittedThe law was passed at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute and seeks to protect all religious structures as they existed at the time of Independence on August 15, 1947, with the exception of the disputed site at Ayodhya.Since Ayodhya land was exempted, the Supreme Court had invoked this law in 2019 while awarding the disputed site at Ayodhya to child deity Ram Lalla while reaffirming that similar such cases cannot be entertained with respect to other sites in view of the law.The suit claiming ownership of the entire land of 13.37 acres land which is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Sri Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu, was filed on September 25 through the next friend of the child deity, one Ranjana Agnihotri, an advocate and a resident of Lucknow. Six other devotees were also plaintiffs to the suit.They had sought cancellation of a settlement entered into between the Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex and the Committee of Management of Trust of Shahi Idgah (Idgah Trust) in 1968.Also Read: Purohit Mahasabha condemns suit in Mathura court on Krishna Janambhoomi issueThe suit stated that Lord Shri Krishna was born in a prison of King Kans and the entire area under dispute is known as ‘Katra Keshav Dev’. Katra Keshav Dev is sacred for the devotees of Lord Shri Krishna and the Hindu community. Hindu rulers have always paid homage to the birthplace of Lord Shree Krishna and from time to time they constructed/ renovated temple at the spot, the petition said.It was submitted that the Idgah Trust with the help of some Muslims encroached upon the land belonging to Shri Krishna Janmasthan Trust and the deity and erected a superstructure at the place.The birthplace of Lord Krishna lies beneath the structure raised by the trust, the suit added.It claimed that Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan, which is the governing body of the temple complex, entered into an illegal compromise with the Idgah Trust in 1968 with a view to grab the property in question.“The Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan is working against the interest of the deity and devotees and fraudulently entered into a compromise with the Committee of Management of Trust Masjid Idgah (Trust) in 1968 conceding a considerable portion of property belonging to the deity and the trust,” the suit argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mathura-court-dismisses-plea-for-mosque-removal-petitioners-to-move-higher-court/story-h74NhtF5RK2KzFOkLKK8eP.html
01-10-2020||City||Sena reluctant to share power with MVA allies in running BMC||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, a coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, is ruling the state, but the allies are not on the same page about sharing power in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which runs Mumbai.The Shiv Sena does not have a majority in the civic body after snapping its ties with former ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), last year, but it is not willing to share power with the Congress and the NCP, who are still in the Oopposition.The BJP, which is the second-largest party, has announced that it would be sitting in the Opposition. The election to the chairmanship of the crucial civic committees is slated for Monday, and it is likely to see a three-cornered contest among the ruling Sena, the BJP and the Congress-NCP. Significantly, MVA leaders have been discussing the possibility of contesting the civic polls, which are slated to be held in 2022, together.However, the Shiv Sena doesn’t want to dilute its hold over one of the country’s richest civic bodies and has decided to field its candidates for all the committees. The Shiv Sena has 97 elected representatives in the 227-member BMC. Though the majority mark in the civic body is 114, the Shiv Sena has managed to cling to power because of a divided opposition.The BJP is the second-largest party and has 83 elected representatives. However, it has decided to play the role of an opposition party, along with the Congress and the NCP, who have 29 and eight elected representatives, respectively. Other smaller parties include the Samajwadi Party (SP), All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), who have six and two each elected representatives, respectively. Elections will be held for the chairmanship of the standing committee, which has financial powers, the improvements committee that deals with land leases and other city properties. Voting will also be held for the education committee that handles primary and secondary education in Mumbai and the BEST Committee that governs Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST). Corporators elect the members of the committee, except for BEST, and, they, in turn, elect the chairman.The representation from each party to these committees is based on the strength of its elected corporators. The members have a fixed tenure of two years, while that of the chairman is a year.Non-elected persons can also be nominated by the parties in case of BEST. At present, all these committees are dominated by the Shiv Sena. The Congress and the NCP were hoping to control at least a committee each because they are a part of the MVA coalition government.On Wednesday, Shiv Sena Corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who is also the sitting chairman of BMC’s standing committee for the last two years, filed his nomination papers for the third term. Shiv Sena Corporator from Gorai Sandhya Doshi filed her nomination papers for the post of the chairwoman of the education committee. The BJP has fielded Colaba corporator Makrand Narvekar and Kandivali corporator Surekha Patil for the post of the standing and the education committee, respectively.The Congress has fielded Bandra corporator Asif Zakaria and Cmembur corporator Sangita Handore for the standing and the education committee, respectively.The Congress has also announced that it would contest for the chairman’s post in all the committees. The party has claimed the support of the NCP and SP.Ravi Raja, a Congress corporator and the leader of opposition in the BMC said, “There is no question of not fielding our own candidates. We are in the opposition and we will field our candidates for all the committees. We have the support of the NCP and the SP. We are not seeking support from any other party.” The Shiv Sena is likely to retain control over all the committees since it enjoys a majority in all these panels. But the party’s dominance will signify that the bid to contest the 2022 civic polls as a single MVA entity is far from reality.The BJP has maintained that it would field candidates for all the committees. The party is also open to all options. Bhalchandra Shirsat, a BJP corporator and a member of BMC’s standing committee said, “We are fielding candidates for all the panels because we are the second-largest party in the civic body. We are the only opposition party in the BMC.”Surendra Jondhale, a political analyst, said, “It is unlikely that there will be any cross-voting, where a Congress member will be supported by the BJP. Though the Congress does not enjoy the majority, it’s decision to field candidates signifies that the party wants to remain politically relevant. The BJP is fielding candidates because it also has to hold on to its position as the second-largest party in the BMC.” He added: “Whether MVA allies will fight the 2022 BMC elections together will also depend on the sustainability of their coalition at the state level. If they don’t fight together, then it may also mean that the Shiv Sena does not want to share power with any other party in the BMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sena-reluctant-to-share-power-with-mva-allies-in-running-bmc/story-LYkx1dOOUu7S9WCdjPl3vN.html
01-10-2020||Lucknow||Minor raped at Azamgarh village in Uttar Pradesh, accused arrested||An eight-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh district was allegedly raped by her 20-year-old neighbour in a village in Jiyanpur police station area on Wednesday, police said, and added that the accused has been arrested.The accused was well-known to the family of the survivor and used to visit her house frequently. On Wednesday, he coaxed her to accompany him outside, where the incident took place, said Azamgarh’s superintendent of police, Sudhir Kumar Singh.Singh said that the girl informed her parents after she was dropped home by the boy following which her mother filed a complaint at Jiyanpur police station. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of IPC and he has been arrested.Singh said that the girl has been sent for medical examination and further investigation in the case is on.Also Read: Hathras cops cremate rape victim by stealthThe incident comes when security of women in Uttar Pradesh is under spotlight following the brutal gang-rape of woman in a village in the state’s Hathras district two weeks ago. The woman died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice.Political parties and activists and rights bodies have questioned the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/minor-raped-at-azamgarh-village-in-uttar-pradesh-accused-arrested/story-TItJe1rRX8ChLdeIdsRd6I.html
01-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras cops cremate rape victim by stealth||Uttar Pradesh Police forced the cremation of a 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras who died after being brutally raped by four men, the victim’s family said on Wednesday, triggering anger from locals and political rivals who accused the Yogi Adityanath government of trying to suppress the collection of additional forensic evidence and prevent the ballooning of protests.District officials contended that they had consent from the woman’s family, but the manner in which the developments took place raised questions over the conduct of the administration and law enforcement. The woman succumbed to injuries in Delhi on Tuesday and the body was moved later that night to her home town 200km away. The cremation was carried out at 2.30am amid heavy deployment of police, who stopped locals and the media from approaching the site.WATCH | Hathras victim’s kin say cops ‘forcibly’ cremated her body; protests break out“The police have forcibly taken the body and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police,” the woman’s brother was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape: BJP stares at the return of Dalit unrest“Police paid no heed to our request to have cremation during the daytime on Wednesday. Police were bent upon cremation at night and forcibly got it conducted,” alleged a villager. Hathras district magistrate (DM) Praveen Kumar denied the charges. “The funeral was conducted with the due permission of the father. No one in the family, except a handful, have levelled such charges. Initially, family was not prepared to shift the victim to Delhi for better treatment but later agreed to it,” the DM added.Members of Dalit groups and activists alleged that the early morning cremation was done to prevent any mobilisation or protests in the village. “The whole world is watching how the government and the police together cremated our sister in the absence of her family. I have been taken into custody and put under house arrest in Saharanpur; but we will continue to fight,” said Chandrasekhar Azad, chief of the Bhim Army that had led protests outside Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday.Also Read: More outrage, protests after Hathras victim’s cremationOn Wednesday afternoon, hundreds of people gathered in the main market area of Hathras in protest before police used tear gas and force to break up the agitation. Demonstrations also took place in Delhi and Kolkata, and a social activist filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking a federal investigation into the case.The victim was attacked and raped on September 14 in a field near her home in Hathras district. Details of the barbaric assault emerged last week, and the woman was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she battled for life till Tuesday.Adityanath spoke to the woman’s father and set up a three-member special investigation team (SIT), and said a fast-track court will handle the case. The chief minister also announced ₹25 lakh in compensation to the victim’s family and a job to a family member. Also Read: Nirbhaya of Hathras killed by insensitive government: Sonia GandhiIn a tweet, the chief minister’s office said the Prime Minister spoke to Adityanath over the case. “Respected Prime Minister @narendramodi Ji has spoken on the Hathras incident and said that strict action should be taken against the culprits,” the post said.The men arrested for the crime will now face charges under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, according to Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir.The family left Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday night amid heavy police deployment and reached the village in Hathras after arrival of the body of the woman, a family member told PTI. Though they were present in the village, family members alleged that they were not allowed to see the body before the last rites. A video shot by locals shows the woman’s mother as saying: “I wanted my daughter to come home first. At least we could have applied ‘haldi’ on her body. This was her last goodbye. She won’t come back now.”Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the hurried cremation was meant to “destroy evidence”. Taking to Twitter, the former state chief minister said cremating the rape victim under the administration’s “pressure” without the “consent” of her family was against the culture of the state. “This act of destroying evidence is condemnable,” he wrote. Also Read: AAP demands CBI probe in Hathras case, FIRs against Delhi cops over ‘assault’ on MLACongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said Adityanath must resignation since he has “no moral right” to continue. “After 15 days, he (Adityanath) has made a statement and what does he say that ‘PM called and I have constituted an SIT’. Were you waiting for the PM’s phone call, you could not do anything for 15 days, you did not provide her treatment, did not take her to a good hospital, she was brought to Delhi only day before yesterday,” the Congress general secretary said.Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev said the government acted quick and set up an SIT to probe the case in a time-bound manner. “Let me assure you that all those responsible for gruesome crime would be dealt with in a befitting manner,” he said.Former Uttar Pradesh director general of police Prakash Singh said the teenager’s rape was a tragedy but how police reacted after her death on Tuesday was “a double tragedy”.“The handling of her cremation should have been in a better way. The police are competent enough to deal with any possible law-and-order crisis in these situations. They should have taken the young woman’s family into confidence. Her family was already traumatised and should have been allowed to see the body or perform the final rites,” he said. “The police action has only compounded the problem and mistrust. It is a failure of leadership and was badly handled. Who issued the orders for the midnight cremation? Was it issued by the director-general, inspector general, or a political figure, maybe someone at the ministerial level,” said Singh, who headed Uttar Pradesh Police between 1991 and 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-cops-cremate-rape-victim-by-stealth/story-ogo6h0ZJgUYQojsFWv1njJ.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at market near Chembur railway station in Mumbai||A fire broke out at a market new Chembur railway station in Mumbai early Thursday morning. Ten fire tenders have been rushed to the spot. The fire has been doused and cooling operation is underway.A fire was reported at Janata Market in Chembur around 5.30 am on Thursday. The fire was reported in at least five shops. The blaze was doused at around 7.30 am and no injuries has been reported yet, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade Control Room.In a similar incident, another fire was reported on Thursday from a chemical factory in Pune’s Kurkumbh MIDC area. While the fire has been doused off, there is no casualty reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-market-near-chembur-railway-station-in-mumbai/story-K63nSFp5mD8F9S7aJEjXJJ.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Visiting the poets’ park||The carefree man in blue track suit is sprawled on the grass, his eyes closed in deep sleep, and his bare feet entangled amid dry leaves and white frangipanis that have fallen from the adjacent tree.The DDA (Delhi Development Authority) run district park in Vasant Vihar, south Delhi, was renamed Bagh-e-Bahaar, the garden of spring, after its redevelopment last year. This afternoon, its beauty feels so tangible that you could almost hold it in your hand. Understood to be the only surviving of the many gardens laid in 14th century Delhi by Emperor Firoz Shah Tughlaq, it is among the city’s prettiest grassy escapes besides Lodhi Garden and Sunder Nursery.The most poetic spot is the plaza named Bagh-e-Shazar, or the Tree Garden, in front of the gate no. 2 entrance on Poorvi Marg. It has red sandstone columns inscribed with verses by Jalaluddin Rumi, Joyce Kilmer, Rabindranath Tagore, and Khalil Gibran. Each verse, written in Hindi, English and Urdu, celebrates trees.Here is Rumi’s: “May be you are searching among branches for what only appears in the roots.”These verses on stone surround a luscious tree whose trunk is so entangled in vines that it looks like a sage’s knotted hair.With the pleasant winter season setting in, the sunlight is easy on the senses and makes one nicely sleepy. That explains the languid postures of a few masked men, perched on the sloping lawn named Bagh-e-Sukhan, or the Poetry Garden.While two couples are lingering about nearby, others in the garden seem to be loners. One man is lying on a bench, reading a newspaper.Further ahead are the soaring walls of Bara Lao ka Gumbad, a Tughlaq-era monument.The most heart-touching sight lies along an unpaved lane shooting off the Tree Garden. Here stand a series of trees, and under each tree is sitting a lone man. A symmetry of solitude is mirroring into infinity.Do not forget to gaze upon the slab outside the gate. It is inscribed with the name of the park along with the depiction of a leaf, identified as of the Pilkhan tree. This careful attention to a mere leaf, too, is poetic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-visiting-the-poets-park/story-YE0fSW7MzbD1MmJ0q7J4OI.html
01-10-2020||City||Meham MLA Kundu to start hunger strike against farm laws on October 2||Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu is all set to start an indefinite hunger strike from October 2 to protest against the recently enacted farm legislations. Talking to Hindustan Times, Kundu said, “I will start the ‘Kisan Majdoor Nyay Yudh’ from the famous Meham Chaubisi Chabutara against these anti-farmer laws that are aimed at destroying the mandi system and scrapping the minimum support price. They were thrust upon the farmers without any discussion in the Parliament.” Kundu said farmers and labourers from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh will join him in the indefinite hunger strike.“We will continue our strike till the Union government amends these laws. People associated with art, culture, academics, sports, farm unions and others will take part in our hunger strike. I urge politicians from across parties to sit on hunger strikes against these laws,” he added. The Meham legislator further urged the government to amend these laws with the consent of farmers and state governments as it is a state subject. Hitting out at the Jannayak Janta Party, Kundu said, “I am shocked that they took out a tractor rally in Rohtak in support of these laws. I thought Dushyant Chautala will follow in the footsteps of his great grandfather Devi Lal but he has disappointed the agrarian community.” Kundu further said that the leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar have the same view on these laws as Hooda did not register any protest against these bills in the one-day assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meham-mla-kundu-to-start-hunger-strike-against-farm-laws-on-october-2/story-goU9LxB61uRvLVPjEBfiSO.html
01-10-2020||City||Haryana farmers protest as stalemate over paddy procurement continues||The stalemate over paddy procurement continued for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday, prompting farmers to stage protests and block roads in Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts.Though the Haryana government had announced to start procurement from September 27, procurement agencies and rice-millers had refused to cooperate in the process. This left the farmers to suffer as many had already turned up at the mandis with their produce.Waiting in vain with their unsold crop, hundreds of angry farmers, protesting under the banner of BKU (Charuni), blocked the roads by parking their tractor-trailers. Traffic on national highway 44 in Karnal and Karnal-Yamunanagar state highway remained affected for several hours on Wednesday. Dharnas were also staged outside the market committee offices of Assandh, Taraori and Nilokheri grain market, where the government’s effigy was burnt. In Ambala, protesting farmers blocked the Ambala-Hisar Highway while in Yamunanagar, protests were held outside various mandis in Chhachhrauli, Jagadhari, Radaur etc. Jagdeep Singh, a farmer, said he had come to the grain market five days ago, but his crop had not been procured so far. Charuni gives ultimatumBharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said they have given 24 hours’ ultimatum to the government and that they will block all the roads if their produce is not procured by 1pm on Thursday.Officials of the market committees, meanwhile, claimed that they had started the procurement process. Karnal market committee secretary Sunder Kamboj claimed that 225 quintals of paddy was procured at Karnal grain market by the Hafed on Wednesday. Even in Kurukshetra, deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Barar claimed that 10,190 MT paddy was procured by government agencies, of which 316 MT had already been lifted.In some grain markets, farmers accused the government agencies of not procuring their produce despite the moisture content being below 16%. Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar in a statement said that Haryana CM Manohar Lal has increased the purchase limit of paddy from 25 quintals to 30 quintals and if a farmer brings 10% extra grain. that will be purchased too. (with inputs from Bhavey Nagpal in Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-protest-as-stalemate-over-paddy-procurement-continues/story-iHNuRhonxk10NUq72w4PeJ.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government completes CZMP public consultation amid protests in Palghar, Sindhudurg||Despite a large number of protests at Palghar and Sindhudurg between Monday and Wednesday, against the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) maps, the state government on Wednesday evening said the public consultation process had been completed. Environmentalists said the public hearing held at Palghar on Wednesday was chaotic and mismanaged. “There was strong opposition by the locals for the online hearing. Hundreds of participants were waiting outside the venue to be allowed to share their concerns. Police teams had been brought in to control the locals. It was pointed out to authorities that the CRZ notification 2019 was published in the local language only on September 25, three days before the public hearing on the draft CZMP’s of Sindhudurg and Palghar,” said Prasad Khale, senior conservation officer, Conservation Action Trust.Mumbai-based environmental researcher Dhwani Shah said, “Palghar district is predominantly a tribal district with a majority of the population living in rural areas. During this pandemic, the state forced a majority of the senior citizens from fishing villages to step out for this hearing, which could have easily been deferred. What’s worse, state officials said they would not answer any questions and the process was just for recording submissions, making it undemocratic.”“The National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, Chennai which has been authorised by the Centre to prepare the maps was not present at the public hearing, thus putting a question mark on the legality of the public hearing. We were told that the Chennai-based agency’s key personnel have contracted Covid-19 and were unable to attend. We questioned the haste with which the government was carrying out the public hearing, which could have been easily postponed to a later date when the pandemic scare is over,” said Bhushan Bhoir, social activist.A complaint was filed by environment group Vanashakti before the Palghar collector stating the entire procedure was conducted haphazardly. “People in Palghar mostly fishermen and coastal farmers affected by this CZMP are not tech-savvy, and they should be given a physical public hearing at large public halls rather than such farcical proceedings,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Meanwhile, a simultaneous online hearing was underway remaining suggestions for Sindhudurg on Wednesday as well. “A large number of participants were not admitted through the online proceedings during Sindhurug’s hearings and our long list of objections remains unheard as the state has completed their namesake hearing process,” said Nandan Vengurlekar, district coordinator, CZMP awareness committee, Sindhudurg.Collector prevented entryDr Manek Gursale, Palghar district collector was unable to enter the venue as the protestors sat on the road to block his official car. The collector tried to convince the protestors to let him pass as he was there to present a report to the Centre in regard to the public hearing. Finally Dr Gursale had to take an alternative route to reach the venue.WHY WAS THE HEARING UNDERTAKENDraft CZMP maps were prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) under the Union environment ministry in 2019 for all coastal districts in Maharashtra based on the 2019 Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms. The maps were published on January 22 this year. Using distinct colour codes, these maps demarcate CRZ areas (I to IV), high tide and hazard line, fishing zones, intertidal areas, mangrove forests and buffer areas, turtle nesting sites, cyclone shelters, koliwadas and gaothans. These also identify coastal areas that can be opened up for infrastructure development. Holding public consultation, especially with local communities, calling for suggestions and objections is compulsory before finalising the maps. The public consultation process for all districts was completed by March 6 except Palghar and Sindhudurg. It was later slotted for March 21 for the two districts but owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was deferred. “Based on the Union environment ministry’s memorandum, an online public consultation was promulgated along with receiving submissions through offline means. Both would be considered. We are just following the simple process as directed by the Centre,” a senior state government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-completes-czmp-public-consultation-amid-protests-in-palghar-sindhudurg/story-8yAJbLHq7MLicUUICT69BO.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Post Art 370, J&K witnesses surge in domestic tourists||Following the revocation of Articles 370 and 35-A on August 5, 2019, there has been a quantum jump in the number of domestic tourists heading to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. However, there has been a corresponding steep decline in the number of foreign tourists visiting to the Union Territory of Ladakh. In response to query made by Kochi-based activist K Govindan Nampoothiry under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, ministry of tourism deputy secretary Kiriti Gaikwad revealed that around 1,61,63,330 domestic tourists and 57, 920 foreign tourists had visited J&K in 2019. Similarly, 24,98,141 domestic tourists and 5,056 foreign tourists visited the UT from January 1 to July 15. However, only 2,41,285 domestic tourists and 38,652 foreign tourists visited Ladakh in 2019. This year, till July 15, 5,019 domestic and 1,060 foreign tourists visited the region. Nampoothiry said, “The surge of domestic tourists in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 is a positive sign. It proves the Union government’s strategic move is leading the UT in the right direction and it has started reaping the benefits. The administration of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), now, should take steps to unlock breathtaking tourist destinations to the public, promote them in domestic as well as in foreign arenas and brand J&K tourism. This will definitely pave the way for economic development in J&K by attracting investments, companies and creating employment opportunities for locals.” He, however, agreed that the steep decline in the number of tourists visiting Ladakh was cause for concern. ‘Tension along LAC responsible for dip in visitors to Ladakh’“The tense situation at the LAC might be the primary reason for fall in visitors to the region, apart from Covid but the Union government should take effective steps to resolve the matter as most locals earn their bread and butter through tourism. The matter requires immediate intervention and solution,” he added. After the BJP government revoked Article 370 and 35-A on August 5 last year, the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two UTs-- Ladakh without legislature and J&K with legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-art-370-j-k-witnesses-surge-in-domestic-tourists/story-oOF5bOzXP9r4xr1Uh0JZiM.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K panchayat body seeks complete implementation of 73rd amendment||The All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference (AJKPC)—a frontline organisation of elected panchayat members—has reiterated its demand for complete empowerment of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) in the Union Territory by implementing the 73rd Amendment of the Indian Constitution in entirety. AJKPC president Anil Sharma, during his visits to Reasi and Udhampur districts, welcomed the government’s initiative of taking the bureaucratic set up to the doorsteps of the people through the ‘back to village’ (B2V) programmes and said Panchayat members in J&K yearned for the complete empowerment of PRIs through the 73rd Amendment of Indian Constitution in letter and spirit. “Different line departments of the government were asked to consult the elected members of the PRIs while implementing welfare schemes. It is unfortunate that these departments are not adhering to government guidelines. All such issues can be addressed suitably if PRIs are fully empowered,” Sharma said, while addressing a large gatherings of PRI members, comprising panches, sarpanches and block development council (BDC) chairpersons. He also demanded financial empowerment of the panchayats saying, “PRIs have not been able to bring a desired change on the ground due to non-availability of financial resources. We request the UT government to create Panchayat Development Fund on the pattern of MLAs’ Constituency Development Fund (CDF) to improve the living standards of people at the panchayat level.” He demanded that the government should fix ₹25 lakh per panchayat as panchayat development fund, which will help elected panchayat members to bring a positive change on ground. He also demanded immediate enhancement of monthly honorarium being paid to sarpanches and panches. “It is very difficult for sarpanches and panches to work under the existing meagre honorariums of ₹3,000 and ₹1,000 respectively. The government should immediately hike the sarpanches’ honorarium to ₹10,000 per month while panches should receive ₹5,000 per month. The monthly honorarium of BDC chairpersons should be hiked to ₹25,000 per month,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-panchayat-body-seeks-complete-implementation-of-73rd-amendment/story-E2C1bBYQW0wFwXMAMLpuJP.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government submits action plan before NGT to tackle waste at Mumbai mangroves||Two state bodies have chalked out an action plan to reduce waste that is affecting mangrove forests and coastal wetlands in Mumbai.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and state mangrove cell under the forest department have recommended that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) make special arrangements to install metal nets along all creek areas, especially along Mithi river, to ensure waste is trapped before entering the creeks.The submissions come in response to directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in July while hearing an application by environment group Vanashakti on coastal water pollution and the impact of solid waste entering the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS).NGT directed both, the MPCB and mangrove cell to submit recommendations to keep mangrove areas free from waste. The next date of hearing is October 7.Both bodies submitted a joint affidavit dated September 18 (made public by applicants on Monday) highlighting measures such as appointing a flying squad to prevent and monitor illegal waste disposal; a mechanism to impose fines on defaulters; ensuring 100% sewage network, and development of an overall comprehensive action plan from an expert institute for mangrove conservation.“The present perception of mangroves as the garbage can of the city has to change. A major threat to mangroves is the deposition of enormous quantities of solid waste in the area. Much of this waste is non-biodegradable and settles on mangrove breathing roots, choking them to death,” read the submission by divisional forest officer DR Patil (mangrove cell).MPCB’s recommendations directed state departments (revenue, forest, and BMC) to ensure encroachment removal, restrict the dumping of construction debris and carry out mangrove plantation on degraded areas to avoid any waste dumping there.MPCB estimates that untreated domestic waste accounts for 93% pollution across water bodies and mangrove forests, with 25% of the city’s total sewage entering the sea without any treatment. “We have called for two major recommendations. The first is for BMC to commence the process of mapping most vulnerable areas where trash enters creeks and install metal nets to trap this waste. The second is to constitute a mangrove conservation district committee, including a member from the planning authority, for effective implementation of all our plans,” said a senior MPCB official, requesting anonymity as the matter is sub judice.Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “We will be submitting our affidavit before the NGT soon. We are open to implementing suggestions expressed by state bodies, including installation of nets, provided we receive clearance for such activities from either the tribunal or the Union environment ministry in the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) 1 area.”Meanwhile, the mangrove cell, under the forest department, had informed the NGT during an earlier hearing, that 8,000 tonnes of garbage were removed from different mangrove forests in successive clean-up operations. The cell estimates Mumbai’s mangrove forests (6,600 hectares) have around 50,000 tonnes of plastic waste due to improper waste treatment.“We have suggested various measures as indicated under an effluent treatment plan study undertaken to address pollution at the Mahul Trombay creek by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) for the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link project,” said Patil.Of this, the cell has suggested the use of deflector screens (flat surfaces that help collect floating debris from rivers and creeks even at high flow rate) and booms (partially submerged temporary floating barrier with mesh skirts to collect debris and litter by spreading across an entire waterway). “We have also laid emphasis on sediment removal technologies through trapping silt either downstream or at certain sections of the creeks and rivers. We are in the process of implementing this for the TCFS under our management plan,” said Patil.Meanwhile, applicants in the matter said BMC had not taken any steps so far to address the issues. “In fact, they have not bothered to even reply to our petition yet. Nor have they responded to requests from other statutory bodies. It is left to the judiciary now to pass orders to stop the flow of non-degradable waste into mangrove areas,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, adding that BMC was duty-bound to implement cheap effective solutions to keep the marine ecosystems clean. According to Vanashakti, Mumbai daily dumps 80-110 metric tons (MT) of plastic waste into drains and water channels.An official from the stormwater drains department said trash booms were installed across eight locations in Mumbai (western suburbs) in 2019. “It was successful during the pre-monsoon period, with plastic waste collected regularly from the drains. However, when the load increased during monsoon, the booms could not contain the capacity. The plan was dropped,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-submits-action-plan-before-ngt-to-tackle-waste-at-mumbai-mangroves/story-wUYFyY9fp9xTO0NGyC2KCK.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 72 Covid infections, count mounts to 14,819||Himachal on Wednesday recorded 72 Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 14,819. The virus also claimed three more lives in the state. Of the new cases, 33 were reported in Kangra, 24 in Kullu, eight in Chamba, three in Lahaul-Spiti and two each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur. One fatality each was reported in Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur. The death toll has mounted to 181. With 2,988 cases Solan is the worst-hit district in the state followed by Kangra (2,273), Sirmaur (1,810), Mandi (1,671), Shimla (1,284), Una (1,267), Hamirpur (915), Chamba (837), Bilaspur (800), Kullu (627), Kinnaur (190) and Lahaul-Spiti (157) cases. Recovery rate crosses 75%The recovery rate crossed the 75%-mark in the state with 202 more people discharged today. So far, 11,173 people have recovered. There are 3,423 active cases in the state. There are 2,020 infected people per million population in the state. State has conducted 2,94,521 tests that is just above 40,000 per million. The fatality rate is 1.2%. Former minister critical Former BJP minister Roop Singh Thakur, who tested positive on Tuesday, has been shifted to a private hospital in Chandigarh. His condition is said to be critical. Thakur was admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk on Tuesday. Health officials say that Thakur has a severe lung infection. Thakur’s wife has also tested positive and has been placed in isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-72-covid-infections-count-mounts-to-14-819/story-IOFx9U7YymeolUChhPCxZL.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Why people in Mumbai don’t wear masks despite Covid-19 threat? ‘Lost it; it flew away; led to allergy’||Since the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made it mandatory for Mumbaiites to wear masks in public places, the civic body has fined 14,000 people for flouting this rule. As of September 26, BMC had earned ₹52.76 lakh from non-compliance of the mask rule, and field inspectors say civilians remain negligent about wearing masks. In end-June, BMC had issued an order that made not wearing a mask in public areas a punishable offence. Each ward has 25 field inspectors drawn from the solid waste management (SWM) department and these officers encounter strange excuses from civilians who are not wearing masks. “People often say that they have lost or forgotten their masks, and therefore are heading to a medical shop to buy one. Some even say it flew off while they were riding a bike. Once, a defaulter told me that a pigeon had pooped on his mask,” said field inspector Dharmesh Salvi. Morning walkers are regularly seen with their masks around their chins instead of covering their nose and mouth. “When we catch them, they complain of breathlessness while walking with the mask. Some even claim to be asthma patients who feel suffocated while walking if they put their mask on,” said Jyoti Jadhav, from A ward’s SWM department. Dr Prashant Borade of Global Hospital, said, “We don’t have any scientific studies to prove that masks lead to asthma or other serious breathing problems. It is essential to wear masks to save oneself from Covid-19 infection.” Other excuses proffered include sensitive skin, being allergic to sweat, suffering from heat rash, and the claim that they were eating or drinking something just before being caught by the field inspector. Psychiatrists said the mask can add to some people’s anxiety levels. “Lots of people feel the mask is an imposition on their life. This is most common among Covid-19 recovered patients who had to stay in a hospital for days in isolation among medical staffers,” said Dr Sagar Mundada, a city-based psychiatrist. Masks are effective against Covid-19 because they trap droplets that could transmit the infection. “Covid-19 is a respiratory illness that spreads through respiratory droplets, which are ejected when infected people sneeze, cough or talk. Thus, wearing masks is of utmost importance to stop the spread of the virus,” said Rajneesh Bhardwaj, a professor at the department of mechanical engineering, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), who has been studying how long the virus stays active on surfaces. Between September 13 and September 26, BMC collected ₹19 lakh as fines from 9,218 people who violated the mask guideline. Since September, the fine is ₹200. Between end-June and September 26, the highest amount in fines (₹615,800 ) has been collected from K West ward (Andheri West), followed by R South ward (Dahisar; ₹6.07 lakh); and C ward (Kalbadevi; ₹560,100). Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G North ward (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim) said economically weaker sections have shown greater compliance with the mask rule. “Slum dwellers are very careful about Covid-19. They know that as they live in clustered and enclosed setups, they have to be more careful and take extra precautions. Many NGOs [non-government organisations] also supply masks in slums like Dharavi every day,” said Dighavkar. On Tuesday, BMC announced people not wearing masks will not be allowed to avail public transport. Malls, offices and other private compounds have also been instructed to restrict entry to only those wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-people-in-mumbai-don-t-wear-masks-despite-covid-19-threat-lost-it-it-flew-away-led-to-allergy/story-McdNWd8NSDKLIbiTWXwhQN.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s Covid tally surpasses 75,000||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 17 deaths and 975 fresh Covid infections, taking the Union Territory’s tally to 75,070. As many as 407 people tested positive in Kashmir, including 28 travellers; while 568 cases were reported from Jammu, of which 14 were travellers. On Tuesday, 1,355 people recovered from the virus and were discharged from different hospitals taking the overall recoveries to 56,872, which account for a recovery rate of 75.7%. At present, there are 17,017 active cases in J&K. So far, 16.22 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT. A government spokesperson said 790 people were discharged in Jammu division and 565 in Kashmir. Of the total, 37,885 people have recovered in Kashmir and 18,987 in Jammu. Officials said that 17 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT - 11 in Jammu and six in Kashmir. The UT has recorded 1,181 fatalities so far – 839 in Kashmir and 342 in Jammu. The death toll had crossed 500-mark on August 13 and 1,000-mark on September 20. In Jammu division, the highest cases were recorded in Jammu district at 353 followed by 41 in Udhampur. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 173 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 53.Till date, 5.76 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 15,423 in home quarantine, 17,017 in isolation, and 50,575 under home surveillance. Besides these, 4.92 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-covid-tally-surpasses-75-000/story-SXHXsCgBZyynRP9Y2OULpI.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||8 new Mumbai locals added on Central Railway route||Central Railway (CR) will be operating eight additional local train services from Thursday. Of the eight, two will operate as ladies’ special trains. Four local trains will operate on the CR mainline, and four on the trans-harbour railway line.“In order to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding, CR has decided to introduce ladies’ specials and increase the number of daily special suburban services from 423 to 431,” said a statement from Central Railway.Western Railway (WR) also introduced six new local train services from Monday, of which two are operating as ladies’ specials during peak office hours. A total of 506 local train services are now operating daily between Churchgate and Virar railway stations. Mumbai’s suburban train network, which ferries over 7 million commuters daily, was shut after the lockdown was announced in Maharashtra in March. Limited services are now being run for people working in essential services such as hospitals, banks and government offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-new-mumbai-locals-added-on-central-railway-route/story-kmwfMeWfIbLtY42HoEt6kO.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore to be president of Holiday Home Society’s governing council||The Chandigarh administration has constituted the governing council and executive committee of the Holiday Home Society.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will be the president of the governing council, while its vice-president will be UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida. Secretary, social welfare department, will be the secretary of the society, which will have 19 members, including four nominated members to be appointed by the UT administrator. The executive committee will have the UT adviser as its chairperson, while UT finance secretary will be its vice-chairperson. It will have eight members, including four from the governing council who will be nominated to the committee by the UT administrator.The administration had in February taken over the Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24 with plans to set up a high-end old age facility on payment basis.The administration’s move comes at a time when the demand for converting Indira Holiday Home into a group home for mentally ill people had been gaining ground in the city. “Indira Holiday Home is the best place possible for care home/community living of persons with mental disabilities,” said Dina Singh, a Sector-8 resident, who is associated with the welfare of mentally ill people. The decision to the setup a group home at Cheshire Home has come under criticism over inadequate space to meet city’s needs. Meanwhile, residents contend that Indira Holiday Home has adequate space for the purpose. “There is enough space for residential staff, counsellors, and social workers at Indira Holiday Home. It has a safe and secure campus. There cannot be a better combination for community living of persons with mental challenges,” Dina added.India’s first Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had inaugurated the Holiday Home Society in 1954. The holiday home in Sector 24 was set up in early 60s. Spread over 6.5 acres, the holiday home is mostly used for organising camps for children on nominal charges. The premises has hostel facility with air-conditioned rooms and dormitories to accommodate about 100 people and an AC auditorium with a capacity of 200 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badnore-to-be-president-of-holiday-home-society-s-governing-council/story-yl8KajSrorVcTZFEKrlZ0K.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC releases stricter containment zone rules; more Covid-19 tests for Mumbai||Given the rising number of cases in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to further tighten containment rules in sealed buildings across the city and to scale testing per day to 16,000-18,000 tests. This is up from the current target of 15,000 tests daily. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal issued the new directives in a review meeting with all assistant commissioners, zonal deputy municipal commissioners, deans of municipal hospitals and officers of BMC’s public health department, on Wednesday. The move comes as Mumbai on Wednesday recorded its highest-ever number of Covid-19 cases in a single day, at 2,654 cases, taking the city’s total count to 205,268. Mumbai on Wednesday also recorded 46 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 8,929. At present, there are 26,663 active cases in the city. Chahal told Hindustan Times, “BMC will further scale testing, and has a target of conducting 16,000 to 18,000 tests a day.”All residential buildings will now have to screen domestic help and other employees who have access to the building such as drivers, sweepers, security personnel. While retaining the current rule of sealing an entire building only if there are cases on two or more floors, or if there are more than 10 cases, BMC will ensure no one exits or enters the building. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the public health department, said, “Entry and exit will be regulated in a sealed building. There are three permutations and combinations for this sealing. If a patient is quarantined in his house, no one can enter or exit his house during the duration of the quarantine, except a health worker. Same applies to the floor and building if it is sealed. For medical emergencies, BMC will provide an ambulance to take the quarantined person to a hospital. In case of groceries, they need to be delivered either to the gate of the building, or the door of the sealed home.” A senior civic official said that this directive will move the onus from the chairman of the cooperative housing society to the civic body itself. “Depending on the severity of the spread of infection in the building, BMC may decide to man the entrance too,” the official said. Assistant commissioners of all wards will now revert to old measures regarding testing, tracing, door-to-door surveys and conducting fever camps to ensure more tests are conducted per day in each ward. “All high-risk contacts and close contacts of positive patients in sealed buildings will be tested by BMC. More fever camps will be organised, and frontline health workers will be screened periodically,” said Kakani.A ward officer told HT, “We have decided to hold more fever camps, and also test all residents of a sealed building.” Another ward officer said, “At my ward, I have decided to frequently screen employees of commercial places such as municipal markets as one vendor can easily spread the infection to many shoppers. There will be no way of tracing such contacts.” Chahal also directed all hospitals to update the numbers of vacant beds every night on BMC’s portal and has stressed that action will be taken if this is not done seriously. “We will not straight away take extreme action such as shutting down a hospital. But we will issue warnings first, a show-cause notice if required at a later stage, if the hospital persists in not updating vacant beds figures every night,” Kakani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-releases-stricter-containment-zone-rules-more-tests-for-city/story-AardjfPsHtOQB779ew6l4N.html
01-10-2020||City||September accounted for 65% Covid casualties in Chandigarh tricity||September has proven to be the worst month so far for the tricity with regard to Covid-19, accounting for 77%, 64% and 59% of the total deaths in Panchkula, Chandigarh and Mohali, respectively, and 65% overall. In comparison to 41 deaths in August, Chandigarh witnessed 106 deaths in September, though new cases started declining after a major surge in mid-September. The record was set on September 13 with 449 cases while highest number of active cases (3,171) was reported on September 16. In fact, 61% (7,266) of the total cases were reported in September, while only 3,267 surfaced in August. The number of tests also went up from 16,048 to 45,452. UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said: “Now, the cases are coming down and also the number of contacts, and the situation seems to be stabilising. For patients in home isolation, we are developing a protocol so that can reach hospital in time.” Panchkula district, too, witnessed the highest number of deaths (66) in September, up from 18 in August. In fact, only two people had died till July 31. The month also witnessed 3,762 new cases, more than double the cases in August (1,669) and 63% of the total (5,992). While the cases saw a surge, the authorities also doubled the number of tests (66,603 from 33,602). The district also has the highest number of active cases per lakh population, when compared with other parts of Haryana.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “In September, we were in the middle of the peak of Covid-19. In the last week, there was some respite, but still the situation is unpredictable.”On the high number of deaths, she said: “This is in proportion to the number of cases reported. Also, most of them were critical with co-morbidities, many continued self-medication, and reported to the hospitals quite late.” In Mohali, 114 people died in September, up from 63 in August. The number of fresh cases stood at 7,556 as compared to 2,831 in August, and accounted for 73% of the total tally.Around 60% (116) of the total (194) deaths reported so far were of senior citizens. As many as 85% had either hypertension or diabetes.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “Extensive sampling and strict home quarantine has saved Mohali from community spreading. We are facing a rise in cases because of outsiders arriving in the district. Their home quarantine is preventing further spread.”No scope for complacencyProfessor Rajesh Kumar, former head of the community medicine department, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said it appears the region, including Chandigarh, has achieved the peak of cases, but warned that complacency could take the graph of infections up again.“There is a lag of one week to two weeks between the peak of cases and deaths. So what we can gather from local data is that most cases came around mid-September, so fatalities due to that surge will continue to come for a few more days,” he said.Dr Yogesh Chawla, former PGIMER director, said infected persons in home isolation should monitor for signs and symptoms so that they can reach hospitals well in time and fatalities can be decreased.“Deaths should not take place due to delay in treatment and hospitalisation, and we need to keep a check on this when cases see a surge. For such a scenario, pulse oximeters are important for home isolated persons to monitor the oxygen saturation level and the robust system should be available for dealing with urgencies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/september-accounted-for-65-covid-casualties-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-M6Gpoxd3c4m3SETCFlMGXK.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU scholars may get exempted from in-person submission of PhD thesis||The research scholars at Panjab University will soon be able to authorise someone else to submit their PhD thesis in case of valid reasons after obtaining permission from dean university instructions (DUI).This was recommended by the PhD guideline committee of Panjab University (PU) in a meeting on Wednesday. Till now, PhD scholars had to appear physically and submit their thesis at the varsity in the absence of any such provision. However, these recommendations are subject to approval from the PU vice-chancellor. Senator Parveen Goyal, who is a member of the PhD guidelines committee, said, “The panel has decided that a research scholar can be allowed to authorise anyone to submit PhD thesis on his/her behalf after taking permission from DUI.”“It has been observed that the permission for authorisation should be sought from DUI through a proper channel. The decision has been taken for the benefit of research scholars and their guides. It will also help in the timely submission of thesis,” Goyal added. In a major relief earlier this year, the varsity had allowed its research scholars to take PhD viva via videotelephony or videoconference after PU syndicate’s nod.The committee in its meeting on Wednesday also decided that for the pre-PhD course examination, the departments will take decisions on their own level, but exams would not be held physically. In specific categories of research positions such as INSPIRE faculty and Ramalingaswami fellow, the committee has decided that if the supervisor of the research scholar is not a full-time regular teacher of the university’s departments, centres, or affiliated colleges, then a regular teacher of the university should also be associated with the research scholar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-scholars-may-get-exempted-from-in-person-submission-of-phd-thesis/story-EwflDFM9ddbQvyfxsvcTqO.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra stays plan to include Maratha community under EWS reservation||The Maharashtra government has stayed its decision of including the Maratha community in the economically weaker section (EWS) reservation for government jobs and education after a strong opposition from organisations representing the community. However, the state cabinet has decided to extend other social and economic benefits through ongoing schemes meant for the community.After a three-judge bench of the Apex court stayed the reservation to Marathas in jobs and education for 2020-21 on September 9, the state government last week decided to extend the EWS reservation to the community. The organisations representing Marathas turned down the proposal to accommodate them in the 10% reservation meant for the economically weaker section from the open category. Marathas were granted reservations of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.“The community is divided over the decision [to include it under EWS quota], as a section feels that it will weaken the legal battle. In response to the concerns raised, we have kept our decision pending till further court order. Other schemes meant for the community will continue to be in operation. We have also directed the authorities to expedite the process of issuing certificates to community members under SEBC Act,” said Ashok Chavan, public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee dealing with the reservation. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP and Maratha leader Sambhaji Raje met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday regarding the issue and said saying that Marathas had decided not to go for EWS quota as it may go against the legal battle in the apex court.The state government has now decided to issue a notification allowing Marathas to continue to take benefits of scholarships, funding for the entrepreneur projects, training for the civil services, funding for the hostel facilities for the students from the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-stays-plan-to-include-maratha-community-under-ews-reservation/story-qtuyjZtfR0ecwc7sBSvZ8N.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU asks final semester students to vacate hostels within 3 days after exams||The final semester students of Panjab University have been asked to vacate their hostel accommodations within three days after their exams end. A notice in this regard has been issued to all wardens, who were asked to inform the hostel residents. This comes after the varsity had last week asked the wardens to encourage parents of the hostellers to call their wards back home till the situation becomes ‘normal’. Referring to Rule 14 of the handbook of university’s hostel rules, the notice issued to the hostel wardens reads, “The hostels (including messes, canteens and common rooms) shall remain closed during the summer vacation for a period as specified by the DSW. The residents will vacate the hostel rooms within three days of their last paper.”It also states that in case the room is not vacated, it will be locked by the hostel authorities till the possession of the room is handed over and a minimum fine of ₹1,000 will be imposed in addition to the payment of daily charges for stay without permission from the warden.However, students have expressed their resentment against the move. A student residing at PU boys’ hostel number 3, who sought to remain anonymous, said, “My last paper was on Wednesday and now, I am unable to book a train ticket so that I can return to my home. I had requested the hostel warden to allow me to stay here for a few days but he refused.”Residents of boys’ hostels have, meanwhile, started vacating their rooms. “My final semester exams have ended, but I have to take a competitive test in the coming days in Chandigarh. I cannot leave the city before that, so I will get accommodation outside the campus,” said one such student of boys’ hostel number 5.PU’s Dean Students Welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said, “The decision has been taken according to the rules of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-asks-final-semester-students-to-vacate-hostels-within-3-days-after-exams/story-4Y4wQvcRJxsAC17zN9KRHM.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet decides to withdraw cases against green activists for Aarey protests||The cases registered against green activists who protested felling of trees in Mumbai’s Aarey Colony will be withdrawn, state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Wednesday. Several cases were registered after clashes broke out between the police and the activists who opposed the hacking of trees by Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRC) in Aarey Colony in October last year for the construction of a car shed for Metro-3. The decision to withdraw the cases was taken in a cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.“I raised the issue of cases on those who protested against the tree hacking in Aarey last year, in cabinet meeting today. I was backed by Ministers Jitendra Awhad and Aslam Shaikh. The cabinet has decided to withdraw these cases. These were citizens/ protestors standing for the future of our planet. To hold them from stopping desired work was one thing but to press police charges was another. We can’t have cases against those who stand up for environment and forests,” Aaditya Thackeray wrote in a series of tweets on Wednesday.On October 4 last year, several hundred trees were being felled by MMRC as part of Metro project. A group of students and activists had gathered at the site to oppose the tree felling, which led to a clash. The police then booked 38 people and charged 29 of them. The activists were arrested for obstructing public servants from discharging duty and for unlawful assembly.Following the arrests, the protesters have faced several issues such as finding a job, continuing their home rental agreements or applying for a passport. Rohit Joshi, a part of Aarey Conservation Group (ACG), said, “Around 10 days ago, a delegation of ACG, including me, along with the protesters who were charged met state cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad to propose the withdrawal of cases. We discussed how they were facing issues in their everyday life. We thank the state and especially Awhad ji for today’s decision by the cabinet.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had assured the protestors in December last year that the cases would be withdrawn. However, the process had not started until now. Officials from the state government have now said that the process of the withdrawal of cases will be expedited.Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, home, said, “The process of the withdrawal of the cases against the protesters will be expedited. We are gathering the information about the cases registered against the protesters last year. The legal process will be followed before the withdrawal of the cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-decides-to-withdraw-cases-against-green-activists-for-aarey-protests/story-ezGhwACmdq2U9dtvTNXrpI.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon ends 70mm short of all-time high in Mumbai; 67% excess rain over four months||As the curtains came down on the official four months of the southwest monsoon, Mumbai recorded its second-wettest monsoon in history, just 70mm short of the wettest-ever.The highest all-time seasonal rainfall was recorded in 1958 at 3,759.7mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD); making monsoon 2020 rainfall the highest in 61 years. This year monsoon onset was officially declared on June 14, three days beyond its normal onset date. However, southwest monsoon from June to September came to an end with almost 1,500mm more rain than the average rainfall during the four months.Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 3,687mm rain against the seasonal average of 2,260 mm between June 1 and September 30, which means an excess of 1,481mm or 67% rain. Similarly Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 3,202.5mm during the same period, against the average of 2,066mm. South Mumbai received 1,181.5mm or 58% excess rain for the season, which is the highest since 1984. “Total seasonal rainfall for Colaba and Santacruz from June to September has been exceedingly well with departures of more than 1,000mm. Day-wise rainfall progress from June to September indicated that the rain pattern in the city and suburbs almost remained identical till August and it slowed down from September, apart from a major rain spell during the third week,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Over the four months, the season saw four extremely heavy rain events — one in July, two in August, and one in September, 11 very heavy rain events between July to September, and nine heavy rain days, calculated over 24 hours for Colaba and Santacruz. The heaviest one-day rain spell this season was on August 5-6 at 332.1mm rain at Colaba followed by 286.4mm rain on September 22-23 at Santacruz. Mumbai also recorded 268.6mm rain on August 3-4 and 200.8mm between July 4 and 5.Maximum rain was recorded in July at 1,502.7mm, the highest since the weather bureau started collating records in 1944, followed by the highest August rainfall since 1959 at 1,247.6mm. While June recorded its lowest rainfall in five years at 395mm, 60% excess rain was recorded in September at 549.1mm.IMD has predicted monsoon withdrawal from Mumbai and Maharashtra between October 9 and 15. Independent meteorologists said that from this weekend, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) could once again witness post-noon thunderstorms. “This is likely to continue until the middle of next week. Monsoon’s withdrawal from the region appears unlikely before October 10. The most probable window as per the current forecast seems to be between October 15 and 20,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, the United Kingdom.Overall, Maharashtra witnessed 16% excess rain with 1,165mm recorded over four months against the average of 1,004.2mm. Central Maharashtra and Marathwada recorded 29% and 30% excess rain. Only three districts in Vidarbha — Akola, Amravati, and Yavatmal — recorded 27%, 20%, and 24% deficient rain in Maharashtra this season. Sindhudurg recorded maximum rainfall over four months at 4,485.4mm which is 53% more than the average. “Maharashtra witnessed satisfactory seasonal rainfall in 2020 with Marathwada witnessing excess rains. The overall distribution of rains remained good throughout, leading to a good monsoon season for farmers in the state,” said Hosalikar.MONSOON 2020 ACROSS INDIAIndia witnessed ‘above normal’ rainfall at 109% of the long period average (LPA) this year. India defines average or near-normal rainfall as rainfall between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 89cm for four months. Pan-India, 957.6mm rain was recorded against the normal of 880.6mm; this makes this the second best monsoon since 1994, the best being 2019 which ended with 110% of LPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-ends-70mm-short-of-all-time-high-in-mumbai-67-excess-rain-over-four-months/story-avVRq7W2JjLacT0Hts76NP.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra begins Aadhaar enrolment, updation exercise for 64 lakh students||Schools across Maharashtra have been asked to ensure that all students registered under them get their Aadhaar cards in the coming days. Around 64 lakh students across the state are yet to have their Aadhaar cards or have not updated their details. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the department asked schools to ensure that all students who are yet to get their Aadhaar cards or are yet to undergo biometric verification for the same should do it. “In accordance with the unlock-4 guidelines issued by the state government, facilitation centres are being set up for making Aadhaar cards for such students at the local level. Schools should ensure that all remaining students are covered under the exercise,” stated the circular. Schools have been asked to ensure that there is no overcrowding at the facilitation centres and that all the Covid-19-related protocols are followed. Teachers, however, said that initiating this exercise at a point when Covid-19 cases are still high across the state is risky. “Records of nearly 64 lakh students have to be updated as per the process. This would pose a big risk for schools as they would have a lot of difficulty in working on such a big scale during the ongoing pandemic. We are requesting the government to push the deadline further and withdraw the current circular,” said Anil Bornare, coordinator of the BJP teachers’ cell which has written to the department in this regard. Aadhaar card data of students is required to avail government subsidies, scholarships and other schemes from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-begins-aadhaar-enrolment-updation-exercise-for-64-lakh-students/story-gu3reTlhlimTqZIiEUvsdN.html
01-10-2020||City||Ulhasnagar man held for assaulting wine shop owner, managers with hammer, scissors||Titwala police on Wednesday arrested a 32-year-old mechanic for stabbing a wine shop owner and two shop employees with a hammer and scissors. The fight took place over payment of ₹500. Police identified the accused Govind Prem Prakash Verma, a resident of Ulhasnagar, with the help of CCTV footage. “He was arrested on Wednesday and will be produced in court on Thursday. The accused alleged he committed the crime under the influence of alcohol,” said Vijay Surve, sub-inspector, Titwala police station. The incident took place at 8.13pm on Monday at Roz Wines shop at Maharal in Titwala. The complainant Laxmi Ahuja, 42, the manager at the wine shop claimed the accused came to the shop and said that he had paid ₹500 to purchase alcohol. “Ahuja denied this, saying that they had never seen the accused before. He asked Verma to wait till they checked the CCTV footage to clear the confusion. Instead of waiting, Verma left the shop and returned 15 minutes later with a hammer and scissors. He entered the shop and started assaulting Ahuja, another manager and the shop owner Dharmapal Vanjani,” a police officer said. Vanjani, Ahuja and the other shop manager were injured in the incident and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Titwala. Titwala police registered a case of assault and attempt to murder against Verma after verifying the entire incident on the CCTV footage of the shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-man-held-for-assaulting-wine-shop-owner-managers-with-hammer-scissors/story-kSks9dXXj1PdcQG1hdYVSO.html
01-10-2020||City||Dhakoli’s sub-post office building cries for attention||The sub-post office in Dhakoli is housed in a dilapidated building, which demands urgent attention and maintenance as it tends to pose threat to the safety of at least 10 employees working there and hundreds of daily visitors. Their safety assumed more prominence after the last week’s building collapse in Meera Milli Mohalla of Dera Bassi, where four lives were lost. In the wake of the mishap, the authorities have decided to conduct a survey of all ‘unsafe’ buildings in the Dera Bassi subdivision, wherein the structures older than 50 years would be inspected and demolished if found unsafe, following due procedure. “The building in which the sub-post office is situated was declared unsafe by the postal department in 2018, but no alternative was found,” said an employee of the post office, who requested anonymity. The sub-post office is being operated from a single-room rented accommodation in the building that also had an anganwadi. However, considering the risk it posed, around 45 children were accommodated in the room in Dhakoli primary school. But the building is still being used for cooking and storage purposes for the anganwadi children. Post office’s employees claimed that many a time, they have to stand and work as most of the space is occupied by parcels and other paraphernalia. “The walls of the building have developed deep cracks and the lack of maintenance makes it worse. It can come crashing down any day. Requests have been forwarded to shift the post office out of this building, but no decision has been made so far in this regard,” added another employee. The residents, too, at several instances have demanded shifting of the post office to a better place and even suggested the local community centre as an option. The sub-post office on an average sees a footfall of more than 100 as it caters to Dhakoli, Peermuchalla, Ghazipur, Nagla and Sanuali areas. SDM’s take“I will get the post office as well as the anganwadi inspected and if the building is unfit for use, we will definitely shift them out. Safety of people is our priority. I will take up the matter with officials concerned soon,” said Kuldeep Bawa, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhakoli-s-sub-post-office-building-cries-for-attention/story-WhX1MAQDu1xeIdLSH7i9BI.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Online teaching platform designed by IIT-Bombay now available to all school, college teachers||An online teaching platform developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay is now available to teachers of all schools and colleges in the country. BodhiTree is a multimedia platform designed by the computer science engineering department of IIT-Bombay that can mimic classroom teaching. While most tools such as massive open online courses (MOOC) are designed to help students, BodhiTree is built with the aim of aiding teachers in their instructions. Under the current circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic, most educational institutes including IITs have switched to online mode of instruction. To help teachers adapt to the challenge and integrate technology in their teachings, IIT-Bombay has made it available to all. “BodhiTree is open sourced and free to use. It is also very easy to install. Individual colleges or schools can install and host an independent instance of BodhiTree either on their premises or on the cloud, with full control over the students’/ teachers’ data and content,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-Bombay. The platform hosts interactive multimedia books including lab manuals. These books — called BodhiBooks — are curated by the faculty of IIT-Bombay and can be in the form of interactive videos, auto-graded practice sheets and auto or manual graded lab exercises. By adopting this platform, teachers can manage multiple tasks such as creating their own content, enrol students, impose schedules, monitor students’ progress, take tests and share marks with students, and check for plagiarism. “Teachers can use the BodhiBooks in conjunction with the rich set of learning management system (LMS) features. The platform has a particularly good support system for engineering colleges with virtual labs and software labs,” Chaudhuri added. Currently the platform is being used by science and technology colleges including Walchand Institute of Technology, Solapur, and National Institute of Technology, Goa. “We hope this IIT-Bombay innovation helps the nation in getting through the current hardship,” he said. Instructors can sign up for a free demo for adopting the platform in their school, college or individually. While individual accounts for instructors are free of cost, the institute charges a nominal price for schools and institutes depending on the courses they choose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/online-teaching-platform-designed-by-iit-bombay-now-available-to-all-school-college-teachers/story-sq0ijyYQG5uVQPk0CWtBGL.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Most cases of murder with rape recorded in Maharashtra: Data||Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of crimes committed after Uttar Pradesh in 2019. Shockingly, the state has also recorded a maximum number of murders with rape or gangrape in the country, leaving behind states like Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh (UP), reveals the data released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The bureau has released data on Crimes in India in 2019 involving crime statistics from 29 states and seven union territories of India and 19 metropolitan cities having more than 20 lakh population.Maharashtra had recorded 5,09,433 crimes in 2019 and it was also at number two in the year 2018.As per the government data, the state recorded 47 cases of murder with rape and gangrape in 2019, followed by Madhya Pradesh (37), Uttar Pradesh (34), Assam (26), Karnataka (23) and Telangana (20).The states of UP and Maharashtra, followed by Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have recorded the maximum number of crimes. However, as far as the overall worst crime rate (crime incidence per one lakh of population) is concerned, Maharashtra remained in the sixth position with the crime rate of (415.8). Kerala topped the chart with a rate of 1287.7 followed by Gujarat (631.6), Tamil Nadu (600.3), Haryana (577.4) and Madhya Pradesh (478.9).Maharashtra, which is also the most populous state after Uttar Pradesh, ranked third in recording maximum violent crimes or bodily offences (44,074) after Uttar Pradesh (55,519) and Bihar (45,004). The state stood third in recording maximum cases of murder (2142) in 2019 following U.P. and Bihar that registered 3806 and 3138 murder cases, respectively.Maximum cases of kidnapping and abduction were also reported in Maharashtra (11,755) after Uttar Pradesh (16,590).The state also ranked second in recording maximum cases (12,328) of causing death by negligence after UP, which recorded 21,927 cases.Maharashtra has also recorded a maximum number of abetment of suicide cases (1,308), followed by Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana.The state topped the list of states with maximum cases of human trafficking. The state recorded 226 such crimes under section 370 (offence involving imports, exports, buying, selling or disposing of any person as a slave, or accepting, receiving or detaining against the will of any person as a slave) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/most-cases-of-murder-with-rape-recorded-in-maharashtra-data/story-MoJ5L0TiAV7XRpsQTn1YAM.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC plans special study of Covid-19 trends in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will soon begin a study on trends in Covid infection among Mumbaiites, which will be made available for global research and as a benchmark for public health care in case of such a crisis. From the plush housing societies of south Mumbai to congested pockets in India’s largest slum Dharavi and densely populated Govandi-Mankhurd, Mumbai’s Covid medical staff handles and treats patients across the socio-economic spectrum. A total of 78 hospitals, including jumbo Covid centres, dedicated Covid health centres, Covid care centres and beds reserved in peripheral civic hospitals, are handling the patients. BMC’s plan involves documenting every aspect of Covid-19 in the city such as effect of medicines on patients depending on their age and extent of infection; chances of recovery based on their socio-economic background; and nutrition during the treatment. A team of researchers and professors from all civic hospitals and medical colleges will be formed to create a research bank. Dr Satish Dharap, acting dean of BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central, said, “We will study what kind of treatment is impacting which type of Covid patient and how it is helping in their recovery. Various departments such as medicine, pulmonology, microbiology, intensive care specialty and psychiatry will be involved in this study.” The observations will be concluded by researchers, based on which a report will be prepared. This study is likely to start from this week and will only be carried out in BMC-run hospitals and Covid centres. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “This plan is at an initial stage. While every aspect of Covid-19 will be documented, the team of researchers has been asked to come up with various questions for the research and study them accordingly. We are one of the few cities that handle a minimum of 1,000 Covid patients a day and this is a handful of an experience for our staff. We want this experience to be put to good use and share our research with the world.” BMC is yet to decide on the number of patients to be monitored for the research. Last week, professors and doctors of major civic hospitals held a meeting, chaired by Kakani, to discuss the outline of the study. Kakani said, “In case of Remdesivir, the study should focus on the stage at which the medicine was administered, the vital parameters at that time and the changes –recovery or deterioration of health. This will be an ongoing process.” The researchers will also compare the recovery time of patients from buildings to that of slums. Efficacy of medicines like anti-viral drugs and plasma therapy will be part of this study. According to senior civic officials, of the total 192,427 Covid-19 cases, more than 70% have been treated in BMC-run hospitals and centres. So far, 155,638 Covid patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-special-study-of-covid-19-trends-in-mumbai/story-ciq2Tbq9gZ7M9dBGDSYGzN.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra only state to see 6 crimes worth over ₹100 crore: NCRB||Maharashtra recorded 15,686 cases of economic offences in the year 2019 and was the only state in the country to have six cases involving a sum of over ₹100 crores. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Maharashtra registered an increase in economic offences in 2019, with 14,854 cases being registered in 2018 and 13,941 cases in 2017. Rajasthan topped the list for economic offences with 26,920 cases being registered in 2019 followed by Uttar Pradesh with 19,968 cases. NCRB statistics claimed that Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra accounted for 38% of the economic crimes in India in 2019. Among Metropolitan cities, Mumbai saw the maximum cases of economic crime with 5,556 cases being registered in 2019, with Delhi registering 4,817 cases. The data reveals that Mumbai leads the list of crime under section criminal breach of trust and cheating with 902 cases followed by Lucknow with 762 cases and Delhi with 315 cases. Officers with the economic offences wing (EOW) in Mumbai Police said that since the city is the financial capital of India, there are a maximum number of cases related to economic offences. Apart from criminal breach of trust Mumbai recorded 4,642 cases of forgery and cheating after Jaipur with 5,905 cases. “We are urging people to come forward and report cases even if it involved smaller amounts which have increased the number of cases,” said an officer with EOW. Another officer said that creating awareness about economic frauds and cheating is a major part of policing, especially during lockdown when people are at home and are finding ways and places to invest their money to get maximum returns, owing to the anticipated slowdown and unemployment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-only-state-to-see-6-crimes-worth-over-100-crore-ncrb/story-sY3GoPH2TxrhOf5XuWRmzO.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records maximum crime against senior citizens: NCRB||Mumbai has recorded the maximum number of crimes committed against senior citizens, reveals NCRB data. The city has been on top of the list in recording maximum crimes against senior citizens since 2017.As per the latest statistics the maximum city recorded 1,231 crimes against senior citizens in 2019 followed by Delhi (1,076), Ahmedabad (794) and Chennai (552). However, the maximum crime against senior citizens recorded by Mumbai was not of the bodily offence or personal safety, but they were more of property offences. Most of these crimes were cheating, forgery and frauds. In 2019 the city registered 488 such cases Delhi (119) and Hyderabad (100).“One major possible reason behind this trend could be online cheating in which fraudsters target senior citizens as they are the most vulnerable group in society and are more prone to online cheating,” said a senior police officer from Mumbai police.Mumbai’s disposal of pendency percentage is also worst after Patna, Kolkata and Chennai.Not just Mumbai, if compared states for recording maximum crimes against senior citizens then Maharashtra also ranks first in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Andhra, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-maximum-crime-against-senior-citizens-ncrb/story-KjV6EOAnJ1oD2Hsri6tmrN.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees sharpest 1-day spike of 2,654 infections||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 18,317 Covid-19 infections, a rise from the numbers of the past few days, as the case count went up to 1,384,446, even as Mumbai recorded it sharpest single-day spike of 2,654 cases, pushing its tally to 205,268. The state’s toll climbed to 36,662 after 481 casualties were reported on Wednesday, of which, 237 were in the past 48 hours, another 115 deaths were from last week, while the rest 129 deaths were from the period before that, health officials said. Active cases across the state came down to 259,033. Of the city’s case tally, active infections were 26,663. Mumbai also recorded 46 deaths on Wednesday.Since the beginning of this month, the city is witnessing a rise in daily Covid-19 cases with record spikes being reported often. The civic body had anticipated a spike in cases post the Ganeshotsav, with daily average post that hovering around the 2,000 mark. As the state has observed a comparative decline in Covid-19 cases in the past few days, casualties are yet to come down. It has reported close to 12,000 casualties alone this month. Till September 30, the total casualties reported has gone up to 11,717, which means on an average, 390 deaths per day this month.If compared with previous months, in August, the state had reported 9,589 deaths, whereas in July, June, May, April and March, the casualties reported were 6,988, 5,638, 2,286, 449 and 10 respectively.On thirteen occasions this month, over 400 deaths were reported. The highest toll in a day, 515, was recorded on September 15, showing that efforts made by state authorities to control number of deaths per day have yet to show results. The state still has the highest death count across the country with Tamil Nadu second at 9,453.“Casualties are high, but they are expected to come down soon. The campaign ‘My family My responsibility’ was launched with the same purpose,” said a senior health department.Besides, a total of 21,673 deaths were reported in Mumbai (8,929), Pune (5,813), Thane (4,896) and Nagpur (2,035). It comes to 59.11% of the total casualties reported till date.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state, however, is reducing gradually. The CFR was recorded at 2.65% on Wednesday, making it at second position after Punjab. The CFR of Punjab was 2.99% (with 3,359 deaths) till Tuesday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.The state has also recorded close to 600,000 cases this month. The tally stood at 593,192 cases, which is again highest in any of the months since March, when the first case was reported. It is also over 2.21 lakh cases more than what was detected in August — 371,238 cases. While in July, June, May, April and March, total cases reported were 247,392; 102,172; 57,157; 10,196 and 302.On Wednesday, the state has conducted 87,181 tests and with 18,317 positive reports, the positivity rate comes to 21.10%. The total number of tests conducted till date are 6,785,205.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-sharpest-1-day-spike-of-2-654-infections/story-JO83jgxCXDR4CgdfHTNWVJ.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Restaurants and bars can open in Maharashtra from October 5||Nearly 400,000 restaurants, bars, eateries across Maharashtra have been allowed to reopen from October 5, along with resumption of train services that operate within state limits and more suburban trains for essential services workers, both from today. These were some of the major points of the state’s government’s latest notification that extended the ongoing coronavirus-enforced lockdown by another month till October 31, while opening up a number of activities under its Mission Begin Again — a staggered plan to unlock activities.According to the notification, all industries and manufacturing units operating in non-essential services in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), too, have been allowed to begin operations. In accordance with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s assurance to the representatives of hotel industries on Monday, the notification issued on Wednesday has allowed hotels, bars, restaurants, food courts, shut for more than six months, to operate at 50% of their capacity. The standard operation procedures (SOP) for these outlets are expected to be issued by the tourism department in the next two days. Similarly, the state government has allowed operations of trains originating and ending within state limits with immediate effect. Inter-city services between Mumbai and Pune and trains plying between Mumbai, Nagpur, Kolhapur and Sawantwadi will resume services once Railways completes its preparations. With local trains in MMR already running for essential services workers, the state government has now directed Railways to increase the number of services to avoid crowding. Currently, commuters from emergency and essential services, including security forces, banking, central and state government, have been allowed to travel on local trains via QR codes. Now, dabbawalas in Mumbai, too, have been allowed to board these trains. Local services in Pune district, too, have been allowed to start operations, along the lines of the services operating in MMR. The notification, issued by acting chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, has stated that activities, which have been prohibited in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, will be opened up in a phased manner. “Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, theatres, auditoriums, entertainment parks, Metro rail, international airlines, other than those allowed by the Central government, will continue to be prohibited till October 31. Similarly, political, social, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious functions and large congregations remain prohibited,” the order has stated.Kunte said, “The activities to be opened up immediately while extending the lockdown have been mentioned in today’s notification. The remaining activities to be allowed under Mission Begin Again will be considered in due course and may take a few more weeks.”Shivanand Shetty, President, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR), said that this will pave the way for the opening of at least 40-50 % outlets in the next few days. “We are opening after six months and it will take some time for hoteliers to prepare themselves to start their businesses with the various restrictions,” said Shetty. Mirah Hospitality, which runs 10 hotels under the brand name Rajdhani, Hitchki and Bayroute in Mumbai, said they will open their outlets in phases. “We will take time to check the various services, which have been closed from the last six months, and this will take time. We plan to open majority of our outlets by October 15,” said Aji Nair, CEO - F&B Division, Mirah Hospitality. He said that they have staff of 800 in these 10 outlets, of which 600 were migrant labours who have left for their villages. “Our challenge is to bring them back to Mumbai. In some places we will arrange buses, while in some we will also offer air tickets to bring them back,” said Nair. Maharashtra has more than 400,00 outlets in the sector with about 2.2 million people employed in various roles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restaurants-and-bars-can-open-in-maharashtra-from-october-5/story-HT3RG0letuP4UMHcCotEeN.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||5 Maharashtra universities defer final year exams after employees strike for better wages||Less than 48 hours before their online exams for final year (summer 2020) batch was scheduled to commence, authorities at the Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University released a statement confirming that their exams have been deferred indefinitely. Reason being a pen-down strike called by all the university non-teaching staff, demanding the immediate implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission wages. By late Tuesday evening, authorities of universities in Jalgaon, Nanded, Aurangabad and Amravati also released a similar statement, announcing their decision to defer exams that were scheduled to begin on October 1 at all four universities.In separate circulars released by the examination departments of the respective universities, the spokespersons highlighted that new dates for exams are yet to be finalised.“The decision to conduct online exams for end-of-term final year students starting October 1 will have to be deferred for the time being as all employees have called for a pen-down strike, as mentioned in a meeting with state education department officials on September 29,” said a statement released by the examination department of Nagpur University.Circulars from Aurangabad, Amravati and Jalgaon universities were also released stating the same reason for the deferment of online exams. “The pen-down strike officially started on September 24 and since the strike continues, exams starting October 1 will have to be deferred. A new timetable with rescheduled exam dates will be announced soon,” said a statement released by Jalgaon University director of examination and evaluation department, BP Patil. Meanwhile, University of Mumbai (MU) decided to opt for decentralised exams by giving each college the choice to conduct exams as per their schedule, as long as they follow the exams are held online and in MCQ format. “Since colleges are conducting the exams in clusters, no exam will be deferred for MU affiliated colleges. Students need not worry,” said a spokesperson for MU. Most MU colleges will start online exams from October 5, this year.Due to Covid-19 cases and the eventual nation-wide lockdown implemented since March this year, final year university exams had to be postponed time and again. After receiving several petitions from different states seeking permission to cancel final year exams and instead promote students based on their performance in previous semesters, the Supreme Court in August 2020 clarified that exams will compulsorily have to be taken and only then can students be promoted.After much discussion, the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant in September announced that all final year exams for state university students will be conducted online, and in multiple-choice question (MCQ) format. While online exams for backlogs/allowed to keep term (ATKT) students were to take place in the last week of September, online exams for final year students were supposed to take place between October 1 and 31 and results for the same have to be announced by the first week of November, the state has clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-maharashtra-universities-defer-final-year-exams-after-employees-strike-for-better-wages/story-uhHqJAc1dVdwUBsYFl3LvN.html
01-10-2020||City||Workers rescued from fire at Ludhiana factory||Over a dozen workers had a narrow escape after a fire broke out at a jacket factory in Sundar Nagar on Wednesday. As the flames erupted on the ground floor, the workers were stranded on the first floor of the building till the firefighters rescued them with the help of a ladder. While no one was hurt, stock of the factory, Bilal Enterprises, kept on the ground and first floors was gutted in the incident. It took the firefighters nearly 90 minutes to douse the flames. Short-circuit in the electricity supply line is suspected to have caused the fire. Sub fire-officer Atish Rai said, “The workers were on the first floor of the building when the fire broke out on the ground floor, blocking their only way out. Firefighters rescued them and the flames were doused by 6.15pm using three fire tenders, after receiving information around 4.45pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/workers-rescued-from-fire-at-sundar-nagar-factory/story-inbIaO4JJVmz5z4u7sQnxL.html
01-10-2020||City||Mohali developer told to refund ₹15L, pay ₹1L fine for failing to give possession of plots||The district consumer disputes redressal commission, Mohali, while disposing of two cases directed the developers of Sky Rock City, a housing society in Sectors 111-112, to refund around ₹15 lakh along with 12% interest and also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh for not handing over possession of plots to the complainants on time.In the first case, Dr Jatinder Kaur, a resident of Sector 44, Chandigarh, alleged that she paid ₹6.65 lakh for the allotment of a 100-square-yard plot in April 2013 and was assured its possession within 36 months. As the area was not developed by 2017, she demanded the possession or refund, but was denied both. Amanpreet Singh of Sector 38, Chandigarh, had a similar plight after paying ₹8.8 lakh for the same size of plot in July 2011.In both cases, Navjeet Singh, president, Sky Rock City Welfare Society, failed to appear before the commission, as he is presently lodged in the Patiala Central Jail in a multicrore housing scam.While passing the orders, commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma said since the society president has chosen not to come forward to contest the claims, “we have no alternative except to believe the contents of the complaints”.In both cases, the commission directed the society president to refund the paid amount along with 12% interest from the dates of various deposits till realisation. Also, a fine of ₹50,000 was imposed in each case.In 2013, Sky Rock City Welfare Society was found to have violated key provisions of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995, putting at risk nearly ₹200 crore of its 400 members. It had collected ₹10 lakh-₹85 lakh from each of its members despite having no developer’s licence, a mandatory requirement for carrying out such a step. As a punishment, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority had cancelled the licence of the society’s promoter, which meant cancellation of its registration with the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-developer-told-to-refund-15l-pay-1l-fine-for-failing-to-give-possession-of-plots/story-ajbbyknnpbJA5NcQZirk2N.html
01-10-2020||City||7 in 10 Covid casualties in Ludhiana were males: Health dept report||As many as 502 (69%) out the total 723 Covid-19 fatalities in Ludhiana district as of September 28 were males, while 221 were females, according to a report compiled by the district health department . Among the deceased was also a patient who had dengue, while an HIV+ patient and pregnant woman also succumbed while giving birth to twins. On the location of the fatalities, the report states that 574 (79%) deaths were reported in Ludhiana city, 41 (6%) in other urban areas, such as Khanna, Payal, Samrala and Jagraon, while villages accounted for 109 (15%) casualties.The highest number of fatalities, at 340 (47%), were aged above 60 years, while the age group of 50 to 60 accounted for 223 deaths (31%), followed by the deceased aged below 50, who were 160 (22%) in number.The report also found that as many as 585 (81%) patients had multiple comorbidities, such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease. A total of 27 cancer patients also succumbed to the deadly virus. Besides, 109 patients had either of the following ailments – Absolute Neutrophil Count, Down syndrome, liver disease, anaemia, tyrotoxicosis, diabetes, Parkinson’s disease, rheumatoid arthritis, hypothyroidism, lung disease, obesity, bronchial asthma, acute kidney injury, pulmonary TB, Rhino Orbital Mucormycosis, obstructive sleep apnea, chronic liver disease, myocarditis, Hepatitis C, spondylitis, anorectal malfunction and diarrhoea. “The report was compiled to find out the vulnerable group of patients, and the measures and precautions needed to avoid infection,” said Dr Rajesh Bagga, civil surgeon, Ludhiana.He stressed that early treatment was needed for early cure. “In majority of the fatalities, it was noted that patients were rushed to the hospital in a serious condition, and on being tested, they were found Covid positive,” said Dr Bagga.“I reiterate that we have to make social distancing, wearing mask and frequent handwashing a part of our lifestyle to stop the spread of coronavirus disease,” said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-in-10-covid-casualties-in-ludhiana-were-males-health-dept-report/story-Qq7P5L1QH4kTGvACa0cxAP.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government stays its order on farm laws||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, led by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, stayed the implementation of recently-enacted farm laws in Maharashtra, on Wednesday. A Cabinet sub-committee has been appointed to deliberate on the legislations which many have described as anti-farmer and against which Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) stand staunchly opposed. On Wednesday, the Cabinet discussed the issue of the farm laws, which were passed in Parliament on September 17, and decided to take farmer organisations and other stakeholders into confidence. A sub-committee will look into concerns and questions raised by various groups. Minority affairs minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik said the committee will also look at the labour laws passed by the Centre. “The sub-committee will look into all the contentious issues, including the minimum support price (MSP), the fate of agricultural produce market committes (APMCs), possible hoarding of farm produce; and study the options with the state government. I think the state government under article 254 (2) of the Constitution has the right to have its own regulations while implementing the laws. The CM has assured us of a decision in the interest of farmers after studying all aspects related to the issue,” said public works department minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan. An NCP minister said, “Law and judiciary department also apprised the Cabinet about the powers with the state to enact separate laws to negate the [farm] laws and ensure farmers get a fair price for their produce and APMCs do not lose their existence due to these laws. The state government has decided to utilise every possible option to ensure farmers’ rights are safeguarded.” Earlier in the day, a high voltage drama unfolded within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance after Congress pressed for a withdrawal of the notification issued by the cooperation and marketing department led by Nationalist Congress Party. The notification, issued on August 10 by director of marketing Satish Soni, directed local authorities governing APMCs to implement the contentious farm ordinances, that were recently enacted as the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020. “As per the provisions in the ordinances, the farmers are free to market their produce at field, factory, warehouse or cold storage without any hindrance and without any market fee applicable under APMC Act. Any other fee or charges applicable under APMC Act cannot be charged now as per the provisions made in the ordinances. The law and judiciary department has vetted the ordinances and validated its applicability. Though the existence of the APMCs has not been affected by promulgation of the ordinance, the farmers will have a parallel mechanism to get fair prices for their produce. The market committees are expected to implement the provisions in the ordinances effectively,” the circular stated. Congress and NCP have staunchly opposed the farm laws and their implementation in Maharashtra. However, the circular stirred up a controversy as Shiv Sena had not taken a stand on the issue. Demanding a withdrawal of the circular, Congress threatened to boycott the Cabinet meeting scheduled for Wednesday afternoon. The state cooperation and marketing minister Balasaheb Patil conducted a hearing on September 30 (today) and passed an order of interim stay on the implementation of the notification. Patil had directed the marketing department to withdraw the circular with immediate effect, but no action was taken. Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat had also written a letter on September 27, to the cooperation and marketing department, for the withdrawal of the circular. Thorat has said all ruling parties in the state are against the newly-enacted farm laws and the decision to not implement them would be taken collectively after due deliberation. Last week, deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar had also said the farm laws would not be implemented in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-government-stays-its-order-on-farm-laws-in-maharashtra/story-xiYn6BifjdFSqVG9qobrrN.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Five employees get pension pay orders on retirement day||A webinar titled Prayaas – an endeavour to release pension on the day of superannuation’ has been initiated by the Employee Provident Fund Office wherein the members of Employee Pension Scheme 1995 who are superannuating within three months are invited.In such webinars, representatives of the establishments who are responsible for processing the pension claims on behalf of the employers are also invited. The purpose of the webinar is to educate the members of EPS 1995 and their employers so that they can submit their claims complete in all aspects.On Wednesday, Dheeraj Gupta, regional provident fund commissioner -1 distributed pension pay orders (PPO) to five employees of three different establishments namely Ralson, Avon Steel and Asia Cycle.Bhupinder Kumar, one of the five beneficiaries expressed his joy in getting PPO on the day of retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-five-employees-get-pension-pay-orders-on-retirement-day/story-cy8so2KqpO0Z65mYNFSTuL.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Remove all encroachments in Mohali in six months: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Mohali municipal corporation and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to remove all encroachments from public spaces along roads and in commercial and residential areas within six months. The authorities have also been directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings within three months against the officers in whose tenure the encroachment and unauthorised constructions have taken place.“The public paths, footpaths, open spaces, parks, corridors, streets, roads cannot be permitted to be encroached upon. It is the duty cast upon the statutory authorities to ensure that no unauthorised construction takes place in public places... (It) causes immense hardship to the public at large,” the bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice Harinder Singh Sidhu observed. The court was hearing a plea from Area Social Welfare Association, Phase 11, a registered body of residents. It was alleged in the petition that a large number of street vendors and daily fruit and vegetable vendors have encroached upon open spaces in front of houses of high income group in Phase 11. “They have also set up temporary kiosks on the footpath without getting the licence from the competent authority,” it was submitted, seeking direction to local authorities to remove the vendors.In fact, in August 2018, the MC had conducted a survey and identified 4,200 encroachers in residential areas of Mohali, but have not issued any notice to date. The situation has gone bad to worse, especially in 3B1, 3B2, 7, 9, 10, and 11, where vendors are fearlessly operating in parking lots and on the main road.‘State is custodian of public property’The HC bench, taking serious note of the plea, enlarged the scope and issued directions for whole of the Mohali city, observing that the state is the custodian of public property and in the present case, the statutory authorities are remiss in discharge of their statutory duties.While disposing of the plea, the HC has now directed the MC and GMADA to remove all illegal and unauthorised encroachments from public paths, footpaths, open spaces, parks, corridors, street, road and pavement within the municipal limits within a period of six months. However, it has been made clear that the principle of natural justice be followed, which means that encroachers be served notices before eviction. The MC commissioner and GMADA chief administrator have been told that they would be personally responsible to implement and execute the HC order while the senior superintendent of police has been directed to render all assistance to the statutory authorities in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/remove-all-encroachments-in-mohali-in-six-months-hc/story-eJl9z79UchOgeG1gnCXqkL.html
01-10-2020||City||Ludhiana’s historical Jagraon Bridge gets new lease of life||The historic Jagraon Bridge – a major traffic lifeline of the city – got a new lease of life on Wednesday, as one of the oldest bridge in the region was, at last, thrown open to city residents after a prolonged wait of four years. The bowstring-girder bridge, which has become the cynosure of all eyes, connects the old city with the new areas, and has been built by the Railways by replacing an over 132-year-old structure constructed by the British in 1888.One side of the bridge, the original structure, was found to be severely corroded in 2016, following which it was closed for repairs, resulting in traffic congestion with a cascading effect on vehicle movement on the Railway Station road, Lakkar Bridge, Vishwakarma Chowk and nearby areas.For four years, it remained a struggle for commuters, who had to either take detours or face a harrowing time while entering or exiting the city from this side.Peeved with the repair moving at a snail’s pace all these years, residents and NGOs had observed ‘four death anniversaries’ of the bridge as symbolic protests. This had prompted member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma to meet Union railway minister Piyush Goyal over the delay in March 2020.Social activist Gurpal Grewal said, “It took four years to complete the project, that too, after frequent protests by NGOs and residents to wake up the authorities from their deep slumber.”PUNJAB’S LONGEST BOWSTRING BRIDGE: A MARVEL OF MODERN ENGINEERINGAt 63.5 metres, the bowstring-girder bridge is now the longest in Punjab, snatching the tag from a similar bridge in Shahkot that is around 50 metres long.At 9 metres high, the bridge weighs around 530 tonnes and has been erected by tightening around 34,000 nut-bolts.“Its width has also been increased from 7.5 metres to 10.5 metres, which will allow traffic to move in three lanes,” said Gurdeep Singh, senior section engineer, constructions, Railways.The Rs 24-crore project was carried out by a Delhi-based company, while the bowstring girder was prepared at a Ghaziabad workshop.MC officials said they were working to beautify the structure by installing colourful lights at the bridge under the Smart City Mission, as the bridge had become a landmark for the city.STRING OF MISSED DEADLINESConceived in 2016, the project to repair this damaged portion of the bridge stayed in limbo for two years as the railways refused to pool in money for it.It was only after the municipal corporation (MC) handed over Rs 24.3 crore to the railways that construction finally began in 2018, with a deadline of June 30, 2019.However, the railways could not proceed with the work, attributing the delay to MC’s failure in removing encroachments along the bridge by June 2018. There were around 100 encroachments in the form of houses, which were razed by MC amid resistance by the occupants, who have since been shifted to flats constructed under a government scheme in Mundiyan Kalan.In December 2019, MC took over the project and announced it will be completed by March 2020.However, roadblocks caused by the Covid-19 lockdown pushed the completion to June. The fourth deadline was revised to August 15 and then again extended to September 15, citing change in foundation design as the reason behind the delay.Finally, mayor Balkar Sandhu recently announced that the bridge will be opened by September 30 or October 2. “The bridge was opened to vehicles on Wednesday and will have a minimum life of 100 years, if maintained properly,” said Dayaram, executive engineer, Railways Construction Organisation.PROJECT MARRED BY ‘EMBEZZLEMENT’The project was also embroiled in controversy with the mayor catching an alleged embezzlement of around Rs 44 lakh in the estimates that were prepared for constructing the retaining wall of the bridge. Show-cause notices were issued to four officials, including two superintending engineers, one sub-divisional officer and a junior engineer. According to the mayor, the report was sent to the local bodies department for conducting further inquiry. The department had since delegated the task to a third party to conduct the technical and financial audit of the project.CONGRESS TAKES CREDIT BY INSTALLING HOARDINGSWhile no inaugural ceremony was organised at the site, the Congress leadership took credit of the project by installing multiple hoardings along the bridge and Ferozepur Road.Through these hoardings, the Congress leaders, including mayor Balkar Sandhu, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, among others, thanked the residents for being patient and congratulated them on completion of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-historical-jagraon-bridge-gets-new-lease-of-life/story-Ox3fvlAIFd7N1KTgPLmMaN.html
01-10-2020||City||Dedicated RT PCR testing camps to be set up near containment zones in the evening||Gurugram: To expand testing in areas near containment zones, the health department will set up evening RT PCR camps in seven urban primary health care blocks in the district over the next 10 days. The selected areas include Laxman Vihar, Rajiv Nagar, Patel Nagar, Khandsa, Sukhrali and Nathupur. The camps will be held at 10 locations over the next 10 days, which have been strategically selected as they see large footfalls, officials explained. The 10 locations are the Gurudwara Sabzi Mandi in Sadar Bazaar (Patel Nagar), the Gurugram bus stand (Rajiv Nagar), Galleria Market (Chanderlok), Sahara Mall (Chanderlok), Gurugram railway station (Laxman Vihar), Kahndsa Sabji Mandi, the health department’s malaria office in Jacobpura, Sheetla Mata Mandir in Rajiv Nagar, Sector 14 market in Sukhrali and Ambience Mall in Nathupur. This is the first time in the course of the outbreak that dedicated camps are being set up solely for RT PCR tests, which until now were being administered only in PHCs and at antigen testing camps (for symptomatic patients). “With most people getting back to work during the day, we have decided to set up these camps in the evening between five to eight. These areas are important public places, where people either meet or find themselves in transit. So that is their strategic importance,” said Dr MP Singh, nodal officer for containment zone and testing camp management in Gurugram. Singh said while these locations are not present inside ‘sealed areas’, they are near containment zones. “So if there is any spread happening outside the containment area, people who feel they have symptoms should have access to testing,” Singh added. Health department officials said only those requiring tests for medical reasons will be tested. “Our field staff will use their discretion and divert anyone seeking tests for non-medical reasons to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, where they can pay for either an RT PCR or an antigen test,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram. Depending on public response, a revised schedule of RT PCR camps to be held between October 10 and October 20 would be drawn up, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dedicated-rt-pcr-testing-camps-to-be-set-up-near-containment-zones-in-the-evening/story-H3dN570RQVSXGwNANIip2H.html
01-10-2020||City||Gurugram: Covid-19 spread slows down in densely populated localities||Gurugram: The district health department has observed a slowdown in the spread of Covid-19 among densely populated localities that were, until a month ago, hotspots for the disease. These areas come under four different primary healthcare blocks, namely Patel Nagar, Badshahpur, Wazirabad and Chanderlok. Of them, Patel Nagar has been denotified as a containment zone after no new positive cases were reported from the area in two weeks. Health officials attributed this improvement to “active” surveillance in containment zones, as opposed to “passive” surveillance deployed in other parts of the district. According to Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav, passive surveillance includes testing people based on symptoms and contact history at designated surveillance sites, such as primary health centres (PHCs) and private labs, while active surveillance in containment zones involves aggressively testing as many people as possible, irrespective of the presence of symptoms.Revised containment zone orders issued on September 29 show a significant drop in the number of ‘sealed areas’ in these localities, where public mobility continues to be restricted and only essential activities are permitted even as the lockdown restrictions continue to be lifted elsewhere. For example, Patel Nagar, which had 11 containment zones on September 18, now has none. Similarly, Badshahpur, which had 10 sealed areas, has just one. Wazirabad, which had nine sealed areas on September 18, now has four such zones, while Chanderlok (having 11 containment zones earlier this month) now has just four. “While containment zones across the district have reduced in number, these areas have shown the most improvement,” said Dr MP Singh, the health department’s nodal officer for containment zone management in Gurugram. Despite multiple requests, the health department officials did not provide data to show how much of Gurugram’s total caseload has been reported from these areas. However, Singh said, “At present, we have 66 active cases in Badhshapur, 110 in Patel Nagar, 291 in Chanderlok and 138 in Wazriabad. I do not have the data on earlier cases, but I can say that we had far more active cases in these neighbourhoods about four weeks ago. They are some of the most populated areas in Gurugram. Homes are small, and many parts have informal housing, accelerating the spread.” This trend does not, however, apply across all containment zones. “We have two exceptions to this trend, namely the Tigra PHC block and the Khandsa PHC block. But we are implementing the same strategy in these areas as we did in Patel Nagar, so we are hoping to see a decline in cases here in coming weeks,” said Singh. Khandsa, which had just three sealed areas on September 18, now has 12. Similarly, Tigra, which had 18 sealed areas on September 8, now has 23 -- with 393 active cases (the highest density of active cases in Gurugram).The officials said that the Centre’s directive on September 7 restricts the use of rapid antigen tests to containment zones. “With all antigen tests concentrated in these areas, we have been able to isolate more positive people in the past three weeks than we were able to do earlier. Rapid response teams have been following up on patients in sealed areas in person, whereas in other parts the follow-up may happen only over a phone call, depending on staff capacity,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram. Experts, on the other hand, said that there is also a chance that containment zone areas may have naturally attained a certain level of population immunity — or herd immunity — due to rapid spread of the virus earlier in the outbreak, thereby naturally slowing the transmission of Covid-19 within the community. “It’s a possibility, but it needs to be supported with evidence from sero studies. I think it is more of a fifty-fifty scenario. Gurugram has been more liberal with testing than other districts and the response must be credited,” said Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice-president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-covid-19-spread-slows-down-in-densely-populated-localities/story-jFFrqt8SNhZ0liIW1gsY9I.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana education dept to provide sanitary pads to students||In an initiative aimed at raising awareness about menstrual health and hygiene, the state education department has decided to provide sanitary pads to female students of classes 6 to 12 on a monthly basis. In a letter addressed to district education officers (DEOs) on Monday, the directorate of school education asked schools to make arrangements for the supply of sanitary pads and appoint nodal officers for the project. Schools will be receiving an initial supply for two months to be distributed within a week. Each student will be given two packets on a monthly basis. The nodal officers, preferentially women, will be responsible for distribution of the pads among students as well as educating students about their usage. “If the students are visiting the school for academic guidance sessions, they can be provided the pads in school. else these pads can be delivered on the lines of mid-day meals,” stated the directive issued by the department. During the pandemic, mid-day meals are being delivered to students at their homes. Elementary education department director Pardeep Kumar said that this was the first time that a statewide initiative for creating awareness about menstrual hygiene was being undertaken. “Through this initiative, we seek to provide sanitary pads to girl students on a monthly basis. Till the time students are studying from home, we will try and deliver the pads. Senior students, who have started visiting schools for guidance sessions, can be called in batches and given the pads, while complying with physical distancing norms. We are considering various possibilities before we can finalise the method of dissemination,” said Kumar. District education officers have been given time till October 6 to prepare and share the list of nodal officers for the project with the department. Rinki Sharma, a 17-year-old Class 12 student, said the current move will immensely help students who are unable to purchase sanitary pads due to underlying financial concerns and social stigma. “It is a good step and will possibly play a role in normalising the discourse around menstrual health. Many students continue to be hesitant about menstrual health. There is a certain sense of conservativeness in society. That could change,” said Sharma. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that while some schools had sanitary pad vending machines that had been sponsored through CSR funds, it was for the first time that the government had directly launched an initiative that sought to provide sanitary pads to adolescent girls. “We have received directions regarding the implementation of the initiative and have appointed nodal officers who’d be supervising the dissemination. The senior students in classes 9 to 12 can be handed over the pads when they visit the school for academic guidance sessions,” said Sharma. She said that all girl students would benefit from the step which will be coupled with menstrual hygiene awareness sessions. “We have a committee of women teachers who have been conducting awareness sessions in the past. Once classes resume as per the routine, we will be able to extend the scope of these sessions,” said Sharma. Dr Surbhi Singh, a gynaecologist and founder of Sachhi Saheli — an NGO that works on menstrual health with the Delhi government in its schools —said that the initiative was a good first step for driving the conversation on the subject of periods and menstrual health. “Children in the adolescent age group are ready to embrace change. Providing pads can act as the first step towards developing an understanding of menstrual hygiene,” said Singh. She added that while it was a good initiative, menstrual hygiene should not remain restricted to the availability of pads alone. “Change cannot be achieved simply by providing sanitary napkins. We need to dispel the stigma surround menstruation, both in school and at home. The larger goal should be educating children so that the stigma surrounding periods is reduced,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-education-dept-to-provide-sanitary-pads-to-students/story-rTcU6RKFA6dVbPYfmp24jP.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Panel submits interim report on Sohna road collapse: Material quality in focus||The quality of materials used and the formation of a cavity could have contributed to the collapse of an elevated section of the under construction Sohna road on August 22, according to an interim report on the incident submitted to the national highways authority of India (NHAI).The report, prepared by a four-member high-level technical committee formed by the NHAI after the incident was submitted on Tuesday evening.NHAI officials who reviewed the contents of the report said it attributed the failure of the structure to quality of concrete used in the section, inadequacy of epoxy bonding used to bind the concrete, the possible displacement of stressing cables used to support the elevated structure and the possible formation of a cavity in the span that was not visible from the outside.Another NHAI official, privy to the report but not authorised to speak to the media, said it recommended that the concrete spans on the elevated structure and those cast at the construction yard should undergo non-destructive strength test to check for quality. “The concessionaire has also been asked to develop a standard operating procedure for bringing the concrete spans from yard to site and their erection. This process should be evaluated and proofed by the highway authority,” the official said.Shashi Bhushan, the NHAI project director for Gurugram, said that the initial findings looked into the sequence of construction activities and other aspects. “The test reports from Shriram lab (on the concrete used) and those conducted by Central Road Research Institute, which were submitted by the concessionaire, will also be sent to the technical committee. A consolidated report based on these findings would be able to give exact reasons, which caused this incident,” he said.The committee comprised VL Patankar, ex DG, (RD) MORTH, and ex-member, NHAI, AK Srivastav, advisor, NHAI, PG Venkataram, emeinent bridge expert, Vinay Gupta, eminent bridge expert. The members, when contacted for comment, said it was an internal matter and refused further comment.A senior official of the contractor, Oriental Structures Pvt Ltd, said that they have also submitted reports to the authority and awaiting the final report in this matter.The technical committee last month had made it clear that the contractor of the Sohna elevated road will not get any additional time for completing the project, scheduled for July 2021, on account of the delay due to the collapse.The work on 6-km Sohna road elevated road project was suspended after the collapse of the span between pier 10 and pier 11 on August 22. It was only last week that partial resumption of work on the surface level was allowed after the NHAI officials conducted an inspection of the project. The total length of the project is around 21 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/panel-submits-interim-report-on-sohna-road-collapse-material-quality-in-focus/story-nDXpaSpvYCynQH1Of6QCEO.html
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Use glue to seal letters instead of staplers, pins: Ludhiana post office staffers||India Post has urged the public to use glue while sealing letters instead of staplers or pins that can damage machines and tear bags of postmen.The staff deputed at the counters of the Ludhiana head post office keep suggesting to the public to use glue as stapled letters can be tampered with easily. The employees said that if they receive stapled letters from residents by hand, they immediately ask the person to use glue and remove the pin. Glue has also been kept at the entrance of the post office so that residents can conveniently use it to seal their envelope, they added. The Ludhiana head post office receives 3,000 letters daily, out of which 2,500 are stapled. Several private firms send their mails to public by post and majority of them are sealed with pins. Head postman, Ashwani Kumar, said, “I have been handling the mail sorting process for the last five years and most letters are sealed not with glue. The stapled ones can hurt employees handling the sorting process. Several times, postmen complain that the envelopes sealed with pins tear their bags.” Senior superintendent of post office, Patiala Division, Aarti Verma said, “We are suggesting to the public to use glue to seal their letters and the staff deputed at counters keep informing residents about the benefits of using the gum.”Sumit Seghal, a resident, said, “I visit the post office two times a month and use stapler to close the envelope. I find this very convenient as glue can hurt my hands. But today, when the employee at the counter advised me to use gum, I decided listen to them. I was not aware that pins can harm machines and the staff managing the sorting process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/use-glue-to-seal-letters-instead-of-staplers-pins-ludhiana-post-office-staffers/story-o4CGpwq7EEfcKghxTH5ojN.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Two held for beating man to death after argument near Sector 31||Two weeks after a 28-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death on Jharsa road near sector 31, the police on Tuesday arrested two suspects and claimed to have cracked the case. Police said their probe has found that both the arrested suspects had an argument with the victim, following which they roughed him up and also hit him in the chest with a brick, before fleeing from the spot. According to the police, the suspects — identified as Ataullah Khan alias Totla and Priyanshu alias Mota alias Sachin — were arrested from a house near Signature Tower on Tuesday. The deceased, identified by his first name as Pankaj, a native of Bhadaf village in Kanina of Mahendragarh district, had arrived in the city on September 5 to look for a job and had been staying at the house of his friend, identified as construction supervisor Ajay Kumar, in Rajiv Nagar in Sector 13. According to the police complaint lodged by Kumar, on September 15 at 1am, a woman had come to visit Pankaj. After she left, Pankaj told Kumar to accompany him to meet someone. At 2.10 am, they rode a motorcycle towards Atul Kataria Chowk and near a restaurant on Jharsa service road, their motorcycle broke down. While dragging the vehicle towards the nearest fuel station, they asked help from two men, who were passing by on a white scooter. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “An argument ensued between the victims and the suspects. The suspects slapped them and started kicking Pankaj, who fell on the road. Kumar managed to run away from the spot and hide in a lane nearby. The suspects kicked Pankaj in his private parts and also hit him with a brick on his chest, before escaping. They also took the keys of the motorcycle.” Later, after the men had left the spot, Kumar took the help of a passerby and rushed Pankaj to a private hospital in Jharsa and they returned to their house. At 5am, Pankaj again complained of severe pain in his private parts where the suspect had kicked him repeatedly. He was again rushed to a private hospital in sector 13, from where he was referred to another private hospital in sector 38. The doctors then referred him to civil hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The accused were produced in a district court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody. They were booked under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) at sector 40 police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-beating-man-to-death-after-argument-near-sector-31/story-9OtqXhRFdLvWnViNbqStaO.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||Man held for killing father after petty argument in Udyog Vihar||A 36-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his father after a petty argument in Dundahera village, Udyog Vihar area on Wednesday morning. Police said probe has found that the suspect bludgeoned his father to death with a brick. According to investigators, the victim — identified as Dharamvir Yadav, 65 — used to drive an autorickshaw after his retirement as a driver from Haryana Roadways. The incident was reported around 5.30 am when Yadav had gone to the back of his house to pick up some utensils. His younger son, Devanand alias Deva, 36, lived in the rear portion of the house. Yadav’s wife, Santosh, said in the FIR, “My husband had gone to wash utensils and was picking them up when my younger son started arguing with him and raised objections over him picking up the utensils. This led to an altercation which soon turned into a scuffle. I tried to intervene but my son pushed me aside. He picked up a brick near the main gate of our house and attacked my husband. He hit him on his forehead and face. My husband started bleeding from the head and collapsed at the spot.” Police said Santosh informed the police control room at 6am, following which a team from Udyog Vihar police station rushed to the area. The victim was rushed to civil hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. “According to the victim’s wife, her son is suffering from a mental illness for several years and stays at their house. He had a minor argument with his father around 5.30am, following which he attacked him, causing him to sustain injuries to which he finally succumbed. The suspect has been arrested and sent to judicial custody. A medical examination will be conducted on him and the claims of the family will be verified,” said Satbir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Udyog Vihar police station. Police said the victim’s body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem on Wednesday afternoon. A case was registered against the suspect under section 302 (punishment for murder) at Udyog Vihar police station .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-held-for-killing-father-after-petty-argument-in-udyog-vihar/story-9sIeiTTHXV1FgIQ61zmWyM.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Three rapes, 126 vehicle thefts per day in Delhi in 2019: NCRB||Delhi reported at least three rapes and 126 vehicle thefts every day in 2019 -- the year when overall crime in the national capital went up by 20% compared to the previous year, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) Report. To be sure, the national crime rate has grown by 3% during the same period. As per the NCRB data, thefts accounted for most of the crimes in Delhi. Over 82% of the 299,475 crimes in Delhi were thefts -- such as burglaries, stealing of vehicles or snatching that do not involve use of force. Also Read: India records 1.6% rise in crimes in 2018-19: NCRB dataThe crimes in this category saw an increase of 25.7% as compared to 2018. In sharp contrast, thefts accounted for just a little over 20% of the 3.2 million crimes across India where the overall thefts increased by 8%.WATCH | Vikram Chandra on Yogi facing heat over Hathras gang-rape death, other storiesRobberies, however, witnessed a substantial dip of 20% even though the rate (number of cases per 100,000 population) remained the highest across India. The rate of robbery cases in Delhi last year was 9.8 as against the all India rate of 2.3; and 6.3 by the next ranked state Maharashtra.Also Read: Maharashtra only state to see 6 crimes worth over ₹100 crore: NCRBRobberies are different from thefts. Robberies include use of force while committing a theft and are registered under a separate IPC section.The NCRB does not maintain separate data for street crimes, particularly snatching, which is a rising menace in the city. That is because a crime like snatching on the streets is either registered in the first information report (FIR) under IPC section of theft or a robbery, depending on whether force was used or not.But the Delhi Police’s data shows that until August 15 this year, there have been nearly 20 incidents of snatching every day in the national capital.Despite fewer people going out due to the coronavirus pandemic, there has been a 6% increase (4,257) in the snatching incidents this year compared to 4,010 in the corresponding period last year, according to police data.Vehicle thefts dipVehicle thefts witnessed a negligible dip of 0.46%. While 46,433 vehicle thefts were reported across Delhi in 2018, last year there were 46,215 such cases.However compare to the national average, the scene in Delhi remains bleak. The vehicle theft rate in Delhi in 2019 was 231.8 compared to 17.8 nationally and 12.6 in Uttar Pradesh -- the second ranked state in this category. 24 rapes every weekRape cases in 2019 in Delhi rose by 3% compared to the previous year, the NCRB data shows. In 969 cases, children were victims compared to 989 such instances in 2018. Cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act dipped marginally from 1,736 to 1,719.Also Read: Mumbai ranks third in crimes, after Delhi, Chennai: NCRB dataThe NCRB data shows that in 98.7% of the 1,253 total rape cases in 2019, the victims and the suspects were known to each other. Of them, 129 were family members, 588 were friends, neighbours or employers and 520 were cases in which the accused were online friends, estranged partners or rapes on the pretext of marriage.Reported cases of molestation fell by 13% to 2,355 last year. Incidents of sexual harassment went down to 456, a 17% decrease compared to 2018.Overall, crimes against women decreased by 6% from 12,521 to 11,755.Drop in crimes against and by minorsThe data shows a 5.7% dip in crimes against children -- from 6,271 to 5,915. Moreover, overall crimes allegedly executed by minors also saw a drop of about 3.5% from 2,727 in 2018 to 2,633 last year. But the number of murders committed by minors rose to 72 in 2019 compared to 58 in 2018. Prakash Singh, former director-general of police (DGP) of Uttar Pradesh and Assam, said though he has not seen the NCRB data, he found Delhi to be a better place for registration of cases compared to other states.“If Delhi saw a 20% increase in registered IPC crimes in 2019 when compared to the national spike of 3%, I must say that Delhi is a better place for registration of crimes than other Indian states. I want to compliment the Delhi Police for truthfully and faithfully registering the cases,” said Singh.But, more than the statistics, the focus should be on crime detection rate, timely filing of charge sheets, and behaviour of police personnel towards complainants, Singh added. “This would help in building confidence among the public,” he said.A Delhi Police spokesperson said, “The Delhi Police believes in truthful registration of cases and fair investigation. Our crime prevention strategies include analysing all crime related calls received in the police control room and accordingly register first information reports (FIRs). These practices may lead to rise in registration of cases but we should not be bothered about numbers.” “Our focus should be on making efforts to nab the offenders and bring them to justice. In the long run, this will eventually lead to a decline in the number of FIRs. Our prime focus is on curbing serious crimes such as snatching, robbery, house theft, murder and crimes against women and children. As far of cases of thefts are concerned, the Delhi Police have provided people with a platform where they themselves register FIRs online related to property thefts, including vehicles,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-rapes-126-vehicle-thefts-per-day-in-delhi-in-2019-ncrb/story-qRAe1Buwwrkombvl3ngDkJ.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Stop pasting posters outside Covid patients’ homes: Petition in Delhi HC||The Delhi high court Wednesday sought Delhi government’s response on a plea seeking the formulation of guidelines to do away with the practice of pasting posters outside the homes of Covid-19 positive persons or those put under home isolation. The plea had also sought steps to ensure that names of Covid-19 patients are not revealed, especially to residents’ welfare associations or on WhatsApp groups.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued a notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand, only on this limited issue, after a plea was filed by advocate Kush Kalra on September 28, contending that pasting posters outside the homes of positive persons was a serious infringement of the fundamental right to privacy, as laid down by the Supreme Court and the Constitution.The plea had sought other reliefs as well, including enhancing testing capacity in the city, using indigenously developed kits, reformulating the Indian Council of Medical Research advisory on testing and validation of rapid antigen test kits. However, the court said it was already examining all these aspects in another plea and hence “there was no sense in duplication” and limited the scope of the present plea. The bench also said the relief sought in terms of availing of the testing capacity of a neighbouring state cannot be allowed as, earlier, such practices were leading to a delay in getting the results. In his plea, Kalra, also contended that freely circulating to RWAs and on WhatsApp groups the names of persons who tested Covid-19 positive was “leading to stigmatisation and drawing of unnecessary attention”. He said the positive persons “ought to be given privacy to cope with and recover from the illness in peace, away from prying eyes”.His plea also claimed that this has resulted in “people shying away and deliberately choosing not to test themselves” to avoid the “public embarrassment and stigmatization” which is also caused by pasting posters outside the homes of Covid-19 patients. “It is because of these sound reasons that Punjab has rescinded its earlier decision of paste posters outside the home of Covid-19 patients under home isolation or quarantine,” the plea read.The matter would be now heard on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-wants-end-to-pasting-posters-outside-homes-of-covid-19-patients-hc-seeks-delhi-govt-reply/story-A0ejXXY7qLpkntyE2JaUXP.html
01-10-2020||Noida||With increased testing, results coming late in GB Nagar||On September 26, a 22-year-old woman, who did not wish to be named, was cursing her fate in front of the office of Gautam Budh Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO). During these times, she was one of the lucky ones with a job offer in hand from a company in Bengaluru. She was all prepared to join the company on September 28, but for the Covid-19 certificate that her employer required from her. Four days after giving her samples for an RT-PCR test, she had not got the certificate.“I had to meet the CMO otherwise my future would be in jeopardy,” she said. “Last seven to eight days have been so depressing for me as the anxiety while waiting for my test results was not less than killing me”. The CMO made a few quick calls and assured her that she would get it by Monday morning, which she did.Several people HT spoke to attested to receiving the certificate at least four days after giving their sample. According to the Gautam Budh Nagar notices, results are supposed to be given to people within three days. CMO Dr. Deepak Ohri said that there are four ICMR-approved laboratories in the district that tests for Covid-19. “While the labs in Child PGI and Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) are under the state government, the labs in National Institute of Biology (NIB) and National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) are under the domain of central government. While the state government labs also test the samples of other district, the central government labs are assigned for testing samples from other states also,” he said. Normally the RT-PCR reports are available within 72 hours.The delay, he said, is because of the increased testing and further process of uploading the data onto the database before submitting it to the person. “The same labs, which used to test around 1,300 samples daily in May, are now testing over 2,500 samples a day in September,” Ohri said. “At present, we are taking samples of over 3,500 persons daily. We are planning to double it in coming month.”District magistrate Suhas LY said he would ask the agencies to ensure they stick to the timelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-increased-testing-reults-coming-late-in-gb-nagar/story-evaXZNgk363ODETaHrL7UM.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||‘Disgusted’: Delhi HC tells chief to act against erring cops||The Delhi high court has directed the Delhi Police commissioner to take action against his officers for their failure to investigate the case of a minor girl going missing in July. She was rescued from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, only after her mother moved a habeas corpus petition before the court on September 21 seeking to know the whereabouts of the girl and a direction to the police to produce her.Police submitted before the court that the girl was living in Hathras with a man who “married” her in February, but since she was only 16 years of age, that marriage was not valid and his action amounted to criminality. He was hence arrested and sent to judicial custody. The girl is now three months pregnant, the court was told.Hathras cops cremate rape victim by stealthA bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said it was “not only anguished, but also disgusted at the manner in which the police conduct investigations in such cases, particularly when it involves the poor of society”.While noting that the mother was a house help, the court said it was because of her profession that her complaint/FIR was neglected and not acted upon with the urgency that it deserved.More outrage, protests after Hathras victim’s cremation“We direct the commissioner of police to take serious and effective action against the police personnel concerned, who were recalcitrant and failed to perform their duties in the case. The action taken against those found guilty of negligence and dereliction of duty should be such that it sends a message to the entire police force. Let the copy of this order be placed before the commissioner of police, Delhi, for his knowledge and compliance,” the court said in its order dated September 29, while also seeking a status report from the police.Plea in SC seeks CBI probe into Hathras gang rape caseThe court was hearing a habeas corpus plea filed on September 21 by the mother of the girl who went missing on July 27. In her plea, the mother contended that despite her registering an FIR  on July 28 at the Trilokpuri police station, her daughter was not found or rescued.In a status report, the police had told the court on September 23 that a man had claimed that he got married to the girl in February in Ghaziabad.Resolve the Hathras rape case swiftlyAppearing for the Delhi Police, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain submitted that the date of birth of the girl has been verified from school records – which shows that she is only 16 years of age (as on Wednesday); and that she gotten married to the man on the basis of the date of birth given in the Aadhaar card – which is not correct.On September 29, the police filed a status report that the girl was rescued from Hathras and that she is three months pregnant. The police said she was housed at a Nari Niketan (women’s shelter home) and the “husband” was sent to judicial custody.The girl told the judges on September 29 that she did not want to go with her mother and would rather stay at the Nari Niketan even though her mother insisted to take her daughter along.Following this, the court said she should continue to be housed at the Nari Niketan and that she should be provided counselling, considering the fact that she is pregnant so that she is able to take responsible decisions with regard to her pregnancy.The court, while passing the order, said it was only when this petition was preferred and it directed transfer of the investigation to Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) (Crime), that the girl was rescued and the man apprehended from Hathras.“This delay on the part of the police in carrying out effective investigation has ruined not only the life of the girl but also the man and put in dark the future of the child that the girl is carrying,” the court said while ordering an inquiry in into the alleged police inaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-recommends-action-against-cops-for-laxity-in-probing-missing-girl-case/story-3jHLeU7X1iTKMd1pIhGIWJ.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||In-person visits at Delhi’s prisons to restart on Oct 1||Around 14,000 inmates of Delhi’s three jails will be allowed to meet their families in person for the first time in six months, starting Thursday, senior officials said. The bi-weekly prison visits were suspended on March 23 due to the burgeoning coronavirus disease crisis.Several prisoners have written to jail officers over the last two months, asking not only to meet their families but requesting that visitors be allowed to bring a fresh set of clothes, saying the ones they were wearing over the past six months were either torn or worn out.Mumbai ranks third in crimes, after Delhi, Chennai: NCRB dataA senior prison officer, who asked not to be named, said that starting October 1, one member of every prisoner’s family will be allowed inside the jail each month. Until March 23, before visits were suspended, a prisoner was allowed to meet their family twice a week.In an order issued by the prison headquarters that HT has seen, every visitor will be allowed to get one set of clothes. India records 1.6% rise in crimes in 2018-19: NCRB dataWith in-person visits disallowed, prison inmates were allowed to interact with family members over video conferencing, a practice jail officers said would continue, saying it would help curb the spread of Covid-19.Earlier this month, at least 15 inmates across jails had written to senior prison officers requesting new clothes. “The number of visitors at every visiting room inside the jail will be almost half of what it was before the lockdown. Rooms will be sanitised before every meeting by a team of prisoners. This is for every one’s safety. Every visitor will be thermally scanned and have to give an undertaking that they have not come in touch with any Covid-positive person,” the senior prison officer told HT.A second officer, who also asked not to be named, said new rules regulating the visits will also be in place for prisoners. “The clothes will have to be soaked in soap water for at least half an hour before it is worn the first time,” the officer said.Till Wednesday, at least 83 prisoners of Tihar, Mandoli, and Rohini jails, and 207 staffers had been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-person-visits-to-delhi-s-three-prisons-to-resume-from-october-1/story-wYmio6dccGy0YhKaRtiTKL.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Mayors say govt owes them ‘crores’ in property tax; AAP says ‘figures false’||Mayors of the three municipal corporations Wednesday said they will soon call in the outstanding property tax dues on various Delhi government buildings -- an amount, which they claimed, would run into crores of rupees. This comes a day after the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) issued notices to seven agencies, including the three municipal corporations, over pending water and sewerage dues.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh and East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain, in a joint press conference on Wednesday, said they will be acting on the outstanding property dues of various Delhi government buildings, including schools, hospitals and offices, among others. “The properties of the public works department (PWD), the Delhi Secretariat, the Delhi Transco Limited and the Delhi Jal Board have never paid property tax to the corporation, to recover which we will now take action,” said Prakash.A government spokesperson termed the press briefing “unfortunate” and said the three mayors “have united to put before the media false figures”. The DJB, on Tuesday, had said the North corporation owes it Rs 2,466 crore in dues, while the South and East corporations have dues of Rs 81 crore and Rs 49 crore, respectively.“The Delhi government has imposed super commercial rates on water bills at 700 schools, six hospitals, 17 polyclinics and offices of the corporation. The corporation provides free education and health facilities to the poor. This shows how the Delhi government wants to spread chaos in the city,” claimed Prakash.He added that the DJB has not paid property tax worth Rs 216 crore, while Rs 293 crore is pending towards road cutting work in the North civic body area. “Besides these, the Delhi government has not paid the dues of Rs 955.84 crore for the first and second quarter of the current fiscal to the North corporation. As per the recommendations of Delhi Finance Commission, Rs 968.91 crore is pending, which means that a total Rs 1,924.81 crore has not been released to the corporation as yet,” said Prakash. East Corporation mayor Jain said in a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, he had requested Kejriwal to pay the pending amount of Rs 175.52 crore to the civic body, which is due on behalf of the DJB.South corporation mayor Mithilesh said in each of the four zones of the civic body, property tax worth of Rs 2,500 crore is pending on properties of the Delhi government. “This means a total of Rs 10,000 crore is due to us from the Delhi government,” said Mithilesh.Reacting to the press briefing, a Delhi government spokesperson said,” It is unfortunate that all the three mayors of MCDs have united to give completely false figures to the media. They have made a joke of their offices. The SDMC said Delhi govt owes it Rs 10,000 crores on properties, but their total property tax collection last year was Rs 940 crore from around 12 lakh properties.” “People of Delhi will not be fooled. If the BJP cannot run the MCD, it should resign immediately. The AAP will run it within the same budget. But the BJP should stop crying like a child daily. Ever since the BJP has been running the MCDs, the people have only gotten corruption and daily excuses,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-say-govt-owes-them-crores-in-property-tax-aap-says-figures-false/story-nDZAzXOGtM2jawVFKwbr5J.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi may take call on cinema halls this week||The reopening guidelines issued by the central government on Wednesday night, allowing further relaxations in Covid-19 restrictions, came as a ray of hope for owners of cinema halls, which have been shut in Delhi since early March.The new guidelines, according to an order issued by the Union home ministry, allow cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres to open from October 15 with a 50% seating capacity, in areas outside containment zones. Detailed standard operating procedures will be issued soon by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting.WATCH| Covid update: New Unlock 5 rules; 72,000 injections; UK spike Mumbai ordersIn Delhi, the guidelines will apply only after it is notified through a separate order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is DDMA vice-chairperson.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayA senior official said a meeting of the DDMA is likely to be scheduled later this week and the central guidelines will be discussed before any notification is issued. Delhi government spokespersons and senior officials in the DDMA did not comment on the matter.In Delhi, cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres have been closed since March 12.Also Read: Covid-19: Data dilemma after third serological survey“We thank the central government for the decision. We are awaiting the detailed SOP now. We assure that all protocols will be followed in letter and spirit,” said Devang Sampat, CEO, Cinepolis India.The multiplex association of India said in a statement: “We are committed to ensure a safe, secure and hygienic cinema-going experience for movie lovers… An urgent permission from the state governments to reopen cinemas in their states would go a substantial distance in ensuring that the cinema exhibition sector is able to quickly recover from the dire economic and financial impact of the epidemic. We look forward to welcoming back moviegoers to a safe and amazing brand-new experience at our cinemas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-may-take-call-on-cinema-halls-this-week/story-JsHf8ybYu4FKqf0vwSE4lN.html
01-10-2020||Education||Delhi govt to hold meeting on Thursday to discuss unlock guidelines on schools, colleges||The Delhi government’s education department officials will hold a meeting on Thursday discuss the Unlock 5 rules issued by the Union home ministry on Wednesday. According to the latest guidelines, the decision for opening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner can be taken by the states/union territories after October 15 “in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will take the call in notifying the relaxation order by the central government guidelines. The DDMA is chaired by L-G Anil Baijal and CM Arvind Kejriwal is it’s vice-chairperson. However, the education department will be entrusted with working out the modalities on how the relaxation is to be implemented, once permitted. Reacting to the MHA guidelines, a senior official from the deputy chief minister’s office on Wednesday said, “We had announced for closure of schools till October 5 in the capital. This gives us time to go through the guidelines, consult stakeholders, and take the decision on the reopening of schools in the national Capital. We will hold a meeting on Thursday.” Even though the last guidelines issued on August 29 allowed voluntary school visits by students of classes 9 to 12 for guidance from September 21, the Delhi government had announced on September 18 that all schools in the Capital would remain closed for till October 5. Schools across the country were shut in March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Classes are being conducted online, and links to online study material are being sent to the students via WhatsApp, emails and SMS. Aparajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents’ Association, said parents are still not keen on sending children to the schools. “The standard operating procedures (SOPs) did not instil any confidence among parents. They know it won’t be followed or implemented properly. We prefer online classes because we don’t want to take any chances.” School administrators are, however, concerned about the students who would be appearing for board exams next year. “It is difficult to conduct laboratory practicals for board students online. We think schools should be made operational in a staggered manner with extensive safety protocols and by taking parents into confidence. As a part of our internal survey, we found out that around 35% of parents in our school were in favour of reopening schools. The Covid-19 situation might also be relatively improve by October 15,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector-8, said, “Even though, government school children might face more difficulties than private school students due to irregular access to devices or internet, reopening schools might be difficult after October 15. The number of Covid cases are still high and teachers, too, are still afraid to join duties. Maybe we can begin with calling class 10 and 12 students once a week. But we are awaiting a decision by the directorate of education.” The latest guidelines state that if students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so. Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents and attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.According to the guidelines, higher education institutions with PhD scholars and post-graduate students in science and technology stream, requiring laboratory or experimental work, will be allowed to reopen from October 15. For central universities, the head of the institution will determine “the genuine requirement” of research scholars. For state and private universities, the decision will be taken by the state government. JNU Registrar Pramod Kumar said, “The guidelines have only given an option to reopen universities for research scholars and postgraduate students and it is not compulsory. We will hold a meeting with all our deans in a couple of days to decide on the matter.” DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “In order to ensure that the work of PhD students is not affected, we have already allowed some of them to access laboratories. After October 15, we will also allow MPhil students and postgraduate students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-hold-meeting-on-thursday-to-discuss-unlock-guidelines-on-schools-colleges/story-KjH7SjUxCncu3r7hMnzZdO.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||Ensure farmers get easy access to stubble-removal machines: EPCA to Punjab, Haryana||The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Wednesday asked the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to ensure that small and marginal farmers in their states get easy access to stubble-removal machines at affordable rates so that cases of crop residue burning can be controlled in the upcoming winter season.EPCA chairperson Bhure Lal on Wednesday said in his letters to the top officials of Punjab and Haryana that with the number of Covid-19 cases rising across the country, controlling early instances of farm fires will become more important this year because if unchecked, these could worsen problems for people with co-morbidities.The Punjab government had on August 14 directed that crop residue management machines be provided at a subsidy of 80% to farmers across the state, and that these should be made available to small and marginal farmers on “priority”. The government said the farmers will be charged only operational cost and no rental for the machines. The operational cost includes power charges and operator wages but not the cost of capital.“The rate of rental, which is being waived of, is not apparent; the cost of operation is not laid down. We would urge you to ensure this is done so that small and marginal farmers have access (to the machines) at affordable/free cost,” Lal said in his letter to Vini Mahajan, chief secretary of Punjab.A senior Haryana government official said that the office of the chief secretary will respond to the letter in a few days after scanning its contents. The office of Punjab chief secretary did not comment.On similar lines, the Haryana government had on August 24 directed that small and marginal farmers would be given preference in the use of crop residue management machines in panchayat-run custom hiring centres, by providing 70% reservation for them. Lal in his letter to Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, wrote, “We would urge you there should be a clear directive on the rate/free use of machines to small and marginal farmers. The machines have been provided at 80-100% subsidy to panchayat-run CHCs to ensure that farmers, who cannot afford to purchase them, have access.”He asked both governments to ensure these schemes are widely publicised among farmers.Meanwhile, the EPCA also submitted a report before the Supreme Court on implementation of schemes announced by state and central governments in Punjab and Haryana to control stubble burning this year.Citing data from the union ministry’s air quality monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting snd Research, the EPC report said that while stubble burning is not the only cause of pollution in Delhi, “there is no doubt that the transportation of pollutants from burning fields is the tipping point that makes winter’s already unhealthy air quality a public health emergency”.This year, farmers have already begun burning crop residue in parts of Punjab and Haryana, suggesting an early start to a practice that aggravates winter pollution. Every year these farm fires usually begin in full swing by mid-October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-farmers-get-easy-access-to-stubble-removal-machines-epca-to-punjab-haryana/story-NU4wLr05CS6S9nft4oSuEI.html
01-10-2020||Delhi||‘Delhi farmers to get free chemical to tackle stubble’: CM Kejriwal||In a bid to control farm fires, a key reason behind the city’s deteriorating air quality every winter, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government will start the process of preparing a fermented liquid solution to be sprayed on 800 hectares of land in the city where stubble burning is practised by farmers.The solution, he said, will help convert the stubble into manure and is a cheap and safe alternative to burning.Kejriwal said all arrangements for spraying the solution on farm fields will be made by the Delhi government and will be provided free of cost to the farmers.Also Read: Ensure farmers get easy access to stubble-removal machines: EPCA to Punjab, HaryanaThe process will be executed under the guidance of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, and the cost of its implementation will be nearly ₹20 lakh.Addressing the media on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, “From October, the entire north India is troubled with smoke that covers the belt due to crop stubble burning every year. While Delhi has to suffer from the smoke, the farmers who are forced to burn the stubble and their villages are the ones who have to suffer the most.”WATCH| Delhi CM Kejriwal on solution to stubble burning amid coronavirus pandemicThe CM said this year, the Pusa research institute has formulated capsules, four of which can be mixed with a liquid solution prepared from jaggery and gram flour, and can be sprayed to cover one hectare of land. This mixture when sprayed softens the hard straw and turns it into manure.Kejriwal said the mixture will be prepared by the Delhi government under the guidance of the Pusa institute. The process of formulating the mixture will begin from October 5 and completed by October 12 or 13.The Delhi government will set up the entire spraying system on the fields with tractors, free of cost for the farmers, he said.In 15-20 days, the sprayed stubble will soften and will be converted into manure for the fields.There are around 800 hectares of land in Delhi where non-basmati rice is grown, following which the stubble is collected and set on fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-start-process-of-preparing-bio-decomposer-for-stubble/story-vDT4OyQewpiEd8JYeIE2LK.html
01-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC orders 72,000 Remdesivir injections for treating critical Covid patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said that it has ordered a total of 72,000 vials of the Remdesivir injection for treating critical coronavirus (Covid-19) patients. The BMC through a release said that it received the first batch of 10,000 vials which were distributed to various hospitals and jumbo (large-scale) Covid-19 treatment facilities across Mumbai adding that it decided to buy the injection considering its effectiveness against the disease. Out of the total vials procured, 1,200 were given to SevenHills Hospital and 800 vials each were given to KEM, Sion and Nair hospitals, the BMC added. Mumbai which is one of the worst affected cities in the country registered its highest single-day spike of 2,654 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday which pushed the tally to 205,142. The total cases include 26,540 active cases, nearly 170,000 recoveries and 8,926 deaths. Meanwhile, Covid-19 lockdown in Maharashtra has been extended till October 31 to limit the spread of the disease, the state government said on Wednesday. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-orders-72-000-remdesivir-injections-for-treating-critical-covid-patients/story-po5Xvnc60uIxBiMZBbxhdL.html
01-10-2020||City||PAU V-C urges farmers to desist from stubble burning||While the farmer unions are covertly supporting the stubble fire to press the government to withdraw the controversial farm bills and for compensation for stubble management, Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Dhillon on Wednesday urged farmers to desist from burning stubble in fields to curb pollution.The Bharati Kisan Union, Lakhowal, has said that they will be forced to burn stubble if the government failed to compensate them. “It is not wise to burn stubble as it will pollute other cities as well. Yes, the struggle for the rights is justified, but burning stubble in no solution to the problem,” said Dhillon.He said that the rise in stubble burning cases is failing the efforts made in the past 11 years to reduce the number of farm fires. “This year we are comfortably placed. We have enough number of super seeders, happy seeders, cutters and rotavator. Even this year has witnessed a record sale of high-power tractors which supports these machines. We started receiving positive results of in-situ crop management. I was expecting a lesser number of farm fire but unfortunately, there has been a spurt in the incidents,” the vice-chancellor said.He stressed that farm fires will lead to several problems. “Firstly, it is injurious to health and the smoke from the fields causes blindness on roads which leads to accidents and it is not healthily for our soil health,” the agricultural varsity’s V-C said. On the other hand, Bharati Kisan Union (BKU) (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said that farmers would be forced to burn stubble if the government failed to either give a bonus of ₹100 per quintal on paddy crop or compensation of ₹2,500 per acre.Lakhowal said the apex court had issued directions to the government last year that since farmers were not in a position to bear the additional cost of straw management, the government ought to lend financial assistance to them if it wanted that stubble burning should stop.“We have urged the government to incorporate the management cost in the Minimum Support Price (MSP),” said Harvinder Singh. He added that there is a lot of anger among farmers against the central government for imposing three farmer laws. “The only way to stop stubble burning is to provide assured financial assistance in the form of bonus on crop or lump sum grants on the basis of land holding,” he said.“The farmers in the state said that if the Centre does not think about their welfare then why should they care about the politicians sitting in Delhi,” said Lakhowal.Lakhowal maintained that the rail roko agitation will start from October 1. He said their protest would continue till the state government adopts a resolution against the farm acts and the Centre scraps these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-v-c-urges-farmers-to-desist-from-stubble-burning/story-AChl5RjCNTS9Utax5lrhgL.html
01-10-2020||Gurugram||41% of all Covid-19 cases reported in September||Of the 20,417 cases of Covid-19 reported in the district so far, 41 percent (or 8500 cases) surfaced in the month of September alone, data released by state bulletins state. During the same period, Covid-related mortality saw a 28 percent increase from last month, with 37 new deaths reported since September 1 (up from just 16 deaths recorded in August), the data further shows. Health department officials attributed this spike to a continued increase in public mobility, spurred by lockdown fatigue and resumption of social and economic activities. The uptick of cases in September marks the highest monthly aggregate of new infections since June, when the district recorded 4,716 cases of Covid-19. The subsequent months of July and August saw a sustained dip in the number of new cases, along with an increase in testing capabilities and a decline in the test-positivity rate (i.e. the ratio of positive cases to samples tested). Improvement in treatment protocols for serious and moderately ill patients, along with better enforcement of home isolation guides helped keep deaths lower, health department officials claimed. “We have seen a second peak in September Increase in connectivity with Delhi, workplaces opening up, people resuming their social engagements... these are the most obvious reasons. Though there are also some theories that drop in temperature and post-monsoon changes in weather may have also sped up the transmission of the virus. We can’t say for sure,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram. Dr Prakash added that there has been a slowdown in cases over the past week, coinciding with a nationwide deceleration in growth of new cases. “After July, the dip in cases was localised. The spread instead had begun to pick up in rural districts and towns, but over the past week, there has been a widespread dip across not only Haryana, but the entire country. This is a good thing,” he said. However, with winter soon approaching, officials are on guard that new infections may spike, and also worry that patients might require pharmalcological interventions. “Cases of respiratory illness tend to worsen during winter months, when we see far more people seeking medical attention for accurate respiratory disorder syndrome (ARDS) and severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI). Whether this will worsen infections in symptomatic patients is yet to be seen. We are making preparations to increase testing during the winter season,” said Dr Ram Prakash Sharma, district epidemiologist, Gurugram. He, however, added that it was still too early to know if Gurugram is experiencing a ‘second wave’ of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/41-of-all-covid-19-cases-reported-in-september-mortality-rate-spikes-by-28/story-XhuVJJy2UWD33iLbgYceXN.html
