02-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 35-year-old security guard found murdered in Meoka village||A 35-year-old security guard was found murdered in Meoka village near Sector 90 on Thursday afternoon. The police registered an FIR against unknown persons at Sector 10A police station.According to the police, the deceased, identified by his first name as Sandeep, hailed from Jhajjar and had been working in a private company near Manesar. The police said his body was found in a vacant plot near his house. His motorcycle had been parked next to his body and his mobile phone was missing.Sanjay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 10A police station, said, “Prima facie, it appears that he was murdered and his body was dragged here. After the post-mortem examination, a case was registered on Thursday. The body has several internal and external injuries. No leads have materialised so far in the case.”The police said according to the autopsy, the cause of death was ‘head injury with shock and haemorrhage following ante mortem multiple blunt force impact injuries.’The victim’s younger brother, Hemraj, said, “On Sunday, Sandeep had gone from our house in Jhajjar to his rented house in Gurugram. Yesterday at 7am, we received a call from a relative in Gurugram, who informed us that he was found dead. We rushed to the city and informed the police. His body had multiple injuries on the head and thighs. We do not have any enmity with anyone. I had spoken to Sandeep during the last week and he did not mention any animosity with anyone.”A case was registered against the unidentified accused under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Pataudi police station at Sector 10 A police station on Thursday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-35-year-old-security-guard-found-murdered-in-meoka-village/story-fk8RlVouGQRx9ySr6889hK.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Research scholars can return to PEC labs from October 15||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to allow its research scholars to return to the campus from October 8 and visit labs October 15 onwards.The deemed to be university decided this keeping in view the ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines. A meeting of heads and deans in this regard was held here on Thursday. PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said PhD scholars will be able to access labs from October 15. “They can return to the campus after October 8. It will be on voluntary basis,” he added. One-week quarantine will be mandatory for research scholars coming from outside Chandigarh if they want hostel accommodation, it was decided.Panel to formulate SOPsPEC has formed a committee to review the existing SOPs and formulate new ones for the research scholars. It is likely that PEC will give some relaxations to the students.However, Panjab University is yet to decide on allowing the research scholars to visit its campus and labs. PU’s dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said, “We are collecting the data of scholars whose research is in last stages. The university will take appropriate decisions quite soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/research-scholars-can-return-to-pec-labs-from-october-15/story-bE9reZM5HIdRHeoa4j4QPP.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||Liquor shop owner’s murder in Gurugram: One more suspect held||A month after a 42-year-old liquor shop owner was shot dead in Pataudi, the police on Thursday arrested a suspect from Bulandshahr district in Uttar Pradesh. The suspect, identified by police as Pawan, allegedly committed the crime at the behest of victim Inderjeet’s business rival Abhishek. Police said Abhishek offered Pawan ₹50 lakh for the job. The payment was never made as all suspects had gone into hiding after the crime.So far, seven people have been arrested in the case. On September 2 around 10pm Inderjeet and his two friends, Vikram and Vishal, were returning to their houses in a car, when a herd of cattle blocked their path in a lane in Jatauli village of Haily Mandi area. As they were trying to navigate their way around the cattle, several men on motorcycles allegedly cornered them and fired at least 20 rounds at their car. Inderjeet, who was behind the wheel, was shot 16 times and died on the spot, while Vikram had suffered three bullet injuries and was admitted to a hospital and later discharged, police had said. Vishal was unhurt in the incident. On questioning, said police, Pawan told them he and his accomplices, Ujwal and Jivan, and prime suspect Abhishek carried out the shooting. Inspector Indiwar, in-charge, crime branch, Farrukh Nagar, said, “Since the murder, Pawan had gone into hiding in Bulandshahr. They had made their plan to kill Inderjeet on August 30. They stole motorcycles from Noida for the crime and later dumped the vehicles and the guns used in the crime. These are yet to be recovered.” Police said Pawan was produced in a district court and sent to two-day police custody. The police probe had found that Abhishek had attacked Inderjeet last year too in a similar fashion. In that case, the court had declared him to be a proclaimed offender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/liquor-shop-owner-s-murder-in-gurugram-one-more-suspect-held/story-3kQirvE89H2TILskMp7UlK.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana reduces cost of RT-PCR testing to ₹1,200||The Haryana government on Friday brought down the cost for RT-PCR testing —the gold standard for detecting Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19— to ₹1,200 from the existing ₹1,600.This is the second time the Haryana government has reduced the price for testing through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction at private labs. On August 29, the state government had reduced the cost of RT-PCR testing from ₹2,400 to ₹1,600.The department of health and family welfare on Friday issued a revised order stating that the overall charge for taking an RT-PCR has been reduced taking into account the cost of kits and consumables, and the consent of the leading private laboratories, . “No private laboratory should charge any amount more than ₹1,200 for RT-PCR. It includes the cost of sample pick up, packing, transportation of samples, documentation and reporting,” the order read.“We are continuously observing the cost of inputs for testing and keep aligning our rates. Haryana was the first state to cap the RT-PCR test price to ₹2,400 (in June) and then reduce it to ₹1,600 and now to ₹1,600. This is the lowest charge in the region,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department.The costs of antigen and antibody testing at private labs continue to remain the same. Rapid antigen test costs ₹650, while antibody test ₹250 in Haryana.Rishabh Rajput, director of Covid-19 and microbiology division, Modern Diagnostics, an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) certified lab for Covid-19 testing in Gurugram, said, “The reduced RT-PCR testing price can compromise the quality assurance of the tests in smaller labs. Laboratories were earning a margin of 15-20 percent by administering RT-PCR at the previous cost of ₹1,600. This margin will further reduce especially when labs are sending their technicians to collect samples from homes. The new price slab will not impact big labs though.”On Friday, at least 2,161 RT-PCR tests were administered in Gurugram, while 901 tests were conducted through rapid antigen kits. Till now nearly 265, 937 samples have been tested in Gurugram, of which more than one lakh tested have been through antigen detection kits, as her data by the district health department.As reported by HT on September 24, the daily collection of RT-PCR samples in the city has plunged to nearly 1,000, sometimes even fewer, in government facilities. Data shows that with walk-in testing allowed from September 8, both government and private labs have had, however, witnessed an upward trajectory in testing number. The district health department had administered 1,900 RT-PCR tests – the highest tests in a single day, on September 14.“The health department has been collecting around 1,000 samples daily on an average for RT-PCR testing. In private labs too, the footfall is high. Bringing down the testing cost would mean increased footfall in private labs, especially when getting a test without a doctor’s prescription now allowed,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-reduces-cost-of-rt-pcr-testing-to-1-200/story-XYzKHeMWst0P3LTiGOIZ8O.html
02-10-2020||City||Gurugram: Shifting of high-tension power cables commences on Delhi-Gurgaon e-way||Gurugram: After nearly six-month delay, the National Highways Authority of India has started the process of shifting the two high-tension overhead power cables on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway near Kherki Daula. The shifting of these cables was required for the construction of cloverleaf tower that will connect the Dwarka Expressway, commonly known as Northern Peripheral Road, with the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) on other side of the highway. RK Mishra, project director, L&T, which is the NHAI contractor for the project, said that the entire shifting process would be carried out in the next 10 days. “After the shifting of cables, work on cloverleaf can be carried out and there would be no further delay in its construction,” said Mishra. NHAI officials said that the process for removal of power cables started on Thursday and the cables would be installed again on October 8. The shifting of overhead cables was supposed to be carried out in March this year, the officials said.A senior NHAI official said that they had received the go-ahead from the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) and the work started after getting approval from traffic police and other agencies. “The stringing of these cables will be carried out on October 8,” he said, on the condition of anonymity. The NHAI officials said that the delay in the shifting of these high-tension power lines was hampering the construction of crucial cloverleaf tower. The officials privy to the matter said that various agencies of the state government and NHAI worked in tandem to resolve issues concerning the shifting of these cables and intervention from the state government also played a crucial role in resolution of the matter. The NHAI officials said that apart from these two overhead cables, some power transmission lines need to be shifted from two other places and they will pursue the matter with the authorities concerned to expedite their shifting as well. “The work on trumpet tower is also slowed because of delay in shifting of cables and we hope it will happen soon,” said the NHAI official quoted above. The Dwarka Expressway will connect Kherki Daula and Shiva temple at Mahipalpur through the 29- km expressway being developed by NHAI. The road will have a toll plaza and it will ensure reduction of traffic on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-shifting-of-high-tension-power-cables-commences-on-delhi-gurgaon-e-way/story-lVOeHTSOsuICqVbCvj8hVM.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||Decision on school reopening to be taken after consultations next week, says Haryana education minister||The state education minister on Friday said the final decision regarding the graded opening of schools in Haryana will be taken only after a round of consultations with officials next week. The minister’s announcement comes on the day when the Gurugram administration, in line with the recent reopening guidelines released by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), allowed cinema halls, multiplexes to open in the city after October 15. Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said before arriving at a decision on opening schools he will meet officials next week for consultations. “As of now, we have not made a decision in this regard. I’ll be heading to Chandigarh on Monday and will meet the officials concerned on Tuesday to discuss the various aspects before a decision is taken about opening schools,” said Pal.Schools across the country were closed in March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In Haryana, government schools had opened for students of classes 9 to 12 for academic guidance sessions on September 21. Last month, the state government had also conducted a demo run in two government schools in Karnal and Sonepat as part of which a limited number of students, with consent from their parents, took part in four classes of one-hour each for different subjects. The remaining students had joined the class through the online mode.An official in the education minister’s office privy to the developments said that the state had been carrying out preparatory work for reopening of schools for some time now. He said that whenever a final decision is taken, the school would be able to start schools without delay. “We conducted a demo run in some schools before initiating academic guidance visits. These visits have been going well. Teachers across the state were also asked to get tested for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure. Funds for sanitisation have already been allocated to schools. On the ground, our preparations are in place. Whenever a final decision is taken by the state government, we will be able to respond to it proactively,” said the official. He added that the government had been collecting feedback from parents and a final decision will be taken with due consultation following which the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Central government will be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/decision-on-school-reopening-to-be-taken-after-consultations-next-week-says-haryana-education-minister/story-PGGhoungQsbGK7eRVKM4TO.html
02-10-2020||City||Panchkula man found dead in charred car in Morni hills||Charred remains of a Panchkula man, who had left his Sector-26 house to get his car serviced, was recovered from his burnt-out vehicle in Morni hills on Friday. The victim, Rajesh Kumar, who was in his 40s, had told his wife and two children that he might go to Morni later. When he neither returned nor contacted his family, police were informed, who traced his location to Morni. On reaching the Morni police post, the cops were informed about a burnt-out car, which turned out to be Rajesh’s. As per the police, preliminary investigations suggested that his car caught fire after falling off road. Rajesh body has been kept at the Panchkula civil hospital. The police said that after autopsy and recording statements of his family members, further action will be taken. The cops are relying on Rajesh’s postmortem report to ascertain if his death was accidental or planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-man-found-dead-in-charred-car-in-morni-hills/story-tRTlmXYos4YbkzxBfdD1GJ.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||First merit list for undergraduate admissions in Haryana out||The first merit list for admission to undergraduate courses in government colleges in Haryana was released on Thursday evening. Students whose names are mentioned in the merit list have time till October 6 to submit the fee online as per the revised admission schedule. The second merit list is expected to come out on October 8.Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said while the first merit list had been declared, the payment gateway was yet to be made operational until Friday evening. The college’s nodal admission officer said that the state higher education department was working towards the creation of two payment gateways.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal, Government College in Sector 9, said the merit list had been prepared on the basis of the college, course, and subjection combination preferences shared by students at the time of filling the forms. “ “ Based on the results and preferences shared by students, the merit list has been prepared. While the merit list is out, the payment gateway hasn’t been started till now. The payment option will be made available soon after which students will be able to submit the fee online,” said Yadav.Among the changes introduced this year, the option of upgrading to a better college has been done away with. Applicants admitted in a particular course during the first merit list will not be allowed to change their course/subjects even if seats remain vacant after the first merit list. “No upward mobility of preference is allowed. Such applicants can make subject/faculty change as per the schedule only after the process of open merit lists/open counselling is over subject to the availability of seats,” as per the admission directives shared on Friday.Further, as per the revised admission rules, if an applicant has been offered admission to a particular course in the first merit list and (s)he does not submit the fee, then (s)he will not be considered in the second merit list.“Until last year, a student had the option of moving to a college of preference if they made it to the college in subsequent merit lists. This time, however, this option is not available. If a student makes it to the merit list of a college, their name will not appear in subsequent merit lists,” said Yadav.Such candidates will be considered in open merit list only subject to the availability of seats, he added. Open merit lists are created after the final merit list. On the basis of the physical presence of students in the counselling, colleges prepare merit lists on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/first-merit-list-for-undergraduate-admissions-in-haryana-out/story-fKEX1jNaW9EpzvjhOxkWRL.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s first cycle track between Huda City Centre and Subhash Chowk opens to public||The city’s first cycle track — a 9.6-kilometre path between Huda City Centre (HCC) and Subhash Chowk — was opened to the public on Friday. The cycle track, jointly developed by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), along Netaji Subhash Marg, was thrown open to the public with a cyclothon, in which more than 1,500 people took part on early Friday morning.“The first cyclothon of this year was organised on the occasion of World Car Free Day on September 22 along Golf Course Road. At that time, the idea of building a special cycle track came up. This cycle track is dedicated to the common man and we are appealing to the citizens to continue using it so that there is no encroachment on the track and cyclists can keep availing the facility to the fullest,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA. With a flyover and an underpass being constructed at HCC, the cycle track currently runs from the GMDA office in Sector 44 to Subhash Chowk. Once both the projects are completed, the cycle track would be extended by another 200 metres to HCC Metro station, said officials.The track is the first project under GMDA and MCG’s plan for creating 650 kilometres of dedicated cycle tracks in the city. In its next phase, GMDA is planning on making similar cycle tracks from HCC towards major road networks such as MG Road, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, and Signature Towers.Besides participants, local politicians, officials from MCG, GMDA, Raahgiri Foundation, Gurugram Police, and the district administration were also present for the event. “Gurugram’s attempt to create the city’s first dedicated and physically segregated cycle track is an attempt at the right direction. It also shows that our roads have space for walking and cycling if we are a little more creative in our approach. If we are able to built-up upon this initiative, it can be a game-changer for Gurugram,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of Raahgiri Foundation, one of the organisers for the event.As per an official release by GMDA on its social media account, more such initiatives would be held in the city under the aegis of ministry of housing and urban affairs through various national campaigns such as Cycles4Change and Streets4People. Prior to conducting the event, MCG officials had removed all illegal encroachments from the stretch. GMDA had placed concrete bollards on patches of the stretch where service lanes were absent to safeguard cyclists from vehicles, while a blank boundary walls along the cycle stretch was also painted with graffiti by officials of Kalagram.“I find cycling in Gurugram to be extremely unsafe. There were practically no facilities or infrastructure for cyclists before this. When I came to know that a dedicated cycle track is being launched, I cycled outside my condominium for the first time in 12 years. If the facility continues to be safeguarded for cyclists, I will use it on a weekly basis,” said Anand Rungta, a resident of Sector 47.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-first-cycle-track-between-huda-city-centre-and-subhash-chowk-opens-to-public/story-ZvG8QnbROU3iy81HxCo6qJ.html
02-10-2020||City||Gurugram: New Covid-19 cases show decline of 23% in a week||Gurugram: The district has witnessed a decline of nearly 23% in the number of new Covid-19 cases in the past seven days (September 25 – October 1) as compared to the cases recorded during the previous week (September 18-24), according to the data from the district health department. Health officials have attributed the decline in cases to strict surveillance of home-isolated Covid-19 patients to prevent them from transmitting the infection to others in the family. Between September 25 and October 1, a total of 1,819 new cases were confirmed, while 2,364 new cases were reported in the previous week. The officials said that in nearly 70% of the new confirmed cases during September 18-24, all the family members were being confirmed positive after one of them contracted the virus.Notably, September reported the maximum caseload of nearly 41% (or 8,500 cases), when the total count was 20, 417 on September 29. “Strict surveillance of home-isolated patients by maintaining regular contact through calls and home visits by doctors and ground team of health workers has been a successful preventive measure,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer. “The proportion of cases where the entire family is contracting the virus has come down. It requires more data evaluation to derive a conclusion,” he said. Presently, 2,141 patients are under home isolation, which is almost 90% of the total active cases (2,366) in the district. On Friday, 261 new cases were confirmed, taking the total count of people infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus to 21,168 in Gurugram. Of the active cases, 22 patients are in district Covid care centre, while 203 are hospitalised. Two deaths were also confirmed on Friday, taking the Covid-19 toll to 176. Following Haryana government’s directive to increase surveillance of home-isolated Covid patients, the Gurugram health department constituted a district monitoring committee for such patients. Thirty doctors — six MBBS and 24 ayurvedic — have been appointed who operate separately from the existing rapid response teams. These doctors visit home-isolated patients to ensure they get proper treatment. “The surveillance of home isolated patients has been increased. Simultaneously, we are retaining the testing. The cumulative number of tests administered by government and private labs are on average 3,000 per day,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to Yadav, the daily growth rate of the cases is 0.99%, while the average positivity rate is 7.65% now. “Cases are now doubling every 64 days. It has improved from 40 days, which was reported in mid-September,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-new-covid-19-cases-show-decline-of-23-in-a-week/story-3icG8hZh8kv7FIiiH4gpcP.html
02-10-2020||Bhopal||Dalit woman kills herself after police refuses to lodge FIR on gang-rape||A 32-year-old Dalit woman reportedly took her life by suicide on Friday morning in Narsinghpur district, 241 kilometres south-east of Bhopal, on being refused by police to lodge her first information report (FIR) about the crime, as per the complaints from her family members. Police have booked three people, of which two of have been arrested. Two others have been booked for abetment to suicide of which one has been arrested. An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of police has been suspended on the charge of dereliction of duty as he did not register a case and detained the family members of the accused, director-general of police (DGP), Madhya Pradesh, Vivek Johri said. Also read: Hathras gangrape, midnight cremation and protests across nation - All you need to knowThe DGP said, “An FIR has also been lodged against the ASI of police for his alleged refusal to lodge the FIR.” The rape survivor and the accused are from the same village, Johri added. According to Narsinghpur police, those arrested for gang-rape include Arvind and Anil while one Motilal was arrested for abetment to suicide. ASI Mishrilal was also arrested and was granted bail from the police station.The woman’s husband said, “My wife was in an agriculture field to cut grass for cattle when the accused Arvind, Anil and one more gang-raped her on September 28. She told us about her ordeal in the evening. Along with some members of my family, I went to Gotitoria police outpost to lodge the FIR in the night itself. The police personnel on duty took the complaint from me but didn’t lodge the FIR. They told me that my wife’s medical examination will be conducted the next day”. Also read: Hathras - Making a mockery of the idea of justiceHe said, “When we went to the police outpost the next day the report was not lodged again. Fed up, we went to Cheechli police station to lodge the FIR but instead of listening to us, receiving our complaint and lodging the FIR, the police personnel locked me and my elder brother in the lockup at the police station and abused my wife. Mortified at the ill-treatment meted out to her, us and other members of the family, she committed suicide today by hanging herself”. The sub-divisional officer of police (SDoP) Seetaram Yadav said, “The woman’s nieces who gave their statements to police said that the woman was not raped but molested. When they raised an alarm, the accused fled the spot. The woman and her husband did complain but their complaint was vague”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/dalit-woman-kills-herself-after-police-refuses-to-lodge-fir-on-gang-rape/story-iCl9VDHA8VHaZRLB1N2waI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Hathras gang-rape case: IIT-Bombay students hold protest, seek justice for victim||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) held a protest outside their campus in Powai on Friday evening against the gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh (UP). The woman was attacked on September 14 by four men. On Tuesday, she passed away at a Delhi hospital during treatment.Students of the institute gathered as part of a series of protests that were held across the country by different groups on Friday on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.“IIT-B For Justice condemns the brutal gang-rape, mutilation and murder of a Dalit student by a gang of men in Hathras, UP. It is sickening to see how the victim’s body was snatched away from the family, and the stand the UP Police are taking in the matter. We demand immediate action,” said a statement released by the group which organised the protest.One of the protesters called for probe into the police’s role in the case. “She eventually succumbed to her injuries and at present, instead of helping to get justice for the victim’s family, the UP Police are threatening them to stay quiet. We stand in solidarity with the family and demand the resignation of UP chief minister as well a proper inquiry into the role of the state police in the case,” said a student from the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-iit-bombay-students-hold-protest-seek-justice-for-victim/story-auXKLGrqmcACNaWnGzvJHO.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress protests against Centre’s new farm laws||The Maharashtra Congress on Friday held state-wide demonstrations at tehsil and district headquarters, observing ‘Save Farmer-Worker Day’ on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, to oppose the farm and labour laws that were recently passed in Parliament. The party, while announcing protests over the next few weeks, reiterated the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will enact its own farm and labour laws to negate central laws. Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat led the agitation at Lasalgaon in Nashik. “The farm laws passed by the Narendra Modi government will crush the framework of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) which has been constructed with a lot of efforts in the interest of farmers,” he said. Public works department minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan led the bullock cart march in Nanded. “The MVA government has formed a sub-committee to decide how to safeguard the interest of farmers. The Modi government is like East India Company in the pre-Independence era. A few industrialists are looting this country with the help of the government in Centre,” he said. City Congress president Eknath Gaikwad led the protest in Mumbai, MP Rajiv Satav in Hingoli, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur and animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar in Wardha, and minister of state for home Satej Patil in Kolhapur, among others. The party has resolved to collect 1 crore signatures till October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-protests-against-centre-s-new-farm-laws/story-vg8gFuq2LEkVh9Jg6s6BtL.html
02-10-2020||City||Chadha’s stolen laptop recovered, 2 arrested||New Delhi: Two days after Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha’s laptop was stolen from his car in Naraina Vihar, the Delhi Police have arrested two men from south Delhi’s Madangir and recovered the laptop. The two men are involved in multiple cases of theft across Delhi, police said. Police identified the two men as Deepak, 28, and Bharat, 26, both residents of Inderpuri JJ colony. While Deepak has been involved in cases of robbery, theft, excise act and gambling, Bharat has two past cases of theft and sexual assault against him. AAP spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA, Chadha, had reported the theft on Monday night. The incident took place when Shivam Aggarwal, a staffer at Chadha’s office in the Delhi Jal Board — of which Chadha is the vice-chairperson — had parked his car outside his house in west Delhi’s Naraina Vihar. During investigations, the police had obtained CCTV camera footage, in which two men were seen stealing the laptop from Chadha’s car. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said they suspected that the gulel or thak-thak gangs were involved, and deployed their informants to track similar criminals active in the area. “On Thursday, we received information that the suspects belong to Madangir. On this, a trap was laid near BRT Road in Madangir Village, and around 8.40pm on Thursday, two suspects were intercepted,” Thakur said. “A search led to the recovery of two stolen laptops, two stolen cellphones and a catapult used to break the glass of cars. It was later confirmed that one of the stolen laptop belongs to Chadha,” he said. During interrogation, the two men told police they work as daily wage labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chadha-s-stolen-laptop-recovered-2-arrested/story-BVzWU9ZCLXlnUgmZA3KaYI.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to streamline Covid-19 hospitalisation process||Amid a spike in the number of fatalities related to Covid-19 in the past month, the Chandigarh health department is streamlining the process to expedite shifting of patients who are in home isolation to hospitals in case their condition deteriorates.The city has been divided into five zones with dedicated rapid response teams in each zone that will respond to the emergency after receiving calls through helpdesk numbers. At present, there are 1,881 active cases in the city, and in each zone, there are about 250-300 patients in home isolation, some of whom may require hospitalisation at any stage.In comparison to 41 Covid-19 casualties in August, Chandigarh witnessed 106 deaths in September, though new cases started declining after a major surge in mid-September. While the seven-day average growth rate of infections has dropped to 1.4% from as high as 5% in early August, the fatality rate has jumped to 1.4% from 1.1% in just a week. Experts warn that there is a lag of one to two weeks between the peak of cases and deaths, so fatalities due to the mid-September surge will continue for a few days.Immediate responseA senior UT official privy to the development said patients who will complain of decreased oxygen saturation levels and difficulty in breathing will get immediate response and will be shifted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, or Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.“The patients requiring emergency will contact the rapid response teams activated in each zone, who in turn will ensure that the ambulance is sent to the particular address and the patient is shifted to the hospital concerned. The doctors on duty will examine the patients and take a call on whether they require short-term or long-term hospitalisation,” said the official.As the patients may require hospitalisation for moderate symptoms, arrangements have been made at GMSH-16, while GMCH-32 already has a Covid-19 facility.UT health secretary Arun Gupta confirmed the department is developing a protocol for immediately shifting patients who require hospitalisation.“This is being done to ensure that in case of any emergency, patients do not face any problem. In turn, it will help decrease the fatality rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-streamline-covid-19-hospitalisation-process/story-1Vs3Lb85DG4vf0Ntzic8fN.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Street vendors want curbs on weekly markets lifted, write to L-G||Street vendors in the national capital have demanded that all weekly markets be allowed to open as usual as all other commercial activities have now been permitted by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA). This comes a day after the DDMA allowed only two weekly markets to function in each municipal zone under the guidelines of Unlock 5.Weekly markets in Delhi were among the first set of commercial activities to be shut by the government in mid-March, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While a majority of commercial activities have been permitted, restrictions on weekly markets continue. The National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) has written to Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal requesting that all weekly markets be permitted. Despite repeated attempts, L-G’s office did not respond on the matter.Street vendors’ associations say the current order will adversely impact the livelihood of lakhs of vendors, as although weekly markets were given permission to operate in August itself, the nod came with several riders and restrictions. Arbind Singh, national coordinator of NASVI, said, “When gyms, restaurants and other commercial activities have been allowed, why not street vending? Our business is done in open spaces. The government’s decision to restrict the number of weekly markets is adversely impacting the livelihood of lakhs of vendors.” Singh said as per a conservative estimate, there are over 300 weekly markets in the city. Each municipal zone has about eight to 10 weekly markets daily. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, president of a weekly market in Madhu Vihar, said, “I have nearly 200 vendors associated with me. We organise markets in Madhu Vihar, Kalyanpuri, and other places. For the past six months, it has been a struggle to make ends meet. When other commercial activities have been allowed, weekly markets too should be allowed. There are usually about seven to nine weekly markets daily in a zone. The government should rethink its order.” Gupta said due to the pandemic, the size of stalls is smaller now as social distancing has to be maintained in the markets. Singh said street vendors will stage a protest if weekly markets are continued to be restricted. “They (vendors) were given no financial assistance during the pandemic. They are now not allowed to earn their livelihood. How will they take care of their families?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/street-vendors-want-curbs-on-weekly-markets-lifted-write-to-l-g/story-h5xedmlAdh0l4Du3DNAjxJ.html
02-10-2020||City||Expect thundershowers with lightning, gusty winds in Mumbai Metropolitan Region today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a thunderstorm warning for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for Saturday.The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert, predicting that isolated areas in the city and suburbs could expect thundershowers with lighting and gusty winds ranging between 30 and 40 kilometres per hour. A similar alert has been issued for Palghar and Thane for Saturday and only for Thane for Sunday.Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg could also expect thundershowers over the weekend. An orange alert has been issued for north Maharashtra districts of Nandurbar, Dhule, and Nashik while Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, and Ahmednagar can expect heavy to very heavy rain and thundershowers.“Satellite images and weather models have indicated moderate to intense thunderstorms with lighting and heavy spells at isolated places in the state between October 3 and 4. Development of these convective echoes was witnessed across some parts of Marathwada and central Maharashtra between Thursday and Friday, especially in the evening. These thundershowers are short-lived and vary in intensity across different locations,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. On Friday, the city and suburbs did not receive any rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm. The day temperature in south Mumbai was 32 degrees Celsius – a degree Celsius above normal – while the suburbs recorded 31.9 degrees Celsius, which was at the normal mark.AQI in city ‘satisfactory’The pollutant-measuring indicator – air quality index (AQI) – was in the satisfactory category at 68 for PM2.5 pollutant. It is predicted to be 63 (satisfactory ) on Saturday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expect-thundershowers-with-lightning-gusty-winds-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-today-imd/story-QRbiPUydFFM9NpvwnADsaP.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Cinemas, multiplexes allowed to resume operations from October 15||Almost seven months after they were shut to prevent the spread of Covid-19, cinemas and multiplexes in Gurugram would be allowed to open from October 15 onwards, the district administration said on Friday. An order issued by deputy commissioner, Gurugram, stated that cinemas, theatres and multiplexes will be allowed to open with 50 percent seating capacity in areas outside containment zone in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines for Unlock 5 that were issued on September 30.The order of the district administration stated that the standard operating procedures(SOPs) for the reopening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes will be issued by the union ministry of information and broadcasting. The administration has also allowed entertainment parks to resume operations after October 15. For such establishments, SOPs will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, the order stated.The opening of cinema halls and multiplexes is being seen as a positive development by mall operators, who said that this was another indication that situation was moving towards normalcy. “PVR Cinemas operate from Ambience Malls and we have made all arrangements for following the safety protocols in multiplexes. All norms pertaining to social distancing, such as 50 percent occupancy of seats will be followed strictly,” said Vijay Aima, vice president, Ambience Mall. Majority of malls in the city have multiplexes and these were the preferred hub for entertainment for the residents before the onset of Covid-19 pandemic. A statement released by PVR Cinemas on Twitter on Friday said, “Social distancing will be maintained between seats, regular sanitisation of audis between shows, contactless food purchases and similar measures would be taken for a safe experience of moviegoers.”Owners of single screen cinemas, which mostly cater to blue-collar workers, who migrated in large numbers during the lockdown, said that resuming operations will help their employees get back on feet. “We have a capacity of around 500 seats and our theatre is large enough to ensure social distancing. Only 20 per cent of our seats usually got filled even prior to the pandemic and this will ensure safety of patrons. Right now our priority is to get the theatre cleaned, sanitised and make it ready for operations from October 15,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, manager, Raj Cinema, which is located on Old Delhi-Gurgaon road. Meanwhile, the directions issued by district administration further said that social, academic, sports entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions will be allowed beyond the limit of 100 persons from October 15 onwards, outside the containment zones. As per the directions, in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons. And all social distancing norms should be followed, it said.The swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open from October 15 for which the SOP will be issued later. The district administration will also allow business to business (B2B) exhibitions in open areas, the order said. A spokesperson from the district administration said that the guidelines issued on Friday are in line with directions issued by ministry of home affairs. “The implementation would be based on the standard operating procedures issued by various Central ministries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-cinemas-multiplexes-allowed-to-resume-operations-from-october-15/story-LkCFbK6vJxp5Uv6di9CgKN.html
02-10-2020||City||Gurugram: GMDA officials asked to cycle to work||Gurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has directed its staff to travel to work on bicycles throughout October to understand through personal experience the challenges faced by cyclists in the city. During the launch of the city’s first bicycle track along Netaji Subhash Marg on Friday, VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, said that it is important that their staff have a first-hand experience of the problems faced by cyclists on a daily basis, as the authority is planning to add around 650 kilometres of cycle tracks across the city.“One idea is to sensitise officials about the need of cyclists in the city by giving them a first-hand experience. There are multiple issues such as pollution, dust, potholes, safety, prioritization of vehicular traffic over cyclists, among other inconveniences that cyclists face every day. When the officials are planning to make more cycle tracks in the city, they need to factor in all these things before proceeding,” said Kundu.Kundu further said that the cycle stand launched outside the GMDA office near Huda City Centre “is just symbolic” and the public body will soon have a proper parking facility within the premises as well.“All officials, barring those with medical conditions, have been directed to commute to the office on a bicycle. In between, if they have any official work that requires field visit or inspection, they can use GMDA’s vehicles to commute,” said Kundu.Kundu said that if an official, without having any medical condition, does not come to the office on a cycle, he or she would be asked to give an explanation.“Although this is not an official directive, it is not going to be voluntary either. While I understand some officials come to the office from great distances, they can travel to a colleague’s house, located close to the GMDA office, in their personal vehicles or taxi and subsequently, cycle to the office together. The overall idea is that even if officials travel on cycle for a short distance, their first-hand experience of the problems faced by cyclists will be in the back of their mind while planning any future cycle tracks,” said Kundu.The 9.6-kilometre cycle track along Netaji Subhash Marg is located adjacent to the GMDA office, near Huda City Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-gmda-officials-asked-to-cycle-to-work/story-DaFGcjyuct3WxRTAeaqpsJ.html
02-10-2020||City||3 booked for abetting 56-year-old man’s suicide||Three persons were booked after a 56-year-old man committed suicide at his residence in NRI colony on Randhawa road in Kharar on Friday, police said. According to Kharar City station house officer (SHO) Bhagwant Singh, the man left a suicide note wherein he accused one of ‘friends’ of pressuring him into registering a piece of land worth ₹49 lakh in his name. The Kharar man had reportedly bought the property from one Raghubir Singh of Bassi Pathana. “We have booked his friend and two other persons under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC on the statement of the man’s wife,” the SHO said. Investigating officer ASI Prem Chand said the man’s body was handed over to his family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-booked-for-abetting-56-year-old-man-s-suicide/story-za08EA5ctPpDXbiPKwK2RL.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Two drug peddlers arrested with MD worth ₹3.15 lakh in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two drug peddlers including an assistant make-up artist on Thursday and seized 105 gram mephedrone (MD) worth ₹3.15 lakh from them. The Mumbai Police has started crackdown on drug peddlers from the past one week and all the units of crime branch arrested a total of 15 accused so far. The arrested accused are Niketan alias Golu Jadhav, 30, and Parvez alias Laddu Hanif Halai, 30. Jadhav, who works as assistant make-up artist in several Bollywood production houses, wanted to earn easy money and hence got involved in the drug peddling racket, said a police officer. He has been involved in several offences of assault, house break-in, robbery and attempt to murder and there are several cases registered against him in police stations in the western suburbs. Halai has two cases of assault filed against him. Following a tip-off, crime branch unit 11 officers laid a trap in Rajendra Nagar area in Borivli (East) and nabbed both the accused. The accused were produced before a court and have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-drug-peddlers-arrested-with-md-worth-3-15-lakh-in-mumbai/story-dx1WPFykFiI0vKPEKN0jCI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Anurag Kashyap denies allegations of sexual assault, says was shooting in Sri Lanka||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who was questioned by Versova police for around eight hours on Thursday in connection with the alleged sexual assault case filed by a 30-year-old actor, denied all allegations. He further stated that when the alleged incident took place, he was in Sri Lanka to shoot a film.In a statement released on Friday, Kashyap’s lawyer Priyanka Khimani said, “Kashyap has provided documentary proof of the fact that throughout August 2013 he was away in Sri Lanka in connection with the shooting of one of his films. Kashyap has categorically denied that any such alleged incident ever took place and has also denied all allegations levelled against him.”“These sudden, belated allegations of an alleged incident of August 2013 have been widely publicised by the complainant for the purpose of vilifying Kashyap, irrespective of the outcome of the judicial process,” Khimani said.“Kashyap is apprehensive that now that the falsity of her allegation has been established, she will alter her version of events in the investigative process as well. Kashyap is distressed with the false and reckless allegations made against him that have caused pain to him, his family and his fans. Kashyap intends to vigorously pursue the legal remedies available to him,” added the statement.The actor had recently made allegations that Kashyap had behaved inappropriately with her. The complainant in her statement to police said that Kashyap had called her to his flat at Yari Road in Andheri (West) in August 2013 to have a discussion about casting her in one of his upcoming films and allegedly sexually assaulted her.Following her complaint, a case was registered against Kashyap under sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Versova police station on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anurag-kashyap-denies-allegations-of-sexual-assault-says-was-shooting-in-sri-lanka/story-naFVBaVYPWuWMeE6barbrI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Why Maharashtra farmers don’t trade APMCs for private firms||Even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has stayed the implementation of the three Central legislations on farm sector reforms amid strong opposition from farmers’ organisations as well as the ruling Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Maharashtra has already ended the monopoly of the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMC) by adopting major reforms in agriculture marketing since 2006. Maha attempts, results Maharashtra has 305 APMCs, most of which are controlled by traders and politicians. The APMC Act mandates these markets must have facilities such as auction halls, warehouses, weigh bridges, shops for retailers, police station, post office, bore-wells, farmer amenity centres and soil-testing laboratory. In 2006, Maharashtra became one of the first few states to adopt the model APMC Act, paving way for opening up of private markets on the lines of APMC and contract farming. In 2016, the state decided to de-regulate fruits, vegetables, onions and potatoes. However, 14 years after Maharashtra adopted the change, APMCs continue to record a turnover of ₹48,000 crore and remain preferred by farmers as they offer price protection. On the other hand, the alternative system, too, has gained ground, with an annual turnover of ₹13,000 crore. De-regulation of fruits, vegetables, onion and potatoes, however, has got tepid response from farmers in the past four years, as their arrival at APMCs have come down by 4-5%, according to an official from the marketing department. Contract farming has not clicked, as farmers claim they don’t get the promised remuneration, amid doubts over the quality of their produce, as there is no provision in the law to protect their interests. Officials claim contract farming is limited to hybrid seed farming and poultry business, whereas de-regulation of fruits, vegetables, onions and potatoes also got limited response in the past four years. They believe reforms take time to show results, citing how the changes brought about in 2006 are now showing results. Why the protests? Farmers feel the Centre is trying to hand over agriculture marketing to a few corporates with the help of the three legislations —Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and amendment in Essential Commodities Act 1955. They claim there is no guarantee that the farmer will get at least minimum support price (MSP) for their produce from a private trader, and the dispute mechanism is too weak to give them justice. “The Shanta Kumar committee set up by the Centre to bring reforms in food procurement mechanism has recommended abolishment of MSP. It has also recommended scrapping of the public distribution system (PDS) and system of procuring food grains through Food Corporation of India (FCI). The acts have been brought as another step to implement these recommendations. The only difference is the Centre is not accepting this overtly. Once MSP is abolished, farmers will certainly be exploited,” said Raju Shetti, who heads Swabhimani Paksha, a political outfit that had left National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in 2017. Ajit Nawale, state general secretary, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, said the Centre should have considered Maharashtra’s experience before bringing in the legislation. “The APMC law provides a security to farmers that if a buyer doesn’t pay remuneration against the produce, it can be recovered from the trader. In contrast, there is no such security for farmers trading outside APMC. Even in the new Bills, the Centre deliberately chose to remain silent on this aspect. Anyone having a PAN or Aadhaar card can become a trader. Is there any guarantee that the trader will not cheat farmers,” asked Nawale, who was the driving force behind the farmers’ agitation in June 2017 that eventually led then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to announce a farm loan waiver scheme. “In Nashik, traders from Kerala and Andhra Pradesh bought onions from us and didn’t pay the remuneration. Despite all efforts, we could not get our money,” he added. “The new Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act says in case of a dispute, the parties can approach a sub-divisional magistrate means deputy district collector, a post considered among the most corrupt in the revenue department,” says Girish Patil, agro-market expert. Under this law, the farmer can sell his finished produce to any merchant anywhere in the country. There will be no compulsion to sell it at APMC.“If the Central government is so sure that farmers would get better price than MSP outside APMC limits and under contract farming, why haven’t they made a provision in any of the bills saying no agreement can be for less than MSP,” asked Vijay Jawandhia, agriculture expert from Vidarbha. According to Jawandhia, ITC, under an initiative called e-Choupal, started procurement of soybeans in the state. They procured soybean from Vidarbha farmers for four years, as the prices in the international market were high and MSP declared by the Central government was low. As soon as prices of soybean in the international market started to decline and MSP comparatively went up, they stopped the procurement. “The point is if a big firm like ITC could not survive the volatile market, how will this dream shown by the Narendra Modi government of forming 10,000 Farmers’ Producer Organisations (FPO) survive,” he asked. A senior official from the state marketing department said the laws are formed on three principles — assurance of weighment, assurance of payment and competitive bidding by means of auction, whereas there is no such security if a farmer chooses to trade outside APMC limits. “This is the reason farmers are opposing the new legislations, as these aspects are not being considered by the Centre even now,” he said. Will it work?Anoop Kumar, principal secretary, state marketing department, said, “Maharashtra has been at the forefront for reforms in agriculture marketing. We have adopted most of the tenets of model APMC 2003. In the exercise of ranking states in marketing reforms, the state was ranked at first position by the NITI Aayog in 2017-18. Even after the facility of direct marketing was made available, big retailers are relying on middlemen and don’t prefer dealing with the farmers directly. This could be the reason farmers may not be getting much profit from direct marketing.” Fresh reforms do provide an alternative to farmers, according to another official from the state marketing department. Sunil Pawar, managing director, Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board, that aims to coordinate the functioning of APMCs and their development, agreed. “The annual turnover of the alternative marketing system of agriculture produce, adopted in 2006, has reached ₹13,000 crore against the ₹48,000 crore annual turnover of APMCs in the state. We have issued 1,100 direct marketing licences that allow trading outside APMC, 60 private market licences and 50 single licences to traders that allow them to operate anywhere in the state,” Pawar said. With the same approach towards reforms, the state marketing department on August 10 issued a notification for strict implementation of the ordinances that have now been converted into laws by Parliament. “As per the provisions in the ordinances, the farmers are free to market their produce at field, factory, warehouse or cold storage without any hindrance and without any market fee applicable under APMC Act. Any other fee or charges applicable under APMC Act cannot be charged now as per the provisions made in the ordinances. The law and judiciary department has vetted the ordinances and validated its applicability. Though the existence of the APMCs has not been affected by promulgation of the ordinance, the farmers will have a parallel mechanism to get fair prices for their produce,” states the notification issued on August 10. But as farmers’ bodies decided to fight it and got support from the Congress and NCP, the MVA government, comprising the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP, on Wednesday took a step back and not only stayed its implementation, but also formed a cabinet sub-committee to look into concerns and objections. Having powers of a quasi-judicial authority, state marketing minister Balasaheb Patil, who is also from the NCP, conducted a hearing on an application filed by another NCP leader Shashikant Shinde and passed an order of interim stay on implementation of the notification. He has scheduled the next hearing on October 27. It was followed by a cabinet decision of setting up a sub-committee of ministers. Vilas Shinde, chairman, Sahyadri Farms, a farmer produce company, said that allowing farmers to sell produce outside APMC is giving bargaining power to them. “The provisions in the new laws are logical as both the traders and farmers should get the rights to decide what is better for them. We are moving towards fair trade.” Sahyadri Farms was set up in 2010 and has 8,000 farmers as members. They trade in fruits and vegetables and mostly export the commodities. The annual turnover of the firm is ₹450 crore. Vishnu Harak, a farmer from Shivde village, Nashik, said, “There are no facilities in APMCs and the governing body is found involved in corruption. Despite that, 90% farmers still believe in APMC because it offers security. We know that we will get our money against the produce,” he said. He also said the system of private trading is not for small farmers as traders don’t approach them. “Even if traders approach a marginal farmer they quote a lower price for produce and the farmer agrees, considering it saves transportation cost and trouble at APMC,” said Harak, who has a two-acre plot and prefers vegetable crops. He has taken tomato crops for this season. “Contract farming is more visible in vegetable seed, grapes and poultry farming. The production of most of the hybrid seeds such as cotton, jowar etc. comes under contract farming. In fruits, farming for grapes is being done under this system as they are fragile, difficult to handle and contract farming is beneficial for both the sides — farmers as well as the traders,” said a senior official from the state agriculture department. “Contract farming could not be successful in the state as the weather situation is exactly opposite to foreign countries. Maharashtra often faces natural calamities such as drought, floods, hailstorms, which affect quality of the produce. One of the major clauses of a contract is related to quality,” Nawale said. Despite opposition by many farmer organisations and political parties, no upsurge is observed in Maharashtra compared to Punjab and Haryana. NCP chief Sharad Pawar in a press conference held recently said wheat is a major crop in Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) procures 90% of their wheat produce at MSP. This is the reason they are more aggressive towards the apprehensions of MSP to be eliminated. In Maharashtra, major crops are sugarcane, cotton, soybean, tur and paddy. Harak said, “We don’t know yet why the new laws will hurt farmers’ interests. Those fighting for our rights should also inform us the reason behind it, so that we can take a stand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-maharashtra-farmers-don-t-trade-apmcs-for-private-firms/story-nECd9lQ9ve8FyTY5rhWHXJ.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Restaurants in clubs, resorts, gymkhanas too can operate from Monday: Maharashtra govt||Restaurants at clubs, resorts and gymkhanas, too, will be allowed to operate from October 5, the state government said. After announcing that restaurants, bars, eateries can start operating from Monday, the state tourism department is expected to issue the final standard operating procedure (SOP) meant for eateries on Saturday.Clarifying the confusion on whether eateries at clubs, gymkhanas and resorts are allowed to operate, the government said the restaurants in these establishments can operate. All eateries, including road-side ones, will be allowed to operate if the local civic authorities grant permission. “Licensed bars and restaurants in clubs, resorts and gymkhanas will be allowed to operate. Outlets licensed by the local bodies are allowed to open from Monday,” said Valsa R Nair Singh, principal secretary, tourism department.Another official from the department said the SOP will be issued on Saturday. “There would not be any major changes in the draft SOP circulated among restaurants, bar organisations. Though hoteliers did not want any restriction in capacity, we have restricted it to 50%,” the official said.Maharashtra has around 4 lakh hotels, restaurants, bars and eateries with nearly 22 lakh employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restaurants-in-clubs-resorts-gymkhanas-too-can-operate-from-monday-maharashtra-govt/story-vyvT23kemvMGYOG1HsT8BP.html
02-10-2020||City||10 staffers make off with mini-truck, other articles from ice-cream factory in Ludhiana, booked||Police are on the lookout for 10 employees, who allegedly stole a mini-truck and other valuables from an ice-cream factory in Katani Kalan village. An FIR was lodged on Friday on the statement of Sarmukh Singh, resident of Shri Bhaini Sahib village and owner of the factory. The accused have been identified as Sunny Singh, Vikas, Shellu, Jeetu, Bhola, Krishan Kant, Gaurav, Chhotu and Santosh – all residents of Agra, Uttar Pradesh (UP), and Anurag Tiwari of Shahpur Kurmel village, UP.Sarmukh said he had not been visiting the factory since September 21 as he had fallen ill. When he went there on October 1, he realised a mini-truck, a laptop, an LED screen, a fridge, a sealing machine and some utensils were stolen from the factory.“As his 10 employees were missing, he suspects they committed the theft. A case under Sections 457 (house trespass) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against them. A hunt is on for their arrest,” said ASI Gurmukh Singh from the Koom Kalan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-staffers-make-off-with-mini-truck-other-articles-from-ice-cream-factory-in-ludhiana-booked/story-ygm2CUmAWPNgCuT8bhO7EL.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi, Bandra areas of Mumbai to face cut in water supply on Monday and Tuesday||Parts of Dharavi and Bandra (East) is likely to face no water supply or 50% water supply, depending on the area, between Monday and Tuesday as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will repair leakages on a 48-inch stub main water line near Bandra Cabin. The repair work will be undertaken between 12noon on Monday and 12noon on Tuesday. While areas of Dharavi Main Road, Ganesh Temple Road, AKG Nagar, Dilip Kadam Marg, Kumbharwada, Sant Gorakumbhar Marg in Dharavi will receive 50% less water supply on Monday evening between 4pm and 9 pm; areas of Jasmine Mill Road in Dharavi and Matunga Labour Camp will not receive any water between 4am and 12 noon on Tuesday. Bandra Railway Terminal and Bandra Railway Colony water supply zone will not receive any water for 24 hours between 12noon on Monday and 12noon on Tuesday; and areas of Navpada, Behram Pada, Nirmal Nagar, Shantillal Compound, Kalanagar, Golibar Road, and Bandra-Kurla Complex will receive low-pressure water supply on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-bandra-areas-of-mumbai-to-face-cut-in-water-supply-on-monday-and-tuesday/story-j81e8Dqf3kbZMaLgXjVuMK.html
02-10-2020||City||E-auction of 16 properties fetches Ludhiana MC ₹7.74 crore||The fund-starved municipal corporation earned Rs 7.74 crore from the e-auction of 16 commercial properties in the city on Thursday.As many as 24 properties were up for grabs, however, auction was cancelled for seven of these after the minimum three bids were not received. The 16 properties sold include three shop-cum-office (SCO) sites at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, opposite to Keys Hotel on Lodhi Club road, and 13 shops at the bearing market near Jagraon Bridge.Put up for auction against a reserve price of Rs 1.5 crore, the three SCOs in SBS Nagar, sized 100 square yards each, went for Rs 1.98 crore (located on a corner), Rs 1.51 crore and Rs 1.52 crore.Similarly, the 13 shops auctioned in the bearing market had a reserve price of Rs 1 lakh per square yard, and were in different plot sizes. MC earned double the revenue with the sale of some of these commercial properties. The properties, which were not auctioned, include a 653 square yards plot on Chandigarh Road, with a reserve price of Rs 40,000 per square yard; a 268.44 square yards plot behind Kailash Cinema (reserve price of Rs 38,000 per square yard), four shops in the bearing market near Jagraon Bridge and two SCOs in SBS Nagar. Joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said, “This is the first e-auction organised by the corporation, which helped it earn Rs 7.74 crore. After completing formalities of this auction, the next auction will be planned after consulting with the higher authorities.”Registrations for the e-auction were opened on September 1 and lasted till September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/e-auction-of-16-properties-fetches-ludhiana-mc-7-74-crore/story-i0EIf0ulrfJXEoLvNF4q3H.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wife, cousin arrested for painter’s murder in Sector 54||The wife and cousin of the painter, whose body was found in Sector 54’s forest area on Wednesday morning, were arrested for his murder on Friday. The accused have been identified as Sunita and Rajiv, both residents of Palsora. The victim, Sonu, hailed from Moradabad.Rajiv was Sonu’s cousin and both worked as painters for the same contractor. Rajiv was allegedly in an illicit relation with Sonu’s wife, Sunita, which led to the murder, said police. According to investigation, Rajiv consumed alcohol with Sonu on the night of Tuesday and later while returning home, he attacked him near the forest area in Sector 54. Rajiv is said to have stabbed Sonu before strangulating him and then bludgeoning him to death with a stone. He also took away his wallet before fleeing. The accused were produced in court on Friday, which sent the woman, along with her 18-month-old daughter, to jail, while the man was sent to one-day remand. While the victim’s wallet has been recovered, the knife used in the crime is yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wife-cousin-arrested-for-painter-s-murder-in-sector-54/story-BTJKs4PObkHajxbwjvXU6O.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to procure Covid-19 medicines, test kits worth ₹634 crore||The state government will soon procure injections, tablets and medical equipment worth ₹634 crore for the treatment of Covid-19 infectedpatients at government hospitals, for the next six months. The state government has planned to purchase 18 lakh PPE kits, 36 lakh N-95 masks, 80 lakh triple layer masks, 2.55 lakh remdesivir injections and 2.70 lakh packs of 34 favipiravir tablets among other items.The state government had made the provision of ₹2,028 crore for the health-related expenditure arising out of Covid-19 pandemic in its supplementary demands passed in the two-day monsoon session, held last month. The amount of ₹634 crore has been earmarked by the public health department for the purchases of 12 items including tablets, injections, oxygen, kits required for the Covid-19 tests. The department issued a government resolution (GR) with the break of the quantity and the funds earmarked for the purchase for the stock required until March 2021.The GR has also mandated the department to follow the set norms issued by the government for the purchase. “The rates specified in the order are estimated and need to be verified from the market to ensure that material is not purchased at high rates. The stock purchased should comply with the technical specification issued by the authorities. The procurement should not be done to benefit any specific company and it should be in accordance with the demand,” it stated.The inventory includes the purchase of 2.44 vials of remdesivir worth ₹53.31 crore, 2.70 lakh packs of favipiravir worth ₹22.89 crore, 35 lakh RT-PCR kits worth ₹27.44 crore, 60 lakh rapid antigen test kits worth ₹295 crore, 18 lakh personal protection kits worth ₹68.04 crore, 36 lakh N-95 masks worth ₹15.04 crore, 80 lakh triple layers marks of ₹5.2 crore. The remdesivir injection has been priced at ₹2,183 a vial, while the favipiravir pack will cost ₹848 to the government. The RT-PCR and rapid antigen kits cost ₹78 and ₹493 each respectively. PPE kit costs ₹378 each, while N-95 and triple-layer masks cost ₹41.77 and ₹6.50 each respectively.Funds of ₹100 crore have been earmarked for the refilling of the liquid oxygen costing ₹40,000 per kiloliter, while the allocation of ₹12 crore has been made for the refilling of the jumbo oxygen cylinders costing ₹4.80 lakh each. Dr Archana Patil, director, health services said that the procurement will be done by Haffkine Institute following set norms. The stock being procured is meant for the hospitals and clinics run by the state government and municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-procure-covid-19-medicines-test-kits-worth-634-crore/story-d1plGFHEvgDYutc0u5ZlYP.html
02-10-2020||City||Lure for VVIP treatment lands fake high court judge in jail||Lying to the Ludhiana police to enjoy VVIP treatment and security given to judges for a few minutes landed a Chandigarh trader in soup. Vikas Jain, 52, was arrested for posing as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court to be escorted by the police on his arrival in the city. During questioning, he revealed he just wanted to enjoy the VVIP treatment that judges receive.“In a well-thought-out plan, Jain sent a text message to senior police officials in Ludhiana claiming that he was a high court judge and coming to Ludhiana in his private vehicle to attend a function in Sunder Nagar,” said inspector Amandeep Singh Gill, SHO, Division Number 6 police station.Therefore, the inspector was deputed to receive the judge at Samrala Chowk and escort him to Sunder Nagar. “On Jain’s arrival with his wife and son in a Mahindra Scorpio, we sought his identity card, but he started threatening me. He claimed that he was not carrying his ID as he was on a personal visit. When I crosschecked with the high court, I was told there was no such judicial officer,” the inspector said.“When I questioned him about this, he changed his statement, claiming he was a judge of the Supreme Court and had come to Ludhiana for a confidential meeting with two other justices of the apex court,” he added.Further verification revealed that he was an imposter, therefore, he was booked under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 170 (personating a public servant) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code at the Moti Nagar police station.While his wife and son were let off, Jain was produced before a court on Friday and sent to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lure-for-vvip-treatment-lands-fake-high-court-judge-in-jail/story-8ZmnhkDyaR7gySkZW6FnDJ.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count rises by 15,591 to 1,416,513; toll is 37,480||The trend of Maharashtra witnessing comparatively low Covid-19 cases every day for the past two weeks continued on Friday as the state reported 15,591 infections, taking the tally to 1,416,513. The state was routinely reporting more than 20,000 daily in the beginning of September.The state’s toll rose to 37,480 with an addition of 424 fatalities on Friday. However, of these, 272 deaths were reported in the past 48 hours, 65 were from last week and 87 from the period before that. Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra stood at 260,876, 18.41% of the state’s overall cases.Although the daily caseload is low, state officials are wary that there could be a surge in infections after fresh relaxations come into effect from October 5. Officials said cases have increased every time lockdown restrictions have been eased since June 3. The state has allowed restaurants and bars to reopen from October 5, but run at 50% of their capacity. The government has also allowed all industrial and manufacturing units of non-essential units in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to start operations. Trains beginning and ending their journey within the state have been allowed to run from Wednesday.A senior health department official, on condition of anonymity, said they won’t be surprised if a surge in cases in witnessed again. “Cases go up rapidly after relaxations are implemented. This is because relaxations allow more people to step out of their homes and they are exposed to the virus and ultimately they get infected,” said the official. “This doesn’t mean relaxations shouldn’t be given, as we cannot expect people to confine themselves to their homes for months.”Since June 3, when the government began easing lockdown restrictions under its ‘Mission Begin Again’, the state has reported 1,341,653 cases till October 2, as against 74,860 infections reported from March 9 – when the first case was reported – till June 3. In June, the state recorded 102,172 cases, July saw 247,392 cases, August 371,238 cases, and 593,192 cases were reported in September.Meanwhile, even as the daily caseload as reduced, the number of fatalities in Maharashtra have continued to be high. Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 toll across the country, with Tamil Nadu a distant second with 9,586 deaths (as on Thursday).In terms of case fatality rate (CFR) Maharashtra is second behind Punjab. While the state’s CFR is 2.65%, Punjab had a rate of 3% (as on Thursday).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-count-rises-by-15-591-to-1-416-513-toll-is-37-480/story-sV0BlPIhXS0zJGaAM0ehFM.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||37-year-old from Kutch arrested for stalking Mumbai doctor||The Malabar Hill police have arrested a man from Kutch, Gujarat for allegedly stalking a Malabar Hill doctor since February.The accused Nikhil Goswami, 37 is a commerce graduate and presently unemployed. He is also separated from his wife and lives with his parents in Kutch. The complainant, who lives with her family in Malabar Hill area and works as a product manager at a private healthcare company, on February 20, this year had gone for a music concert in Todi Mill, Lower Parel. There she first met Goswami in a restaurant. On his insistence, she had given him her visiting card.Thereafter, Goswami sent her requests on social media and befriended her. “He would regularly call her and text her, asking her to come with him on dinner. The complainant then blocked him. Goswami later tried meeting her at her workplace located in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). However, she refused to meet him,” said a police officer from Malabar Hill police station.In February, he sent her flowers at her office and then texted her again.When the complaint was not responding to his calls and messages, Goswami somehow managed to get her closed friend’s number and started texting her asking about the complainant’s whereabouts. Her friend informed the complainant about it.The doctor then approached Malabar Hill police station and lodged an FIR. But before police could make any headway the nationwide lockdown was imposed. During the lockdown, the accused to contact her again. Around a week ago, he contacted her friend asking her about the complainant. Recently, the police intensified their hunt for the accused and learnt that he is holed up in Kutch, Gujarat.A team of policemen then visited Kutch, nabbed him and brought him to Mumbai on Thursday. He was then placed under the arrest by the police charging him with section 354D (stalking) of Indian Penal Code. The accused was produced before a court on Friday and was remanded into judicial custody up to October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/37-year-old-from-kutch-arrested-for-stalking-mumbai-doctor/story-v6VaP0LcbupA7wGSLiW5dP.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court directs Maharashtra government to ensure that Covid-19 pandemic guidelines are followed by private hospitals||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC), while observing that extraordinary situations require extraordinary measures, directed the state government to provide proper facilities to patients and ensure the upgradation of infrastructure as per the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act for Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients at government and private hospitals amid the pandemic. The observations were made after it took note of a news report about a pregnant woman from Nanded being turned away by a private hospital in Aurangabad late at night as her case papers had been drawn at a government hospital. The woman was forced to return to the government hospital where she delivered her child. The court initiated a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) to ensure that hospitals do not turn away patients regardless of where they were originally admitted. A division bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and SD Kulkarni, while hearing the suo moto PIL, was informed by amicus curiae (a neutral lawyer appointed by the court) advocate NV Gaware that as per the court’s direction, he inquired about pregnant woman’s incident. In his report, Gaware submitted that the woman had initially got admitted to the government hospital at Aurangabad but left the hospital without informing the authorities. The woman then approached a private hospital, but after she was unable to provide the case papers drawn up at the government hospital, they turned her away. Gaware submitted that though the woman’s family was willing to pay the hospital charges, the medical facility refused to admit her and that is how the incident came to be reported in the media. Gaware further submitted that after speaking to the authorities concerned in the government and to private hospitals, he arrived at the conclusion that neither of the hospitals were at fault. He, however, added that after the woman was turned away by the private hospital, she was admitted to the gynaecology department of the government hospital, where she delivered her baby the next morning and the mother and the child were healthy and safe. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that though the private hospital was not at fault in this case, there had been many complaints about hospitals run by private trusts refusing to admit non-Covid patients. The bench said that there was a clear violation of the May 5 guidelines issued by the government in this regard. Private hospitals were not admitting patients to the 80% regulated beds that had been taken over by the government as per the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. In light of these submissions, the court directed the state to not only ensure that private hospitals abide by the guidelines, but also to make sure that proper facilities and upgraded infrastructure was available in government as well as private hospitals, so that no patient – whether seeking admission for Covid-19 or non-Covid treatment or belonging to the middle or poor strata of the society – was turned away. “We hope and trust that the state and its authorities shall ensure the strict implementation of the guidelines issued from time to time. The state government is duty bound to implement the said guidelines in its true letters and spirit and shall not leave any stone unturned to implement the same,” observed the bench. It disposed of the suo moto PIL after expressing satisfaction with the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-directs-maharashtra-government-to-ensure-that-covid-19-pandemic-guidelines-are-followed-by-private-hospitals/story-czpCb0jyHDgb6TzKHW3PJI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for watching porn in front of daughter, molesting her||VP Road police arrested a Girgaum resident for allegedly watching porn in front of his daughter in a semi-nude condition and molesting her.The 49-year-old accused, who is HIV positive, has been indulging is similar practice since past few years. After the complainant’s mother died of HIV in 1998, her grandmother, who is also the accused’s mother, has been taking care of her. She presently works in a private firm. The accused is unemployed. He remarried few years after his first wife’s death.“The accused would indulge in sexual acts with his wife in front of his daughter and his mother. However, the second wife got fed up and left him in 2013,” said a police officer.The complainant woman has told the police that her father would deliberately see porn on TV set when she was at home. He would do the same when her friends would come home and force them to watch porn too.Frustrated with this, the woman had lodged a complaint against the accused father for sexual harassment and obscenity in March 2014, following which the accused was arrested. However, after he apologised and assured her that it would not happen again, she had withdrawn her complaint.Recently, the accused again started indulging in similar acts.“On September 21 when she came home in the evening, she spotted him watching porn on his mobile phone in a semi-nude state. She objected and asked him to shut the mobile phone as she found it vulgar. The accused then pushed her and touched her inappropriately,” said another officer.The woman then lodged a police complaint, following which the accused was arrested on Thursday.He has been charged with relevant sections for molestation and sexual harassment under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-watching-porn-in-front-of-daughter-molesting-her/story-1fAdKuPPa1FytdOzgsOAQK.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai heart recipient with multi-organ failure recovers from Covid-19 in 8 days||A 56-year-old Kandivli resident who underwent heart transplant surgery two years ago, recently recovered from Covid-19 in just eight days, despite suffering from multi-organ failure. Mahadev Hari Patel underwent a heart transplant in 2018 at Fortis Hospital. Last month, he started having breathing troubles but considering he did not go out of his house since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, his son presumed it to be a post-transplantation complication. However, on September 16, when Patel was taken to a nearby nursing home, he tested positive for Covid-19. The infection has severely affected his lungs due to acute pneumonia, and on September 17 he was transferred to Global Hospital, Parel. “When we ran a CT scan, we found that his lungs were filled with fluid due to pneumonia. We observed that due to the infection, his transplanted heart had also been affected. His complete respiratory system was collapsing,” said Dr Prashant Borade, head of critical care unit, Global Hospital. Patel’s oxygen saturation dropped below 60% and he was put on a ventilator. While at the hospital, Patel suffered from a stroke which further complicated his condition. Due to the seizure, his brain had been affected too. Later, his kidneys also started deteriorating. Along with Covid-19, the 56-year-old’s body was going into multiple-organ failure. The main challenge for doctors was to treat the coronavirus while his immunity low so that his body didn’t reject the transplanted heart. Typically, doctors try to target Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, by strengthening the immunity. But in an organ recipient, strong immunity forces the body to reject the transplanted organ, identifying it as a foreign body. Post-transplant, patients are put on immunosuppressants — medication that lowers their immunity, which makes the treatment process of patients with Covid-19 most challenging. “Immunosuppressants are important for transplant patients, as they help the body accept a foreign organ. So, we had to find a balance between keeping his immunity low and treating the patient with Covid-19 who already had acute pneumonia,” said Dr Borade. After eight days on ventilation, Patel recovered from the coronavirus infection and multiple-organ failure. He was discharged from the hospital on September 24. “I never thought that I would be able to see my father again. Thankfully, he is doing well now,” said his son Dinesh Patel. “Due to the chance of contracting the infection, we never allowed him to go out. We don’t know how he got the infection as none of our family members is Covid-19 positive,” he added. The team at the hospital is now planning to publish the rare case study in a medical journal. “We are planning to publish it in a journal as we believe it is one of the rarest incidents in which a heart transplant patient with Covid-19 survived after multiple-organ failure,” said Dr Borade.Doctors believe the patient might have contracted the infection from an asymptomatic family member. “As they are kept on immunosuppressants, they are most vulnerable to the virus. But, it is quite rare that a heart recipient with multiple-organ failure recovered within eight days,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician and in-charge of private hospitals that are treating Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-heart-recipient-with-multi-organ-failure-recovers-from-covid-19-in-8-days/story-L8iVw3oRjs2nUaww93YJjK.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for extortion in Mumbai’s Dharavi||Dharavi police on Thursday arrested a 34-year-old man for allegedly demanding extortion from a man who was repairing his own house. The arrested accused has been identified as Maksud Khan a resident of Mahim.According to Dharavi police, Tanvir Khan, 35, runs a furniture shop in Dharavi. On September 24, Maksud visited his house and started recording video of the ongoing repair work at his residence. “When complainant asked him about the video, Maksud threatened him to file a complaint with the civic body and demanded ₹40,000. However, after bargaining, accused fixed extortion amount ₹20,000,” said a police officer from Dharavi police station.“The complainant gave him ₹15,000 as the first instalment and on September 28 he gave him ₹2,000 as the second instalment. The accused kept on demanding for the remaining ₹3,000 and threatened him that if he won’t give him the remaining amount then he will share that video with BMC,” said the officer.Tanvir then approached Dharavi police station and filed a complaint against him. Maksud is arrested, however one of his accomplices is on the run.Police registered a first information report (FIR) under section 384 (Punishment for extortion), 385 (Putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-extortion-in-mumbai-s-dharavi/story-9FdnYmG6v2hXZRLAIU9tgK.html
02-10-2020||Bhopal||‘No doctor or even peon’: MP minister finds hospital staff missing, posts video on social media||In perhaps a first in CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh government, a minister posted his comments and a video on social media on alleged mismanagement in a government hospital in his hometown. The minister was on a surprise inspection visit to the hospital in the wee hours on Friday. Minister for PWD Gopal Bhargava, one of the senior-most ministers in the cabinet, inspected the civil hospital at Garhakota, his hometown, in Sagar district of Bundelkhand region at 2.30 am, as per his comments. In his Facebook post, Bhargava said, “I had been receiving complaints from people for several days regarding the absence of doctors and other staff and also want of facilities like X-ray and medicines at the hospital. Accompanied by some people of Garhakota, I conducted a surprise inspection at the hospital at 2.30 am. I called out to the staff repeatedly but there was no doctor, compounder, nurse, paramedical staff or even the peon.”Also read: India encourages indigenous vaccine production, says PM Modi“I am just thinking how irresponsible people there are that a minister of state government is awake at 2.30 am and the staff in his hometown’s hospital is missing. There is a similar situation at a primary health centre at Rehli and the hospital at Shahpur. I have decided to inspect these hospitals at least twice in day and night whenever I am staying at my hometown and will take action against those who are found involved in such carelessness. During the pandemic time, such carelessness in emergency services like health can’t be tolerated. On one hand, a labourer is involved in hard work to earn Rs 200 per day and on the other doctors and officers taking a ‘fat salary’ of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per day are enjoying life in their air-conditioned houses,” the minister commented. Also read: Hathras - Making a mockery of the idea of justiceIn the video that the minister posted, he could be seen calling out to the staff members but all in vain as no one is seen responding to his calls before he rides a two-wheeler to get back home. State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Minister Gopal Bhargava must be appreciated for his candid admission. What he has said has corroborated the Congress’s stand that the health services in BJP government are in shambles and the government is doing nothing to address the issue”.Collector Deepak Singh said, “I have asked the chief medical and health officer (CMHO) to institute an inquiry and take action if someone is found guilty”.Commissioner, directorate of health services, Madhya Pradesh, Sanjay Goyal said, “As per CMHO, a doctor who was supposed to be on duty has told him that he and another staff were on the other side of the hospital when the minister reached there and that a delivery also took place in the night. However, since the video can’t be overlooked I have instructed the CMHO to issue a show-cause notice to the concerned staff to seek their explanation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/no-doctor-or-even-peon-mp-minister-finds-hospital-staff-missing-posts-video-on-social-media/story-y86Pb7aAzETfrkqNSPRlNO.html
02-10-2020||City||World Animal Day: Sale of meat, animal slaughter banned in Vasai-Virar on Sunday||The Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) has banned the slaughter and sale of meat in Vasai and Virar on Sunday, which is World Animal Day. The ban on meat was also imposed on October 2, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. The order also mentions that strict action will be taken against those found flouting the order.The ban order, for October 2 and October 4, by the VVMC was issued to abattoirs, meat and poultry sellers on late Thursday evening. The September 30, order was signed by Vijaykumar Dwase, deputy municipal commissioner which said that the ban was in keeping with the Animal Welfare Board of India’s (AWBI) September 2019 advisory on banning slaughter and sale of all types of meat on Gandhi Jayanti and World Animal Day. This is the first time the Vasai civic body has banned meat slaughter and sale in the twin cities.The VVMC commissioner D Gangatharan could not be reached for comment. But, Kshitij Thakur, MLA, Nalasopara, which is under the VVMC jurisdiction, said that a ban on meat for specific days is not done and unjustified. Post the ‘Congo fever’ alert in the Palghar district, including Vasai-Virar, has led to fear about the consumption of meat and poultry products. An alert has been issued by Dr Manek Gursale,Palghar district collector, to all meat sellers and cattle feeders after cases of Congo fever, feared to be spreading from animals to humans through ticks and external parasites, has been reported in Valsad and Surat districts in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-animal-day-sale-of-meat-animal-slaughter-banned-in-vasai-virar-on-sunday/story-j0tqBA9fm1wkks5VjVwGSJ.html
02-10-2020||City||September saw 44% of all Covid-19 deaths in Ludhiana||Since the first Covid-19 death on March 29, 741 Ludhiana residents have succumbed to the virus, with September accounting for 44.5% of all fatalities so far.The figure was slightly more than the 323 casualties recorded in August. However, both months have more deaths each, compared to the last five months combined.March had recorded one death, followed by three in April and five in May. As the borders reopened and curfew restrictions were eased in June, allowing public to venture out and businesses to reopen, the Covid positive cases shot up and fatalities rose to 12 in a month. The situation worsened in July with 67 deaths, but the fatalities shot up by a whopping four times in August (323) and September (330).Besides the 330 deaths, the cases also surged massively from 3,246 on July 31 to 10,222 on August 31 and 18,087 as on October 1 – a jump of over five times.SOME RESPITEThe number of deaths peaked on September 15, when 19 fatalities were recorded in a single day – the highest 24-hour spike so far.However, these reduced to 15 the next day, followed by 12 each over the next three days.After five deaths on September 20, the number of fatalities in the last 10 days of the month remained in single digits, with the exception of September 23 and 29, when 11 and 12 casualties, respectively, were recorded.A total of 1.31 lakh samples were tested across the district in September, against the 1.39 lakh samples collected in August.ON THE ROAD TO RECOVERYThere were 37 patients on ventilator support at various hospitals at the beginning of September, but the number came down to 27 by the 30th.Besides, there were 1,746 active cases in Ludhiana on September 1, which came down to 1,051 by the end of the month, and further to 886 on October 2.Similarly, a total of 8,261 patients recovered in September, which is equal to the total number of recoveries recorded from March to July at 8,079. As of October 2, the cured patients are numbered at 16,559, and 50% of these were discharged in September alone.Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said while the number of daily deaths was coming down, there was no room for complacency. “It is an optimistic trend, but we have to still keep our guards up and take all precautions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/september-saw-44-of-all-covid-19-deaths-in-ludhiana/story-kfHJuVjLLIMpXtB11YpTeM.html
02-10-2020||City||Biker shot in leg, robbed of ₹2,600 cash, mobile phone in Ludhiana||Three motorcycle-borne man shot at a factory worker and robbed him of Rs 2,600 in cash and a mobile phone on the 33 Futta Road in Jamalpur on Thursday night. The bullet hit the victim, Sanjay Singh, 44, in the right leg, landing him in the hospital. His condition is stated to be stable.In his statement to the police, Sanjay, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar, said he was returning home on his motorcycle after wrapping up work for the day. When he reached the 33 Futta Road, three men on a motorcycle waylaid him and brandished a pistol and sharp-edged weapons. They demanded his cash and mobile phone.When he resisted, they assaulted him and shot him in the right leg. As he collapsed in pain, the robbers snatched his Rs 2,600 in cash, some documents and a mobile phone.Hearing his cries for help, some commuters stopped and rushed him to the hospital.Sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had registered a case under Sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life of personal safety of others) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code at the Jamalpur police station. “The robbery was captured in a CCTV camera installed near the crime scene. We are working to identify and nab the accused,” he added.NO LET-UP IN ROBBERIESSeptember 23: Four masked men robbed a factory worker of Rs 8 lakh in cash after throwing chilli powder in his eyes near Partap ChowkSeptember 23: Seven men on two motorcycles robbed a civil contractor of Rs 1.5 lakh in cash near his house on Chimni Road, Shimlapuri. Three of the robbers have been nabbedSeptember 23: Four men on two motorcycles opened fire at a 40-year-old man after he tried to evade being robbedSeptember 22: Four miscreants snatched Rs 4.43 lakh from a factory owner in Shimlapuri. The victim had a narrow escape after the accused shot at himSeptember 21: Unidentified men attacked a motorcyclist with an iron rod, smashing his helmet at Katani Kalan village. After the victim fell on the road, the assailants took away his Rs 25,000 in cash and mobile phoneSeptember 14: A factory owner was robbed of Rs 5.57 lakh in cash near Miller Ganj. Police solved the case with the arrest of the accused, including his employeeSeptember 1: A 75-year-old man was robbed of Rs 2.8 lakh in cash at gunpoint outside IndusInd Bank on Gill Road. The case was cracked with the arrest of his colleague and his accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-shot-in-leg-robbed-of-2-600-cash-mobile-phone-in-ludhiana/story-kv7vu1pridn8SRMweRnC6I.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Young artists have to paint a picture of positivity||Survival a challengeArtists need social support to sustain themselves. This cannot be more evident than in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many artists, both from performing as well as visual arts, are struggling to strike a balance between the idealist call from within to put in efforts to ‘comfort the disturbed’ on the one hand and with the challenge to sustain themselves without exhibitions, performances or shootings. That said, even before the pandemic, no system existed to extend financial support to the artists either in exchange for their services or as a token to encourage them. Even when it comes to selection of art pieces for shows, those who specialise in realism and have an excellent grip over their mediums get rejected as contemporary art is given preference, even though it has a vague and subjective basis. KanwaljeetDon’t be tricity-centricThere are certain points which the akademi needs to focus on: 1.For the whole calendar year whatever the akademi plans is tricity-centric. This should change. 2.Only two events take place for artists – the annual state exhibition and the Sohan Quadri fellowship. More often than not, artists who know the right people in the art circles are selected. There is no well thought out plan to reach out to all artists, especially raw, young talent, and encourage them to participate. 3.The artists’ directory is still pending for the last three years. 4.The akademi has failed to find or support new talent to introduce and elevate them. 5.The art authorities do not send any communication to Punjab artists regarding art activities and workshops. Parveen Kumar Help those who need it the mostYes, artists have been struggling during the pandemic, especially the freelancers. Students need to be taught marketing skills. Action needs to be taken and from corporates to known names in the field, everyone should reach out to the struggling artists .  Kulpinder Sharma Learnings from couture weekThe success of the India Couture Week 2020 proves that the digital medium can be used effectively in communicating with a vast audience, minus hierarchy. Stakeholders in the arts should focus on digital shows. The Government Art College too should introduce various disciplines, including marketing along with communication to help budding artists showcase their work. Nepotism is the bane of the modern world, but nothing can hide true talent. SK Khosla Why not virual art shows?Artists have no work during the pandemic and it’s time the government announced measures to help them, including virtual art shows and scholarship programmes. Corporates too should step in and offer support to talented young persons. Many of them are suffering hardships. An artist friend of mine has started doing tattoos. I have been lucky because I have another business, but not being able to paint has been very painful. Surinder Kwatra Creativity makes the world go roundMany of us tend to think of art as something of a luxury, but it’s more than that. Artists open the doors for us to an imaginary world, something grander to look forward to. But how many of us understand the problems artists have been facing during the pandemic? People feel art is not a basic necessity but in these times it’s important for us to understand that “art is an effort to create, besides a real world, a more humane world.” And only when we understand this we save our artists and enable them to keep creating objects of beauty, even in these trying times. Ashish BhattacharjeeFame embraces those who work hardWhere there is a will there is a way. No nepotism exists in the tricity art scene. Any artist can achieve fame by working hard. Being innovative, adopting new techniques and learning from the great masters will always stand them in good stead.Remember,success demands perseverance.Sumesh Kumar BadhwarGovt support requiredThere is no dearth of talent but the neglectful attitude of art academies towards budding artists is a problem. The bureaucracy is now handling the affairs of art institutes. Scholarships and other sources of financial help are mostly extended / available only to those who are or know influential people in the art scene. However, in times like this, freelance artists should be supported by the academies and the ministries, and provided financial support by way of workshops and camps. Vigyan Vrat Creative expression smothered Nepotism exists in the very fabric of the society and art is no exception. Many talented artists have given up due to this social malaise. Though there is no hard proof of up and coming artists being treated badly, one does hear about the existence of this evil practice smothering creative expression. Those with power and influence everywhere favour friends and family members. To stop this, the intelligentsia and others in society have to come forward and raise a collective voice against any form of nepotism. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhNo promoting family or friendsThe Chandigarh administration should come out with a policy disallowing any person in authority in the field of art from promoting a family member or close friend.Avinash GoyalHard work paysPeople do not decide whether they deserve a chance, but God always opens doors to those who can prove themselves. Only a few from the art field have achieved fame. Artists need to understand that this is a field where only talent and hard work survives. No one can stop them from chasing their dreams if they work hard consistently. Ishita Nara Don’t depend on vagaries of the market‘Omnis ars naturae imitatio est’(all art is imitation of nature) and ‘ars est celare artem’(art lies in concealing art). The superb pieces of art -- human beings-- are created in the womb, hidden away from the world.When art is commercialised, it is dependent on the vagaries of the market, where fair means or foul and merit or nepotism are unavoidable if one has to stay ahead of the game. However, sooner than later, excellence does speak for itself and for it to thrive, tricity artists must be motivated and encouraged to exhibit their talent through various fora. Budding artists need motivation with incentives.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaExplore options for international tie-upsBudding artists need to be guided by their colleges about the opportunities they can avail of in future. The government should provide them a platform by holding exhibitions at regular intervals not only to showcase their talent but to help them earn a better living too and achieve success in their field. Options for international tie-ups and collaborations should also be explored. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliCannot promote a family memberI think there can be “favouritism” in theatre and art but certainly not “nepotism”. There’s a difference between the two. We do show preferential treatment to a person or a group of persons in both these cases. In “favouritism” we support someone who may or may not be related to us whereas in “nepotism” we support someone who is either a friend or related to us - using power or money unfairly. Art has no place for nepotism. Gurpreet S Malhotra, KansalPhilanthropists must step upUnlike in Delhi or Mumbai, which are cities with an abundance of private art galleries, public exhibition centres and art lovers, the tricity is totally dependent on the patronage of a few ‘experts.’ Moreover, the gestation period for an artist to establish himself or herself is very long. Hence, there is a need for city philanthropists, including businessmen and industrialists to support budding talent. We need to open up places like the Sector 17 Central Vista and Kalagram for new artists to display their works. This does not mean that artists will not have to struggle, but new avenues will definitely open up for them. The Government College of Art should also simultaneously, open a permanent display hall for struggling artists. The College can charge a percentage fee on all sales, like Sotheby’s for this. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur Merit countsWell connected galleries that choose to go by their family names exhibit the power to make or break young artistes’ independent careers and have become enthusiastic promoters of a selected few while others are found jockeying for attention on social media to build their brands as artists. The need of the hour is to provide equal opportunity based on merit or calibre and demystify the creative tension between emerging and established artists. Art fair committees need to be ethically structured and accountability by these diverse stakeholders should be deemed necessary. Komal Singh, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-young-artists-have-to-paint-a-picture-of-positivity/story-xbwZMtN48GWKCT5UJYOzTL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hospital chosen under Centre’s programme to provide thalassaemia treatment||Christian Medical College and Hospital has been chosen as one of the eight centres in India for thalassemia treatment and bone marrow transplantation by the ministry of health and family welfare in collaboration with Coal India’s haematopoietic stem cell transplantation programme titled “Thalassaemia Bal Sewa Yojana”. Dr William Bhatti, director of CMCH, said that through this programme, financial aid will be provided to underprivileged thalassemia patients who have a matching sibling donor, but do not have the financial resources to cover the cost of the procedure. The department of clinical haematology, haematooncology and bone marrow (stem cell) transplantation was started in 2007 and the transplant programme started in 2008. So far, the institution has performed 185 transplants with more than 80 transplant for thalassemia patients. A total of Rs 20 crore has been allotted for the entire project. The initial Rs 2 crore will be given as a first instalment and the second instalment will be released after the hospital submits UC of 75% of the amount provided. Further details and eligibility criteria and inclusion of patients will be announced after the official signing of the agreement. The other centres included in the project are CMC Vellore, SGPGI Lucknow, PGIMER, AIIMS New Delhi, RGCI Delhi, TMC Kolkata and Narayana Hrudayalaya, Bangalore. Dr M Joseph John, said, “The grant provides hope to those battling these disorders, and illustrates a strong desire by Coal India Limited, to help improve the quality of life of thalassemia patients in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-hospital-chosen-under-centre-s-programme-to-provide-thalassemia-treatment/story-uyqJ9E8YaixOS1ikBy8mwM.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew, Sunday curbs removed: Shopkeepers in Ludhiana breathe a sigh of relief ahead of festivals||With the state government abolishing night curfew and Sunday lockdown restrictions after 192 days (since March 23), shopkeepers in the city have finally breathed a sigh of relief.Following the announcement on Thursday, shop owners now hope that the business will be back on track ahead of the upcoming festival season. Amarjit Singh, president of the Model Town Market Association,said, “It is a welcome step by the state government as the traders were reeling under losses due to the night curfew and Sunday lockdown restrictions. Also, the decision to increase gathering limit at events to 100 is an appreciable step as now, weddings can be organised, and people will visit markets.”Citing losses incurred by traders due to low footfall in the markets, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had earlier warned the government of an agitation if the restrictions are not removed by October 1. General secretary Sunil Mehra and district president Arvinder Makkar said, “Traders were under extreme pressure due to the losses. Now, they will be able to open shops normally with no night curfew restrictions in place. This move by the state government will certainly bring business back on track during the upcoming festival season.”Mehra added that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should conduct a meeting with the traders associations to provide more relief in terms of electricity bills, VAT refunds etc. A shopkeeper in the Ghumar Mandi market area, Babanpreet Singh, said, “The government has finally provided relief to the shopkeepers as large number of customers visit the markets on Sundays only. The traders were seeking abolition of Sunday lockdown restrictions for long time and this comes as a major relief.”Manpreet Singh Bunti, president of Akalgarh Market Garment Association, said, “Most of the customers from other districts visited wholesale markets of the city only on weekends. With Sunday lockdown restrictions in place, our business was hit badly.” Hospitality sector, restaurants welcome relaxations on gathering limitReeling under heavy losses, the hospitality sector has lauded the state government’s decision to increase gathering limit at events from 30 to 100 people. The owners of marriage palaces, restaurants, hotels and tent dealers have been seeking an increase the gathering limit for a long time and agitations were also held by tent dealers association in the past. The owners rued that no bookings are being made as it is impossible to arrange a wedding with just 30 people. President of Marriage Palaces Welfare Association, Amarjit Singh, said, “The state government has provided much needed relief to the sector as our business has been shut since the imposition of curfew on March 23. Now, we have started receiving enquiries from residents and we also expect that the state government will further increase the limit as per directions of the union government. With these restrictions in place, we were not even being able to meet fixed expenses.” Restaurant are also expected to be back on track with abolition of night curfew restrictions. Owner of Basant restaurants, Bhupinder Basant said, “This decision to abolish night curfew restrictions will surely increase the footfall in the restaurants as most customers visit restaurants after 8pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-curfew-sunday-curbs-removed-shopkeepers-in-ludhiana-breathe-sigh-of-relief-ahead-of-festivals/story-mWsO4CIM7IOZJq2yFEluxJ.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Garbage on fire went on for hours, agencies unsure who doused it||A major fire broke out near the fragile flood zone of the Hindon river, adjacent to the Hindon elevated road on Friday. According to residents, the fire lasted for many hours until the fire department doused it -- or at least that is what they thought.The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) claims that they informed the fire department, and the city municipal corporation confirmed that they went along with the fire officials to douse it. The fire department, on the other hand, said neither did they receive any information, nor did they go to the spot. The area is an illegal dumping ground and despite many attempts to control it, it continues unabated. Environmentalists in the area say that many such incidents had been reported from the area in the past few years that have contributed to worsening air quality. “The fire is usually lit by some miscreants in the area, either those who are dumping the waste or scrap collectors or some others. The area is full of flammable material and the fire soon goes out of control,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. “Today’s fire started early morning near river Hindon and raged on for hours before it came to our notice. The UPPCB officials were alerted about the incident and thereafter, the fire was doused.”“We had informed both the corporation and the fire department. The corporation officials said that by the time their sanitary inspector went to the spot, the fire had already been doused,” Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP pollution control board.“Our staff went along with the fire department officials and doused the fire,” said Mithlesh Kumar Singh, city health officer of the municipal corporation.“I confirmed with the two fire stations at Kotwali and Sahibabad, we did not receive information about the fire near the elevated road. So, none of our fire tenders went to the spot,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.So who doused the fire?“I am deputing one officer to get the fire incident inquired and also directing Ghaziabad development authority and the municipal corporation to take responsibility of any fire incidents in their respective jurisdiction areas,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.In 2015, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed that those violating garbage dumping norms be fined ₹20,000 and also told authorities to take strict action in this regard. “We have time and again raised the issue and despite the directions in our petition the instances of burning of garbage near the river have not stopped. In February, there was yet another massive fire in the area and fire tenders had to be called. The fires are generally ignited by ragpickers and scrap dealers who dump waste and flee,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. “Since the Raj Nagar Extension is an open area, dumping of garbage and fire at dumps are common occurrence. The fires not only damage the flood plains but also give rise to air pollution which is already on higher side in the city.”“In September, we had four incidents of fire reported in the city,” said UPPCB’s Utsav Sharma “We will impose Rs 5000 penalty in case of a spot fire and Rs 25000 in case bulk waste is set afire. One more complaint of spot fire was received on Friday and we imposed Rs 5000 penalty.”Ghaziabad is on the list of 15 cities in Uttar Pradesh with high levels of air pollution. According to the figures of the UPPCB, the city in 2019 recorded 31 days with “severe” category of air on the air quality index (AQI). It had 67 days with “very poor” air and 112 days with “poor” AQI. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” In his recent visit to Ghaziabad on September 19 and later in a review meeting, Bhure Lal – the chairperson of the Environment (Pollution and Control) Authority (EPCA) had directed Ghaziabad officials to put curbs on burning of waste in wake of approaching winter season when air pollution increases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/garbage-on-fire-went-on-for-hours-agencies-unsure-who-doused-it/story-tLR1wnWyu0Lv4ZXUG30rHI.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Factory owners’ family held hostage, armed robbers with accomplices in police uniform flee with cash and gold worth ₹50 lakh||A gang of armed robbers, including two in police uniform, held a family in Modinagar hostage early Friday and fled with ₹2.35 lakh and jewellery items estimated to be worth ₹50 to 60 lakh. An FIR has been registered at the Modinagar police station. The incident took place around 3AM on Friday when 45-year-old Samir Siddiqui was sleeping in his house at Kidwai Nagar and several men knocked on the door of the house. When his mother, Sanjeeda Khatoon, opened the door, five-six men barged in, oh which two were in police uniform. “My mother was shocked to see the group of men along with two policemen. When she asked the reason, they said that there has been a case of ATM theft and the looted cash is suspected to be hidden at our house. Soon, the two men and the others came up to the first floor and knocked on the door of the room where I, my wife, our two children and my eight-year-old niece were sleeping,” Siddiqui said. Siddiqui runs a factory in the Modinagar industrial area which is engaged in manufacturing weighing scales for commercial vehicles. “I was taken by surprise and asked them the reason, or whether they had any search warrant. They said that a group of police were sitting at the house of the local councillor and had sent them for a search at my house. Soon, they started searching and opened up almirahs and started collecting cash and jewellery items. When I objected, they pointed guns towards my family. It was then that I realised they were robbers,” he added. The gang later tied the hands of the family with cloth and pushed them into a room. “The men were wearing masks usually used as a precaution for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. At least three of them had guns and one had an axe. He told us not to raise our voice, else they will kill my children – son aged two and daughter aged four years. We pleaded with them not to harm anyone and we will keep quiet. They took away ₹2.35 lakh in cash and jewellery which is estimated to be around ₹50-60 lakh. The jewellery belonged to my mother, my wife and my two sisters. I will give an assessment to the police,” he added. According to the family, the robbers were in the house for about 30 to 45 minutes. They added that some locals came by during the early-morning prayer hours and were shocked to see the family tied up. The family was freed and the police were informed. The police on their part maintained that there were four robbers and registered an FIR under IPC sections for robbery and cheating at the Modinagar police station. It should be noted here that in an incident involving more than four robbers, a case of dacoity under IPC section 395 is to be registered. This section carries more stringent punishment.“We lodged the FIR based on the complaint given by the family. If there are more than four robbers involved, we will add appropriate sections to the investigation. We visited the family to get details of the incident and teams have been formed to trace the criminals. So far, we have no clues. The estimate of the jewellery robbed will be given by the family,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, circle officer (Modinagar). Two arrested for dacoity at Avantika The police early Friday arrested two suspects who allegedly looted the family of a departmental store owner on the intervening night of August 22 and 23. The police identified the two suspects as Mohammad Suman, resident of Shastri Park, and Khurshid Alam, a resident of Mayur Vihar, both in Delhi. Soon after the incident, police had levied IPC section 392 (robbery) to the initial FIR but they arrested the suspects under IPC section 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity). “About three-four members of the gang are absconding and they will be arrested soon. We have recovered ₹21,500 which they looted from the house, and some documents. The gang targets houses near railway tracks,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). The two suspects were arrested from the railway crossing near Avantika at 3am on Friday. “The robbers who were arrested admitted that there were three-four other accomplices with them during the robbery. So, IPC section 395 (Dacoity) is now levied in the case,” Verma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/factory-owners-family-held-hostage-armed-robbers-with-accomplices-in-police-uniform-flee-with-cash-and-gold-worth-50-lakh/story-Q30Ta8PDNN9cG3J3Affe0N.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Noida observes Gandhi Jayanti by making ‘art’ out of waste||Noida authority on Friday celebrated Gandhi Jayanti and Rashtriya Swachhta Divas by engaging residents with creative activities of making art works out of waste. It also started an initiative- ‘Trash to Treasure’ and ‘Bin to Beauty’ with an aim to spread awareness about the need to recycle waste.The events were mostly online keeping in mind the health protocols in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic.Residents made art out of the waste and shared it with the authority online, which then selected three best entries for the prize. However, interested residents can participate by submitting their applications online till October 9, 4pm and organise events at city parks or other public places with the support from the authority.“The entries received till now majorly consist of small art forms developed at a domestic level. We are looking for initiatives done more at a public level or developed at a public site including public parks, green belts or at your own place that could be installed at a public place. In case of any assistance required for approaching a public place, the participants can also get in touch with officials of our Public Health Department,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.On Friday the authority selected three entries for prize out of total 27 participants in this initiative. However since very few people participated in this activity the authority decided to extend the date for participation till October 9.The authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari awarded first prise to Smriti Snehi and Manish Kumar from Sector 92, 2nd prize to Envirocare Ventures, Sector 50, and 3rd prize was won by Anita Joshi of B25, Sector 51. The authority also honoured its sanitation employees.“As we started the initiative only two days before October 2 very few people could become aware of this campaign and only 27 participated. But now we hope that the residents will join this initiative and do their bit. We want to spread a message that we can recycle the waste material and contribute to ecology,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, heading the public health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-observes-gandhi-jayanti-by-making-art-out-of-waste/story-5DqLnJOOaiicw5RnEJz9OM.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Noida’s garment industry pins high hopes on upcoming film city||Noida’s garment industry, which presently caters to 70% of the designer attire requirement of the film industry in Mumbai valued over Rs 300 crore every year, has high hopes from the proposed infotainment city in Gautam Budh Nagar district. The industry employs 800,000 workers from different parts of the country. The pandemic had hit the industry hard, as many workers left for their homes in other districts and other states. It also suffered a loss of ₹2,000 crore due to slackening demand. However, there has been some pick up in sales since the easing of restrictions and the new project, along with the apparel hub coming up in sector-29, the industry is looking forward to a favourable season.Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida apparel export cluster (NAEC), said that they export garment worth over ₹25,000 crore every year. “We cater to everyone in Bollywood -- from the small to the big stars. It is a matter of pride for us that the garment products of Noida fulfil about 70% demand of apparel from film industry in Mumbai,” he said. He said the proposed infotainment city in the Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) area, is expected to increase demand vy over ₹1,000 crore. “We also suggested to the Noida authority to develop a fashion hub in sector 32. It can also be converted later into fashion street, which can promote GB Nagar’s ‘one district, one product (ODOP)’,” he said. Exporter Manoj Sahoo said that the proposed infotainment city will create a huge employment and investment opportunities for the garment industry. “Over 500,000-strong work force will be needed for the mega apparel Park, which is coming up soon at Sector-29 near Yamuna Expressway. It will also attract investment of over ₹5,000 crore. The Yeida has already initiated the process of land allotment to investors to set up nearly 150 apparel units there,” he said. When contacted, Yeida CEO Arun Veer Singh, also said that upcoming mega apparel park and the infotainment city near Yamuna expressway, will create bigger employment opportunities for garment industry in GB Nagar. “It will also expect to attract many foreign investors in this sector. These projects will take the district on the global map,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-garment-industry-pins-high-hopes-on-upcoming-film-city/story-v2kOXklhpn10sfdNLxci3J.html
02-10-2020||Noida||One killed, another injured in accident on Noida elevated road||A 21-year-old man died while his friend was injured when the motorcycle they were travelling was allegedly hit by a truck near the Noida elevated road.The victim was identified as Prem Kumar, from Bihar’s Samastipur who lived with his family in Gijhore village in Noida, while the pillion rider was identified as Mohammad Azar, also from Bihar.According to the complaint filed by Prem’s family, the two were on their way to an open gym in a nearby park when the accident occurred around 6.30am.“The truck came out of nowhere and my son was crushed beneath it. He died on the spot,” alleged Manoj Kumar, the victim’s father in his complaint.Based on his complaint, a case was registered at the Sector 24 police station for negligence and rash driving by the truck driver.According to police, the accident occurred at the exit of the elevated road near Iskcon temple.“The truck was getting off the exit while the motorcycle was going from Gijhore to the sector 31-25 intersection. The two vehicles crashed head on and the victim was trapped under the heavier vehicle, due to which he was crushed. The pillion rider fell to the other side and only got a few scratches,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, sector 24 police station.The SHO said that Prem was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. His body was then sent for an autopsy.Meanwhile, the driver of the truck, which was registered to Haryana, managed to flee.“We are on the lookout for him and will nab him soon. The truck was seized from the spot itself,” said the officer.Police said that no helmets were found at the spot suggesting that the two men were not wearing any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-killed-another-injured-in-accident-on-noida-elevated-road/story-9REDM46v2U4lgyRWsBvF5M.html
02-10-2020||Noida||SHO’s fake social media profile used to defraud people; probe underway||A fake social media profile of a station house officer (SHO), posted in Noida Central, is being used to attempt to defraud people into giving monetary donations, the police said.The SHO in question is unwell and is undergoing treatment for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Delhi. However, a few days back, a social media account carrying a photograph of the SHO and his details started doing rounds.Police said that the person operating the account contacted a few of the SHO’s contacts on the social media account and started asking for monetary favours.“During the chats, the suspect told them that he needed money. The amount asked was around ₹20,000. As the SHO concerned is unwell, he was unable to take calls of his friends to clarify the situation for a while. However, one of them later approached the Noida police. We have brought this case to the notice of the cyber cell, which is looking into the matter,” said a Noida police official asking not to be named.People shared screenshots of the chats with the fake account in order to further alert people of the deception, said the police. Cyber cell officials said a probe in the matter is underway.“We are working on tracing the person behind the fake profile. A request has been sent to the social media company’s office in the US and with the response from there, we will nab the culprit,” said Baljeet Singh, inspector, Noida cyber cell.He said this particular modus operandi of creating fake profiles and then targeting the victim’s friends is becoming quite common.“Profiles of police personnel, government officials, etc., are made and then people are targeted. There is no administering authority for the internet so impersonating almost anyone is not an issue for these kinds of criminals,” said Singh.He said a complaint has been received from an acquaintance of the SHO and the matter is being looked into, said officials. However, an FIR has not been registered yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sho-s-fake-social-media-profile-used-to-defraud-people-probe-underway/story-r0gsjiNyS9M6WVtWt6YuqI.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Two men arrested in Dadri for smuggling liquor||The police on Thursday arrested two suspected liquor smugglers after an “encounter” in Dadri.The suspects were identified as Hardeep Kumar, a resident of Fatehgarh in Punjab, and Hakim Yadav, a resident of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. The police said they recovered 350 cartons of illegal liquor which the suspects were transporting to West Bengal from Ambala in Haryana in a truck.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the two suspects were arrested after an “encounter” on Thursday night. “The police team received a tip about the movement of liquor smugglers in Dadri. A team was deployed near Dadri bypass road to intercept the suspects. Two suspects arrived at the spot in a truck loaded with illegal liquor. The police signaled them to stop for checking, but the two tried to escape after opening fire at the police team,” he said.The police said they chased the suspects and forced them to stop. The suspects then abandoned the trunk and tried to run away. Singh said that the police team opened fire in which the two suspects were injured in their legs and were then apprehended.“The police team checked the truck and found 350 cartons of illegal liquor. The suspects were transporting the illegal liquor from Ambala to West Bengal to sell them at inflated rates. The police asked them to show documents, but they failed to do so,” he said. The liquor seized is estimated to be worth ₹25 lakh.The police have seized the truck, illegal liquor, and a country-made gun from their possession. “The suspects have been sent to the district hospital for medical treatment. They will be produced in court and sent to jail once they are discharged from hospital,” Singh said.The police suspect some more people are involved in the liquor smuggling racket and a search is on to arrest more suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-men-arrested-in-dadri-for-smuggling-liquor/story-mOA4vC0r85Ky5Ukr5oNBvM.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad achieves target of conducting 6,000 Covid tests daily||As new coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases continue to be reported, daily testing has been ramped up to more than 6,000 tests per day in Ghaziabad district. According to health officials, with this increase in testing they will be able to cover more suspected cases. They said it will also help in early detection and early referral in order to control the spread of the pandemic. According to official records, the district conducted 5,802 tests on September 29, and 6,025 tests on September 30, besides 6,014 on October 1. The overall 1,16,842 tests conducted in September have been the highest conducted in a single month since March in Ghaziabad.“The daily testing in the district has reached 6,000, the highest single day figure since March. We have deployed additional teams for this. It is not only the additional deployment, but the teams are properly monitored every day which is helping achieve this. Officers deputed for the purpose monitor the working hours of the teams and ensure that they leave for the testing centres at a specified time and also submit records in a timely manner,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.“As we have reached the daily testing figure of 6,000 per day, we will now try to scale it up further,” he added. The district in August conducted 92,384 tests. According to official figures of October 1, the district completed 3,20,449 overall tests so far, which include 1,90,090 tests conducted through rapid antigen kits. The rapid kits were introduced in the district on June 26 and they now have a share of 59.31% in overall testing. “Testing is done at 20 centres which also include mobile vans, mobile teams, etc. We have also issued 200 each of rapid antigen kits to 10 private hospitals which are providing paid Covid treatment. At private hospitals, testing through rapid kits is free. The hospitals also submit us daily records of tests. When the lot of 200 finishes, we issued more,” said an official from the district health department, not authorised to speak with the media. “As per directions from the government, we are now conducting one-third of our daily tests with the help of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests which are the gold standard to detect Covid. We have also deployed more lab technicians in our teams and this has also helped in increased testing,” the health official quoted above added. According to the state control room records of October 2, Ghaziabad has overall 14,588 Covid-19 cases so far which include 12,545 patients discharged and 78 deaths. Medical experts said that with the increased testing, the health department should continue to focus on the strategy of ‘test, track, treat and isolate’ in order to curb the fatality rate. “Since there were resources available for increased testing in the district, the focus should be more for 100% testing in containment zones. Since the containment zones have been narrowed down with micro containment zones, the smaller population can be tested 100%. This will help us find our more suspected cases and they can easily be filtered out,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “Further, a part of the overall testing should also be conducted randomly for high risk groups which include healthcare workers, police personnel, senior citizens, etc. This will also help us check the spread of infection,” Dr Jindal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-achieves-target-of-conducting-6-000-covid-tests-daily/story-5Zp9RcgnrE4oMrgu9ohhyM.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Two more arrested for the double murder of property dealers in Greater Noida West||The Bisrakh police on Friday arrested two more suspects who were wanted in the double murder case of two property dealers in a high-rise society in Greater Noida west on September 7. The suspects were identified as Ramesh, 35, a resident of Rohtak, and Niranjan, 34, a resident of Faridabad. Niranjan is a convicted criminal in a murder case and was out on parole, said the police. The police had arrested two other prime suspects – Mohit Vats and his uncle Suresh Sharma on –September 12 in the case. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that Mohit had allegedly hired two sharpshooters and the two arrested persons, and plotted and executed the murder of property dealers Dal Chand Sharma and his friend Arun Tyagi in Ajnara Le Garden society’s parking on September 7 over personal enmity. “On Friday, the Bisrakh police received information about the two suspects’ presence in Greater Noida west. A police team reached the spot and arrested the two suspects,” he said. Chander said Dal Chand allegedly had personal enmity with Mohit, the alleged mastermind of the crime. On September 7 evening, Dal Chand and Arun were seated in the former’s Tata Harrier SUV in the parking lot of a high-rise society when two sharpshooters - Tek Chand and Daya Chand – approached them and sprayed bullets from both the front windows. Dal Chand received seven bullets and died on the spot while Tyagi received three bullets and was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Varun Tyagi, Arun’s brother, had filed a complaint at the Bisrakh police station and a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC was registered. Chander said ten years ago, Dal Chand’s father was chosen as the head of his village in Faridabad and a rivalry allegedly ensued with Mohit’s family due to the election. In the past, Dal Chand’s elder brother Rajendra Sharma and Mohit’s elder brother Krishna used to work in partnership. However, their relationship turned sour and they parted ways. In 2011, Krishna allegedly killed Rajendra and his friend, one Kapil, in Haryana. In 2017, Dal Chand allegedly killed Krishna in Mathura to avenge his brother’s death, the DCP said.He said Mohit allegedly hired these suspects and two sharpshooters, and got Dal Chand and Arun murdered as revenge. “Ramesh and Niranjan were wanted in five criminal cases registered in Bisrakh and Faridabad. They had helped rope in the sharpshooters for the double murder. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-more-arrested-for-the-double-murder-of-property-dealers-in-greater-noida-west/story-quf05YJqxsi1l1o5L2hAJL.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire at shopping complex in Thane, none injured||A major fire broke out at a shopping complex in Hiranandani Estate along the Ghodbunder Road in Thane on Friday morning.The fire, which gutted around eight shops in the complex, was doused four hours after it began. The reason for the fire was unknown and no one was injured. Three fire engines, two rescue vehicles and three water tankers were sent to the spot to contain the blaze.As per the fire officials, the fire broke out in a wine shop in Arcadia Shopping Mall around 8.10 am on Friday morning. The eight shops on the ground floor which include a wine shop, medical shops, stationery and gift shops, hardware, mobile repair and sweet shops were damaged.Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC, Thane, said, “Eye witnesses informed that the fire broke in the wine shop due to a short circuit but our team is yet to ascertain the source. It took four hours to douse the fire. It was brought under control at around 12.30 pm. The enclosed space of the shopping complex made access difficult for the fire vehicles leading to the spread of fire.”A fire brigade official said, “All the shops in the complex were closed when the fire began, so it spread rapidly inside the complex. We are trying to find the reason behind the fire.” Amit Jadeja, 42, owner of one of the shops, Shreeji Telecom, was the first to reach the spot after a watchman in the nearby building informed him about the fire.He said, “I stay near the shop and therefore I received a call from some of my friends and a watchman that they saw few sparks near the wine shop. I immediately reached the spot and called the wine shop owner. Till he came, there were three four sparks and fire started spreading to other shops. We could not open the wine shop to douse the fire and called the fire brigade. My shop is safe as it was five shops away from the fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-at-shopping-complex-in-thane-none-injured/story-7ksoRNvfQC8lH48iWX4gwJ.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan to get rehab centre for treatment after Covid recovery||For most symptomatic Covid-19 patients, getting discharged from a hospital is merely half the battle won. The real challenge lies in the post-infection relief and rehabilitation. To assist in this, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will soon start post-Covid rehabilitation facilities.This will be a voluntary day-care service for patients who are facing breathing problems post Covid treatment. The civic body has tied up with Indian Medical Association’s Kalyan chapter for this initiative. It will initially have one centre in Kalyan, and depending on the response, will start more such centres.A similar Covid rehab centre is set up in Hyderabad. Pune will also get a rehab centre by next week.A 38-year-old working professional from Khadakpada in Kalyan recovered from Covid about 20 days ago. He is still experiencing breathing difficulty. “I was in ICU for almost a fortnight although my Covid tests were negative. I was under observation for another five days after which I was discharged. I do not have any other problems but if I go about my daily tasks, I experience breathlessness. I called a pulmonary specialist, who suggested certain breathing exercises. I am feeling better now,” he said.He said that a Covid rehab centre might help patients in a big way. Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “There are many patients who have breathing troubles even after recovering from Covid. Through our rehabilitation facility, physiotherapists will guide them with breathing exercises. They will also be provided with various equipments within the centre to train and exercise.”The initiative was put forth by the Indian Medical Association’s Kalyan chapter and will be implemented in co-ordination with the KDMC.“Three weeks ago, there was a Covid positive patient who recovered. However, he still faced difficulty in breathing. He was in ICU for 21 days. His Covid reports were negative and had no other health issues, so as per protocol we had to discharge him. He could avail the portable oxygen cylinder to ease his breathing at home. However, such patients also need pulmonary physiotherapy, which is not known to many. Hence, we doctors at IMA put forth the idea to the civic body to come up with a post-Covid care facility where such provisions can be made for the patients,” said Dr Prashant Patil, Secretary, IMA, Kalyan.As of now, the civic body has finalised Mahajanwadi hall, near Sahajanand Chowk in Kalyan for the post-Covid care facility. This will start from the coming week and as per response from the people, the centres will be increased in different parts of the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli. This is a voluntary provision for those who are facing breathing problems post-Covid treatment. The hour-long session will cost Rs 100 for the patients. Around eight pulmonary physiotherapists from IMA Kalyan are supporting this initiative.Dr Manisha Lal, physiotherapist (cardio-pulmonary), said, “Often patients post 18 years of age develop fibrosis in the lungs due to low oxygen levels during Covid treatment. Such patients require physiotherapy to get their lungs to normalcy, we plan to provide them two sessions of a basic breathing course after around 17 days of getting discharged.“They can continue with the basic course at home for the next 15 days. We shall teach them the advanced course depending on the progress of their lungs, the advanced course includes exercises that are done along with the daily routine as well. These can then be continued at home by the patients. If they face any other problems they can come forward anytime to the facility and we shall guide them.”The hall in Kalyan currently finalised for the facility consists of a seating capacity of 40 to 50 people. They will have a standby ambulance and oxygen supplies available in case of any emergency. This will be a day-care facility where patients can visit as per the appointment. Apart from providing the basic and advanced breathing exercises, the doctors will also continuously monitor the health and progress of the patients.“It is essential to rehabilitate the lungs as well. We have also made provision for a spirometer. Those interested can purchase them for exercising at home. This is a transparent tube that helps understand the volume of air inhaled and exhaled by the lungs. This will also be available at the centre for exercise,” said Dr Manali Jain, physiotherapist.“We shall create awareness regarding this facility among the people as well. This will help us in understanding if we need to have more such centres in the city,” said Dr Panpatil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-to-get-rehab-centre-for-treatment-after-covid-recovery/story-FFYrn5Cox9pT4Eq1ZBMuzM.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Man dupes 80-year-old woman in Navi Mumbai, flees with gold chain||An unknown person conned an 80-year-old Panvel woman and fled with her gold chain claiming to show it to his mother on Wednesday morning. The man approached the woman at her house asking for water when she was alone.Panvel city police investigating the case said senior citizen, Vasudha Povle, was alone at her apartment on Wednesday around 11 am. Povle’s son Yogesh, a jewellery designer, was away for work at the time. The accused, believed to be in his mid-40s, showed up at Povle’s first-floor apartment.“The accused asked Povle for a glass of water and once he made sure that the elderly woman was alone, he kept her engaged in a conversation. During the chat, he mentioned his mother was waiting downstairs. The accused also inquired about her gold chain that the victim was wearing and pretended to like the design,” said an officer from Panvel city police station.He asked her to remove her chain so that he could show the design to his mother. Trusting him and not sensing his ill intentions, Povle removed her chain worth ₹60,000 and handed it over to him after the man promised to return it quickly.When the man did not return, Povle informed a neighbour. The accused was not found in the building area, after which the neighbour alerted Yogesh about the crime.Yogesh returned home within the next hour and informed police, following which a case of cheating was registered against the unidentified person at the Panvel city police station. Police said they were on the lookout for the accused and were checking to verify if the modus operandi was similar to previous crimes in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-dupes-80-year-old-woman-in-navi-mumbai-flees-with-gold-chain/story-99i72wC5YXGw5BnWpccU8M.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body takes leaf out of Karjat dumping ground||To address its dumping ground woes, the Kalyan- Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials recently visited a similar project in Karjat, where a dumping ground was turned into a garden.The KDMC has now undertaken the work of clearing the debris off the Adharwadi dumping ground and levelling it after which the work of development of the garden will begin.The project in Karjat was undertaken by KDMC’s deputy municipal commissioner Ramdas Kokare, who was earlier posted there. He had implemented the plastic-free village campaign in Vengurla, Aurangabad, Matheran and Karjat over the years.Kokare said, “In Karjat, we had turned a dumping ground into a four-acre garden by planting fruits, vegetable and flowers. We do have plans to change the Adharwadi dumping ground into a garden like the one in Karjat. Once the clearing work at the dumping site is completed, we will soon start the work of developing the garden.”In the Karjat’s model, the waste was segregated in 36 ways that include everyday wet waste, plastic, paper, chicken waste, human hair, coconut shell, leaf and yard waste, diaper, sanitary napkin, egg shell, leftover of animals, waste from mutton and fish market.An officer from solid waste management said, “One type of waste was segregated on each day of the week. On Mondays, plastic bottles are separated; on Tuesdays, glass, tube light, bulb, broken glasses, broken bangles; Wednesdays were for cardboard, clothes, rexin bags and dishes; Thursdays for electronic waste, wire, mobile charger and television computer port; Fridays for rubber, tyre, sleepers, shoes, ceramic, foam, scrap furniture and on Saturdays, thermocol and metals are separated.”The civic body there made by-laws for solid waste management as mandated under Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, for the project of zero waste management and imposed them strictly. There was ban on plastic and also made segregation of waste mandatory. The dump yard was cleared and the compost produced from the processed wet waste, is used to transform it into a garden. The one-of-its-kind park witnesses visitors every year as it also has a butterfly garden. On one side of the garden, waste is processed while the other side has garden.Since May this year, the KDMC too imposed waste segregation in all the societies. Six societies are also managing their own waste. The wet waste collected is send to the dumping ground for processing, while the dry waste is sold to scrap dealers.The KDMC ranked 22nd in the Swachch Bharat Survey 2020 compared to 77th last year due to these measures. One of the major reasons for improvement in the rank is due to the imposing of segregation of waste, decreasing the amount of waste dumped at the Adharwadi dumping ground claims the officials of solid waste management department of KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-takes-leaf-out-of-karjat-dumping-ground/story-niUyPeVZflnk0Fy7EaOHIL.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown in 11 containment zones in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has issued orders of lockdown in 11 Containment Zones till October 31. In Nerul, the contained areas are Trimurti Sadan in Darave Village, Vishal Pride at Sector 50, Deepsagar Society at Sec 19, House No. 758 at Sec 20 and Shivshakti Apt at Sec 10. Sector 31 Vashigaon and Sector 28 in Vashi, Mahavir Amrut Society at Sec 19 and Nivara Society at Sec 3 in Sanpada, Omkar Society at Sector 10, Airoli and Dattakrupa Apartment at Dighe would be under lockdown as per containment rules. Only essential shops would be open in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-in-11-containment-zones-in-navi-mumbai/story-Npi2uJEbYdA0GG7gnKyrgP.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Pothole menace: Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport employee injured as two-wheeler loses balance||A day after an MNS leader lost balance after hitting a pothole, a Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) employee suffered injuries on both his legs after he suffered a similar fate here on Thursday. This is the third such incident in recent times within the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation jurisdiction.While residents and commuters are irked with the pothole menace in the city, the civic body is waiting for the monsoon to end to start filling the potholes across the city.Avtar Singh, 51, was heading for KDMT duty at around 2:30 pm on Thursday when his two-wheeler lost balance at a pothole at Sahajanand Chowk. He has not made any official complaints.“The incident occurred as I lost balance while crossing the junction on my bike. At a few places, the potholes have been filled with gravel and paver blocks, leading to accidents. I have swelling on my left knee and injuries on my right. I have consulted a doctor and taken medications. However, after the pain did not subside, I decided to get a scan done, but Friday being a national holiday, no scanning centres were operational,” said Singh.Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC, said, “There have not been any police complaints or official records saying these incidents occurred due to potholes. However, we have planned to fill all potholes and level roads across the KDMC jurisdiction from October 15. We are waiting for the monsoon to recede, because if it does not dry up it will lead to further damage.”On Thursday, Prashant Pomendkar, city co-ordinator of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena from Dombivli, who was on his way to join his party’s protest against the potholes in KDMC, fell off his two-wheeler at Tilak Road in Dombivli and had to get 10 stitches on his left leg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pothole-menace-kalyan-dombivli-municipal-transport-employee-injured-as-two-wheeler-loses-balance/story-fWiX7DWuugLZKJZi6OH4WJ.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Man held for allegedly raping 9-year-old daughter in Dombivli||Ramnagar police here have registered a rape case against a man who allegedly tried to sexually harass his nine-year-old daughter. The accused has been arrested while further investigation is on. The nine-year-old girl’s mother is suffering from tuberculosis for the last one year. Her condition recently deteriorated and she shifted with her daughter to her mother’s house nearby. The accused, who works as a daily wager, was alone at home and had no job. The girl would visit both the houses but would stay with mother at night.Suresh Aher, senior police inspector of Ramnagar police station, said, “On Thursday, the girl went to her father’s house to play. The accused was asleep, though on seeing the girl he woke up, locked the door and allegedly tried to rape her. The girl, however, managed to escape from his clutches and ran to her grandmother’s house. She narrated the incident to them here grandparents, who later registered a complaint.”The police have registered a case under IPC 376 and several sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-held-for-allegedly-raping-9-year-old-daughter-in-dombivli/story-FrjRCWXB9BmvyDEpppH9gL.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Four Kalyan doctors booked for forging death certificates||The Kolshewadi police in Kalyan (E) have booked four doctors from a private hospital for forging death certificates for the last three years. The accused doctors used fake signatures and stamp of a senior doctor from a civic-run hospital to give fake death certificates to deceased families.The police said the matter came to light recently after the doctors gave a death certificate to a deceased family who tested positive for Covid-19.The complainant Arun Chandel, based with Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar, had registered a case at Kolshewadi police station under Sections 465, 467, 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.“We have registered a case on Thursday on the complaint of Chandel and are further investigating the matter. The accused have been forging death certificates from 2017. At present, we’ve got confirmation about a single death certificate and will check further on how many such forged death certificates were prepared in the last three years,” said Kiran Wagh, assistant police inspector, Kolshewadi police station.Police said the forging had started three years ago after Chandel had left the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-kalyan-doctors-booked-for-forging-death-certificates/story-zmnMn6R25SMy8Sx1Z7LQEL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Five more succumb to Covid in Chandigarh, toll climbs to 169||Five more people died of Covid-19, taking the toll to 169 in Chandigarh on Friday. Meanwhile, the number of infections reached 12,212 as 155 people tested positive.Two women, aged 38 and 61, from Sectors 27 and Manimajra, respectively, were among the dead. The other three were men, aged 54, 74 and 85, from Sarangpur, Sector 51, and Sector 54, respectively. With 153 people being discharged, the number of recoveries and active cases reached 10,162 and 1,881 respectively.2 dead in Mohali, 1 in PanchkulaIn the neighbouring Mohali district, a woman, aged 75, and a 48-year-old man from Khanpur village succumbed, taking the district’s toll to 199.The district also reported 210 fresh cases while 157 patients were discharged. The total number of cases, recoveries and active cases stand at 10,745, 8,781 and 1,765, respectively. A 77-year-old man from Sector 11 was Panchkula’s lone casualty while 45 people tested positive.As many as 6,119 people have tested positive so far, of whom 5,246 have recovered and 87 have died, leaving 786 cases active in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-toll-climbs-to-169/story-nQTmbMprDJOrkkTWdqj3vI.html
02-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Foundation stones of 13 sports parks laid virtually on Gandhi Jayanti||Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday virtually laid the foundation stone of 13 rural sports parks set to come up in the district on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.The state government is developing these sports complexes to facilitate the rural youth of the state, said the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister, who, among others, also attended the online ceremony wherein chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh laid the foundation stone of 150 rural sports parks sanctioned under Punjab’s Mission Tandrust.Regarding the district-based project, Ashu said these sports parks would be of different designs and would come up on 1 to 4 acres of land, with each block having five such complexes. In total, Ludhiana would have 65 parks. He said the parks, whose foundation stone was laid today, would be opened to the public in the next six months.Ashu also flagged off seven ambulances, which were donated to the state government by Zee Entertainment. He informed that four of these ambulances had already reached the city while the remaining would arrive soon.In his address, the minister said there is a need to promote Mahatma Gandhi’s message of non-violence, truth and peace among the masses, especially the youth. He also congratulated Ludhiana residents on the occasion and urged them to contribute in nation building.Ashu revealed that the state government has launched several welfare schemes on great leader’s birth anniversary, adding that the health department was in the process of purchasing around 100 ambulances.Prominent members, including MLAs Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar, PSIDC chairman KK Bawa, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, were in attendance besides others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-foundation-stones-of-13-sports-parks-laid-virtually-on-gandhi-jayanti/story-QnGIOcJKWPSWCu4pJmJZlL.html
02-10-2020||City||Himachal logs 7 deaths, 235 new Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 235 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 15,454. Of the new cases, 45 were recorded in Kangra, 30 in Solan, 28 in Mandi, 25 in Shimla, 19 in Chamba, 18 in Una, 17 in Bilaspur, 15 each in Sirmaur, Hamirpur, and Kullu and eight in Lahaul-Spiti. The death toll has mounted to 197 after seven more people succumbed to the virus. Three people died in Solan while two deaths each were reported in Shimla and Kangra. Solan is the worst-hit district with 3,077 cases followed by Kangra where 2,358 people have been infected till date. Sirmaur has 1,854 cases, Mandi 1,776, Shimla 1,347, Una 1,324, Hamirpur 938, Chamba 870, Bilaspur 855, Kullu 685, Kinnaur 196 and Lahaul-Spiti 174 cases. The hill-state has so far conducted 3,01,325 tests, which is more than 41,000 tests per million population. The infection confirmation rate is around 2,100 per million. The recovery rate is 77% as 388 more patients have been cured. So far, 11,976 people have recovered in the state. There are 3,256 active cases in the state. The fatality rate is 1.2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-7-deaths-235-new-covid-19-infections/story-9Ti6WkQFNNMgONzxuCHUXJ.html
02-10-2020||City||Ludhiana residents take to streets over sewer water accumulation on Rahon Road||Irked by the clogging of drains and accumulation of sewer water at Rahon Road and nearby areas for the past three months, residents of Jain Colony, Sarwan Park Colony and Bhagya Homes staged a protest against the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and area councillor Ravinder Kaur on Friday.Due to this, traffic movement on Rahon Road also got disrupted for around half an hour, following which police and MC officials reached the spot to pacify the protesters.The residents raised a hue and cry over the prevailing unhygienic conditions on the main road and nearby residential areas.During the protest, they raised placards which stated that the civic body’s apathy had turned Rahon Road into a beach. The protesters said the tall claims made regarding the Swachhta Abhiyan in the city had fallen flat as they were left to live under pathetic conditions.Residents including Milkha Singh Khaira, Romi Jain, Rajinder Singh, Vishal Behl, among others, said that due to the sewer water accumulation in the streets of residential areas, they are unable to step out of their homes. Several complaints have been submitted to the authorities and the councillor, but to no avail, they rued.Khaira, who is a resident of Jain Colony, said, “Due to the lackadaisical approach of the municipal authorities, filthy sewer water has accumulated in our streets and vacant plots. This has produced stench in the entire colony. These conditions have been prevailing for the past three months. The project to install new sewer lines at Rahon Road is also going on at a slow pace and the potholes on the stretch only add to commuters’ woes.”Despite repeated attempts, MC executive engineer Ranbir Singh remained unavailable for comments.However, area councillor Ravinder Kaur said, “The work to install new sewer lines in the area would be completed within 10 days and the problem of sewer water accumulation would be resolved. Traffic police had dumped soil in an under-construction manhole near Basti Jodhewal chowk a few days back, due to which the project got delayed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-take-to-streets-over-sewer-water-accumulation-on-rahon-road/story-WkP28Nc9HFaZbUPxgxBBAP.html
02-10-2020||City||Kin stage protest after 13-year-old dies during treatment at pvt hospital in Ludhiana||High drama ensued outside a private hospital in Model Town on Friday after the family members of a 13-year-old boy, who died during treatment, staged a protest against the hospital authorities.The protesting members alleged that the child, who had dengue, was rushed to the hospital late on Thursday, and throughout the night, the hospital staff kept on charging money at various stages of the treatment. It was in the morning that they learnt the child had died. The agitated kin claimed that over ₹1 lakh was charged by the hospital, yet the boy’s life was not saved.The deceased has been identified as Sagar, son of Rinku Ram (35) and Rekha (33) of Mandi Gobidngarh.However, the hospital’s managing director, Dr Baldeep Singh, dubbed the claims baseless and said the child was suffering from dengue and was rushed to the hospital in a serious condition.“The patient was critical when he was brought to the hospital. The family gave an undertaking before admitting him. We tried our best to save the child, but he could not survive. While the parents were fully aware of the boy’s critical condition, a few relatives accompanying them created a ruckus,” said Dr Baldeep.The protest also led to traffic jam in Model Town area, but the police intervened to pacify the protesters and normalised the vehicular movement.Later, the hospital authorities and relatives of the deceased reached a comprise and no police complaint was lodged in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-stage-protest-after-13-year-old-dies-during-treatment-at-pvt-hospital-in-ludhiana/story-eqggPAV8UG3v8rJQlmqIYP.html
02-10-2020||City||Rajnath Singh inspects Atal tunnel ahead of its inauguration||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday inspected the Atal Tunnel along with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur ahead of its inauguration on Saturday. The CM welcomed Rajnath Singh at SASE helipad in Manali after which they also visited the north and south portals of the tunnel to review the arrangements. Director general Border Roads Organisation (BRO) Lt General Harpal Singh briefed the Union minister regarding the event, salient features of Atal Tunnel and preparedness related to the inauguration of the project by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The CM had also visited rally venues at Solang in Kullu district and Sissu in Lahaul-Spiti district to take stock of the preparedness. The defence minister also laid foundation stone of Calibration Lab Building at Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) under ‘Project Anshankan’ in Kullu district. The Calibration Lab will be constructed at a cost of Rs 736.18 lakh for efficient and timely calibration of variety of sensors to be deployed in field locations in snow bound regions. The SASE authorities made a detailed presentation regarding their activities before the Union minister and others. SASE is working in avalanche forecasting, artificial triggering and structural control in snowbound mountainous areas. It also participated in the Indian Antarctic Programme with research activities on the areas of Antarctic snow cover/ ice sheet surface energy balance and melt estimation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajnath-inspects-atal-tunnel-ahead-of-its-inauguration/story-Zps9QdryENwuRpB9yaylEP.html
02-10-2020||Noida||Noida: 157 new Covid-19 cases push tally to 13,421||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 157 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the district’s caseload to 13,421, official data showed.The number of active cases rose to 1,504 from 1,494 on Thursday and 1,492 on Wednesday, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.Also, 147 more patients got discharged during the period, as the total number of recoveries reached 11,863, it showed.The district, adjoining Delhi, has so far recorded 54 deaths linked to the pandemic with a mortality rate of 0.40 per cent, the data showed.The recovery rate of patients rose slightly to 88.39 per cent from 88.32 per cent on Thursday, 88.15 per cent on Wednesday, 87.58 per cent on Tuesday and 87.06 per cent a day ago, as per the statistics.There were 49,112 active cases across UP on Friday. So far, 3,51,966 patients have recovered across the state, while the death toll linked to Covid-19 climbed to 5,917, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-157-new-covid-19-cases-push-tally-to-13-421/story-ktoITrb0o1u7G8g63A9edL.html
02-10-2020||City||Ludhiana factory theft: Police intensify raids as key suspect posts video on social media||The police here have intensified raids to nab the accused in the Shimlapuri factory theft case after one of them posted a video on Facebook recently.On September 21, four miscreants had robbed ₹4.43 lakh from a factory owner in Shimlapuri in broad daylight and fled. As per the complainant, the suspects opened fire at him, but he escaped unhurt. He has identified three of the robbers as Aman Donkey, Gagandeep Singh, the one who released the Facebook video, and Deep – all residents of Barota road. A case of robbery and attempt to murder was lodged against them.In the video clip, Gagandeep claims that he opened fire in the factory premises owned by Rakesh Kumar, with whom he has an old rivalry, to teach him a lesson. He goes on to add that Rakesh is lying about the robbery and that police want to implicate him in a false case.Gagandeep is already facing trial in several criminal cases.Shimlapuri SHO inspector Varunjit Singh said a hunt is on for arresting the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-factory-theft-police-intensify-raids-as-key-suspect-posts-video-on-social-media/story-aQQwKpvsGMgW3R7FwBezlL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mercury drops below 20°C for first time since May||Minimum temperature in Chandigarh dropped below 20°C for the first time since the beginning of May, days after monsoon withdrawal was announced. It was recorded at 19.4°C in the early hours of Friday, and is likely to drop further by a notch or two in the coming days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Now that nights are clear, heat can escape more freely, which is why nights are likely to get cooler. Also, dry weather is likely in the coming days,” said an IMD scientist. Meanwhile, maximum temperature is likely to remain around 35°C.Earliest monsoon withdrawal in five yearsThe city this year witnessed the driest September in 50 years, which was followed by the earliest monsoon withdrawal in five years. The withdrawal was called on September 30. Last year, it was on October 9, while in 2015, it was on September 29.With 920.3mm rain, monsoon this year was 9% surplus, with maximum rain recorded in August (441.3mm), followed by July (302.6mm) and June (170.3mm).IMD director Surender Paul said that since September remained so dry (6.1mm rain), the withdrawal was called early. He said it took some time for anticyclonic system of winds to form over the region, otherwise it could have been declared even earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-mercury-drops-below-20-c-for-first-time-since-may/story-jOZFXlCctzzRAtzfHdagfP.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER: National centralised entrance for PG courses on November 20||Admissions to the master’s level courses at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research will be made through a centralised entrance test to be conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, on November 20. As many as 11 institutes that earlier used to conduct separate entrance tests twice a year for batches starting in January and July will participate in this single test. The institutes are AIIMS, New Delhi, and other new AIIMS in Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur, Nagpur, Patna, Raipur and Rishikesh besides and JIPMER, Puducherry, NIMHANS, Bengaluru, and PGIMER Chandigarh. The courses include MD, MS, DM, MCh and MDS.Confirming the development, Dr GD Puri, dean (academics), PGIMER, said: “Candidates who want to join these institutes of national importance for medical education will have to appear in only one entrance test.A notice put out by the JIPMER, Puducherry, states: “To bring together in one place educational facilities of the highest order and considering the commonality of purpose, an initiative has been undertaken to conduct a combined entrance examination for admission to PG courses in these institutions. This would prevent loss of time, effort, and money in applying and joining at multiple places and also prevent wastage of seats by students moving from one institution to another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-national-centralised-entrance-for-pg-courses-on-november-20/story-DE4dARD3rvx7uENw9wcuxO.html
02-10-2020||City||Rohtang tunnel project was envisaged by Indira Gandhi: Virbhadra Singh||Congress veteran and former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh Virbhadra Singh extended greetings to the people of Lahaul-Spiti district on the completion of Rohtang tunnel project that will be dedicated to the nation on Saturday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a statement issued here, Virbhadra Singh said people of Lahaul-Spiti will get round-the-year connectivity to the rest of the world by commissioning of the Atal Tunnel. The veteran leader said as a Union minister he had taken up early construction of the tunnel in 2010 with the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. “The project was envisaged by former PM Indira Gandhi during her night stay at Keylong in 1972. People there had met her and demanded construction of a road that would keep them connected to Manali-Kullu despite snowfall,” he said. Singh said in the same year, Indira Gandhi had asked the ministry of defense to explore possibilities of constructing a road or a tunnel. “In 2010, the then UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, under the leadership of PM Manmohan Singh, had laid the foundation stone of this tunnel on June 28,” he said, adding that the tunnel also holds importance from a strategic point of view.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtang-tunnel-project-was-envisaged-by-indira-gandhi-virbhadra-singh/story-1XWEZVIs4fLjLQ7M1Eke2M.html
02-10-2020||City||9-km-long Atal Tunnel an engineering marvel||The nine-kilometre-long Atal Tunnel, running across the 13,050-ft high Rohtang pass, on the Manali-Leh axis is the highest motorable highway tunnel in the world. An engineering marvel, it took 10 years for the Indian Army’s elite road construction agency, Border Roads Organisation, to complete the tunnel, constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 3,300 crore. The construction contract of the tunnel was awarded to Strabag-Afcons, a joint venture between India-based Afcons Infrastructure and Austria’s Strabag. The 9.02-km long tunnel, shaped like a horse shoe, is the longest highway tunnel in the world and connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year. Earlier, the valley used to be cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall. The tunnel has consumed 12,252 metric tonnes of steel, 1,69,426 metric tonnes of cement and 1,01,336 metric tonnes of concrete, and excavated 5,05,264 metric tonnes of soil and rocks by adopting the latest Austrian tunneling method for construction.Built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal range of Himalayas at an altitude of 3,000-metres (10,000-feet) from the Mean Sea Level (MSL), the Atal Tunnel is located at a distance of 25 km from Manali and at an altitude of 3,060-metres, while the north portal (NP) of the tunnel is located near Teling village, Sissu, in Lahaul Valley at an altitude of 3,071 metres. It is extremely significant from the defence point of view. The BRO worked relentlessly to overcome major geological, terrain and weather challenges that included the most difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah Fault Zone. More than 3, 000 workers, along with engineers, from Bihar, Jharkhandh and Nepal worked overtime to complete the tunnel. The breakthrough from both ends was achieved on October 15, 2017. The tunnel provides a telephone facility at every 150 metre of its stretch, a fire hydrant every 60 metre, emergency exits every 500 metre, turning cavern every 2.2km, air quality monitors every 1 km, broadcasting system and automatic incident detection system with CCTV cameras every 250 metre. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had taken the decision to construct the strategic tunnel below the Rohtang Pass on June 3, 2000, and the foundation stone for the access road to the south portal of the tunnel was laid on May 26, 2002. Shanta, Dhumal to watch inauguration virtuallyA spokesman of the state government said here today that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will dedicate the Atal Tunnel Rohtang to the nation on October 3, has personally advised the former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal to avoid their personal presence in this function in the wake of pandemic. He said that on the advice of PM, both former CMs have decided to abstain from the event and witness the event virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-km-long-atal-tunnel-an-engineering-marvel/story-hxYuskhbvkFAmQK1uQD1YK.html
02-10-2020||City||Side-effects of drugs used for Covid-19 key part of post-treatment SOPs||PUNE The Pune district administration has now begun focusing on post Covid-19 treatment, including the possible side effects of drugs used during the treatment process. The district administration’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for post-Covid-19 complications states: “An important drug-related problem is precipitation of gout following Favipiravir therapy. Additionally skin reactions are noticed in Favipiravir therapy. With Remdesivir, worsening of hepatic functions in underlying liver disease patients can occur. This needs to be monitored”. Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director at Sahyadri hospital, said, “We do follow all precautions before we start drug treatment. We conduct all the liver enzyme tests before the treatment. Once we establish that the person is healthy, we start the drugs; but, in the case of Remdesivir, we do observe in certain cases that enzymes are deranged after treatment. We had to stop it after the first dose. We have yet not come across people who face any worsening hepatic functions, or complaints from people who have recovered from Covid-19.” The Pune district administration has started its training for doctors on dealing with post-Covid-19 complications, based on SOPs prepared by Cuttack university. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, state technical committee on communicable diseases, who heads the training committee said, “For any drug that needs to be administered, a doctor will definitely look for all possible side effects. We are working on such guidelines for clinicians across the state, including Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/side-effects-of-drugs-used-for-covid-19-key-part-of-post-treatment-sops/story-eoD8uTcz5VZScc5621B6sL.html
02-10-2020||City||Kashmiri Pandit leader calls off hunger strike after assurances from government||Kashmiri Pandit leader Sanjay Tickoo on Friday called off his hunger strike after getting assurances from the government that the issues raised by him will be resolved on priority. Tickoo has been on a hunger strike to protest against the Centre’s alleged apathy to the demands and needs of nearly 800 Kashmiri Pandit families that never left the Valley. “Yes we got an assurance from the government that our problems will be resolved on priority,” the Kashmiri Pandit Sanghrash Samiti president Sanjay Tickoo said. Some other leaders of the local Kashmiri Pandit Sanghrash Samiti, led by Tickoo, have been sitting on fast unto death at the courtyard of a local temple in Srinagar.In a statement issued here, KPSS said Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chowdhary handed a written assurance to the KPSS president that their demands will be addressed promptly and will be taken to the logical conclusion. “This visit by the senior government official was preceded by emissaries of the chief secretary as well as the additional deputy commissioner who came to the venue a number of times to negotiate with the KPSS president in the last two days. Therefore, the strike has been called off after 248 hours of Fast-Unto-Death pledge,” the KPSS said. The Samiti leaders had alleged that more than 800 Kashmiri Pandit families, who never migrated from the Valley, have been ignored by the government while framing the policies for migrant pandit families. The Samiti is demanding jobs for the unemployed youths of the pandit families living in Kashmir and also monthly cash assistance on the pattern of the scheme in place for migrant pandit families living in Jammu and other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-pandit-leader-calls-off-hunger-strike-after-assurances-from-government/story-PUIB97cfnTSqDno1dHX8SO.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||YouTubers introduce the world to Kashmiri cuisine||More often than not Kashmir is in news for either conflict or its breathtaking beauty, which had led Mughal emperor Jahangir to famously call it ‘heaven on earth’. However, the Valley’s delicious and unique cuisine is often relegated to a footnote. To remedy this glaring oversight, youngsters in the Valley have taken to YouTube to inform the world about the Valleys food habits ranging from the multi-course wedding cuisine: the Kashmiri Wazwan to indigenous day-to-day dishes. The Covid-induced lockdown and subsequent work-from-home culture has led to the popularity of food vlogs on social media platforms.In 2018, when Tasiya Hameed, 27, wanted to prepare the ‘wazwan pulaw’ after her marriage, she decided to trawl the internet for recipes. Though she found a good number of recipes, she was disappointed that none of them were from Kashmir.“They were Kashmiri only in name. At that moment, my husband and I, decided to start a YouTube channel on the preparation of Kashmiri food,” she said.Hameed, who has a masters in English, started the channel ‘Kashmir Food Fusion’ with the help of her husband . They reached out to Kashmiri professional cooks, the wazas, to learn and prepare wazwan for her online subscribers. Hers was one of the first such initiatives.Wazwan is a multi-course cuisine with many mutton dishes that are served at weddings in Kashmir. Traditionally, the meal ranges from anything between seven to 36 courses, most of which are prepared from meat cooked overnight on raging cooking fires. They involve a spread of huge copper vessels, mounds of mutton, chicken, fish, vegetables and heaps of spices among other ingredients. Prominent wazwan dishes, include rista (meatballs in a fiery red gravy), waza kokur (chicken garnished with crushed almonds), rogan josh (tender lamb cooked with Kashmiri spices), tabak maaz (ribs of lamb simmered in yogurt till tender, and then fried in ghee), and the ultimate dish gushtaba (a velvety textured ball of meat mixed with fat in white yogurt gravy).“Initially, it was very difficult to get an audience but then young Kashmiris studying or working outside the Valley started reaching out to us. Even the young generation of Kashmiri Pandits who would miss many of their trademark dishes such as muj gaede (a fish and radish dish), haakh and dum alloo, started following us,” she said.Within two years she had crossed one lakh subscribers and even received a silver button from YouTube in August. Hameed is currently writing a book, and plans to launch an app. She also dreams of opening her own restaurant in the long run.“Initially, it was just a passion – a love for our culture but now we are professional. I am able to earn through the channel as brands approach us for promoting their product,” she said, adding that now around 30 food channels were exploring the idea of Kashmiri cuisine on YouTube.Nazrana Bashir, 34, also decided to start a YouTube channel after her marriage. She first shifted to Gurgaon and then Mumbai and had to call home every time she tried a traditional Kashmiri dish. In 2018, she decided to start a food channel by the name of ‘Zoon Daeb’ with the help of her in-laws.“It is all about Kashmir and preserving its culture for the future generations. This will be my legacy for my kids,” she said. Bashir, who is a mass communication post graduate from Kashmir University, said many food bloggers had come up in the past year, which has helped break stereotypes about Kashmir.“People now know that Kashmir extends beyond tourism or conflict, says Bashir, who has around 27,000 subscribers on YouTube and has started relaying recipes thorough multiple languages. “There are variations between Indian, Pakistani and Kashmiri dishes. Often people in Mumbai invite themselves to our home on festivals to taste Kashmiri food,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youtubers-introduce-the-world-to-kashmiri-cuisine/story-ePqetwNbSjQoAeUoTJqrSI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||‘Thundershowers with lightning, gusty winds likely in Mumbai over the weekend’: IMD||The weather bureau issued a thunderstorm warning for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a ‘yellow alert’ predicting thundershowers with lighting and gusty winds - ranging between 30 and 40 kilometres per hour - at isolated areas in the city and suburbs. A similar alert has been issued for Palghar and Thane for Saturday and only for Thane for Sunday.“Satellite images and weather models have indicated moderate to intense thunderstorms with lighting and heavy spells at isolated places in Maharashtra between October 3 and 4,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department. “Development of these convective echoes was witnessed across some parts of Marathwada and central Maharashtra between Thursday and Friday, especially during evening hours. These thundershowers are short-lived and vary in intensity across different locations,” he said.Also read: MS Dhoni breaks huge world record in CSK vs SRH IPL 2020 matchOn Friday, the city and suburbs did not receive any rain between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. The day temperature in south Mumbai was 32 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius above normal, while the suburbs recorded 31.9 degrees Celsius, which was normal.Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg could also expect thundershowers over the weekend. An ‘orange alert’ has been issued for north Maharashtra districts of Nandurbar, Dhule, and Nashik while various other areas in central Maharashtra, including Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, and Ahmednagar, can expect heavy to very heavy rain and thundershowers.Satisfactory AQI on Friday The pollutant-measuring indicator – air quality index (AQI) - was recorded at the satisfactory category at 68 for PM2.5 pollutant. It was 75 (satisfactory) on Thursday. It is predicted to be 63 on Saturday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thundershowers-with-lightning-gusty-winds-likely-in-mumbai-over-the-weekend-imd/story-DInapfOkoYPSTigU1vfW3N.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar launches one-stop digital platform for info on state’s panchayats||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday launched ‘gram darshan’, a digital platform having websites of 6,197 gram panchayats of the state. “With the launch of gram darshan, details of the completed, ongoing and required development projects of every village in Haryana will be digitally available and people sitting anywhere in the world will be able to see the details while sitting at home,” Khattar said in his inaugural address. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala was also present on the occasion. Both interacted with the sarpanches, panch and gram sachivs of various villages. Earlier, principal secretary, development and panchayats department, Sudhir Rajpal said key objectives of ‘gram darshan’ are to use information and communication technology to make the gram darshan act as a hub of information for residents in rural areas. He said the data of 10 panchayats have already been uploaded on the ‘gram darshan’ portal that aims at providing a unique identity to each panchayat. He said every panchayat website would display details of elected representatives, list of public assets, details of assets already created or being created. The panchayats would also upload details of financial assets such as fixed deposits and committed expenses such as salaries etc, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-launches-one-stop-digital-platform-for-info-on-state-s-panchayats/story-iUUkj7WHbBeXbsP0mmgVQK.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress leaders to meet in Delhi ahead of Rahul Gandhi visit||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Friday said a meeting of state party leaders will be held in Delhi on Saturday, ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s October 5 visit to the state. In a statement, the HPCC chief said the former national president of the Congress, Rahul Gandhi will visit Haryana to extend support to farmers against the controversial farm laws. She said Congress MPs, ex-MPs, MLAs, and senior party leaders will be present in Saturday’s meeting. The HPCC chief on Friday held a tractor rally and protest against the farm legislations at Mahendergarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-congress-leaders-to-meet-in-delhi-ahead-of-rahul-gandhi-visit/story-mET07Qk5TC2kDJ0LIvmbkK.html
02-10-2020||City||40-year-old arrested for raping minor in Sonepat||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a 10-year-old girl in a village in Sonepat district, said police on Friday.In her complaint to the police, the minor girl said her neighbour had taken her to his house on September 21 and raped her. He had also allegedly threatened her of dire consequences if she narrated the incident to anyone.A spokesperson of the Sonepat police said the matter came to light when the girl complained of pain following which her family members took her to a doctor. “The doctor told the family that the girl had been raped. Following this, the minor narrated the entire incident to her family. We have arrested the accused and registered a case against him under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-sonepat/story-wNjxKCxKm7LBfmaBfdZTUP.html
02-10-2020||City||46% of rural Pune’s Covid fatalities did not have, or report, comorbid conditions||PUNE Of the 1,000 fatalities reported from rural Pune due to Covid-19, as many as 46 per cent of the deceased did not have any comorbidity, or did not report having any such pre-existing medical condition.The balance 54.06 per cent did report having a comorbid medical condition, data released by the Pune district health authorities on Friday reveals.This percentage is on the higher side when compared to the district, which shows, as of September 23, that 18.6 per cent of the Covid-related deceased did not have any associated risk factors. The remaining 81.4 per cent did report an associated risk factor.Of the 1,034 Covid-related deaths in rural Pune, i.e. those reported from gram panchayats and villages in Pune district as of September 30, 54.06 per cent reported a comorbid condition; 38.58 per cent did not have any comorbidity; and 7.35 per cent did not specify.The analysis of these 1,034 deaths from rural Pune also shows that the most common comorbidities are diabetes and hypertension (27.90%); diabetes (24.68%); and hypertension (13.95%). The data also claims that 20.11 per cent of the deaths took place within 24 hours of admission; 25.33 per cent took place within two to four days of admission; and, 16.34 per cent took place within four-seven days of admission. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, said, “This is a very high percentage. There could be multiple reasons, like lack of awareness about wearing masks, respiratory hygiene, social distancing and disinfecting the premises. Also poor contact tracing and early detection by the administration is one reason. Sometimes, it takes two-three days for the reports to come in and by then, patients would have to spread the virus. I have had patients who come from Junnar and nearby villages on day seven of having the infection, when the situation is hard to handle. Also, most people in the villages are unaware of their comorbid conditions. Twenty percent of the patients are shifted to the city for critical care when the patient’s condition deteriorates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/46-of-rural-pune-s-covid-fatalities-did-not-have-or-report-comorbid-conditions/story-kpCsK1F8SqFhMhoU6QmoeM.html
02-10-2020||City||Meham MLA Kundu begins indefinite strike against farm laws||Stating that the recently enacted farm laws will destroy the farming community, independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu started an indefinite hunger strike from Meham Chaubisi Chabutara on Friday.Kundu said that he will continue his ‘Kisan Majdoor Nyay Yudh’ till the Union government amends these laws. “These laws are against farmers and were brought in by the Union government to destroy the farming community and benefit crony capitalists. The laws, which were thrust upon the farmers without any discussion in the Parliament, will destroy the mandi system and bring an end to the minimum support price,” he added.Kundu further said that leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar seem to be sharing the same views on these laws as Hooda did not register any protest against the legislations during the one-day assembly session.Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, Aam Aadmi Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta, farmer leader Rakesh Takait and Samajwadi party MLA from Uttar Pradesh, Nahid Hasan reached the dharna site to offer their support to Kundu.Yadav said instead of listening to farmers, the government took the ordinance route to pass these laws. “Farmers are now worried that private players will increase or decrease the prices of their produce at will and farmers’ bargaining power will be reduced,” he added. Yadav also hit out at Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, saying, “Despite belonging to Devi Lal’s family, he (Dushyant) has no quality as of his great grandfather and he is greedy for power. His wicket will fall soon because now the farmers’ have come out on streets against these laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meham-mla-kundu-begins-indefinite-strike-against-farm-laws/story-6Kl2zsnAWpVcQODQDQYllI.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gets a water testing lab on wheels||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday launched a Rs 99-lakh mobile water testing laboratory that is fully equipped with the latest multi-parameter systems to determine the quality of potable water. The van will be stationed at the state water testing laboratory in Karnal but its area of operation will stretch throughout the state. It is equipped with features such as GPS, and can measure different water quality parameters such as pH, alkalinity, dissolved solids, hardness, residual chlorine, zink, nitrite, fluoride, turbidity and micro-biological test of water samples. The objective of this facility is to provide easy access for water testing in remote locations of the state and also help identify the water-quality problems on the spot. ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ launchedThe CM also launched the ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’, a two-week cleanliness drive, from Panchkula. The focus of the drive this time would be on cleaning sewerage systems and ponds.After paying tributes to the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries, Khattar urged people, especially the youth, to take a pledge to keep their surroundings clean. Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-gets-a-water-testing-lab-on-wheels/story-oZT9aMfRKUB9C4Ln4OBEnM.html
02-10-2020||City||Three rural sports grounds coming up in Mohali district||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday digitally launched construction of three rural sports grounds in Mohali district. Sidhu said 750 sports stadiums and grounds are being constructed in rural areas of the state at a cost of Rs 105 crore in the ongoing financial year. The Punjab chief minister has launched the first phase of the project, whereby a sports ground will be built in each block. In Mohali, three sports grounds are coming up, with one each in Daun Majra in Kharar, Barsalpur Taprian in Majri and Chadiala in Dera Bassi block.The Daun Majra ground will be developed over one acre at a cost of Rs 12 lakh. In Barsalpur Taprian, it will come up over two acres for Rs 37 lakh, and in Chadiala over four acres for Rs 50 lakh.The play fields are being made keeping in view the acceptability of the particular discipline of sports. Generally, these include kabbadi , hockey, football, volleyball and cricket besides an open gym and 400-metre running track.To create soothing environment, thick plantation has been proposed along the periphery.“The engagement in sports will keep the youth away from drugs and will build their stamina that will further help them qualify in police and army recruitment,” said Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-rural-sports-grounds-coming-up-in-mohali-district/story-95EPXOrSi1cmFMIOjGhzDP.html
02-10-2020||City||Shifting dairy units: Two officials issued show-cause notices for missing panel meet||Taking strict note of an executive engineer and animal husbandry deputy director’s absence from a meeting of the high-powered committee constituted for shifting of dairy units out of the city, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma has issued show-cause notices to both the officials.The fourth meeting of the panel formed by the local bodies department for shifting of dairy units situated in Haibowal and Tajpur road dairy complex was held under the chairmanship of mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office near Rose Garden here on Thursday evening. DC Sharma and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal were also present in the meeting.However, the meeting was postponed after the participating officials were discussing the proposal and found that two of the officials, including the executive engineer of drainage department and deputy director of animal husbandry department, were not in attendance.One of the officials said the DC was annoyed as both the absentees had been directed to attend the meeting.“As per the directions issued by the DC, show-cause notices are being issued to the officials who were absent from the meeting,” said MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh.Mayor Sandhu said soon another meeting would be held to discuss the issue, adding, “The matter holds importance for the city but the officials are not taking it seriously due to which show-cause notices are being issued to them.”Earlier on September 17, MLA Sanjay Talwar had asked the committee to take final decision on shifting of dairy units. Talwar alleged that dairy owners dumped waste and cow dung in the drains due to which the sewer lines get choked and residents face problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shifting-dairy-units-two-officials-issued-show-cause-notices-for-missing-panel-meet/story-KSZsFOClFjDs0eD8BpupkK.html
02-10-2020||City||PAU-NAAS online lecture series: Virtual reality is the future, says innovation expert||Our future is heading towards virtual reality, viewed Dr Atul, former extension education director of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya, Palampur, here on Thursday.He was delivering his lecture on ‘Modern Tools and Techniques in Today’s Digital World of Communication’ organised by Ludhiana Chapter, National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS) and Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), as a part of NAAS online lecture series.The programme was held under the guidance of PAU vice-chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon. More than 100 participants comprising directors and faculty of ICAR institutes, NAAS fellows, faculty of PAU and Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), and scientists from Krishi Vigyan Kendras and farm advisory service centres of Punjab attended the web lecture.Dr Atul said, “As we continue to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, technology is being re-missioned to help us with our new remote lives; and virtual reality may be key to not only what we collaborate in future but how we can safely learn in the present.”Dwelling upon essential features of video conferencing software, tools and techniques, he said webcam, microphone and internet were vital. “In the market, there are 30 technologies, out of which, 10 are the most important, which include Zoom (2013), Google Hangouts/Meet, Google Talk, UberConference, Skype, Microsoft Teams, Cisco Webex Meetings, RingCentral Meetings, etc.,” he disclosed.“Webex is highly sophisticated and secured,” he said, while informing that 48 apps have been banned in India. Dr Atul also referred to the future of hologram, a technology which has been used for high performances in the past. He revealed that Kerela-based Techgentsia software is set to replace Zoom and Google Meet in central government offices. In addition, he explained the functioning of database management software in detail.GADVASU vice-chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh appreciated the lecture saying, “It will be helpful.”PAU extension education director Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, while giving a brief introduction of the guest speaker, said, “Dr Atul is a disciplined and dedicated worker, known for his innovative ideas.”Dr Rajbir Singh, director of ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute (ATARI), said, “We are heading towards a change. Digital technologies will help in reaching the farmers and the farm women.” While proposing a vote of thanks, he lauded PAU for making Virtual Kisan Mela a success.Programme coordinator and head of PAU entomology department Dr Pardeep Kumar Chhuneja said the lecture was informative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-naas-online-lecture-series-virtual-reality-is-the-future-says-innovation-expert/story-ENmpk4LlVDbfHS4UPsDniK.html
02-10-2020||City||Cong, BJP workers exchange blows in Ludhiana||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress workers exchanged blows near the Clock Tower on Friday, even as social organisations were paying their respects to the father of the nation on Gandhi Jayanti celebrations near the municipal corporation’s Zone A office. BJP workers were protesting outside the Congress office to condemn Thursday’s vandalism at its office which they claim was carried out by Youth Congress workers. Timely intervention of police, prevented the situation from taking an ugly turn, even as the episode lasted for around two hours.Jeevan Gupta, state general secretary of the BJP, said party workers were protesting peacefully. “The Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government has failed on all fronts. The government has triggered farmers’ protest to divert attention of people from scams,” Gupta claimed, adding that Congress workers had also damaged the posters of BJP leaders in the Clock Tower area. With a large number of workers of both parties gathering at the spot, police blocked the Old Sessions Chowk flyover; vehicles heading from Jagraon Bridge towards Clock Tower were diverted, leading to a jam on the Jagraon Bridge and the Domoria Bridge. District Youth Congress president Yogesh Handa said, “BJP reflects the ideology of Nathuram Godse. They tried to instigate Congress workers and deliberately chose Gandhi Jayanti to create ruckus.” “Instead of protesting against the Congress government, the BJP should reflect upon its misrule. Farmers are on roads, businessmen are suffering losses, economy is at all-time low and rapes are happening every day under the PM Narendra Modi-led regime,” said Handa. Later, both the parties separately visited the statue of Gandhi to pay homage to the father of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-bjp-workers-exchange-blows-in-ludhiana/story-h9G87DGi6ANin7WqyI63JK.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Gandhi Jayanti: CRPF yodhas ride to pay tribute to the Mahatma||“Jab able-bodied log cycle rallies kar sakte hain, toh hum kyu nahi? Hausla buland hona chahiye bas (When able-bodied people can participate in cycle rallies then why not us? One only needs grit to achieve this).” These words were the sentiment behind the decision of four differently-abled yodhas’ of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), to ride 1,000km across four states on a bicycle, to pay obeisance to Mahatma Gandhi. With unwavering spirit as their guide and sheer determination as their fuel, a team of differently-abled CRPF warriors embarked on a Paracycle Rally from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat on September 17 to reach Rajghat, Delhi. After 16 days of gruelling journey, the rally concluded on October 2, the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, in the Capital. And the four CRPF warriors — RK Singh, Veerbhadra Singh, Ajay Kumar and KK Roy — were accompanied by CRPF commandant KK Pandey, and 20 other cyclists.  Some moments with Divyang warriors of CRPF👏👏👏 @crpfindia @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @KirenRijiju pic.twitter.com/fM8CBld7aERK Singh, one of the people behind the organisation of this paracycling rally, reveals the reason for his indomitable spirit. “I was recruited in CRPF in 1990, and lost my leg in a Naxal encounter in 2011. After recovering from the injury, I decided to restart my life with an artificial limb, and went back to cycling and other sports that I used to play as an able-bodied soldier,” says Singh, who is decorated with the Shaurya Chakra. Recently, Singh got together with fellow differently-abled personnel to put forth the idea of a cycle rally in order to send forth a positive message to other differently-abled individuals who might that there’s nothing to forward to. “CRPF wholeheartedly supports the Fit India Movement, and at the time of Covid-19, this rally assumed a bigger importance to send forth the message of a healthy lifestyle, no matter who you are,” Singh adds. Riding almost 100km each day is no mean task. CRPF commandant KK Pandey, who made this journey with the team of cyclists says it’s an honour to have participated in this rally that culminated on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary. “Gandhiji always focussed on the virtues of swachhta and swasth. His entire life was devoted to creating a world where everyone is treated as equal. This is our message too, and I believe there couldn’t be a better way of paying homage to the Mahatma,” says Pandey. The cyclists were felicitated by Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports, when they arrived at Rajghat in Delhi. “Staying fit is not a tough task. We decided to give this message through cycling, because this is one of the easiest ways of ensuring our well-being, even amid the pandemic,” says Pandey, adding, “These soldiers are an inspiration to the world. Apne angon ka balidan karne ke bawajood, jab ye log 1,000 km ki duri tay kar sakte hain, toh hum kyu nahi kar sakte (Having sacrified their limbs to safeguard the country, if these differently-abled officers can cycle through 1,000km then why can’t we).”Author tweets @Bhagat_MallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gandhi-jayanti-crpf-yodhas-ride-to-pay-tribute-to-the-mahatma/story-iRIceYZtTpEx7hmg9JJ6WP.html
02-10-2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah to lead Bengal BJP in 2021 assembly polls: State leaders||Union home minister Amit Shah will supervise the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s preparations and campaign for the West Bengal assembly polls due next year, party leaders aware of the matter said on Friday.While BJP chief J P Nadda and other central leaders will look after other state units and supervise poll preparations in states like Bihar, Shah will concentrate only on West Bengal. BJP leaders said Shah took special care of the Bengal BJP unit when he was party president and has selected each member of the state committee that is responsible for the party’s poll management next year.At a meeting at Nadda’s residence in Delhi on Thursday, it was decided that Shah will visit Kolkata before Durga Puja to address state leaders and chart their course of action. Shah, Nadda, and other senior central leaders held discussions with Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and national vice-president Mukul Roy for four hours at the meeting.Also Read: Amit Shah to chart strategy, stem rumblings in Bengal unit at Delhi meetBJP’s state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said Bengal holds a special place in the country’s electoral dynamics because except for the first few years after Independence, the state has always been the face of anti-Centre politics. “From that perspective, winning the state elections will have a huge political impact in the eastern part of India. Also, Bengal plays a big role in trade and commerce in the region. Bengal’s geographical location matters a lot to the BJP government.”Majumdar said Shah wants the party to use its best resources to win the polls.“Shah nurtured the Bengal BJP when he was party president and is doing so even now. He treats the state unit as his own baby. He personally selected the team of state leaders. It is only natural that the team will not play the final match without its coach,” said Majumdar.Bengal BJP leaders feel that Shah can effectively address the issue of poll violence. In Bengal, violence and electoral malpractice has been a regular feature of almost all polls.Also Read: ‘Glossy statements’: Home Ministry’s sharp comeback to Amnesty on ‘witch-hunt’ barb“The home minister can play a big role in ensuring that people can vote freely,” said a BJP leader, who did not want to be named.At Thursday’s meeting, Shah asked Ghosh and Roy to intensify political activities on specific issues, said state leaders aware of the matter.Ghosh said Shah will address BJP state committee leaders in Kolkata before Durga Puja. “The date has not been decided yet. After the pujas, Nadda Ji will also come to Bengal,” said Ghosh.“We discussed activities that will be taken up over specific issues to counter the TMC [Trinamool Congress] government. On October 5, protests will be held outside the offices of all community block development officers in Bengal against corruption in the distribution of relief for people affected by cyclone Amphan in May,” he said.“On October 8, the Yuva Morcha will march to Nabanna, the state secretariat.”Ghosh returned to Kolkata on Friday and headed straight to rallies in support of the farm laws passed last month. The laws have triggered protests by farmers.There is speculation that Roy may be entrusted with the task of overseeing the Bengal unit’s election machinery since the BJP performed well in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha election when he was made convenor of the state election committee. He has also helped many TMC turncoats join the party.The BJP has been upbeat over its prospects in the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls since its performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Its vote share in the state increased to over 40% in 2019 from a mere 2% in the 2011 assembly polls. The BJP won 18 out of West Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats to emerge as the second-largest party after TMC in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amit-shah-to-lead-bengal-bjp-in-2021-assembly-polls-state-leaders/story-3mhwuNdQvhCUg3t5tJ9XnO.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena stings Yogi Adityanath over Hathras case, says let Mumbai cops probe||Shiv Sena on Friday staged protests against the Hathras gangrape and murder case. The party, which has anyway been locked in a bitter tussle with BJP over probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput , also said the Mumbai police should be allowed to probe the incident since Uttar Pradesh police had failed in doing its job. Sena MP Sanjay Raut also called the heckling of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by UP police ‘gangrape of democracy.’Also read: Priyanka Gandhi arrives at Valmiki temple in Delhi to attend prayer meet for Hathras victimOn Friday, Sena workers demonstrated in several areas, condemning the gangrape and raised slogans against the BJP government in UP headed by Yogi Adityanath. “In Mumbai, when an actor’s illegal office was partially demolished, everyone pounced on us and put the Maharashtra government in the dock. But here, after this ghastly incident, one is allowed to even question the Uttar Pradesh Government,” remarked Sena MP Sanjay Raut. The Sena staged protests at Churchgate, Thane and Mira Bhayender where its workers shouted slogans against the BJP-led government in UP. Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik also demanded that the state police be allowed to register a case of this rape in Mumbai and send its team to Hathras to investigate the matter. Sarnaik said even the Bihar Police had come to Mumbai to investigate Sushant Singh Rajput’s case citing the incompetency of the Mumbai Police.“Since the Uttar Pradesh Police has failed in investigating the case, it is natural that the Mumbai Police should get involved now. There should be no double standards here,” said Sarnaik.The BJP, however, alleged that the Sena was politicising the issue. “The Sena should have sensitivity while commenting on such an important issue where a 19-year-old is involved. They are just playing politics to score some brownie points, which is unfortunate,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.The Dalit woman was allegedly raped and brutalised by four upper-caste men on September 14 when she had gone to the fields in her village to gather cattle fodder. Left partially paralysed and admitted for treatment in the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University, she was shifted to New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital when her condition did not improve and she died on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hathras-gangrape-shiv-sena-holds-protests-says-mumbai-police-should-start-probe/story-vSrFA5c0eKrz5fBambc0WK.html
02-10-2020||Indore||Indore hospital in the dock after patient, treated by homeopath in ICU, dies||A private hospital in Indore was served a notice in a case of alleged medical negligence leading to the death of a woman patient two months ago. The notice was served by the chief medical and health officer (CMHO) based on an inquiry committee’s report, which found the hospital had deputed an unqualified doctor in the ICU on the night, when the victim died, according to the notice. “Prima facie, as per the inquiry committee report, the private Vedant hospital appointed a homeopath and on July 24, he was serving in the ICU, where the 55-year-old Jageshwari Hardiya died during treatment,” said Dr Praveen Jadiya, CMHO. The family members of Jageshwari lodged a complaint with the CMHO and also put up posters in various parts of the city complaining against the hospital. The CMHO issued notice to the hospital on Wednesday. “The woman’s son, Trilok Hardiya, had lodged the complaint that his mother was admitted to the hospital due to a minor illness. Her condition deteriorated in the night and she died as an unqualified doctor attended to her. The hospital is supposed to submit its reply to the notice within 3 days,” said Dr Jadiya. Also Read: MP saw more Covid cases in September than first 5 months of outbreak combinedThe inquiry committee report signed by civil surgeon, Indore, Dr Santosh Verma, district health officer Dr Santosh Sisodia and surgical expert Dr MS Mandloi said, “Vedant hospital director admitted that there was no qualified doctor in the ICU, as required, on the day of the incident and a BHMS (Bachelor of homeopathic medicine and surgery) doctor was on duty. The BHMS doctor treated the woman when her condition deteriorated and she had cardiac arrest.” Vedant hospital director Dr Ashish Agrawal said, “There was no negligence on the part of the hospital and the doctor concerned. We have received a notice and will reply to it to present our side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/indore-hospital-in-the-dock-after-patient-treated-by-homeopath-in-icu-dies/story-wD0aPBbDBIqu3Mgix5eooK.html
02-10-2020||Dehradun||13-year-old girl raped in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani||A 35-year-old man allegedly raped a 13-year-old girl on Thursday in Haldwani, Uttarakhand, said police. A case was registered on Friday morning after the girl’s father lodged a complaint.Kashmir Singh, a senior sub-inspector involved in the investigation, said the girl’s father works at a government establishment and his daughter was in Haldwani for treatment when she was allegedly raped.Also read: ‘Not letting us meet media,’ say Hathras gangrape victim’s kin “The absconding accused was arrested by police in the afternoon in Kaladhungi area of Nainital district. He confessed to the crime during interrogation and would soon be presented before the court,” said Sanjay Kumar, station house officer, Haldwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/13-year-old-girl-raped-in-uttarakhand-s-haldwani/story-ZhMT0I2BfvbYehQ4UKbASJ.html
02-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Ramnagar Ramlila goes digital on Twitter||Even though the over two-century-old Ramnagar Ramlila could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a digital version of the Ramlila has begun on Twitter. On September 30, the first episode of Ramlila featuring puppets was uploaded on @ghatwalk at 5pm. Each video is two minutes long and features puppets reciting ‘dohe’ (couplets) and ‘chaupai’ (quatrains)—as is traditional during a live performance.The first episode showed the puppets performing Ganesh Vandana.October 1’s episode portrayed the birth of Ram and his brothers. The digital Ramlila is the brainchild of IMS-BHU neurologist Vijay Nath Mishra, who has sponsored and funded the project. “Ramlila on Twitter is part of our efforts to maintain the tradition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-ramnagar-ramlila-goes-digital-on-twitter/story-VbcGDzpEoP1WMMwMEqYs7L.html
02-10-2020||Dehradun||Farm bills 2020: Farmer protests hit paddy purchase, sale in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar||Farmer protests over the three farm bills recently passed by Parliament have affected the procurement and sale of paddy in Uttarakhand, especially in Haridwar where most of the crop is grown. Farmers associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union factions of Tikait, Ambawat, Tomar, Ridh and Uttarakhand Kisan Morcha are protesting across the state, particularly in the plain region farm belts of Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar. Also read: Stubble burns, farmers from Haryana say they have no optionPaddy procurement centres, run by the food and civil supplies department and Uttarakhand State Cooperative Federation Limited (UCF), have seen an abysmal footfall since they opened on Thursday. Farmer union representatives said they were busy holding protests, sit-ins and blocking highways, leaving them no time to queue up at paddy procurement centres. In addition, they are expected to register through e-portals -- something they are not used to. Till last year, cooperative committees were involved in procuring the produce from farmers but now it is done through food and civil supplies department and the UCF. In the paddy-growing area of Haridwar, there are 17 procurement centres; seven of the UCF and the rest of food and civil supplies department. A quick survey of these centres revealed that most of them saw just a handful of farmers visit in these two days.“Due to farmer agitation, all agriculture-related work has been affected. But, we have make that sacrifice. Farm bills are anti-farmer and the minimum procurement price is also low, farmers are voluntarily joining the agitation... paddy crops can be sold a few days late too,” said Rahul Chaudhary, a farmer leader from Bahadrabad. Farmers aren’t too happy with the minimum support price either. The government set Rs 1,868 per quintal for common grade paddy, and Rs 1,888 per quintal for grade A as the minimum support price. “The government should increase minimum support prices of crops, provide a subsidy, lower fertilizer costs and ensure proper procurement set-up. Farmers should have a bigger say in the process,” said Manglaur legislator Qazi Nizamuddin. On the low footfall, however, UCF officials said paddy crop was still being harvested and more farmers were expected now that the monsoon season was over.“Our centres are assisting farmers in every possible way so that this process is convenient and time-saving for them. Operators register farmers’ details coming for procurement and the payment gets credited into their accounts within a stipulated time frame. As our centres will remain open till December, footfall will increase in the coming days,” said Mangalaur and Paniylaa–Lathardeva procurement centre in-charge Rajendra Singh Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/farm-bills-2020-farmer-protests-hit-paddy-purchase-sale-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar/story-lPM7Be85lhof8DnZBVssMK.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 2,625 fresh Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths on Thursday||Pune district reported 2,625 positive cases and 45 Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, as per the state health department which took the progressive positive count to 2,95,689.Out of these total cases, 2,32,370 have recovered; 5,858 were declared dead and 57,460 are active cases.While the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) reported 1,069 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,56,783 and 25 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the death toll to 3,553.The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 603 fresh positive cases taking the total cases to 76,036 and ten deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the death toll to 1,060.Pune rural reported 953 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 62,870 and ten deaths in last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the death toll to 1,245, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-2-625-fresh-covid-19-cases-45-deaths-on-thursday/story-Zz6XZnpjTQhhBdpibGmx2J.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||We welcome B2V initiative but release funds: J&K panchayats||With the Jammu and Kashmir administration launching the third phase of its Back2Village (B2V) programme to redress grievances of villagers in all 20 districts on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Friday, panchayat representatives said they welcome the initiative provided it’s implemented in right earnest. Anil Sharma, the president of the All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference, an umbrella organisation of sarpanches and panches in the Union Territory, said, “We had high hopes from the first two editions of the B2V. The first edition was rolled out last year during then governor Satyapal Malik’s tenure. At that time, panchayati raj institutions made all arrangements for officials and organised gram sabhas, but the result was zero as panchayats were not given funds.” “The government asked us to use the amount given under the 14th finance commission for the B2V1 programmes. Since that amount was allocated for other works, those plans had to be cancelled and funds were used for the B2V1 programme. Yet works taken up during the first edition are incomplete,” he said. The second edition under then lieutenant governor GC Murmu met a similar fate. “On September 8, the government announced Rs 10 lakh each for 4,129 panchayats for B2V works but no funds have been released yet,” he said. Describing the administration’s programme as a positive initiative, Sharma said, “We have urged the lieutenant governor to release Rs 25 lakh per panchayat, per edition of B2V programme. It will usher in overall development in all 4,129 panchayats,” he said. The third edition of the programme will continue till October 12. More than 4,000 officers have been asked to visit villages, hear the grievances of people and try to resolve them on the spot. Besides, domicile and other certificates will be issued. Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam said that the third edition was preceded by a fortnight-long drive to assess requirements. The financial commissioner, finance, and principal secretary, revenue, have been nominated nodal officers for B2V3 in Kashmir and Jammu, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/we-welcome-b2v-initiative-but-release-funds-j-k-panchayats/story-JzulSM4btnTFfJCRQKDmIL.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Seven new ACPs appointed in major Pune police shuffle||The Pune police commissionerate on Thursday witnessed a massive rejig exercise as additional commissioner (administration) Sanjay Shinde was shifted to another assignment as additional CP (South Region).Seven new assistant commissioners have also been appointed for the city and they will take charge soon, the order stated.Shinde was also holding charge of additional commissioner (traffic) while deputy commissioner of police (traffic ) Prasad Akkanouru has also been transferred, according to the order issued by state home department on Wednesday.Similarly, DCP Sanjay Jadhav who was posted in Mumbai, has now been appointed as the new Highways SP for Pune region. The most recent transfer has been of former Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, who was replaced by senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta.According to the home department order, Bhagyashree Navtake is the new DCP (EOW and cyber crime); IPS Sagar Patil has been assigned Zone II; Namrata Patil Chavan has been given Zone V while IPS Rahul Sriram has been given Zone IV. Surprisingly, the current officiating DCP Pankaj Deshmukh has not been transferred yet while a new DCP has been appointed in his place by the home department.Till late in the evening, no transfer order was issued to deputy police commissioner Pankaj Deshmukh as he was still holding the official charge. Similarly, Nilesh Ashtekar is the new PMRDA DCP while Sadanand Wayse has been appointed as Railways SP.While Akkanouru could not complete his term as traffic DCP, no announcement has been made about who will be the new DCP traffic and add CP (traffic) for Pune city.The traffic department which was given a new place to officiate began its operations in November 2019. Before, the traffic branch had been functioning from the new premises of the Pune police commissioner office in Camp.A government bungalow, adjacent to the GST Bhavan was renovated to handle the crucial department.Activist Prashant Inamdar, who works on traffic issues in the city, said, “We had demanded that an additional CP rank officer should be appointed to handle the traffic branch because it is a very important department.However, there is no change on ground and traffic continues to be a major issue before the citizens with no improvements.“We need a competent person who is interested in tackling the challenge of Pune’s traffic, who must be appointed as the DCP and where the job of the additional CP is just to supervise his junior for effective management of the traffic.At times, some traffic DCPs have expressed that they have been sidelined due to the posting in traffic branch .This kind of feeling must end and those passionate for the job must be appointed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-new-acps-appointed-in-major-pune-police-shuffle/story-749Ev9ORJCHw8WFSeee32K.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Pune civic body to act against gyms, sports complexes violating Covid-19 lockdown norms||The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has issued an order to seal badminton halls, swimming tanks, gyms and sports complex which are operating in violation of the Covid-19 lockdown norms.Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar on Thursday issued the order and instructed all the zonal commissioner’s and 15 ward officers to conduct a drive and initiate action against such gyms and sports complex.The order stated, “On the background of Covid-19 pandemic, the central and state government has given clear instructions to keep sports complexes, swimming tanks, badminton halls and gyms closed. But the PMC is receiving complaints that some of these establishments are operating illegally.”Khemnar said, “Some private sports complexes and even PMC-owned establishments which are run by private contractors are operating illegally in violation of the Covid-19 lockdown norms.”“If it is proven that these establishments are functional during the lockdown, seal them and initiate legal action against the operators,” the order states.The official refused to name the complexes as action is yet to be initiated against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-to-act-against-gyms-sports-complexes-violating-covid-19-lockdown-norms/story-bGzZYi9q7EPH8r5CEqD8uO.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Positivity rate in rural Pune down by 5.20 per cent in September||Pune rural areas which were reporting maximum cases in the district during August and early September have now witnessed a drop in positivity rate. According to civic officials, the positivity rate in the rural areas has dipped by 5.20 per cent in the month of September.On September 1 the positivity rate in Pune rural was 31.60 per cent, which declined to 26.40 per cent on September 30.Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in rural areas in Pune, the district administration has started aggressive testing under ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative in the first week of September. As many as 164 hotspots were identified which included gram panchayats and nagar parishads where positive cases were on the rise.“In September we conducted a survey in rural Pune and identified 164 hot spots and 100 per cent testing and surveillance was done in the area,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector. We are conducting drives and taking action against those violating Covid-19 norms and regularly sanitising public places, he said.“The way ahead for us is to focus on effective contract tracing, tracking the co-morbid senior citizens and isolating the positive patients from others,” he said.“We appeal to the public to follow all safety precautions like maintaining social distance, wearing a mask, using sanitiser whenever necessary among others. Together we have to break the chain of positive cases,” he said.Several small towns in Pune district like Saswad and Baramati had called for ‘Janata Curfew’ for several days in the month of September which also contributed to stopping the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.“There was 100 per cent closure in Saswad city during the 15 days Janata Curfew in September. All the shop owners, hoteliers, businessman and public supported the curfew,” said Santosh Khaladakar, one of the shop owners in Saswad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/positivity-rate-in-rural-pune-down-by-5-20-per-cent-in-september/story-Nl61ZsHO8kQm7qSnyBBLgJ.html
02-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: Dalits won’t get justice in UP, says Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad has said Dalits will not get justice in Uttar Pradesh and people should protect their daughters themselves. Speaking to journalists at his home in Saharanpur, he targeted the Yogi Adityanath government of the state and accused those in the power of patronising criminals. “People are suffering because of it,” said Azad.Azad, who this week said he has been placed under house arrest after he led protests against the alleged rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, said women were being exploited under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule. He called upon people, especially the Dalits, to ensure the safety of their daughters because the government has “no sensitivity” for them.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: UP cops barricade village to stop media, opposition from meeting family“We do not want such an insensitive chief minister,” he said. Azad blamed the BJP for getting last rites of the Hathras performed in the dead of the night because “they wanted to destroy evidence”.Kush Ambedkarwadi, the coordinator of the All India Bahujan Coordination Committee, later said Azad had managed to reach Delhi to participate in a protest on Friday.Azad was detained in Delhi on Tuesday and was taken to his home district where he was kept under police vigil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-dalits-won-t-get-justice-in-up-says-bhim-army-chief-chandrashekhar-azad/story-T07r5xbva2e2VGpJRMMfIO.html
02-10-2020||City||BSF seizes 200 gelatin sticks in Odisha’s Maoist-hit Malkangiri||Paramilitary forces have seized around 200 gelatin stick explosives weighing around 21 kg during a combing operation in Odisha’s Maoist-hit Malkangiri district.The gelatin sticks are powerful water-resistant explosives made of a jellylike mass of nitroglycerin and lower-nitrated cellulose nitrate. Maoists have often used them to target security forces.A Border Security Force officer in Malkangiri said the explosives were seized a following a tip-off on Thursday. The explosives were stuffed into sacks and dumped in different locations of a forest and concealed in deep crevices.The seizure came a day after Maoists killed two people, including a former deputy sarpanch, on suspicion of being police informers in neighbouring Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh.In July, police in Malkangiri recovered 14 detonators, 10 rounds of live ammunition, one .303 gun and one magazine from a Maoist camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-seizes-200-gelatin-sticks-in-odisha-s-maoist-hit-malkangiri/story-xjNOq3nQicyCY7QMpsQpqK.html
02-10-2020||City||IPL gambling in Goa: Eight arrested in two separate raids||The police busted two gambling networks betting on the outcomes of Indian Premier League matches in as many days in Goa.On Friday, the Goa Police Crime Branch raided a hotel and arrested three persons from Hyderabad, Sandeep Patel, Krishnakant and Bhoja Bhopal Yadav, who were found accepting bets on IPL matches from people across India. “They would register these bets on a software to calculate winnings at the end of each game. The trio is a habitual gang of bookies and has been operating for the last four years. Every year, they establish base at different places in India. At the beginning of each season they accept deposits from interested customers and at the end of the season, settle accounts as per the software’s calculation,” Superintendent of Police Shobit Saksena informed. The arrests came a day after the Police apprehended five persons from a villa at Candolim, a coastal village in north Goa—Raju Singh (25) Mohit Kumar (21) Ravi Mamtani (30) Sagar Singh Rathore (28), all from Rajasthan, one Suraj Soni (28) from Nepal. The police seized Rs 1.15 lakh in the two raids besides equipment like laptops and routers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ipl-gambling-in-goa-eight-arrested-in-two-separate-raids/story-ns1wxFue0mqsNSdVgdXZNP.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra forms panel to implement compulsory Marathi education in schools||Maharashtra government has constituted a committee to implement the policy of compulsory Marathi education in schools across the state. The formation of an eight-member committee tasked with framing rules for the implementation of Marathi education in classes 1 to 10, was announced in a government resolution released on Thursday.“The committee will ensure that schools across the state belonging to different boards like CBSE, ICSE, IB and IGCSE abide by the guidelines issued by the state with respect to teaching the language. The committee will keep a tab on schools across the state for the effective implementation of the policy,” said a member of the committee. The committee is headed by the director of education and has members from the state education board, Bal Bharati and the Maharashtra state council of education research and training (MSCERT). The Maharashtra Compulsory Teaching and Learning of Marathi Language in Schools Act, 2020 was passed in both the houses of the state legislature in the last budget session. As per the act, schools that follow boards other than the state board would have to adhere to the syllabus and teaching plan for the language as prescribed by the state education department from time to time.Also Read: Kin of 10 Maharashtra cops will not get Rs 50 lakh compensation as they didn’t contract virus on dutyThe rule has been in effect in the state from the current academic year (2020-21). In the first year, it is being implemented for classes 1 and 6. Every year it would be extended—to classes 2 and 7 in 2021-22, classes 3 and 8 in 2022-23 and likewise-- until it is implemented unto Class 10. Also Read: Mumbai records over 43% increase in testing in September, highest so farTeachers said that constant follow ups with schools from other boards will be helpful in bringing uniformity in teaching the language in international schools. “Several schools have implemented the rule only for the sake of it and are only teaching the subject in bits and parts. Strict monitoring is thus very important,” said the teacher of a Kandivali based IGCSE school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forms-panel-to-implement-compulsory-marathi-education-in-schools/story-I1BbBDz9UGcGWTz5G6MJuN.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram-based retired school teacher is mask fairy for underprivileged kids||Bringing happiness and encouraging the need for hygiene among the underprivileged children and construction workers, during Covid-19 pandemic, is Gurugram-based mask fairy Vimal Narula, a retired government school teacher. Cotton, hand-painted, embroidered, you name it and she has made a mask out of it. “As soon as the lockdown started, it dawned over me that where would the security guys, domestic helps, and their kids get masks from? Unko maks mile honge but those need to be washed as well, so what if they don’t have a spare one... Pehle maine unke liye cotton masks banane shuru kiye. Because I do stitching, I would often have decoration material such as beads, ghungroo, etc so I started making some for my friends and family, too,” says the 75-year-old.Since April, Narula has made and distributed over 1,000 masks without charging a dime. “I start around 10am everyday, and spend all day making these. I add the elastic to the ready ones around 5pm everyday. This has been my routine for all these months... I look for cloth in the house that is unused, and start making fancy and party masks, too. One day, my machine broke down and I was feeling so depressed. The next day, it started working on it’s own. I guess my prayers were heard; that was the happiest moment for me,” she says with a smile, recalling the other time when she used to teach children in a school for the underprivileged.“I love to help others. Mera mann hai ki sabko masks pahuche. I’m so grateful that I can make these masks kyunki mere mann mein ichha hai ki main jitna kar sakoon dusron ke liye utna kam hai. People ask me at times to charge money for these, but I’m so happy and satisfied with my work that I don’t want to take money in return. In fact some people even enquired about these masks on Facebook, and I tell them ‘Aap aao, main gate pe bhijwa dungi for you to collect’. Hope coronavirus vanishes from our lives soon, but till the time it’s there, I’ll be more than willing to provide people with this necessity, free of cost,” she adds. And not just masks, she has also been sewing sweaters! Sharing how fond she is of stitching and knitting, Narula says, “I can’t sit idle! When my kids were young, I would often make sweaters for them. I always made original designs and never copied form any magazine. Ab mere bachche bade ho gaye hain, and since it’s my hobby to knit sweaters, I continue to do so for those kids who can’t afford them in the winter season.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-based-retired-school-teacher-is-mask-fairy-for-underprivileged-kids/story-kABEgoYiJgbXOdNB4zbunK.html
02-10-2020||Arts||Gandhi is the inspiration for this cop’s canvas||“Gandhiji is a role model for me,” says top cop Rajinder Kumar Vij, whose sketch of Mahatma Gandhi is garnering all the praises online on social media. One Twitter user even wrote: “Multitalented officer”. On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, we got talking with Vij, special DGP, Chhattisgarh Police Headquarters, Raipur, who shares, “This wasn’t the first time I made Gandhiji’s sketch in April 2009. The very first time I sketched the Mahatma was as an engineering student in Kurukshetra, in the 1980s.” He goes on to add, “Now, I try to steal some time for my passion and each time is blissful.”Vij also confesses that he’s deeply influenced by Gandhi’s “principles of truth and non-violence”. He adds, “Mahatma Gandhi believed that crime is a social disease, and therefore criminals required suitable reformative treatment, and not punishment. He wanted the Police to be replaced with peace volunteers. But he realised that this wasn’t possible till the masses understood and lived the creed of non-violence. He also exhorted that the Police must be like friends to the public,” he says. Author tweets @NainaaroraFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/gandhi-is-the-inspiration-for-this-cop-s-canvas/story-8KIbpvsLIVGEtk1uNXwVwO.html
02-10-2020||City||Jammu & Kashmir: Third phase of Back to Village for resolution of local issues begins||The third phase of the Back to Village programme in Jammu & Kashmir began on Friday as over 4,000 officers started visiting villages to resolve local issues, officials said and added the first two phases of the scheme have been successful.Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said the beginning of the third phase has coincided with Gandhi Jayanti and called it a perfect way to honour the Father of the Nation on his birth anniversary.“Mahatma Gandhi advocated Panchayati Raj, a decentralised form of government. Following the Gandhian ideas of Gram Swaraj and Panchayati Raj system, the Jammu & Kashmir government is making untiring efforts to reach out to the people and including all the stakeholders in the process of decision-making and public policy formulation to bring a positive social and political change.”Also Read: 40% of J&K’s Covid-related deaths took place in September Sinha said the programme is a unique and ambitious exercise to reach the people’s doorsteps with responsive, accountable and equitable governance promoting values, ideology and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi.“The ambitious programme starting from October 2 [Friday] is also seen as a unique effort of the government to strengthen the newly constituted Panchayats,” Sinha said. He added the endeavour is as challenging as ambitious. “It involves visits of over 4,000 gazetted officers to each and every Panchayat so that they can be well versed with the local issues and developmental needs. It also aims at ensuring that beneficiary-oriented schemes actually reach the last person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-kashmir-third-phase-of-back-to-village-for-resolution-of-local-issues-begins/story-tZn7B3LQM3J9SLRymAq3aJ.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: TMC’s Derek O’Brien pushed to ground; woman’s family alleges harassment by cops||Trinamool Congress’s (TMC) Rajya Sabha (RS) member Derek O’Brien was pushed to the ground by a Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police team on Friday afternoon when he and some other lawmakers had tried to visit the Bul Gargi village in Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit woman had died earlier this week after she was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in September.Kakoli Ghosh-Dastidar, who represents the Barasat constituency in the Lok Sabha and was a part of the TMC delegation, was also allegedly roughed up by the UP Police.Also read: AAP leaders to protest at India Gate todayThe TMC delegation had landed on the outskirts of the woman’s village early Friday afternoon. But they were asked to stay behind the barricades, which have put up around one and a half kilometres from the village, which has emerged as the centre of a political controversy since the crime was first reported.O’Brien had urged the UP Police Ghosh-Dastidar be allowed to visit the aggrieved family members of the deceased woman. However, the police turned down his request. “I am sick and tired of UP,” O’Brien said.“The arrogant police are mishandling the situation. They have pushed Ghosh-Dastidar to the ground for trying to comfort the victim’s family members. We wanted to offer solidarity to her family,” he said.“It is an atrocity against Dalits and women by the government. Can’t I even meet and comfort the family members of the victim?” asked Ghosh-Dastidar.The situation between the media persons and the UP Police outside the village remained tense for the second consecutive day amid allegations that the woman’s family members were being harassed.A youth, who claimed to be a cousin of the victim, emerged from the village to the main road on Friday morning and alleged that the police had taken control over her family members.He alleged that the victim’s father had passed out on Wednesday after the police thrashed him with a stick. “They have seized our mobile phones,” he alleged.He further alleged the police had occupied the woman’s house and personnel were deployed in the streets of the village and even on adjoining farm lands. He said that he managed to sneak out of the village through a secret route.He ran as soon as the police came towards him while he was speaking to the media persons. The police personnel, who was deployed at the spot, did not respond to the allegations. However, they conceded that restrictions were imposed in the entry and exit to the village.Vikrant Vir, superintendent of police, Hathras, was unavailable for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-gangrape-tmc-s-derek-o-brien-pushed-to-ground-woman-s-family-alleges-harassment-by-cops/story-DMbTTUYZ6HLtmsosMS4ZUL.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR residents prep for bad AQI days ahead with air purifiers, indoor plants||With several sectors reopening and a visible increase in vehicular movement, air pollution is rising in Delhi. Air Quality Index (AQI) hit 148 recently and India Meteorological Department expects air quality to deteriorate further by the end of this month. So, city residents are gearing up for the low AQI days expected in the months to come by buying air purifiers and plants, halting outdoor workouts, and even running awareness campaigns to ban firecrackers. Air-purifier, a mustGurugram resident Upasana Mahatani is hoping for “kinder” days ahead in terms of air quality, but is still preparing for the worst. “I’m ordering another air purifier and, unfortunately, we have more than enough masks,” she says. App to report waste burning Manas Fuloria, CEO of software firm Nagarro, is working towards a tangible solution to the problem. He says, “We are building an app so that people can report waste burning via WhatsApp. For eg someone can click and send a photo, and we will inform the authorities.” Awareness campaigns Ruchika Sethi, founder of a group Citizens of Clean Air, is also looking for solutions. “We are planning a campaign for banning firecrackers. Last year, government had approved bursting of green firecrackers and even regular ones were sold as green crackers... We’ll send out advisories at society level to continue respecting breathing difficulties of vulnerable categories.”Work (in, not) outBanker Mohit Chauhan says, “The solace during the lockdown was the better air quality. But with the onset of crop burning season, we are dreading the coming months. This week onwards, the air quality started dropping... Outdoor runs will be off and fitness regimen might move to gyms... The only respite is maybe due to limited traffic, vehicular pollution may not add to the issue.” One more month to go. pic.twitter.com/ILxuv8TgD6Plants to the rescueDelhi-based author Siddharth Singh, who has written The Great Smog of India, shares that he feels like shifting form the city to another place for these dreaded days. “I wanted to move out of Delhi for the 3-4 week period when the air quality in Delhi is stuck in the hazardous territory. Unfortunately, I won’t be able to do that due to the pandemic. So, instead, I’ve ensured that my house is insulated from the outside air, and to do that I’ve purchased new filters for my indoor air purifiers. I have indoor plants too, but mostly because I love greenery. I’ll also be avoiding any strenuous activities during the peak smog period as that has a disproportionately adverse impact on the lungs and body. Apart from this, there isn’t much one can do to protect oneself.” SIngh adds, “An advice, for people who run RWAs or manage buildings and employees, is to ensure that people who have to work outside like the guards and all, have N95 masks, and an electric output for heating in the winter. Without these, they will have no choice but to burn wood, which is dangerous for them and everyone else as well.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-residents-prep-for-bad-aqi-days-ahead-with-air-purifiers-indoor-plants/story-IWZ5tIfjE8yjWPtKwXwwTI.html
02-10-2020||Gurugram||This new book nook is helping Gurugram cops unwind post work||“The importance of books is indubitable, especially in today’s day and age. As Charles W Eliot had once said: Books are the quietest and most constant of friends; they are the most accessible and wisest of counsellors, and the most patient of teachers. After tiring duty hours, police personnel in Gurugram can now rejuvenate at a library exclusively for them. “The concept is really nice. It’s a place for us to gain additional knowledge. I’m really enjoying that I’m able to read books on laws and current affairs, whenever I get some time in between my shift,” says Naresh Kumar, ASI, Gurugram Police. The library, accessible to Gurugram police personnel and members of the Society for Safe Gurgaon (SSG), was recently inaugurated at the office of the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, by KK Rao, Commissioner of Police. “It has books on police rules, law and enforcement, regulations, motivational speakers and general awareness,” says Subhash Bokan, PRO, Haryana Police. SSG will manage the library from its recourses and workforce, in collaboration with the Gurugram Police. Also, it will function from this premises. “This library is creating facilities conducive to effective policing and helping in organising workshops, with help from academic institutions. The books have been contributed by us. Operations of the library, including issuance of books, etc is being carried out by us,” says Harbhajan Singh, SSG president. Singh adds that wards of police personnel can also get books issued under the Book Bank scheme. If they make it to engineering or medical colleges, students will be given books for a particular semester, and once completed, fresh books will be issued. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/this-new-book-nook-is-helping-gurugram-cops-unwind-post-work/story-I00v6uLYFYZSZbX3jx9vzM.html
02-10-2020||City||Covid-19: Kin of 10 Maharashtra cops will not get Rs 50 lakh compensation as they didn’t contract virus on duty||Maharashtra Police authorities have identified at least 10 policemen , who have died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but are not eligible for the Rs 50-lakh compensation from the state government. It has been found that these 10 police personnel did not contract the virus while they were on duty. As a result, the state government has not considered them as Corona Warriors.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.39 million, death toll nears 100,000Initially, when the viral outbreak was first detected many police personnel, who was pressed into Covid-19 duty, had contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes the viral disease. Panic had spread among the Maharashtra Police personnel after many took ill due to the contagion.The state government had announced the Rs 50-lakh compensation in a bid to boost the morale of the police personnel. The government had also promised a job to the next of kin, if a police man died of Covid-19. Mumbai Police authorities had announced an additional Rs 10 lakh from its welfare fund over and above the state government’s compensation package.Requests to sanction the compensation package started pouring in thick and fast amid the spread of the contagion and deaths of police personnel due to Covid-19.The case fatality rate (CFR) among Mumbai Police was high during the early days of the detection of the viral outbreak.However, Naval Bajaj, former joint commissioner of police (JCP) (administration), who was also designated as the nodal officer for Covid-19 management for Mumbai Police, introduced a slew of effective measures to contain the viral outbreak among the personnel. Soon, more Covid-19 cases were reported among Maharashtra Police personnel posted in Thane, Pune, Navi Mumbai and rural parts of the state.While processing the case files of deceased policemen for the compensation package, Maharashtra Police officials observed that there are a few, who have died since the viral outbreak was first reported but had never performed any Covid-19-related duty.An Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who is posted at Maharashtra Police’s headquarters, said out of the total 247 deaths among the police personnel due to Covid-19, including 84 in Mumbai Police alone, 10 families of the deceased were not eligible to get the state government’s compensation.These deceased policemen belonged to various district police units across Maharashtra and none was from Mumbai Police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Vilas Genu Kachare, who belonged to Sangli district and was posted at Sanjay Nagar police station, is among the 10 deceased policemen, whose family members have been denied the state government’s compensation package. He was absent from duty since last October and was an alcoholic. He had died after suffering a fall in the washroom. He had tested Covid-19 positive after his death. Kachare is survived by his wife and a son. The state government’s order clearly stated that those police personnel would be eligible for the Rs 50-lakh compensation, who had performed Covid-19 related work at least 14 days before getting admitted to hospital or 14 days prior to their death.“The 10 policemen are from various districts of the state. Preliminary information suggested that they were on long leave due to various personal reasons when they had tested Covid-19 positive. Some policemen were absent for months. However, their families staked claim for the Rs 50-lakh compensation after they had died of the contagion,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-kin-of-10-maharashtra-cops-will-not-get-rs-50-lakh-compensation-as-they-didn-t-contract-virus-on-duty/story-TWg1Tw4tjQAotdPMqrJbWJ.html
02-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Unlock 5 guidelines: Cinema halls, schools,colleges to remain shut till October 31||The Rajasthan government issued Unlock 5.0 guidelines, ordering schools, colleges, cinema halls and multiplexes to remain closed till October 31. The guidelines came into effect on October 1. The state government has decided to continue the suspension of regular classes at schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes till October 31 in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases. However, the government’s Unlock guidelines specify that online learning shall continue and be encouraged; 50% teaching and non-teaching staff can be called to schools and students of class 9 to 12 are permitted to visit schools located outside containment zones for guidance but only with the written consent of parents. “The state government will take a decision in respect of opening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school management, based on their assessment of the situation,” says the guideline. However, it has decided to permit reopening of institutions of higher education from October 15, only for laboratory works required by research scholars and post graduate students enrolled in science and technology streams. Also Read: Political row over Rajasthan’s rape casesOnly essential activities will be allowed in containment and curfew areas. The state government has also decided to keep recreational public places shut till October 31 despite Centre’s nod to open them as part of phased resumption of economic activities under its Unlock 5 guidelines.“Swimming pools, Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks and similar places will remain closed for activities till October 31,” the state guidelines state. Also Read: SC seeks response from Rajasthan govt on rape of minor girl by fatherAll social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions, and other large congregations will not be permitted till October 31, it adds. For marriage related gatherings, prior information needs to be given to sub-divisional magistrate and social distancing norms must be followed along with keeping the number of guests to 50 persons or less. Any violation of this will be treated as an offence, punishable with heavy fine, the guidelines say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-unlock-5-guidelines-cinema-halls-schools-colleges-to-remain-shut-till-october-31/story-EfJaK0YOXb4qVbiSWAofzH.html
02-10-2020||City||Covid-19: Family loses four sons in 3 months in Odisha’s Ganjam||The four sons of Mahant Sahoo in Odisha’s Ganjam district were a part of a happy and contented family before the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) struck.But brothers Dhabaleswar (60), Basudev (50), Mangaraj (48) and Krushna Chandra Sahoo (42), who belonged to Angargaon village in Beguniapada block of Ganjam district, died within a span of three months because of the viral infection, leaving their family members devastated and in utter shock. Also read: In Odisha Unlock 5, schools, cinema halls, religious places to stay shut till October 31Bhikari, the second son of Mahant Sahoo, had passed away two years ago after a brief illness.The eldest and the youngest brother, Dhabaleswar and Krushna Chandra, respectively, ran grocery shops. Mangaraj, the third brother, ran a chemist’s ship, while Basudev, the second among the siblings, owned two buses and a tractor.Family members said Krushna Chandra was the first to succumb to Covid-19 on July 14. He died while being shifted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the state capital Bhubaneswar. “Two days later, Mangaraj died at Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati (MKCG) Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur of the viral infection. And another two days later, Basudev also died of Covid-19,” said Saroj Sahoo, sarpanch, Angargaon village,Dhabaleswar , who was trying to come to grips with the loss of his three brothers in quick succession, showed symptoms of the viral infection on September 27. He underwent a rapid antigen detection (RAD) test, but the report turned out to be Covid-19 negative. “Later, he was admitted to MKCG Medical College and hospital’s Covid-19 ward. He died on Wednesday,” said his nephew Rangadhar Sahoo.“It seemed to be an unending nightmare. We thought our uncle would support us. We have lost everything,” said Rangadhar.Dhabaleswar’s son had pointed fingers at the state health officials, who admitted him to the hospital’s Covid-19 ward even though he had tested negative for the viral infection.Ganjam district, which had emerged as the Covid-19 hot spot in Odisha in July and August, has reported the maximum number of deaths due to the contagion in the state to date at 220.The Covid-19 pandemic situation is under control in the district, as less cases of viral outbreak were reported in September. At present, the district has 257 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-family-loses-four-sons-in-3-months-in-odisha-s-ganjam/story-TwTCOHajBMyUE3NZvXDG1H.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records over 43% increase in testing in September, highest so far||Mumbai created a new record and reported a 43% spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests in September, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data showed. Until September 29, over 3.41 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in Mumbai. The corresponding figure for August and July was 2.38 lakh and 2.04 lakh, respectively. Data showed that out of the total 11.15 lakh tests conducted in Mumbai up to September 29, more than 52% or 5.80 lakh tests were conducted in August and September alone. The BMC had started to conduct Covid-19 tests on February 3 and the first case of the viral infection in the city was detected on March 11. The average Covid-19 daily tests in the past few months have consistently gone up. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.39 million, death toll nears 1 lakhIn May, 3,872 tests were conducted on average on a daily basis. In June, the corresponding figure went up to 4,422 tests daily. In July and August, it breached the 6,400 and 7,700 mark, respectively.In September, the average was 11,775 tests.Aggressive testing mechanism was adopted in September, which also led to the detection of over 60,000 Covid-19 cases, as compared to the previous months. A data analysis of 1.41 lakh cases in Mumbai revealed that the city had reported around 7,000 Covid-19 cases until April 30.In May, Mumbai reported 31,874 Covid-19 cases, followed by June (36,559), July (35,139) and in August (around 30,474). BMC officials attributed the aggressive testing mechanism to the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions in a bid to revive the economic activities that have been battered by the Covid-19 pandemic.Civic officials said many employers are getting their employees tested, which have led to an uptick in Covid-19 test figures. Similarly, many inbound flight passengers are getting themselves tested on arrival at the airport.“We are testing to our full capacity and are able to test around 15,000 swab samples daily. However, in the coming days, the aim is to conduct around 20,000 tests. We will increase our capacity, which will happen with time,” Iqbal Singh Chahal, commissioner, BMC, had said last week.At present, 23 private laboratories in Mumbai are conducting Covid-19 tests. The one-lakh-test mark was crossed on May 6, two lakh on June 1, three lakh on June 24, four lakh on July 14, five lakh on July 29, six lakh on August 9, seven lakh on August 22, eight lakh on September 3, 10 lakh on September 20, and 11 lakh on September 27. Mumbai’s Covid-19 positivity rate is 18.15%.Earlier on July 7, the BMC authorities had relaxed the norms to conduct a Covid-19 test. They had removed the clause that made prescription from a registered medical practitioner mandatory. However, BMC officials claimed that the number of Mumbaikars, who were voluntarily getting themselves tested at private laboratories, went up only from September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-over-43-increase-in-testing-in-september-highest-so-far/story-xTRImu0p0EbWDVuZMGZfdI.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul puts off Punjab visit by a day, to take out tractor rallies from October 4 to 6||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has put off his Punjab visit by a day and will be taking out tractor rallies against the Centre’s farm laws from October 4 to 6. “Change in @RahulGandhi tractor rallies programme; rescheduled to October 4, 5, 6. Rest remains the same,” chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted on Friday morning. Besides the chief minister, all ministers and Congress legislators will participate in the protest rallies along with party general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat, and state party president Sunil Jakhar. Rahul’s tractor rallies will cover more than 50 km over three days, a Punjab Congress spokesperson said. The tractor rallies are scheduled to begin at 11am on each of the three days, and will adhere to Covid-19 guidelines. The protest rally on October 4 will cover a total distance of 22 km, starting with a public meeting at Badni Kalan in Nihal Singh Wala in Moga district before moving through Lopon. The rally will then head for Jagraon in Ludhiana district, where it will be received at Chakar, Lakha and Manoke, culminating at a public meeting in Raikot. On Day 2, a total of 20 km will be covered, beginning with a reception at Barnala Chowk, Sangrur, from where Rahul and his team will travel by car to Bhawanigarh for a public meeting, before embarking on tractors to Samana in Patiala district, where receptions will be held at Fatehgarh Chhana and Bahmna, before ending the day with a public meeting at Grain Market, Samana. On October 6, the protest will begin from Dudhan Sadhan in Patiala district with a public meeting, and the tractors will then head for Pehowa border, which is 10km away. Rahul will enter Haryana from there for a series of programmes in the neighbouring state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rahul-puts-off-punjab-visit-by-a-day-to-take-out-tractor-rallies-from-october-4-to-6/story-DOZHciaRjFlwkZBH43W5tI.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi yet to appoint a full-time state disability commissioner||The post of the state commissioner for persons with disabilities (PwD) in Delhi has been vacant for five-and-a-half months. Disability rights activists want the Delhi government to fill the post so that grievances of PwD can be addressed at the earliest, especially during the Coronavirus pandemic.After TD Dhariyal’s term as the state commissioner for PwD ended in December, the Delhi government gave additional charge to former bureaucrat Ramesh Negi, who was then the chairman of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in March. But Negi’s tenure ended in May and since then the post has been vacant.In the absence of a full-time state commissioner, the staff is forwarding complaints to the respective departments for necessary action or requesting action taken reports. “We are getting a lot of complaints. But we are just forwarding them to the concerned departments. If we get action taken report, we forward it to the complainant,” said an official at the state commissioner’s office, requesting anonymity.Also Read: With fewer admissions, 61% of Covid-19 beds in Delhi vacant“The subordinate officials don’t have the power to pass any order. It is only the state Commissioner who can issue notices, summons, and hold hearings to address the grievances of people and pass orders for departments to comply. While the pandemic has been tough on people at large, it has made things extremely difficult for people with disabilities,” said Dhariyal.Social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said, “We had initiated the process to appoint a new commissioner before the assembly elections and had sent a few names to the chief secretary. As services are not under us, the selection of the new state commissioner has to be done by the committee chaired by the chief secretary.”Delhi government’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “Principal secretary home is heading the committee and the process is on.”Stressing on the need for a full-time commissioner, disability rights advocate and co-founder of Samarthyam Anjlee Agarwal cited how caregivers for PwD were listed among those eligible for a curfew pass during the lockdown after she approached the then commissioner Negi to intervene.Also Read: 50 teams to check pollution in Delhi-NCR“The fact that there was a state commissioner for PwD, it became easier for us to get the issue addressed. The commissioner is the bridge between the disabled person and the government. An important order passed in Delhi can be replicated in other parts of the country,” Agarwal said.Dr Satendra Singh, professor at University College of Medical Sciences, said that state commissioners are the nodal authority to address concerns of people.“People with disabilities are facing problems, especially now during Covid pandemic, related to getting disability certificates, office-related matters etc. The Centre has also said that the commissioners will be the nodal officers to address all issues faced by disabled people during the pandemic. But the post is lying vacant for so many months. The government should appoint a full-time commissioner so that our grievances can be addressed at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-yet-to-appoint-a-full-time-state-disability-commissioner/story-Z7pjSLVGr76jmMXL14wOoL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||PM Modi to inaugurate strategic Atal Tunnel at Rohtang tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the strategically important all-weather Atal Tunnel, which reduces the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km and the travel time by five hours, at Rohtang in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday. Modi will also attend public functions at Sissu in Lahaul-Spiti district and at Solang Valley, officials said. The prime minister will be accompanied by defence minister Rajnath Singh, they said. Atal Tunnel is the longest highway tunnel in the world, and the 9.02-km tunnel connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year. The valley was earlier cut off for six months every year due to heavy snowfall. MODI TO TRAVEL THROUGH TUNNEL, FLAG OFF BUS The tunnel is built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal range of Himalayas at an altitude of 3,000 metres (10,000 feet) from the mean sea level. According to the officials, the Prime Minister will arrive at the Centre for Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) in Kullu district on October 3. He will halt at a Border Roads Organisation (BRO) guest house and interact with the officials there. Meanwhile, the defence minister will reach Manali on Friday evening and hold a meeting with BRO officials. He will also inspect the tunnel ahead of its inauguration by the Prime Minister, officials said. Modi will travel through the Atal Tunnel to reach its north portal in Lahaul valley of Lahaul-Spiti district and flag off a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus for the south portal in Manali, they said. The south portal of Atal Tunnel is located at a distance of 25 km from Manali at an altitude of 3,060 metres, while the north portal of the tunnel is located near Teling village at Sissu in the Lahaul Valley at an altitude of 3,071 metres. HORSE-SHOE SHAPED, SINGLE TUBE TUNNEL It is a horse-shoe shaped, single-tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and has an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres, officials said. The tunnel, built at a cost of about Rs 3,300 crore, is significant from the point of view of the country’s defence, they said. The BRO worked relentlessly to overcome major geological, terrain and weather challenges that included the most difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah fault zone. The breakthrough from both ends was achieved on October 15, 2017. Talking about the tunnel, a BRO official said it provides a telephone facility at every 150 metres of its stretch, a fire hydrant every 60 metres, emergency exits every 500 metres, turning cavern every 2.2 km, air quality monitors every 1 km, broadcasting system and automatic incident detection system with CCTV cameras every 250 metres. FRIEND’S SUGGESTION PAVED THE WAY The Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had taken the decision to construct the strategic tunnel below the Rohtang Pass on June 3, 2000, and the foundation stone for the access road to the south portal of the tunnel was laid on May 26, 2002. Vajpayee got the idea for constructing the tunnel on a suggestion from his friend Arjun Gopal of Tashi Dobhe village in Lahaul, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had said. The Modi government decided to name it Atal Tunnel in December 2019 to honour the former prime minister who had passed away the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-strategic-atal-tunnel-at-rohtang-tomorrow/story-ZXeUlGwWK8kHvchShrLLjM.html
02-10-2020||Bhopal||MP Congress claims credit for fall in rape cases in 2019, BJP has different theory||After 14 years, Madhya Pradesh’s image of a state registering the highest number of rape cases in the country, has changed with a 10% decrease in number of rape cases reported in 2019, according to national crime records bureau (NCRB) 2019 data.The figures have resulted in a political slugfest, with the Congress claiming credit for the decline and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing the rival party of underreporting cases.The NCRB data pertains to the year 2019, when Congress leader Kamal Nath was the chief minister. Nath was replaced by BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan in March 2020 after 22 Congress MLAs rebelled and resigned from the state assembly, resulting in Nath losing majority on the floor of the house.As per the NCRB report released on Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh reported the third highest number of rape cases after Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh in 2019. The central Indian state reported 5,822 total rape cases in 2019 compared to 6,677 in 2018, a decline of about 10%. Overall cognizable crime cases against women in the state reduced by 19%, according to NCRB data. In case of rape of minors, Madhya Pradesh continues to top the chart with 3,337 such cases reported in 2019.Also Read: 2 arrested for rape and murder of 2-year-old in MPCongress leaders claimed credit for the fall in rape cases in 2019, but experts working in the area of women rights said the decline was due to under reporting of cases and also because of the change in the way of presenting rape data. “This year, the data is very technical. The number of total rape cases has gone down from 5,433 in 2018 to 2,485 in 2019 but we can’t say there is an actual fall of 54% in rape cases. While submitting the crime data to NCRB, MP police reported rapes in two different categories- of rape with adults and with minors, presented as offence under Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO). However, if we add up all the cases registered under section 376 (rape) of IPC with both women and minor girls, there is a decrease of 10%,” she said. Also Read: Hathras gang rape: AAP senior leaders to protest at India Gate todayA woman activist, Rolly Shivhare, said, “We can’t accept this data as it seems to be a case of under reporting. We haven’t seen any concrete step taken by the then Congress government in 2019 to curb crime against women. Their focus was mainly on farmers and unemployment, not women related issues.” Ruling BJP supported the experts’ view. BJP spokesperson Neha Bagga said, “The data represents nothing but fudging of numbers to show improvement. The number of cases looks like it has reduced due to under reporting, whereas, the BJP has always believed in reporting each and every incident of crime. The BJP-led state government had introduced many schemes and measures to curb crime during its previous regime. But the Congress government didn’t take any step in its 15-months’ rule from Dec 2018 to March 2020.” The Congress, however, claims that the reduction is a result of the then government’s “zero tolerance” policy for crime against women.“The then chief minister Kamal Nath’s zero tolerance policy for crime against women worked and sensitized the police, which resulted in not only rape cases but overall cognizable crime against women being reduced. To not report crime cases is a tactic of the BJP, not of the Congress,” said Congress leader and MP state women commission’s chairperson, Shobha Oza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-congress-claims-credit-for-fall-in-rape-cases-in-2019-bjp-has-different-theory/story-AdJSglEWPOA3u8HH3fduzO.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Hathras gang rape: AAP senior leaders to protest at India Gate today||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said that senior party leaders and members of the Delhi legislative assembly (MLAs) would gather at the India Gate in the evening to protest against the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) by four upper caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district earlier this week.“We will gather in large numbers at the India Gate at 5 pm to protest against the Hathras incident. All our MLAs and several senior leaders are supposed to join us. We demand a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe into the incident, security for the family of the victim, compensation, charge sheet to be filed at the earliest and the case be assigned to a fast-track court,” said Rajendra Pal Gautam, a minister in the Delhi government and an AAP leader.Also read: Hathras victim’s father demands CBI probe alleging pressure from cops, administrationSeveral civil society groups and individuals have called for a protest at the India Gate on Friday to demand justice for the Hathras victim. Activists from the Bhim Army, actor Swara Bhaskar, students’ activists from Delhi University (DU), Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), members of All India Students Association (AISA), Students’ Federation of India (SFI) and others have planned to gather at the India Gate on Friday evening to demand justice for the Hathras victim.On Thursday, Delhi Police reiterated that all gatherings are prohibited near the India Gate under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The prohibitory order banning assembly of four or more persons at one place has been in place since the end of March to ensure that the public comply with social distancing norms amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hathras-gang-rape-aap-senior-leaders-to-protest-at-india-gate-today/story-zuxZiDMICOiSlxTU77NvdN.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||IP university VC nominated to the board running Apollo hospital in Delhi||The vice chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha university, Dr Mahesh Verma, has been nominated by the Delhi government as one of the four directors to the board of the Indraprastha medical corporation limited, which runs the Indraprastha Apollo hospital in the capital. The others include Jasmine Shah, vice chairman, dialogue and development commission of Delhi, Udit Prakash Rai, special secretary (health and family welfare) of Delhi, and Vikram Bhat, consultant, Delhi technological university, according to an order dated September 30. Delhi government nominates directors to the board running the Indraprastha Apollo hospital as per the land agreement that made it a joint venture. “This is a great honour, usually it is the secretaries and other officials from the Delhi government who are nominated and not a doctor,” said Dr Verma. Also Read: With fewer admissions, 61% of Covid-19 beds in Delhi vacantDe Verma is a dental surgeon and was the director of Maulana Azad institute for dental sciences (MAIDS) before taking up the position of the VC of IP university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ip-university-vc-nominated-to-the-board-running-apollo-hospital-in-delhi/story-cNcDYzbRSxEiYgG02816EO.html
02-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal zoos to reopen from Friday after more than 6 months||While the wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in West Bengal have already opened their gates for tourists, zoos in the state, including the Alipore zoo in Kolkata, are scheduled to open from Friday. There are 12 zoos in West Bengal which attract around 50 lakh visitors round the year. The Alipore zoo and the Darjeeling zoo together attract more than 40 lakh visitors. Also Read: Durga Puja may remain low-key this year: No pandals, cultural programmes“All zoos in the state will open from today. They had to be closed down on March 17 and had been shut since then because of the pandemic,” said a senior forest department official. While the Alipore Zoo – the oldest in the country – has many endangered and exotic species such as the tiger, elephant, lion, kangaroos, giraffes, anaconda and chimpanzee among others, the Darjeeling zoo in north Bengal, which specializes in conservation of Himalayan species, has some of the most elusive animals such as the red panda, snow leopard, blue sheep, Tibetan wolf and the salamander as its major attractions. Also Read: Will take decision on reopening schools after mid-Nov: West Bengal CM The two zoos had recently started live streaming videos of some of its animals, at least for two hours every day during the pandemic, allowing people to watch the animals live, from the comfort of their homes. A senior official said that the beginning of the festive season with Durga Puja being less than a month away and the approaching winter, prompted the forest department to reopen zoos, sanctuaries and national parks for tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-zoos-to-reopen-from-friday-after-more-than-6-months/story-uodPYVPNiF7DwxQi6fjsTK.html
02-10-2020||Bhopal||2 arrested for rape and murder of 2-year-old in MP||Madhya Pradesh police on Thursday arrested a man and his accomplice for abducting, raping and killing a two-year-old girl in Jabalpur district, 370 km east of Bhopal. The prime accused is a 21-year-old youth, a resident of a village in Jabalpur district. He is alleged to have abducted the child from her house, where she was sleeping with her mother on the night of September 17 and committed the crime with the help of an accomplice, a 20-year old youth from the same village, said Shivesh Singh Baghel, additional superintendent of police, Jabalpur. The police officer said the body of the girl was recovered from an agricultural field the next day. The post-mortem report confirmed rape with the girl. “The father of the girl lodged a complaint at Shahpur police station. During the investigation, police found that on the night of the crime, about 30-35 people had gathered in a neighbouring village to participate in a birthday party,” said Baghel. Also Watch: Hathras horror: UP cop cites forensic report, says no rape “When police looked at the photographs from the function and interrogated the guests and other villagers, it came to be known that some of the guests had arrived in a taxi driven by the prime accused. His friend and a suspected accomplice was also with him. Police interrogated Sonu and he confessed to have committed the crime,” said the officer. “He told police that he was in an inebriated state in the night. He was familiar with the father of the victim. He entered the house of the victim at night which was not locked from inside and abducted the girl,” said the additional SP. Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Police stifle protests after forcibly cremating victimBoth the accused were arrested and produced before the court on Thursday. The court sent them to police custody for three days. In another rape case, police on Thursday, announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for information related to three unidentified accused involved in a gang rape in Khargone district, 328 kilometres south west of Bhopal. “The 16-year-old girl was with her brother when three people came and beat her brother up. They took the girl with them and raped her. The brother informed the villagers, who reached the crime spot following which the accused fled, leaving their bike behind,” said Shailendra Singh Chauhan, superintendent of police (SP), Khargone. During the investigation, police found that the bike was stolen from Indore on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/2-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-2-year-old-in-mp/story-Q5TGgMg3OnJj2EHAAp0KaL.html
02-10-2020||City||Two killed in Assam by villagers on suspicion of them being witches, 9 arrested||Fellow villagers have allegedly killed and burnt bodies of a 50-year-old widow and a 28-year-old man after a kangaroo court in a remote village in Assam’s Karbi Anglong branded them “witches” and held them responsible for a girl’s death on September 27 and for “practising black magic”.Police superintendent Debojit Deuri said before the girl’s death, the villagers held the two responsible for her sickness. “The villagers held a kangaroo court in front of the head man’s house on Wednesday night, killed the duo [who are unrelated] and cremated them on a single pyre,” said Deuri.Also Read: Anti-CAA stir: NIA court gives bail to Akhil GogoiHe added they have managed to recover some remains of the two from the pyre which will be sent for forensic examination. “Nine persons from the village, including three women involved in the killings, have been arrested. They have confessed to killing the two. Efforts are on to nab six other accused who are absconding.”A murder case under the Indian Penal Code and the Assam Witch Hunting (Prohibition, Prevention and Protection) Act has been registered against the villagers. “Our effort will be to nab all accused, get all the required evidence and reports from the forensic lab and file a charge sheet in the case within the quickest possible time,” Deuri said.According to data presented in the state assembly in November 2019, 107 people have been killed in instances of witch-hunting in Assam since 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-in-assam-by-villagers-on-suspicion-of-them-being-witches-9-arrested/story-JVA6kP3tkKxpkix3jNTZpN.html
02-10-2020||City||Wildlife sanctuary near proposed Chandrapur greenfield airport: Panel to submit report by Oct 31||A six-member committee has been appointed by the Maharashtra forest department to check the feasibility of declaring a 265 sq km area at Kanhargaon in Chandrapur as either a wildlife sanctuary or a conservation reserve based on consultations with local residents.The area of the proposed sanctuary falls in close proximity to the proposed 340-hectare Chandrapur greenfield airport, and if the sanctuary is declared, the airport area will fall within the eco-sensitive zone of the sanctuary, said members of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL). However, conservation reserves do not have ESZ.Maharashtra’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Nitin Kakodkar, who constituted the committee earlier this week directed that a report on the final status of the proposed sanctuary or conservation reserve needs to be submitted by October 31.At a meeting of the SBWL in December 2018, the proposal to declare the sanctuary received in-principle approval. “However, during public consultations with local residents, there was stiff opposition to the declaration of a sanctuary. The matter was heard during the last (15th) SBWL meeting on August 7, and it was decided that we should revisit the matter, find out the opinion of locals and ensure the area gets the proposed protected status,” said Kakodkar. “Thus, this committee needs to assess the reasons for the opposition and submit details of villages against sanctuary declaration in less than a month.”“During the last SBWL meeting, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that while local residents around Kanhargaon were consulted but unfortunately nobody had taken a view about the tigers and other wildlife... how they are generally affected by human activities,” said SBWL member Kishor Rithe. He added Thackeray was for the approval for the sanctuary.Rithe said that Kanhargaon was declared a sanctuary in-principle by the previous government. “However, former forest minister (Sudhir Mungantiwar) who belongs to Chandrapur district had requested that local villagers be consulted. Probably there was a fear that the greenfield airport which comes in ESZ of the proposed sanctuary may halt the sanctuary’s final notification. FDCM [Forest Development Corporation Of Maharashtra] also has a commercial interest in the area. Regrettably, the poor wildlife cannot fight these forces, and hence there is an overall delay in issuing the final sanctuary notification,” said Rithe.According to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, the area extending from Vihirgaon and Murti, where the airport has been proposed, to Rajura forest area and Kanhargaon proposed sanctuary zones, forms part of an identified tiger corridor. The zone is also an important interstate link for tiger dispersal between Kawal and Indravati tiger reserves in Telangana and Chandrapur as well as the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve buffer, which is 38 km from the proposed airport site and 32 km from the Chaprala Wildlife Sanctuary, said a report by WII on the feasibility of the airport and proposed wildlife mitigation measures.“The proposed site is within the critical habitat and connectivity corridors of tigers. The present site may or shall not be considered for the construction of the proposed airport,” the report said. It added there were 12 tigers in a 20-30 km radius around the proposed airport site between Rajura reserved forest and Kanhargaon. There are 15 tigers and at least 23 leopards within the 265 sq km Kanhargaon area.The Chandrapur airport construction would require the diversion of 75-hectare forest land and destruction of 3,817 trees, according to the proposal by the Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC), which applied for forest clearances earlier this year. “We have submitted our views to the state government on the feasibility of the airport after studying MADC’s submissions and the WII report. We cannot disclose our submission at the moment as it is up to the state government to take a final call,” said Kakodkar.Gaurav Upshyam, senior manager (regional connectivity scheme), MADC, said there was no other alternate site for the airport. “The proposed project cannot be shifted elsewhere,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildlife-sanctuary-near-proposed-chandrapur-greenfield-airport-panel-to-submit-report-by-oct-31/story-hRgKift6CWQgbjPEJAUVSK.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||With fewer admissions, 61% of Covid-19 beds in Delhi vacant||With fewer cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported in Delhi every day, the total number of hospitalisations across the city has also started declining over the last one week. On average, 6,598 people were hospitals on any given day in the last seven days, as compared to 7,014 during the week before that. There were only 6,146 people in hospitals as on Wednesday, according to the daily health bulletin. The number of active cases, or those living with the infection, has dropped to an average of 28,300 in the last seven days as compared to 31,562 the week before that. This has resulted in more beds that were earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 becoming vacant. Over 61% of the beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19—both in government and private hospitals—are currently vacant. However, when it comes to the intensive care unit (ICU) beds, only 34.2% are vacant, data from the Delhi Corona App shows. Seeing the ICU beds fill up faster in the second week of September, the Delhi government had asked its hospitals to increase the number of ICU beds and had ordered 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19. In about 10 days, government hospitals as well as private hospitals were able to add 500 beds each. However, the order for the 33 private hospitals was challenged in the high court and the court has said it would hear the matter again on October 9, asking the Delhi government to submit data on whether ICU beds were available for the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients. As on Monday, about 55% of the ICU beds in the government hospitals were occupied and 72.5% of the beds in private sector hospitals were occupied, according to the Delhi Corona App. As for the occupancy in 12 of the big private hospitals, the occupancy has reduced slightly, but is at 84%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-fewer-admissions-61-of-covid-19-beds-in-delhi-vacant/story-vWzWFOd9Hl8ZsZramGQh5L.html
02-10-2020||Lucknow||Son of suspended BSP MLA from Hathras joins BJP||Around a month after Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) member of Uttar Pradesh (UP) legislative assembly (MLA) Ramvir Upadhyaya met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his son Chiragvir (27) joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday.Ramvir, a former minister and among the select Brahmin faces of the BSP, had won from Sadabad in western UP’s Hathras district in 2017 UP assembly polls. However, he was suspended from the BSP after last year’s parliamentary elections on charges of “indulging in anti-party activities” Ramvir and his family wield considerable clout in and around Hathras, which has grabbed headlines following the gang-rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) earlier this week by four upper caste men. Also Read: Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati, Mamata slam UP govt over Hathras gangrapeThe incident has sparked a political controversy much to the embarrassment of the UP government. The BJP was tight-lipped on whether Chiragvir would be deployed for damage control in the aftermath of the Hathras incident. BSP chief Mayawati has upped the ante against the UP government. She has demanded that CM Adityanath should resign or be replaced by some other BJP leader following the incident. Chiragvir was slated to join the BJP in Agra in August. But that move was put off at the last moment and on Thursday, the party made an abrupt announcement about its latest Brahmin face.“As a Ram bhakt, I feel the BJP is the best option to serve the country,” Chiragvir said after joining the party. He cited that he was impressed with the party’s policies and also the style of governance of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Adityanath.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape: Lawyers demand president’s rule in Uttar PradeshUP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh welcomed Chiragvir to the party and hoped that the new entrant would strengthen its base in the western UP region.In August, Satish Chandra Mishra, national general secretary, BSP, had cleared the air about Chiragvir’s bid to join the BJP and also the political fate of his father.“Ramvir Upadhyaya had been suspended by the party, as he had engaged in anti-party activities last year by supporting opposition candidates during the parliamentary elections. Neither his, nor his son’s joining (the BJP) will make any difference to our party,” Mishra had said.Ramvir’s brother Mukul, a former member of UP legislative council (MLC), had also joined the BJP last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/son-of-suspended-bsp-mla-from-hathras-joins-bjp/story-dJdc3FnTBOJ8UeNqvm3AmI.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Digital news channel head held for extortion in Delhi||A 37-year-old man operating a digital news channel from Noida has been arrested for allegedly attempting to extort Rs 5 crore from a South Delhi-based advocate by threatening to upload a sting operation that was conducted on him, police said on Friday. The alleged extortionist Afsar Ali alias AK Chaudhary has previously been involved in three crimes, including vehicle theft and cheating, registered against him in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh between 2010 and 2015, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that Ali was arrested following an extortion case registered recently at the Greater Kailash police station on the complaint of an advocate, who alleged that he had been receiving extortion calls. The advocate told the police that the alleged extortionists were threatening to defame him by uploading a sting operation conducted against him on their news portal if he did not pay them Rs 5 crore, said Thakur. The police have withheld the complainant’s name.Also Read: Three rapes, 126 vehicle thefts per day in Delhi in 2019: NCRBDuring the probe, the DCP said, the investigating team learnt that the suspect and his associates had also visited the complainant’s office and tried to get details about his family members. Investigators scanned the CCTV camera footage of the office and obtained the suspect’s photograph. “Through technical and manual investigation we identified the suspect as Afsar Ali and learnt that he was running a news portal in Noida. We arrested Ali after collecting details about his whereabouts,” said DCP Thakur, adding that Ali confessed to the crime during the interrogation. Also Read: Delhi Police returns Rs 21.50 lakh, gold, phones, vehicles in recovered property to the publicExplaining the modus operandi, DCP Thakur said that Ali, in connivance with his associates, who are job seekers, would identify prospective targets on the basis of their lavish life style and cars they owned. They used to conduct detailed reconnaissance of the targets and met them posing as buyers of farmhouse land, he said. “While carrying out the deal, the alleged extortionists would conduct a sting operation. Thereafter, based on the person’s financial condition, they would try to extort the person for money was raised and intimidate them,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/digital-news-channel-held-for-extortion-in-delhi/story-ddX6eN4mlUEtcaAXrmfLxN.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Akali leaders consider shifting farm agitation from Punjab to Delhi||A day after their kisan marches to Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh were cut short and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership was detained and let off, the party leaders will be meeting shortly to discuss the strategy to put pressure on the Centre to revoke the three farm laws.Party sources said that the SAD leaders will be meeting to discuss their course of action and are considering shifting the protest from Punjab to Delhi.“We are considering taking the protests against the farm bills to the national capital, New Delhi. The party’s core committee meet is expected to take place shortly after which we will announce the further course of action. We are considering beginning a sit-in or a chain hunger strike outside Parliament,” said the party’s kisan (farmer) wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka.On Thursday night, police detained SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife, former Union minister and Bathinda MP, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and other senior Akali leaders when they were trying to enter Chandigarh while leading marches from the three Sikh Takhts (seats of temporal authority). The Akali leaders were to submit a memorandum, addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore demanding the repeal of the farm laws. While Sukhbir and senior SAD leaders, including Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bikram Singh Majithia and Jagir Kaur, were taken into preventive custody near Mullanpur; Harsimrat, Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma and Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana were detained at Zirakpur. The police used water cannons and canecharged the protesters to disperse them as they tried to force their way across the barricades placed to stop them from entering Chandigarh at the Mullanpur and Zirakpur borders. The Chandigarh administration had imposed Section 144 of the CrPC, banning assembly of five and more people at one place. The police wanted only a few leaders to meet the Punjab governor to submit the memorandum but the SAD leadership demanded that all Akali members be allowed. “We detained them (Akali leaders) for a brief period and they were later released,” Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal said. CHANDUMAJRA, JAGIR KAUR INJURED Chandumajra and Jagir Kaur received minor injuries as they fell on the ground in the melee. The Akali leaders were taken to the Sector 17 police station where they again held a protest against the Punjab government and the Chandigarh administration and demanded that they be allowed to give memorandum to the governor. Before being detained, Harsimrat addressed her supporters stating that they would continue to protest till the Union government rolled back the agriculture laws. She claimed her party had not been taken into confidence before introducing the bills. Earlier in the day, Sukhbir, Harsimrat and Chandumajra launched kisan (farmer) marches from Akal Takht, Amritsar, Takht Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, and Takht Keshgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib, respectively, and headed for Chandigarh to hand over a memorandum, addressed to the President, to the Punjab governor, with an appeal to convene a special session of Parliament to amend the recent farm laws. BADAL SENIOR CONDEMNS USE OF FORCE Meanwhile, Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal strongly condemned the use of force on “peaceful” Akalis by the Chandigarh Police and said that the “brutal” lathicharge made this a “painful and dark day” for democracy in the country’s history. Last week, the SAD had announced to part ways with the NDA, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years. On September 17, Harsimrat Kaur Badal had quit the Union Cabinet after the SAD chief strongly opposed the farm bills in Lok Sabha, claiming the legislations will “destroy” the agriculture sector in Punjab. President Ram Nath Kovind has given assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. (with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-after-they-were-detained-let-off-akali-leaders-to-discuss-farm-agitation-strategy/story-ZvE17UYQ2BM2Qjb1usOq1L.html
02-10-2020||Bhopal||MP saw more Covid cases in September than first 5 months of outbreak combined||Madhya Pradesh registered more Covid-19 cases in the month of September than were recorded in the first five months of coronavirus outbreak. In September, it also recorded as many as 40% of all Covid-19 deaths in the state, as per the health department’s Covid bulletins. As on Wednesday, the Covid-19 cases tally stood at 128,047 with 2,316 deaths and the recovery of 104,734 patients from the disease since March 20 onwards. The Covid-19 tests tally stood at 2,035,134. The first Covid-19 case was reported in Madhya Pradesh from Jabalpur on March 20.As many as 64,082 Covid cases were reported from across the state in the month of September alone, whereas, 63,965 Covid cases had been reported between March 20 and August 31—a period of more than five months.Similarly, 922 Covid-19 patients died in September against 1,394 deaths recorded in the period from March 20 to August 31. As per the official data, on an average, one Covid case was reported every less than 4 minutes from across the state between March and August, whereas in September, three Covid cases were reported every two minutes, thus registering an increase of 469%. Similarly, between March and August, death of a Covid patient was reported every 170 minutes on an average, whereas in September, a death due to Covid-19 was reported almost every 47 minutes. Also Read: At least 14 states have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases each: Health ministryThere was an increase in positivity rate too, which varied from day to day. For instance, in the last five days of August, the positivity rates were recorded at 5.5%, 4.8%, 5.3%, 6.2% and 5.5% respectively. The same on the last five days of September stood at 10%, 12.2%, 9%, 10% and 8.6%. However, if the number of cases, deaths and positivity rates increased alarmingly in September, so did the number of those who recovered from the disease across the state. The recoveries rose from 48,657 registered between March and August to 56,077 in September alone. Thus, on an average, one Covid patient recovered from the disease every less than 5 minutes in the six months period between March and August, while more than six patients recovered every 5 minutes in September as Covid cases went up significantly. More than 6.57 lakhs tests were conducted in September that accounted for less than 50% of the total tests conducted between March and August. Madhya Pradesh lags behind several states on the number of tests conducted per million of the population, as per health department officials. As per the health bulletin released on Wednesday night, MP had conducted 28,032 Covid-19 tests per million. Public health experts find the state government’s current handling of the Covid-19 situation worrying and disappointing. “Apart from the government data which lacks transparency, more worrying is the fact that the government seems to have withdrawn itself from its responsibility to control the Covid situation. The government authorities are repeatedly attributing a significant increase in Covid cases to people moving around during Unlock whereas huge gatherings are witnessed in almost every political meeting ahead of bypolls in the state,” said Amulya Nidhi, a public health expert. Also Read: MP pharma factory murder: Police make 3 more arrestsAnother public health expert SR Azad said, “Till now the government has not made public its death audit report. There is no data available on patients and deaths hospital wise. There is no response to the growing number of complaints from the Covid patients and their relatives and till now there is no aggressive strategy to control the situation.” Despite efforts, additional chief secretary, health department, Mohd Suleman, couldn’t be reached for comments. However, on Thursday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “There is a constant improvement in the Covid situation across the state. While the recovery rate has gone up to 82.5%, the number of active cases is coming down constantly. The number of active cases had reduced by 2000 in the past 4 days. The death rate too, has come down significantly. In the past 15 days, the death rate was 1% while the overall death rate is 1.08%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-saw-more-covid-cases-in-september-than-first-5-months-of-outbreak-combine/story-Jr1dZ8SqhPsKnBJrf9HY4M.html
02-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand schools colleges can open after October 15, no restrictions for tourists||Releasing standard operating procedure (SOP) for Unlock 5.0 on Thursday evening, Uttarakhand government allowed reopening of theatres, cinema halls and entertainment parks with 50% capacity. The state government has also allowed schools to reopen after October 15 subject to students getting written consent from their parents to attend classes. According to the new SOP, “The Department of Education will prepare their own Standard Operating Procedures regarding health and safety precautions for re-opening of schools/ institutions based on the SOPs issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DOSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.” As per the latest guidelines, centrally funded higher education institutions will be allowed to reopen from 15 October for research scholars (Ph.D) and for post graduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratory work. “For all other higher education institutions, (for) example, state universities, private universities, etc., they may open only for research scholars (Ph.D.) and postgraduate students in Science and Technology stream requiring laboratory/ experimental works as per decision to be taken by the Department of Higher Education, Government of Uttarakhand,” the Unlock 5 guidelines states. Also Read: Unlock 5.0: Uttarakhand schools to be opened after consultation with parents, school management: Education minister Following the central government’s guidelines, the state government has also allowed cinemas, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks and similar places to open with up to 50% capacity in areas outside containment zones. Till October 15, social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations held outside containment zones have already been permitted in the state as long as it doesn’t cross the ceiling of 100 people. The new SOP states that more than 100 people may be allowed at some of these public places after October 15 by district administrations.“Such gatherings beyond the limit of 100 persons may be permitted, outside containment zones by the District Administrations only after 15 October 2020.”Also Read: Uttarakhand forest department to radio collar wild animals for studyFor closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity, not exceeding 200 persons, will be allowed with the mandatory wearing of masks and maintenance of physical distancing. In a big boost to the tourism industry, the new SOPs also state that no permit or a Covid-19 negative certification shall be required for tourists entering the state and even for intrastate travel. However, all such travellers will have to mandatorily register on the website of Dehradun smart city limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-schools-colleges-can-open-after-october-15-no-restrictions-for-tourists/story-txPb0s1ZFsUXtD6MCZRGFP.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sonam’s musician||In your life too, there must be people you don’t personally know but whom you would often spot in the BC (before corona) era.An ATM guard. A fruit seller. A beggar.On daily seeing these unknown yet familiar faces—during our commute, somewhere in our street—what impression do they leave on us? What do we take away from them? And how to remember?Sonam Pandey, a 22-year-old Master’s student in Hindi Literature, just finished immortalising a man she knew—in a painting. The drawing looks like one of those watercolours sold by street artists in the touristic quarters of Paris—the typical evening sight of a musician serenading on a bridge, below a faintly glowing lamp.Except that this is Vaishali, in Ghaziabad. Where the aforementioned musician would station himself on the pedestrian footbridge, every day, outside the Metro station.“I would often see him while exiting the station, playing his harmonium,” says Ms Pandey on WhatsApp video, from her home in Brij Vihar, near Vaishali.Actually, that gentleman is named Pradeep (his picture is from a year ago). About 30, he would sit on the footbridge to play bhajans and Hindi film songs, while occasional passersby would drop a coin or two on his instrument. A native of Hardoi in UP, Pradeep was crippled since birth and used a special wheelchair to go about. During the day, especially in summer months, he would avoid the bridge (it has no roof to protect him from the harsh sun) and would rather lounge or sleep under a tree beneath. He lived in a homeless shelter that didn’t allow people to spend the day hours inside. Pradeep would say that he had no family, pointedly mentioning that he never felt alone “because I live with four friends, who are crippled like me.”But where is he now? The Metro service has resumed on the Blue Line—Vaishali is the route’s starting point—and he still isn’t anywhere to be seen. Ms Pandey reports she hasn’t spotted him since the first coronavirus-triggered lockdown began, in late March.The young woman often turns to drawing when feeling low. Last Saturday, while wondering about the footbridge musician’s whereabouts, she recreated him on her drawing paper in one hour flat.“Maybe he has gone to some other place,” she suggests, hopefully.Until the musician eventually comes back, one of the places where he can be found is in her dream-like painting. In some ways, a perfect shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-sonam-s-musician/story-zkvrIZ7Z5xtrHgIjKwz2pI.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||50 teams to check pollution in Delhi-NCR||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday that 50 Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) teams will be deployed starting on October 15 in the National Capital Region (NCR) to curb air pollution this winter.CPCB will also coordinate with north-western states daily to monitor emissions, Javadekar said following a review meeting with the environment ministers of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.“The 50 teams will be on the ground monitoring polluting activities in Delhi-NCR. They will inform relevant government agencies immediately so that quick action can be taken {when air quality dips. In fact, we deployed the teams in a dry run between September 15 and 20, and did find several pollution sources such as dumping of waste, construction rubble and dust, unpaved roads,” said Prashant Gargava, member-secretary of CPCB.The review took place as the capital and neighbouring towns in the NCR brace for the winter, when a thick smoky haze envelops the region mainly as a result of post-harvest stubble burning in northern Indian states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, disrupting air and train traffic. Ensuring farmers don’t set crop stubble on fire may be more difficult this year because small farmers hurt by the Covid-19-led economic slowdown may not have the means to hire machines and tractors to clear their farmlands of stubble, experts have said. Till September 29, 520 crop fires have been reported in Punjab and 175 in Haryana till Thursday, according to CPCB.Rice and wheat that are the staples grown in the region are dependent on nitrogenous fertiliser that leads to soil degradation, an expert said. “The key issue is linked to the cropping patterns. Unless the rice-wheat cropping system is broken, the ecological crisis of high groundwater use, high fertilizer use or stubble burning will not stop,” said G V Ramanjaneyulu, executive director of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad. “The gap between rice and wheat seasons is short, labour wages are high, which leads to stubble burning.” Given the short gap, burning is usually the quickest and cheapest way of ridding the fields of stubble. According to the index maintained by CPCB, air quality in NCR was “satisfactory” for just eight days, a level at which atmospheric pollution poses little or no risk, in September. On the remaining 22 days of the month, it was moderate. Comparatively, August saw four good air days; air quality was satisfactory over the rest of the month.At Thursday’s meeting, the environment ministers decided to focus on so-called hot spots of air pollution. For example, Delhi will focus on controlling pollution sources in 13 hot spots, including Mayapuri, Bawana, Narela, Dwarka, Rohini, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri. Similarly, Haryana will focus on Panipat, Sonepat, Jhajjar and other areas; Uttar Pradesh will concentrate its anti-pollution effort on Bulandshahr, Meerut, Noida and Greater Noida; and Rajasthan will focus on Bhiwadi. Trials have begun on a stubble decomposer developed by the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) in all stubble-burning states, Javadekar said. “We may see results of the trials in a year or so. The Centre has already disbursed ₹1,700 crore in the past three years for subsidising straw management machinery to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. That has also resulted in reduction of area under stubble burning,” he claimed.Punjab officials informed the Centre that the state was trying to raise awareness in the districts where stubble-burning is common on the link between Covid-19 and air pollution. “The Punjab government is communicating the link to farmers and locals,” Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/50-teams-to-check-pollution-in-delhi-ncr/story-bykHGCvRazL7GqkoxYmN0N.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Efforts on to retrieve body of retired BSF officer who died on recce to China border||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is carrying out an operation to bring back the body of SC Negi, 70, a former deputy inspector general (DIG) of the Border Security Force (BSF), who died in the icy heights of Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday while voluntarily leading a reconnaissance mission to find a shorter route to the China border. The ITBP said the retired BSF officer was rescued by a patrol party of the force from the remote Nishangaon area of Kinnaur district along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. Negi was seen lying injured with multiple fractures by an ITBP patrol. He died while being carried by ITBP personnel. The body is kept at Ganthambralam border post at a height of 18,600 feet in Himachal Pradesh, while a helicopter sortie is awaited to pick the mortal remains. “There is no foul play. He died after falling. His body has injury marks,” Kinnaur superintendent of police Sarju Ram Rana said. Negi, who belonged to Kinnaur, commanded a BSF battalion during 1999 Kargil War. He retired in 2010 after 33 years of service. A noted mountaineer, he was the “oldest Indian police officer” to lead an expedition to Mount Everest. “He took his last breath in the mountains for the cause of the nation when he was willingly leading a recce (reconnaissance) and survey team of security forces to explore the shortest route to the China border in Himachal Pradesh,” the BSF said in a statement. The security forces, however, declined to disclose the point of origin and end of the recce. “He (Negi) was advised by his family against the trip in view of his age, but he said it will be his last one,” the BSF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/efforts-on-to-retrieve-body-of-retired-bsf-officer-who-died-on-recce-to-china-border/story-LMqrNG1hE92Xm3jjR3tcBO.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s September GST collection grows 8% year-on-year amid Covid-19 pandemic||The goods and services tax (GST) collection in Punjab grew by a little over 8% year-on-year in September, showing a clear sign of economic recovery after months of subdued business activity due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the first time that the monthly GST collection has shown an increase year-on-year in the first half of the financial year 2020-21 during which the coronavirus-induced lockdown had hit the businesses and the government revenues hard. The GST collection, including both state goods and services tax (SGST) and integrated goods and services tax (IGST), was Rs 1,055.23 crore in September 2020 as against Rs 974.96 crore in the corresponding month previous year, showing a growth of 8.23%, according to the data compiled by the taxation department. September’s mop-up is also 7% more than the previous month (August 2020). Commissioner (taxation) Nilkanth S Avhad said the numbers signal economic recovery and an improvement in business sentiment. “However, there may be a minor component of tax payments for previous months in the last month’s collection as the Central government had given relaxation to small businesses with a turnover of less than Rs 5 crore in filing of return,” he added. The relaxation ended of September 30. The value-added tax (VAT) and central sales tax (CST) collection – most of which comes from diesel and petrol, have reported 39% increase year-on-year. Against Rs 332 crore in September 2019, the collection was Rs 462.98 crore this time. The jump in VAT is mainly on account of the increased rates of petrol and diesel. However, the overall GST mop-up during the first half of the financial year 2020-21 has been sluggish, dropping by 31% year-on-year. The state’s collection for the April-September period was Rs 4,685.72 crore as against Rs 6,790.34 crore during the corresponding months of the previous year. The dip in revenue has been a dampener for the fund-starved government even though its monthly GST revenue is protected at Rs 2,403 in 2020-21. At the time of switching to GST, the Centre had guaranteed 14% year-on-year growth over the 2015-16-base and the state was to be compensated for any shortfall. Though there is a shortfall of Rs 8,312.77 crore in the GST revenue during the April-August period, the state has not received any compensation so far. The Centre, which, too, has seen a drop in its collections, offered two options – borrow the compensation amount arising out of GST implementation, or the entire shortfall – to the states with certain riders, but the Punjab government has turned down both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-sept-gst-collection-grows-8-yoy-amid-covid/story-i0qJKUNptpSn299WlWwmGI.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Spotlight turns on protest hotspots in Punjab as farmers intensify stir against agriculture laws||The 31 farmer organisations that intensified their stir across Punjab against the Centre’s agriculture laws on Thursday are focusing on certain points that have emerged as the protest hotspots from where they want to take their fight forward. HT visits these sites to check what is happening on the ground. Devi Dasspura, Amritsar With members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee laying siege to the Amritsar-Delhi railway route for the eighth consecutive day on Thursday against the Centre’s agriculture bills, Devi Dasspura village of Amritsar district has turned into an epicentre of the ‘rail roko’ agitation in the Majha region. Nearly 18 km from the Amritsar city and 3km from Jandiala Guru town, Devi Dasspura, which has a considerable population of farmers, is situated along the National Highway-1. The farmers have also blocked the rail tracks in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts of the region. Led by Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, the agitating farmers have pitched tents on both sides of the tracks. A makeshift stage has been set up with a public address system to address the protesters from time to time. A separate tent has been set up for a community kitchen (langar) where food is prepared and served by volunteers of the Kar Sewa and nihang organisations. Besides plain water, sweet coloured water and shardai, a traditional beverage usually prepared with a variety of ingredients by nihangs, are served to the those from kiosks at the protest site.Also, vendors are seen selling ‘matka kulfi’ and ‘gol gappas’ etc. Farmers from Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts are also coming to the village participate in the agitation. Shambu, Patiala Situated on the Punjab-Haryana interstate border, Shambu village in the Patiala district has turned into a major hotspot of farmer protests in the area. While 31 farmer organisations laid siege to the railway tracks on New Delhi-Rajpura line here on Thursday for an indefinite period, the village has been witnessing protests since September 23 against the farm legislations. On September 20, the Youth Congress workers had organised a protest at nearby Dhabu after they were stopped by the Haryana Police from entering the neighbouring state. Three days later, hundreds of protesters led by Punjab MLAs Simarjeet Singh Bains and his brother Balwinder Singh Bains held a protest at Shambu as they were also denied entry into Haryana while taking out a procession to the national capital. On September 25, thousands of farmers accompanied by social organisations and Punjabi artists staged a protest at the village, blocking the national highway throughout the day as part of their Punjab bandh call. Not only farmers, the youth from rural areas of the nearby districts, particularly Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, joined farmers in huge numbers. Harbhajan Singh Buttar, a Krantikari Kisan Union leader, said the protest site was chosen due to its proximity with the New Delhi- Jalandhar national highway. “With Haryana restricting the entry of farmers, protest at Shambu will give a clear message that if they don’t allow us to move to Delhi, we will block the rail route and the national highway,” he said. Phillaur, Jalandhar Hundreds of farmers owing allegiance to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha on Thursday started the ‘rail roko’ agitation and blocked the Phillaur railway junction in Jalandhar district in protest against the farm bills. Farmers from Jalandhar, Kapurthala and the Malwa region gathered at the junction in the afternoon and announced to hold a protest for indefinite period asking the BJP led Union government to withdraw the farm bills and guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops. A large number of farmers from SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Phagwara and Goraya gathered and pitched tents on the railway track. Similar rail roko protests were witnessed at Doraha, Jagraon and Samrala in Ludhiana where farmers put their charpoys on the railway tracks. Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the BKU (Rajewal) said while the economy was completely in shambles, the farming sector was the only saving gracing. “But the BJP government at the Centre wants to usurp this sector and hand it over to its crony capitalist friends. But the farmers in Punjab will not let this happen and fight till the time the laws are withdrawn,” said Rajewal. Surinder Singh, a farmer from Phagwara, said the Centre is trying to grab their land. “The Narendra Modi-led government has betrayed the farmers. If this government was really concerned about the welfare of farmers, it should have promised MSP to farmers,” he said. Lehra Bega, Bathinda A strong gathering of nearly 1,000 farmers led by a woman leader, Paramjit Kaur Pitho, from Thursday started an indefinite dharna at the toll plaza on National Highway-7 at Lehra Bega village in Bathinda district against the farm laws. Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugraha) have put up tents forcing the agency collecting highway user fees to close the booths. Only one motorway was kept open on both sides and there was no toll plaza official to collect fee from vehicles. The site, located about 20km from Bathinda city, also had women protesters. BKU leader Paramjit said the site was chosen as a symbol to hit the corporate houses directly at their revenue points. “Our activists have started staging a dharna at a Reliance Group-owned petrol pump a few meters from the toll plaza. The corporate houses are making inroads for the agriculture sector in connivance with the Central government,” she said to a thunderous applause from the gathering. The organisers have arranged a generator set to power pedestal fans and a public address system. During the lunchtime, the volunteers served the participants with chapati, pickle, lassi and tea at the dharna site. Beant Singh Jethuke, another union leader, urged farmers to motivate fellow villagers to join the stir to press for a rollback of new laws. (Inputs by Surjit Singh, Navrajdeep Singh, Mohit Khanna, Jatinder Mahal, Vishal Joshi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spotlight-turns-on-punjab-protest-hotspots-as-farmers-intensify-their-stir/story-8V4VfMMQCEJnZCiRQaQVMO.html
02-10-2020||Jaipur||Political row over Rajasthan’s rape cases||A political row erupted on Thursday over cases of sexual assault in Rajasthan in the last 10 days, following the Hathras incident in Uttar Pradesh. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked the Congress-led state government over incidents of gang-rape in Baran, Sikar, Ajmer and Jaipur, while the Congress, in defence, said it had taken quick action in all cases. In Baran, two girls, 15 and 13, went missing on September 18 and their father filed a missing persons’ report at Mahila police station on September 19. The girls were found in Kota two days later with two minor boys, both aged 17. On Wednesday, the girls’ father told media outlets that his daughters were kidnapped and gang-raped in Jaipur, Kota and Ajmer, after being intoxicated. Baran SP Dr Ravi said the girls, in their statement before a magistrate, said they went with the boys for an outing. The medical examination of the girls was also conducted in which no evidence of sexual assault was found, he added. The family alleged police inaction in the case. The Baran Police denied the allegation. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the Opposition was misleading people by drawing an analogy between the Baran and the Hathras cases. “Hathras gang rape incident is extremely condemnable… the incident of Baran is being compared with the Hathras incident which is very unfortunate. The girls in Baran in their statement under CrPC 164 provision have refused being raped and have stated of going on outing with the boys,” he wrote on Twitter. In Sikar, a minor alleged on September 29 that two men had entered her house in January and sexually assaulted her, and also filmed the act. The girl said the accused drugged her father and that her mother had gone out. Two of the three accused had been arrested in the Sikar case, the police said. BJP spokesperson and party law-maker Ramlal Sharma said, “The government has failed to curb such incidents. We demand that the state government immediately investigate these cases and present the challan in the court, and set up a special court to punish them,” said Sharma. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said the Congress government takes such incidents seriously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/political-row-over-rajasthan-s-rape-cases/story-p3i4Pfb6HYdn0lmMnolJtL.html
02-10-2020||City||Commuters hassled as Chandigarh borders sealed to stop protesters||Commuters were on the receiving end for nearly eight hours on Thursday as the UT administration sealed the Chandigarh-Mohali border in Zirakpur to stop Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) supporters who were holding a protest march against the recent farm laws.Traffic was also affected at the Mullanpur-Chandigarh border, from where SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal was to enter. Badal was scheduled to reach at 3pm but he came at 8.30pm. Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was leading the march from Bathinda, was to reach the Zirakpur-UT border at around 3pm, but she, along with her supporters, also reached the venue at around 8.45pm.Restrictions put in place since morning The UT administration had started sealing the border from 9am itself, allowing only a few vehicles to pass till 12 noon. By 1pm, the border was completely sealed and cops started diverting traffic from the national highway, forcing the commuters to take the VIP road to reach Chandigarh. But on the VIP road also, protesters had come out on their tractors to air their anger.A commuter, Harmesh Singh from Rajpura, said, “I was to visit my ailing relative at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector-32. I reached Zirakpur border by taking lifts and now, the Chandigarh police is now allowing me to enter the city. I don’t know when I will reach hospital and return home.”Another commuter, Poonam, who works at a hotel at Zirakpur said, “I got off my duty at 5pm to reach Raipur, but could not go home due to sealing of the border. I don’t know how I will reach home.”Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma was also present at border with his supporters. From Mullanpur side too, commuters had to take alternate routes to reach Chandigarh due to the sealed borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-hassled-as-chandigarh-borders-sealed-to-stop-protesters/story-HAnG8rdSU00q8Zjare3YIN.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Parole, interim bail of prisoners extended till Nov 10||A high-powered committee, constituted for decongestion of jails, has decided to extend the period of special parole and special interim bail for all prisoners who have been released due to Covid 19 till November 10, 2020. It has also asked the jail authorities to submit a plan on re-admission of prisoners, within 10 days.A special meeting of the committee was held under the chairmanship of justice Jaswant Singh of the Punjab and Haryana high court, who is also the executive chairman of the state legal services authority (SLSA), Ombir Singh, IG prisons, Chandigarh, and Ashok Kumar Mann, chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, district legal services authority (DLSA).“Considering the present situation, the jail authorities had requested that the period of return be extended for a reasonable time and in the meantime, they will come up with a detailed plan for readmission of prisoners into jail premises, avoiding any risk of spreading Covid-19 therein,” an official statement mentioned.Justice Jaswant “agreed” to their request and has directed that detailed re-admission plan of convicted and undertrial prisoners to be submitted in the office of SLSA, Chandigarh, within 10 days. The committee has further specified that to prevent outbreak of Covid-19 in jails, rapid antigen test of all arrested persons shall be conducted before admission into jail premises. And in case any arrestee is found Covid positive, he shall be admitted for treatment in the prisoners’ ward of Government Hospital (dedicated Covid Hospital) and he/she should be admitted into jail, only after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-parole-interim-bail-of-prisoners-extended-till-nov-10/story-ZlT3VVnoGyN4hBb5q5uTZI.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Making Chandigarh safe and secure my priority: SSP Chahal||Kuldeep Singh Chahal is back in Chandigarh, this time as the senior superintendent of police. He had joined the UT police as an assistant sub-inspector in 2005 and then cleared the Indian Police Services exam. The 2009-cadre IPS officer talked to HT on the day he took charge of his new assignment. Excerpts of an interview: What are going to be your priorities as the Chandigarh SSP?Maintaining law and order in the city will be the priority. Women, children and senior citizens are vulnerable, thus special focus will be on providing a safe environment to them. “We care for you” is want I will be working for and connecting with the residents at every level.What are the challenges you foresee?Life is a challenge and as an officer, we are trained to deal with any situation. In Chandigarh, which is the capital of two states, ensuring law and order is the endeavour of the force.The lack of intercity co-ordination in tricity has been an area of concern. Your plan?Of late, the co-ordination among the officers in tricity has improved and it has led to solving a number of crimes. To ensure that the co-ordination improves, I will ensure regular meetings at different levels and immediate sharing of information about crimes. How policing is going to be different in Chandigarh?The ultimate aim is to serve the people. Nothing much changes with change of city. Here, people are more aware and outspoken. Corruption, groupism among ranks have emerged as a challenge…We have zero tolerance to corruption and no one will be spared if found involved in any kind of malpractice. A single allegation of corruption against an individual dents the image of the entire force. With regards to groupism, Chandigarh Police is disciplined and professional and these things don’t matter when it comes to duty.Of late gangsters have marked their presence in tricity, especially in Chandigarh. What do you plan to check this?There have been an active movement of gangsters in the tricity of late, but quick police action has helped to keep them under check. No one in conflict with law will be spared.In recent years street crime has emerged as serious problem. Your take. Already, Chandigarh Police had good number of police deployments on the ground. Night dominance and vulnerable areas will see more police presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/making-city-safe-and-secure-my-priority-ssp-chahal/story-Ybai8aIhwhptljeO4g6r6N.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s senior citizens most vulnerable to fraudsters||Often known as the best city to retire in, Chandigarh saw the highest rate of cheating cases against senior citizens (those aged above 60) in 2019, a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) revealed.As per the report titled, Crimes in India 2019, Chandigarh, with a population of 70,000 senior citizens and seven cases under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, had a rate of 10.4 in 2019. The rate of crime is calculated by taking into account the number of incidents per lakh population. The city was followed by Delhi with a rate of 9.2 and Maharashtra at 7.5. The national rate for this crime is at 2.2 incidents per lakh population.Other crimesThe city also has the second highest rate of thefts against senior citizens with 29.8 incidents per one lakh population after Delhi at 48.5. Chandigarh has the third highest rate of total crimes committed against seniors. At 74.5 incidents per lakh population, it is third after Delhi at 93.8 and Gujarat at 85.4. A total of 50 crimes were committed against seniors in the city in 2019, which came down from 64 in 2018. With 34 cases pending from previous years, the Chandigarh police investigated 84 in all in 2019, out of which chargesheet was submitted in 17 cases. As many as 44 cases are still pending.Seniors living alone most vulnerableFormer president and founding member of the Chandigarh Senior Citizens Association, Brigadier Keshav Chandra (retd) said, “Chandigarh has a large number of senior citizens whose children live in other cities, thus leaving them vulnerable. Seniors must make it a rule to read all documents thoroughly before signing it. Banks and the administration must also ensure that forms and other documents can be made more accessible for seniors as the small fonts are sometimes not very legible for them.” Chandra further added that the police should also educate seniors about the various ways that fraudsters can cheat them of their money or property.Talking about the services that the police are providing to the seniors, the public relations officer of the Chandigarh police, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Charanjit Singh Virk said, “During the lockdown, we have prepared lists of how many seniors are living in a sector and where they are living. The beat staff have provided them with their contact numbers, and they have been asked to check with them regularly to ensure that police remains approachable for the seniors.”President of Second Innings Association in Chandigarh, RK Garg added, “Going digital has been detrimental for seniors. It is possible for fraudsters to access their contact numbers over their social media and defraud them. Stricter security is needed for such transactions and seniors need to be made aware of how people can cheat them by asking them details about their bank accounts, mutual fund investments and insurance policies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-senior-citizens-most-vulnerable-to-fraudsters/story-hBtqPfrfdXFUUt206CfNtL.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Police, in PPE, chasing Covid positive robber on loose||A prisoner infected with Covid-19 escaped from the government-run Lok Nayak Hospital last week, becoming one of the men most wanted by Delhi Police after forcing at least six personnel of the department, who had come in contact with him without knowing his medical condition, into self-isolation. A Delhi Police team from the central district is now chasing the man, whom they want to capture before he spreads the infection. Wearing face shields, gloves and carrying hand sanitisers along with their weapons, the central district officers have been to the house of the fugitive prisoner in north-east Delhi at least twice. On both occasions, the police kept their personal protective equipment (PPE) suits handy so that they could catch him.Officials privy to the details of the case said that when the man was first arrested from the Rajiv Chowk metro station September 22, no one knew he was Covid-positive. The man, whom police identified as Mehtab Ahmed,33, had travelled at least 10km on a metro train before attempting to steal a passenger’s cell phone; he was caught in the act and handed to the police, who suspect he may have infected other unwary passengers on Delhi Metro premises. Narrating the details of the case, a senior Delhi police officer, who didn’t want to be named, said that on September 22, they received information from a metro passenger who had caught Mehtab red-handed while stealing the passenger’s cell phone. Police suspect Mehtab was asymptomatic when he entered the metro rail coach and may have passed the temperature checks at thermal scanners at the entry gates. On the afternoon of September 22, the passenger, Saksham Labania, 19, had boarded the metro at Kashmere Gate and was on his way to Uttam Nagar. Labania said in his statement to the police that when he got off at the Rajiv Chowk station, two persons who were behind him inside the train disembarked at the same time. “One of them tried to steal my phone. I caught him with the help of others and took him to a police booth near platform number 3 from where he was formally arrested,” Labania wrote in his police statement.The metro police seized the Oppo A53 phone that Mehtab had stolen and took him to the metro station’s lockup inside the building where he was kept that night. The officer cited above said that until that night no one had a clue that Mehtab was a Covid-19 patient. “Maybe he (Mehtab) did not know it himself. The following morning when he was taken to Tihar, the jail officers conducted a mandatory Covid test. The test results showed he was Covid-19 positive. Mehtab also complained of body ache and fever, after which he was referred to Lok Nayak hospital. The police team that had come in contact with Mehtab was also informed after which they too have gone into self-isolation,” said the officer. According to case files, Mehtab was admitted to a Covid-19 ward on the sixth floor of the hospital. Two Delhi police constables were also guarding him because Mehtab was a prisoner from Tihar jail. According to the FIR filed by police, on the afternoon of September 23, Mehtab entered the bathroom, removed the window grille and fled from the hospital. Police registered a case. A police officer from the IP Estate police station, whose team is now on the lookout for the fugitive, said: “We have been to his house in Shastri Park twice and told his family members about Mehtab’s condition. Not only has he committed a crime by fleeing police custody but he is also carrying the virus and must be spreading it wherever he is hiding. This is the first such case of a Covid prisoner that we are handling... our team wore a face shield and gloves. Our PPE kits were also ready in the car.” HT contacted Delhi Metro Rail Corporation for a response on how the Covid-19 patient had managed to travel for over 10km with other passengers. DMRC executive director Anuj Dayal said: “Only asymptomatic passengers are allowed inside.” A Tihar jail officer said they are confident Mehtab did not spread the virus inside the prison because all new prisoners are made to undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test, and are allowed inside with others only afterwards. “There are eight active cases among prisoners in Tihar but all these eight are of new prisoners. Mehtab did not spread it inside prison but he must be doing so wherever he is hiding,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-in-ppe-chasing-covid-positive-robber-on-loose/story-Eh6KYhswZYvoqSqxzp0zOP.html
02-10-2020||City||New Mohali SSP advocates resident-friendly policing||The new senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Mohali district, Satinder Singh, who took over the charge late evening on Wednesday, said that besides maintaining law and order, crackdown on illegal activities and dealing with anti-social elements with an iron hand were his priorities.Redressing public grievances would go hand in hand with these, he added. Singh replaces Kuldeep Singh Chahal, who is on deputation to Chandigarh as the SSP. After assuming the charge, the SSP held a meeting with his subordinates.Singh said policing would be based on police-public participation, adding that people should feel that they are listened to and should have the confidence to come forward and report illegal activity in their vicinity.He also pointed out that the safety of women and elderly, traffic management and Covid-19 safety protocol compliance were other important areas of focus.Special vigil will be maintained over organised/white-collar crime and the functioning of all police stations would be closely monitored by him to evaluate their performance, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-mohali-ssp-advocates-resident-friendly-policing/story-DMiYWgISzXBX98fw9eMqUN.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Unpaid since June, 150 computer teachers in Chandigarh relieved of duty||Around 150 senior and junior computer instructors and data entry operators, hired by the UT education department through a private contractor, were relieved of duty on Thursday, four months after not being paid any salary.This, when the teachers had been regularly sending representations in that regard to the department and were, in turn, being acknowledged.Earlier, the instructors were drawing salaries from the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), but the education department had hired a private contractor through the government e-marketplace (GeM) in June.In a complaint submitted to the district education officer, the teachers had accused the contractor of asking for ₹12,000 from each of them in lieu of retaining jobs, but no action has been taken against the contractor so far.Sources said that if the allegations were proven true, a notice will be sent to the contractor and the education department will have to hire another one through the GeM.Meanwhile, the teachers said they hadn’t received their salaries since June amid the pandemic, and will be seeking legal action against the contractor.President of UT cadre of education employees’ union, Swarn Singh Kamboj, said it was unjust that the teachers were being laid off during the pandemic without being paid. “We will speak to the director of school education to rehire the teachers. They had been working for the past six to eight years and the department must stand by them.”Saying that the department was also concerned about the teachers, director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The teachers were outsourced and we weren’t able to pay their salaries, so they had to be relieved. However, we are aware of the issues they have been facing with their contractors, and we aim to resolve them and bring things back to normal by next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unpaid-since-june-150-computer-teachers-in-chandigarh-relieved-of-duty/story-FBShJWLmSONN9ab3lrLepL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||27-year-old woman tops KAS in first attempt||Kamila Mushtaq, 27, topped the Kashmir Administrative Service examination, 2018, in her first attempt. She says she wants to qualify the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) examination next.A resident of Srinagar, Mushtaq completed her BTech in civil engineering from the National Institute of Technology in 2017. “During the last year of my degree, I decided to pursue civil services as I felt it was a good platform for contributing to society,” she said. The results were declared on September 29. Mushtaq is followed by Mir Dawar Habib and Diksha Raina.Mushtaq says her family encouraged her to take the ‘unconventional route’ after completing BTech. Her father has retired from government service while her mother works in local bodies. She was confident of qualifying the examination but did not expect to top the list. “I ranked first in the exam which was a pleasant surprise,” she said.She was working as a teacher at a government school while simultaneously preparing for the examinations. Mushtaq’s advice to civil services aspirants is that there is no shortcut to hard-work.“Consistency is key as preparing for an examination is not an overnight job. One needs to put in a lot of hard work,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-year-old-woman-tops-kas-in-first-attempt/story-xHwGIF7I73SfJbLF0vAjyM.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Haryana on plea challenging bifurcation of Panchkula MC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday put Haryana government on notice acting on a plea challenging the bifurcation of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC).Former councillor of the erstwhile combined MC of Panchkula district, Satinder Singh Tony, has challenged the September 17 notification of the state notifying Kalka municipal council while segregating Kalka-Pinjore area from the bounds of Panchkula MC.Seeking a response from the state by November 11, the high court bench of justice Daya Chaudhary and justice MI Mehta has asked the government why the notification should not be stayed, pending proceedings.Tony had argued that objections to the proposal by stakeholders had not been taken into consideration by the government before carrying out the notification. He also cited a resolution passed by the Panchkula MC House against the move in 2018, which was ignored in violation of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994.It was further argued that even before the notification came out, the authorities had completed the delimitation of the existing wards of Panchkula in August, which proved that it was a premeditated move.The Haryana Municipal Corporation Act was amended last year and the word ‘existing’ was added before ‘population’. Tony pointed out that population was an important criteria to form or abolish a corporation, and as per rules, the last published figure of population in Indian census report was a vital document. However, the divisional commissioner had considered the decennial growth rate up till 2017 to bifurcate the corporation.The Panchkula MC was divided into Kalka municipal council and MC for Panchkula city on the report of divisional commissioner, Ambala, which had come in the aftermath of demands from then BJP legislators of Kalka and Panchkula in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-haryana-on-plea-challenging-bifurcation-of-panchkula-mc/story-LgAFn215nTp7OWJCmzhfcN.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||40% of J&K’s Covid-related deaths took place in September||Jammu and Kashmir logged 40% of the overall Covid-related fatalities in the UT in September, the highest so far. Though deaths have gone down in Kashmir, there has been a corresponding spike in Jammu division. The UT had logged 326 deaths in August and 478 deaths in September. J&K recorded 68% of the total Covid fatalities (804) in August and September . So far, the UT has reported 1,181 fatalities. The death toll had crossed the 500-mark on August 13 and 1000-mark on September 20. Of the 1,181 deaths, 839 were reported in Kashmir and 342 in Jammu. The death toll was more severe in Jammu than Kashmir in September. Of the 342 deaths reported in Jammu division since March, 80% ( 276) were recorded in September alone. In August, Jammu had witnessed 38 Covid-related deaths. The daily death count has mostly remained above 10 in September. The highest fatalities, 23, were reported on September 21.National Health Mission director and UT Covid mitigation in-charge Bhupinder Kumar said officials had anticipated a surge in deaths after unlock was initiated.“A surge was expected in Jammu after all we had seen a similar situation in Kashmir two months ago. Our focus is on containment. We have conducted massive testing – one of the highest in the country,” he said.“From 12,000 daily tests, we doubled our testing to 25,000 tests. We are also testing people in rural areas,” he said, adding that the increase in number of deaths could be attributed to the increase in daily infections. Of the 75,070 cases reported from March 9 to September 30 in the UT , 37,372 were recorded in the month of September, of which 20,463 cases were reported from Jammu. Kumar said they had started a sero survey in Jammu district to ascertain the extent of infection.“As per findings of the sero survey, we have the lowest prevalence in the UT. However, Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu is also conducting a survey in the district and within the next seven to 10 days we will be able top determine the extent of infection,” he said.Kashmir logged 202 deaths in September against 288 deaths in August. “September was not that bad for Kashmir as the number of deaths stabilised but there was an upsurge in Jammu division,” said Qazi Haroon, officer on special duty with health department to assist government with corona mitigation efforts.“We have now started non-Covid elective medical activities as well. Home quarantine and rapid antigen tests have played a significant role,” he said. There was a sharp increase in the number of recovered patients in the last days of September. The percentage of cured patients has crossed 75%.On September 30, as many as 1,355 people recovered from the virus and were discharged from different hospitals taking the overall recoveries to 56,872, which account for a recovery rate of 75.7%.Since September 21, as many as 15,132 patients have been discharged against 11,080 fresh infections. At present, there are 17,017 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT till September 30 were 16.22 lakh. Of the total 56,872 recovered patients, 37,885 people recovered in Kashmir and 18,987 in Jammu. Kumar said that the overall positivity rate in the UT was half of what was prevalent at the national level. “In Jammu, the positivity rate is 3.8% and in Kashmir it is 5.4%. Overall we have a positivity rate of 4.06% against the national average of 8%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-of-j-k-s-covid-related-deaths-took-place-in-september/story-ryFLrN00Ii3JACglxM0eDO.html
02-10-2020||City||One held in ₹1.56 crore immigration fraud in Panchkula||A man was arrested for allegedly duping a Panchkula resident of ₹1.59 crore on the promise of getting him a permanent residency (PR) of Canada and settling his business abroad, the police said on Thursday.The accused, identified as Rajesh of Raipur, Shadipur district in Yamunanagar, was arrested on September 30 and has been sent to five-day police remand. He is one of the six people who were booked in the case.The case dates back to December 12, 2019, when one Anil Kumar of Sector 4, Panchkula, alleged that six persons from Yamunanagar—Rajesh Kumar, his father Kamal Nain and four members of one Bakhshi family including Sushma Lata (mother-in-law of Rajesh’s sister), her two sons Sanjay Bakshi and Jayant Bakhshi and Bhavna Bakshi (wife of Jayant Bakhshi).Anil Kumar, in his complaint, said that Sushma Lata had told him that Rajesh had a visa consultancy, and he along with his father and Lata’s sons helped people set their businesses up in Canada with PR.He said that they even showed pictures of many persons, who had settled abroad with their help: “Sushma Lata also made me talk to his daughter-in-law (Bhavna Bakhshi), who she said was settled abroad, so I trusted them.”Anil said that by October 2018, he had given them ₹1.59 crore in several installments, but didn’t get any confirmation.He said he was given an excuse about “political unrest in Canada”, and when he sought refund, they allegedly denied. A case was registered under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-of-6-held-in-1-56-crore-immigration-fraud-in-panchkula/story-BBR6oRwi5M5Cgi8so2UQxL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K records 17 deaths, 1,093 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 17 more deaths and 1,093 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the Covid tally to 76,163. As many as 401 people tested positive in Kashmir, including 10 travellers, while 692 cases were reported from Jammu, of which five were travellers. On Thursday, 1,680 people recovered from the virus and were discharged from different hospitals taking the overall recoveries to 58,552 which account for a recovery rate of 76.8%. At present, there are 16,413 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT have reached 16.43 lakh. A government spokesperson said 1,071 people were discharged in Jammu division and 609 in Kashmir. Of the total, 38,494 people have recovered in Kashmir and 20,058 in Jammu. Officials said that 17 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT - 13 in Jammu and four in Kashmir. This month, the daily number of deaths have mostly remained above 10 and even recorded a highest of 23 fatalities on September 21. The number of total deaths has reached 1,198 – 843 in Kashmir and 355 in Jammu. The death toll had crossed 500-mark on August 13 and 1000-mark on September 20. In Jammu division, the highest cases were recorded in Jammu district at 490, followed by 49 in Kishtwar. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 164 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 54. Srinagar is the worst affected district with 15,046 cases and 292 deaths. Jammu district is at number two with 13,505 cases and 192 deaths. The active cases in Jammu are 3,390 while there are 2,058 active Covid patients in Srinagar. Till date, 5.79 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 15,446 in home quarantine, 16,413 in isolation, and 50,787 under home surveillance. Besides these, 4.95 lakh people have completed their surveillance period||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-records-17-deaths-1-093-fresh-cases/story-PErulMujwjJ461ncNfGrsI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Sexual assault case: Mumbai Police question Anurag Kashyap for 8 hours||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap was questioned by Versova police for close to eight hours on Thursday. Kashyap has been accused of sexual assault by a 30-year-old actor and was asked to join the probe on Tuesday. On September 22, Mumbai Police had filed a first information report (FIR) after an actor filed a complaint alleging Kashyap had sexually assaulted her in 2013 when she’d approached him for work. Kashyap has been charged under sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with an intent to outrage her modesty,), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He has denied the allegations. On Thursday, Kashyap reached Versova police station with his advocate at around 10am and left at 6pm. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (zone-9), said, “We have recorded his statement and are investigating the case thoroughly.” The complainant was taken to Cooper Hospital for a medical examination. In her complaint, the actor alleged Kashyap had invited her to his home on Yari Road in August 2013, to discuss a role in one of his upcoming films. When she was at his residence, Kashyap allegedly sexually assaulted her. The complainant said she managed to get away and leave his house. Afterwards, she had narrated her ordeal to her driver Omprakash and her manager Rakesh Kumar, according to her statement. The actor also said that she had posted this incident on social media two years ago, when conversations regarding sexual harassment at workplaces had been encouraged by the #MeToo movement, but she deleted the post upon advice from her family and friends in the film industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sexual-assault-case-mumbai-police-question-anurag-kashyap-for-eight-hours/story-2cHy3sQtEzSzV7QC0IMGRO.html
02-10-2020||City||Night domination campaign: 57 vehicles challaned, 10 booked for drunken driving in Panchkula||On Day 2 of the night domination campaign conducted by the Panchkula police, 1,103 vehicles were checked and 57 were challaned. Ten persons were booked for drunken driving and 12 were fined for not wearing masks.Mohit Handa, deputy commissioner of police, in the press statement said that the drive was held following the orders of Panchkula police commissioner Saurab Singh.During the drive held on September 30 and October 1, police officials conducted patrolling in their respective areas, checked hotels and other stay homes. Barricades were placed at 34 points and vehicles were checked.“Police checked 1,103 vehicles, out of which 57 were issued challans for violating norms; three vehicles were impounded and three persons were booked for creating nuisance in a public place. Also, 10 cases of drunken driving were registered,” the press statement mentioned.Three persons were arrested in two different cases. “Action was taken against 12 persons for not wearing masks and violating Covid-19 norms. To date, the police have challaned 11,114 persons for not wearing masks,” the statement further mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/night-domination-campaign-57-vehicles-challaned-10-booked-for-drunken-driving-in-panchkula/story-fOIYFXNV9DxFsVfTny5pAO.html
02-10-2020||City||Chandigarh crosses 12k-mark, toll reaches 164||With 119 fresh cases, Chandigarh crossed the 12,000 mark of Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Meanwhile, two people lost their lives, taking the total death toll in the city to 164.In the last 24 hours, 196 patients were discharged, including those in home isolation, taking the total number of recoveries to 10,009.The last 1,000 cases were reported in just six days. After the first case in the city was reported on March 18, it took 197 days to cross the 12,000 mark. The number of active cases, however, continues to steadily decline with numbers reaching 1,884 (from 1,963 on September 30) on Thursday evening.Among the new positive cases, 73 are males and 46 are females.The deaths reported from Government Medical College and Hospital on Thursday include a 75-year-old man of Sector 47, who had coronary artery disease and hypertension; and a 45-year-old man of Maloya, who had pulmonary tuberculosis.Virus claims 3 more lives in MohaliThree more persons lost their lives to Covid-19 in Mohali district on Thursday, taking the death toll to 197. The district also logged 148 fresh cases, pushing the patients’ tally to 10,535.Those who died on Thursday included a 58-year-old man from Kumbra, who was already suffering from cirrhosis and was admitted to a Sohana hospital; a 67-year-old man from Dera Bassi, who had diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to Healing Touch hospital in Ambala; and a 65-year-old man from Kambala, who was suffering from a heart disease and was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 32.Of the 148 fresh infections, 135 were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Kharar, two from Dera Bassi, as many from Lalru and six from Kurali.On Thursday, 155 people also recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,714. Now, the total number of recoveries in the district stands at 8,624.5 children aged less than 10 test positive in P’kulaEven though no deaths were reported in Panchkula district for the second consecutive day, 82 fresh cases of Covid-19 came to the fore, taking the total tally to across the 6,000 mark.The new cases include five children aged less than 10 years—a 6-year-old girl from Alipur; another 6-year-old from Sector 15; a 7-year-old boy from Sector 12; and two 9-year-olds, including a girl from Fatehpur and a boy from Pinjore.Out of 6,074 total cases, 5,223 have been cured and 765 are active. The death count has reached 86, and 67,000 tests have been conducted so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-crosses-12k-mark-toll-reaches-164/story-JLSP1as5u5eqXzj9V2WyXJ.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Union education minister inaugurates new building at PU||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday virtually inaugurated the Human Resource Development (HRDC) building located on the south campus of Panjab University (PU).Two books were also released by the minister during the programme. During his address, Pokhriyal said, “Panjab University has given many great personalities not only to the nation, but to the world. The varsity has been doing very well in recent rankings released at national and international levels.”He appreciated the educationists for working like warriors during the pandemic. “As the society and social environment are changing due to changing technology, we have to make education dynamic as well. Teachers must be at the centre of fundamental changes being made in the education system,” he said, while discussing the New Education Policy.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said that HRDC was one of 50 such centres set up by the University Grants Commission to provide in-service training to college and university teachers. “The Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) project has funded the construction of the new building of this centre, which includes all modern facilities and hostels for the trainees,” he added.Honorary director, HRDC, professor SK Tomar said, “The new building has state-of-the-art facilities to cater to the faculties of the region. It will become a hub of knowledge and wisdom in the coming times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/union-education-minister-inaugurates-new-building-at-pu/story-JTEc4uMrpkwxD7353kU5hP.html
02-10-2020||City||Hathras gang-rape: First handle Uttar Pradesh’s jungle raj, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh taunts Yogi Adityanath||Reacting to the gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh taunted Uttar Pradesh chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath, asking him to deal with the “jungle raj in his state, instead of advising others on how to handle law and order”. Even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condemned the incident, state Congress as well as Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar condemned the manhandling of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by UP Police as he headed to meet the victim’s family. The 19-year-old, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday a fortnight after she was gang-raped, was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. “We saw Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanth giving advice to others during the past few months. I advise him to first take care of his state and initiate strict action against the jungle raj prevailing there,” said Deshmukh. Thackeray said his government won’t tolerate Hathras-like incident in the state. “For that matter, any kind of crime against women, including harassment and molestation, would be dealt with severely,” said Thackeray. Condemning the treatment given to Gandhi, Pawar tweeted: “Reckless behaviour of UP Police towards @INCIndia leader Shri @RahulGandhi is extremely condemnable. It is reprehensible for those who are supposed to uphold the law to trample upon the democratic values in such a manner.” Maharashtra revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat held the UP government guilty for the whole incident. “This incident is a blot on the country and shows the functioning of the state government,” said Thorat. The Mumbai Congress workers, angered, held protests and sloganeered against Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-gang-rape-first-handle-uttar-pradesh-s-jungle-raj-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-taunts-yogi-adityanath/story-rAOwjaRk8d5541wcEijNsN.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||After facing flak for supporting only actors, Union minister Ramdas Athawale to meet Hathras victim’s family||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has announced that he would meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim in Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Friday. Athawale made the statement after facing flak for seeking justice only for actors while neglecting the Hathras victim. On Wednesday, Athawale announced that his Republican Party of India (RPI) will also hold protests at Azad Maidan against the Hathras incident. “I will meet the family of the victim on Friday and also meet (UP) Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday and demand a fast track court trial in the case,” the minister said. The minister was criticised after he visited Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Tuesday along with an actor who had accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault but remained silent on the Hathras victim, who succumbed to her injuries after being tortured by four men. Athawale had also supported actor Kangana Ranaut, who launched a tirade against the Shiv Sena. The minister said his party will offer security to Ranaut and also met Koshyari to protest against the demolition of the actor’s office by the Mumbai civic body and demanded compensation for her. The Shiv Sena had then hit out at Athawale and said that he was more concerned about getting justice for actors instead of common people. Apart from political rivals, he also faced criticism from on social media after citizens questioned the priorities of the Union minister and said he was more interested in fighting for celebrities instead of Dalits. Political observers opine that the Dalit leadership has “bowed” before the major political parties. “Athawale knows that celebrities would attract more publicity for him than taking up the cause of Dalits and hence he favours them,” said political analyst Hemant Desai. On September 14, the 19-year-old from Hathras district was allegedly attacked and raped in a field near her home by four men. Details of the barbaric assault emerged last week. The woman was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she passed away on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-facing-flak-for-supporting-only-actors-union-minister-ramdas-athawale-to-meet-hathras-victim-s-family/story-lBSzyDzfoBaUZ7oOkrK9DN.html
02-10-2020||City||3 highway dacoits held for firing at hotelier in Palghar near Mumbai, robbing ₹1.1 lakh||Three dacoits — Subodh Kumar, 21, Sachin Kumar, 22, and Mukul Chowdhary, 19 — all hailing from Uttar Pradesh (UP) were arrested by Kasa police in Palghar within four hours on Thursday morning after they allegedly firing three rounds at a hotelier and snatched ₹1.10 lakh from the counter. However, the dacoits were surrounded by hotel staff and truck drivers present at the spot who snatched away the keys from their getaway car. The accused escaped on foot but the Kasa police arrested the trio from nearby.“The trio had come to Hotel Akash located near Dhundalwadi-Amboli on Thursday around 1.30am. After eating dinner, one of the accused kept the car engine running while the other two pointed a revolver at the owner Hitesh Yadav and snatched ₹1.10 lakh from the counter. They reached the car but Yadav gave up the chase and shouted for help. The hotel staff and truck drivers who had halted there for the night surrounded the trio and prevented their escape,” said assistant inspector Siddhawa Jaybhaye of Kasa police station. The dacoits then ran away with the money.“We registered a case of dacoity against the trio and found that the CCTV cameras at the hotel were switched off. Using the registration number of the car and found that the trio had rented the vehicle from a Palghar rental agency. We organised a nakabandi and arrested the trio from Palghar four hours after the heist. We also seized the stolen money and we will produce them before the Dahanu court on Friday,” said Jayabhaye. Dattatray Shinde, superintendent of police (SP), Palghar, announced rewards and appreciation letters to the 130-odd police officers involved in nabbing the trio. “We’ll also probe how Yadav was serving food during the lockdown as only parcel service is permitted. We’ll issue a notice to him if he was found violating the rules,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-highway-dacoits-held-for-firing-at-hotelier-in-palghar-near-mumbai-robbing-1-1-lakh/story-nas2svrg50ujjWKQWTCUiO.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to adopt Centre’s Model Tenancy Act||Speedy resolution of the tenant-landlord conflicts will soon be possible in the city with the UT administration deciding to go with the centre’s Model Tenancy Act 2020. The administration has sought suggestions from the public on the model Act.The Model Tenancy Act proposes to establish a framework for the regulation of tenancy matters (residential and commercial) and to balance the rights and responsibilities of landlords and tenants, including fast adjudication process for resolution of disputes.Once implemented, all tenant-landlord conflicts will be taken up by a rent court and not by a civil court. The draft states, “Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in the areas to which this Act extends, only the rent court and no civil court shall have jurisdiction, to hear and decide the applications relating to disputes between landowner and tenant.”Confirming the development, additional secretary (estates) Uma Shankar Gupta said, “The administration has already given concurrence to the model Act. After taking suggestions, it will be sent to the central government for final approval, and then implemented in the city.”More than 50% of population in the city lives in rented accommodation, as per the Economic Survey 2018.Stating that the new Tenancy Act will overhaul this relationship, Gupta said, “All disputes between tenants and landlords will be decided in a time-bound manner — within three months — by the Rent Authority. Here, simplified procedure will also ensure speedy relief to people.”The existing tenancy provisions of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act 1949 are outdated, said Ajay Jagga, a city-based advocate. “It urgently requires changes which are in tune with the changed times. It will facilitate greater supply of rented accommodation and lowering of rents. ”Procedural changes on the cardsA rent authority will have to be set up, which will exclusive jurisdiction over tenancy issues.All the rent agreements will have to be submitted to the rent authority constituted under the Act. The landowner and the tenant will have to separately file the particulars about the tenancy agreement within a month of the agreement. Currently, these can be registered at the sub-registrar’s office.After reviewing the agreements, the authority will give registration numbers. It will publish online information and registration numbers of all tenancies.The authority will adjudicate the disputes between a landlord and tenant. Currently, rent-related disputes are resolved by civil courts, where the pendency rate is high.Appeals against authority’s orders will be made in the rent court, headed by a senior judicial officer, and the case will have to be dispose of within 60 days. Against a rent court order, an appeal can be filed with the rent tribunal.Landlord vs Tenant A landlord will be entitled to compensation of double the monthly rent for use and occupation of a premise by a tenant who does not vacate the unit after his tenancy has been terminated by order, notice or agreement.No tenant will be allowed to sublet the rented building without prior permission from the landlord.The landlord cannot increase the rent amount within the time period stated in the agreement. The landlord will have to give a written three-month notice before revising the rent.Under the model Act, the landlord or the property manager appointed by him must give the tenant a notice of 24 hours in advance to enter the premises.Both tenant and landlord are responsible for maintenance under the model Act. The rent agreement will define responsibility of both. Both can charge or deduct the amount from rent or security deposit, as the case be, for repairs done on behalf of the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-adopt-centre-s-model-tenancy-act/story-kzLgzfGryOKHnrcb4Vs4wJ.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Students’ body holds protest, wants reopening of PU labs, hostels for scholars||Students affiliated with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Thursday held a protest at Panjab University demanding reopening of the hostels, libraries and labs for research scholars.The protesters assembled outside the vice-chancellor’s office and marched towards the administration block. They also demanded that the varsity should conduct the entrance exams instead of scrapping them. Panjab University has already decided to scrap its undergraduate and postgraduate entrance tests this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Diksha Bhanot, state president of the student body, who is a research scholar at the university, said, “The work of the research scholars is suffering for the last six months. Since many other institutions are opening up for research scholars, PU authorities should also allow its scholars to use the labs and libraries.”Over the recent advisory of the Panjab University asking the final-semester students to vacate the hostels within three days after their last paper, the ABVP demanded that students should not be forced to vacate their accommodation.Meanwhile, the Students For Society (SFS) also wrote to the PU administration, demanding that research scholars be allowed to avail HRA of lockdown period and no rent should be collected from them.PU dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said, “The issue of research scholars is being looked into by the university and decisions will be taken for the benefit of the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-body-holds-protest-wants-reopening-of-pu-labs-hostels-for-scholars/story-J5gLFRnYickCBl6q0I3ZbN.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Stubble burns, farmers from Haryana say they have no option||Sukhi Ram, 36, a farmer in Chanarthal Village in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district, hired three workers to harvest his paddy crop and separate the chaff. It took him two days to finish harvesting, and another five days for the crop residue to dry up completely so that it could be set ablaze. Ram, who tills 500 square metres of land (0.124 acres), is aware of the controversy over the burning of crop residue, and its environmental impacts. But for someone with such a small land holding, using stubble removing machines is not a financially viable option, he says. “I have a transport business on the side, which took a major hit during the Covid-19 lockdown. Even if that was not the case, for farmers like me, who do not own a lot of land, hiring machines for removing stubble is not a very favourable option. We might shift if the government comes up with a better alternative,” Ram said. HT travelled in villages across Kurukshetra, Karnal and Kaithal districts -- areas from where the maximum number of stubble burning cases are reported every year in Haryana. Several farmers with small land holdings (less than one acre) said the government reached out to them to create awareness about the ill-effects of stubble burning, but added that no real alternatives were offered to them.Haryana government officials said though they expect the instances of farm fires to be fewer this year compared to the previous year due to the easy availability of stubble removal machines such as Happy Seeder and Super Seeder, they agreed that several small farmers are already burning the residue in their fields.“We have reached out to the farmers to make buying and hiring machines easy and affordable for them, but for farmers with small land holdings, the machines are basically useless. For them, burning is a cheaper option than availing of the government subsidy ,” said a Kurukshetra administration official. Delhi government data shows that last year stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution -- an annual problem that plunges the city into a health emergency in the winter months, making it one of the most polluted cities in the world. Experts say besides causing air pollution, burning stubble also affects the fertility of the soil as it causes loss of nitrogen, sulphur, potassium and bacteriological content of the soil. Latest data by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) shows that between September 25 and September 29, 120 incidents of crop stubble burning were recorded in the state. Most of these fires were reported from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Ambala districts. “We are keeping a close watch on these fires, but over the last few years we have seen that the numbers have consistently gone down and we are expecting that this year too, the number of farm fires will be less compared to last year,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB. Last year, 6,364 stubble burning cases were reported from the state as compared to 10, 288 in 2018. With 12.50 lakh hectares under paddy, Haryana is the second biggest producer of paddy waste in the country, after neighbouring Punjab. To reduce the incidents of stubble burning, the state last year set up 2,879 custom hiring centres, which provided as many as 15,928 stubble removal machines to farmers. This year, its target is to provide 2,741 machines, including 791 straw balers. Karamvir Singh, the village head from Chochra in Karnal district, said while the village panchayats are working towards providing easy access to machines at a subsidised rate to farmers, unless moving away from burning is incentivised, the practice cannot be stopped completely. “Currently, all that a farmer needs to get rid of stubble is a match box. Therefore, unless there is monetary incentive to encourage him to shift, no amount of awareness will be able to stop this practice,” said Singh. The Supreme Court last year directed the Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh governments to give ₹100 per quintal for non-basmati produce as incentives to farmers who are not burning their stubble. The apex court also ordered the three states to bear the operational cost of hiring of machines for handling the agricultural residue on behalf of marginal and small farmers. Most farmers in the districts of Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra, however, said the incentive was yet to be distributed. An official in Haryana chief secretary’s office said, “All district officials have been directed to make sure that machines are made available to farmers, especially the small and marginalised farmers, at very nominal rates. We are also working towards providing monetary incentives to them,” an official from the CS office said.Satellite imagery by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shows that the number of fires seen over Haryana has increased over the last one week. “More fires have started appearing in Haryana over the past few days, whereas the numbers are lower in Punjab compared to the last week,” said Pawan Gupta, research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stubble-burns-farmers-from-haryana-say-they-have-no-option/story-ax2p4e1pjnBkXkv3aOYa0K.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Woman, her brother arrested for stabbing husband in Chandigarh||High drama was witnessed in Sector 25 on Thursday afternoon when a man was attacked with a pair of scissors by his wife and brother-in-law on the neck and head as bystanders videographed the incident. The woman and her brother have been arrested and will be presented in court on Friday.Police said they received a call around 1:40pm about a quarrel. The victim Deepak Chand (32) of Sector 56, who works with a private coaching institute in Sector 25, said he received a call from his wife Renu and brother-in-law Ankit Rojila, asking him to come to the parking area of the institute. When he came there, the two accused him of infidelity and attacked him. “They rubbed chilli powder on my eyes and attacked with a pair of scissors on my chest and neck. When people gathered there, they fled from the spot,” Deepak told the police. Deepak was taken to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where his condition is stated to be stable.Police have registered a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 11 police station. The accused were arrested and will be produced in a court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-her-brother-arrested-for-stabbing-husband-in-chandigarh/story-cJ4iGskkqppTZQPX4g9TuO.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh philatelist to depict Gandhi’s journey through stamps on his birth anniversary today||In post-Independence India, Mahatma Gandhi is the individual personality/theme on which the country’s postal department has issued maximum number of stamps. Such stamps depict the important events associated with Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi — from his days in South Africa to his return to India and from his ‘Dandi March’ to India’s freedom. Taking a route of philately, the collection and study of stamps, Chandigarh-based stamp collectors are trying to educate people, especially the younger generation, about the contribution of Mahatma Gandhi in the country’s freedom struggle. “Philately has a great potential to reach out to the people on any subject. Stamps and post cards are not only facilitators of communication, but they also carry a message and there always are stories and history associated with them. I am using Gandhi’s stamps to reach out to the students to make them aware of his contribution during the pre-independence era,” says one such philatelist Rakesh Wallia, 64, who has been exhibiting Gandhi’s theme since 1986. He has, over years, touched all government schools of Chandigarh several times while promoting philately through Gandhi. Another stamp collector, Vipan Kumar Thakur, 56, who is an inspector in the income tax department, Chandigarh, is showcasing his collection on Gandhi during a function to mark Gandhi’s birth anniversary at Gandhi Smarak Bhawan in Sector 16 on Friday.“I have been into stamp collection since my childhood, but my interest in Gandhi grew a decade ago only. I am exhibiting Gandhi’s collection for the last five years,” says Thakur. “In philately, one frame on a topic requires an exhibit of a minimum 16 A4 size sheet. Through stamps, postcards and first-day covers, I have tried to touch all important aspects of Gandhi’s involvement in the country’s freedom movement. People, especially students, get attracted as they find it a different way of storytelling. Supported mainly by visuals and a little text, it has more recall value,” adds Thakur, who also runs a blog on philately — simplephilatelicclub.blogspot.com“Our focus is to touch Gandhi’s life through as many mediums as possible. On October 2, we are having a number of events, including a lecture, an artist’s work on Gandhi through salt and Gandhi’s life journey through philately exhibition,” says Devraj Tyagi, director, Gandhi Smarak Bhawan. Since November 1948, when the Indian postal department issued a set of four stamps on Gandhi for the first time, till last year when the world celebrated Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary, India has issued 94 stamps on the great leader. Out of those 94 stamps, Thakur has around 70 stamps in his collection. “I have got the first set of four stamps issued on Gandhi in 1948 and also have a stamp made of khadi. Apart from that, I have a collection on Rabindranath Tagore,” says Thakur. Walia has a complete set on Gandhi’s India theme, except for a ₹10 service stamp, which is a rare on Gandhi theme and has approximately 20 stamps in circulation. In 2017, four sets of Gandhi’s service stamps were auctioned for ₹4.7 crore in England. They were bought by an Australian.“In my Gandhi’s exhibit, I use 67 stamps and other philately material. It is arranged in sequence as his life’s journey moves on,” says Walia. Chandigarh’s general post office in Sector 17 is, meanwhile, opening its philately bureau on Friday (October 2) to felicitate the stamp lovers. “The importance of Gandhi and his work can be gauged from the fact that over 87 countries across the world and United Nations Postal Administration have issued stamps on one of the greatest leader. To encourage stamp collection, we are opening our philately bureau tomorrow, so that the interested ones can buy stamps on Gandhi theme,” says Manoj Kumar, senior superintendent of post offices, Chandigarh division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-philatelist-to-depict-gandhi-s-journey-through-stamps-on-his-birth-anniversary-today/story-BfbW78YlHYhGmyTjsKlWTN.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Covid tally surpasses 18,000 mark, toll reaches 744||With 129 residents testing positive for Covid-19, Ludhiana’s tally breached the 18,000 mark on Thursday.The district also recorded three deaths on the first day of October, taking the toll to 744.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said of the total 18,087 cases so far in the district, 988 were still active. He said a total of 155 patients (129 from Ludhiana and 26 from other states/districts) had tested positive in the last 24 hours. As many as 2,78,863 samples had been taken till date, out of which reports of 2,77,112 had been received and 2,56,775 were found negative. Reports of 1,751 samples are awaited. He said besides three patients from Ludhiana, two from Moga and one each from Nawanshahr, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Bihar also died in the district on Thursday. As many as 253 people from other districts and states have succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana so far. Of the total 44,010 people kept under home quarantine in the district, 3,546 are still under isolation. These include 203 people who were asked to isolate themselves at home on Thursday. Besides, 5,009 samples of suspected patients were also sent for testing and their results were expected shortly, the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-covid-tally-surpasses-18-000-mark-toll-reaches-744/story-3mEFiDsWGmL3O80zYq257O.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two plumbers die of electrocution in Chandigarh, house owner booked||Two plumbers died of electrocution when they were fixing a motor in a water tank in Sector 27 on Thursday morning.As per the police, Jitender Kumar and his nephew Veeru of Dhanas, had gone to fix the water tank of one Ram Avtar, who runs a jewellery shop in Sector 29. There were three water tanks that needed to be fixed. After fixing two, the two entered the third and were electrocuted. Police were alerted by the house owner and the two were taken to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where they were declared dead.Officials privy to the investigation said it was unclear how exactly the two got electrocuted. “It’s not clear whether the power was switched on by mistake by the two or by the owner when they were inside the tank. However, foul play has been ruled out,” they said.A case under section 304-A (death by negligence) was registered against Ram Avtar at the Sector 26 police station and he was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-plumbers-die-of-electrocution-in-sector-27-house-owner-booked/story-WALDDbQYJxQ918c5J7ESNI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 infections go past 1,400,000 in Maharashtra; toll 37,056||Maharashtra on Thursday went past 1,400,000 Covid-19 cases, with 16,476 fresh infections taking the tally to 1,400,922. The latest 100,000 cases came in six days, indicating a drop in new infections, after the state had moved from 1,100,000 to 1,200,000 in four days and then to 1,300,000 in five days. Mumbai reported 2,352 new cases and 43 fatalities, taking the tally to 207,620 and toll to 8,972. The state reported 394 deaths on Thursday, taking its toll to 37,056. Of them, 229 were from the past 48 hours, 103 were from last week and remaining 62 were from the period before it, according to the state health department.Pune and Nagpur districts witnessed a drop in cases over the past few days, while cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) slightly increased to 28.28% of the state figures, after hovering between 23% and 25% last week. Pune reported 2,625 cases (1,069 in city, 953 in rural parts and 603 in Pimpri-Chinchwad) and added 45 new deaths, including 10 each in rural parts and Pimpri-Chinchwad, and 25 in city. After Mumbai and Pune, Nashik in north Maharashtra saw the highest caseload at 1,290 cases, while Nagpur in Vidarbha clocked 999 cases and 60 deaths. Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar and Sangli in western Maharashtra remained one of the top contributors to the state tally with 460, 417, 835 and 515 cases respectively.While the weekly case fatality rate (CFR) kept rising over the past two weeks, the positivity rate rose significantly in September to 22.37% (591,905 infections from 2,646,276 tests) from 17.91% (370,423 infections from 2,068,801 tests) in August. The positivity rate was 22.41% in July and 21.23% in June. September saw addition of 591,905 cases (42.75% of the total state cases) and 12,079 deaths (32.95% of the total deaths), highest in terms of cases and death in any months since outbreak. State authorities have not been able to achieve the target, set in the first week of July, of bring the CFR to less than 1% and the positivity rate below 10%. The weekly CFR, which had dropped to 1.71% in the first week of September, has again risen to more than 2.3% over the last week (September 25-October 1). The overall CFR stands at 2.65%, second-highest in the country after Punjab. “It is because of low testing and the fatigue. The tracking of susceptible people is not up to the mark, leading to the late admission of infected patients. They are referred to hospitals on the third or fourth days, against the expected admission in first 48 hours. This leads to high death rate. Secondly, the number of cases was high in the second and third weeks of September and the fatalities out of those infections are being reported now,” an official from health department said.Leader of opposition in legislative Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has slammed the state government for the rise in the positivity rate. “The rise in the positivity rate is the result of failure of increasing the expected number of tests. In August, the tests were increased by 42% over the earlier month and it resulted in the positivity rate dropping to 18%. In September, the rise in number of tests over earlier month was just 24% and it led to the rise in the positivity rate to 22.37%. CM Uddhav Thackeray during his video conference with the Prime Minister said that they were planning to increase the daily tests to 1.5 lakh, but the daily tests average in September was 88,209. The situation in Mumbai is worse, as city’s positivity rate in September rose to 17.5% from 13.63%, as the number of daily tests have restricted to the daily average of 11,715 tests in September,” he said.Dr Sadhana Tayade, director, directorate, health services, said that they expect the positivity rate to fall in next few weeks once the tests are increased. “Our aim is to reduce the mortality rate below 1% and the positivity below 10%. It is true that we have brought the CFR below 2%, but the positivity rate is still high. Until we are tracing the people and keeping the mortality in check, positivity rate should not be a matter of worry. We are aiming to increase the number of tests by double in coming weeks and expect the positivity rate to come under control very soon. Though the effect of My Family, My Responsibility drive has not been assessed yet, we expect it to help up detecting the infection early and treating them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-infections-go-past-1-400-000-in-maharashtra-toll-37-056/story-Ko08tgCy5jxDvihFCQDWWN.html
02-10-2020||City||MNS leader from Dombivli, on his way to stir falls off bike, gets 10 stitches||Prashant Pomendkar 45, city co-ordinator of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena from Dombivli, who was on his way to join his party’s protest against the potholes in twin cities, fell off his two-wheeler on Thursday.Pomendkar had to get 10 stitches on his left leg after when he lost balance on his bike after hitting a pothole on Tilak Road in Dombivli.On the occasion of the 37th Foundation Day of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), MNS party workers had made a cake replicating the KDMC office building and planned to cut it near the potholes on Tilak Road.Pomendkar, who was heading from Dombivli office of KDMC to Tilak Road, said, “I was on my bike on the potholed Tilak Road, when I saw a scooty coming from the opposite end. I was trying to dodge the scooty, however my bike hit a pothole and I lost my balance and my leg got caught in the footrest. A few passers-by shifted me to a private hospital,” added Pomendkar who was heading to attend the protest.The MNS party members then asked Pomendkar himself to cut the cake against the potholes on city roads. Sapna Koli, City Engineer, KDMC said, “We have carried out repair work on temporary basis, but it didn’t last due to heavy rain. Carrying out road repairs work during monsoon is a waste of time and money as it doesn’t work out. We have budget of ₹14 crore for road repair work and as soon as the monsoon ends, the work will start.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mns-leader-from-dombivli-on-his-way-to-stir-falls-off-bike-gets-10-stitches/story-JTBxJIz1aKLQMQoLrpg0sI.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Sero survey in Mumbai: 45% in slums of 3 wards had Covid-19 antibodies||Forty-five percent of slum residents and 18% of individuals from other areas surveyed across three city wards were exposed to Sars-Cov2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August’s second half, according to the second phase of the sero survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as part of the national study. The civic body said the results indicate that there could be a reduction in the infection’s spread in slum areas. The sero survey is a study of how many people have antibodies (Immunoglobulin-G) against Sars-Cov-2 in their blood, indicating these people may have been silently infected and recovered, thus helping to map the trend and spread of infection. The latest survey showed that the virus prevalence in slums went down by 12 percentage points and rose marginally in non-slums, in comparison to the first study in the first half of July. In the first survey, 6,936 samples were collected from R-North (Dahisar, Borivli), M-West (Chembur), F-North (Dadar, Matunga, Wadala), of which 57% samples from slums showed antibodies, followed by 16% from non-slum areas. The BMC’s second survey, covering the same areas, tested 5,384 people and found 45% samples from slums and 18% from non-slum areas showed antibodies.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the public health department of BMC, said, “It is encouraging that in slums, the rate of infection is going down. The number of infected health workers is also less, because of the care they have been taking.”Even though recent trends show that high-rises across Mumbai are reporting more Covid-19 cases, Kakani said, “In high-rises, there were only 18% people with antibodies, because this survey was done before the Ganesh festival. It was after the festival that our number of cases increased, and people got a chance to mingle with each other.”The BMC in a statement on Thursday said, “Sero-positivity from the second round indicates there could be a reduction in the spread of infection in slum areas. Marginal increase in sero-positivity of non-slum areas correlates with increase in reported cases in August from non-slum areas.”According to BMC officials, in the second phase, the sero-prevalence observed among health workers working in slum areas was lower than sero-prevalence in the slum populations (citizens), and this could be due to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, which includes use of masks and hand hygiene.The BMC, further in the statement, added, “Emerging scientific evidence hints at fall of antibody levels in recovered or asymptomatic patients over a period of time and might have contributed to the trend between two rounds of sero-survey. The impact of this on immunity, if any, is still unknown.”Further, the second phase stated that sero-prevalence in women was marginally higher than men in both the rounds, followed by age-wise prevalence, which was comparable to the first round in all ages. In the second round, sero-prevalence in the age group of people above 40 was slightly higher. Sero-prevalence among health workers in both rounds was approximately 27% (as an average).According to BMC, the second phase of the sero survey was conducted in the second half of August, in which out of a total 5,840 samples, 5,384 participants [92%] were recruited from the general population, while the remaining were frontline workers. In the whole exercise (combining both phases of the surve), a total of 728 health workers were recruited for the study. Meanwhile, in the second phase, the sampling included people who may have been symptomatic and recovered or asymptomatic. Further, no sampling was done in active containment zones (i.e. during the study period) followed by around 1-2% of the samples belonged to people who had participated in both the rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sero-survey-in-mumbai-45-in-slums-of-3-wards-had-covid-19-antibodies/story-aIOL5Cr2gvnOjWHY3NqUBP.html
02-10-2020||City||Navi Mumbai toll hike: MNS workers protest, traffic moves at snail pace||Serpentine queues and a protest by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena party workers at the toll nakas of Navi Mumbai marked the first day of hike in toll charges announced by the state government.Traffic moved slowly, resulting in congestion at the Vashi toll naka as motorists argued with the toll operators over the increased charges. Many claimed they had no idea about the hike. Motorists were also upset at the increase during the pandemic and also additional burden on Navi Mumbai residents.Brian D’Souza, 42, a motorist residing in Sanpada, said, “This is ridiculous. Local residents should be exempted from toll charges as is done in other regions. Mumbai residents do not pay toll tax and yet use all the flyovers in Mumbai. However, we in Navi Mumbai have been paying toll charges every day and now we have to pay more.”He added, “For long we have been demanding waiver and the political leaders have been promising action on it. Basically, we are being penalised for shifting to the city.”Shailesh Patil, 51, another commuter added, “People are just starting to work after suffering financially for months in the Covid pandemic. How can there be an increase in the toll charges. The government should have, in fact, waived it for a few months. Aren’t we already burdened?”A toll official at Vashi toll naka said on condition of anonymity, “We had a tough time with several motorists arguing with our staff when they did not get the expected change in return. We had to explain to them that the charges have been hiked. Several motorists refused to accept and claimed that we were trying to fleece them.”Meanwhile, the local unit of MNS staged a protest at Airoli toll naka, the other exit point of Navi Mumbai. The party workers raised slogans against the hike and demanded that it be rolled back immediately. The police later dispersed the protestors.Navi Mumbai MNS chief, Gajanan Kale, said, “We will not sit quiet. We will continue to agitate against this unjustified hike. The people are already suffering and this will add to their misery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-toll-hike-mns-workers-protest-traffic-moves-at-snail-pace/story-9ZNiKXpJtzz2BeMMeC5C4N.html
02-10-2020||City||Punjab Police inspector dies due to shot to head in Amritsar||A Punjab Police inspector allegedly shot himself dead with his service revolver at his house in Putlighar locality of Amritsar on Thursday night. The deceased, inspector Shiv Charan, 55, was deployed in the anti-riot police (ARP) wing. Police said Charan was home alone around 9pm when he died due to a shot to the headCantonment station SHO Ranjit Singh said preliminary investigation revealed that the inspector was under depression. “But, we have not ruled out accidental fire and are awaiting the autopsy report for further action,” he added. Meanwhile, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-inspector-dies-due-to-shot-to-head-in-amritsar/story-rwCKl85NgpmXBivTV1RN8J.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||2 arrested with 250 ecstasy pills worth ₹5 lakh in south Mumbai||The property cell of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two people on Wednesday with 250 ecstasy pills worth ₹5 lakh in the Indian market while the international market value is around ₹50 lakh.The arrested accused are Amir Firoz Raffai, 24, and Inayatali Abbas Sayyad, 29, both residents of Dongri in south Mumbai. Raffai has four cases of assault registered against him in Dongri police station. Sayyad is into courier business.“We are questioning them to find out from where they procured the contraband and to whom they were going to deliver it to,” said inspector Dhiraj Koli of property cell. According to the police, inspector Koli got a tip-off that two people were coming with narcotics contraband to deliver to someone in south Mumbai. The police team then laid a trap and nabbed them. During search, police found 125 ecstasy tablets from Raffai and 125 from Sayyad. Both were produced before the court and have been remanded in police custody till October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-arrested-with-250-ecstasy-pills-worth-5-lakh-in-south-mumbai/story-qgQsjGDIfRog5hChXl0BRJ.html
02-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras victim’s father demands CBI probe alleging pressure from cops, administration||The family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi hospital after she was allegedly gangraped in Hathras on Thursday alleged they were being pressured by the district administration against “repeatedly changing” their statement. The father of the woman, whose death has triggered a massive outrage in the country and sharp criticism for the UP government, said he was being pressured by government officials and demanded a CBI probe into the matter. The father, around 50, claimed that he was “pressured” into going to a police station where the district magistrate and police officials made three members of his family sign some document. “But we are not satisfied with this. My daughter’s case should be probed by the CBI and monitored by a Supreme Court judge. We are under pressure from officials and confined to our home while the media has also been disallowed from meeting us,” he said in a purported video shared by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Twitter. The development came as a video surfaced purportedly showing Hathras District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar meeting the family at their home, where he allegedly asked the woman’s father to “reconsider” if he wants to stick with the statement or change it. “Aap apni vishwasniyata khatam mat kariye. Media wale main aapko bata doon… aaj abhi aadhe chale gaye, kal subah tak aadhe aur nikal jaenge aur 2-4 din bachenge ... Hum hi bas khade hain aapke saath mein, thik hai. Ab aapki ichha hai, aapko baar-baar bayaan badalna hai, nahi badalna hai... (You should not destroy your credibility. About the media, I must tell you, half of them have left today… the other half would leave by tomorrow morning... two or four more days maybe. Only we are standing by your side, alright. Now, it is up to you whether you want to change your statement repeatedly or not...),” DM Laxkar tells the victim’s father according to the video on social media. A woman member of the family claimed they were being pressured by the district magistrate and feared “these people now won’t let us live here”, according to another purported video shared by Rahul Gandhi. “Un logon ne mummy ke ulte seedhe video bana rakhe hain, us time haalat aise the ke jiske jo mu mein aa raha tha wo hum log bole ja rahe the... ab ye log humein yahan rehne nahi denge. Ye DM zyada hi chaalbaazi kar rahe hain, pressure daal rahe zabardasti... keh rah eke tum logon ki baton ka bharosa nahi hai, zabardasti bayaan badal rahe. (They have made random videos of mother’s statements. Soon after the incident, the situation was such that we were speaking anything that came to our mind... But now they (administration) won’t let us live here anymore. This DM is indulging in trickery, he is pressuring us. Says we are not reliable, we are changing our statement,” the sobbing woman alleged. Reacting to the video, Rahul Gandhi in a Hindi tweet said, “How long will you suppress the voice of the poor-Dalit-adivasis? How long will you hide the truth? How many more daughters will be secretly burnt? You will not be able to stop the country’s voice now.” He also used the hashtags “JusticeForIndiasDaughters” and “HathrasHorror” with his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-case-victim-s-family-alleges-admin-police-pressure-demands-cbi-probe/story-G83srawrjRZgLoecxA5mML.html
02-10-2020||City||Thane plaza sees chaos on first day of toll hike||Chaos greeted Thane commuters travelling to and from Mumbai on Thursday, the first day of implementation of increase in toll charges. The traffic was slow-moving at Anandnagar and LBS Road toll plazas during peak hours. Commuters had to wait almost an hour at the toll plaza as a long queue of vehicles was seen waiting at both the entry points to Mumbai.The state government has issued a notification revising rates for toll recovery at the entry points to Mumbai last week. The one-way toll for a passenger car, which was ₹35, has been increased to ₹40.A traffic police near the toll naka said, “Most motorists were not aware of the hike in toll prices leading to confusion early on Thursday morning. It was the first day of hike in rate, so the traffic was slow moving, but the situation was under control. As it was peak hour, the backlog and queue seemed to be quite long. The situation will be normal from next week when most people will know about the hike.”Satish Raje, 39, resident of Ghodbunder Road, who was travelling to Chembur through the Eastern Express Highway, added, “What usually takes me hardly 10 minutes, the same stretch of road took around an hour to reach. Not many were aware of the hike in toll prices that led to confusion and traffic in the morning hours.”Another commuter, Shirin Mathew, 44, also was stranded in traffic and took over half-an-hour to merely cross the toll plaza. Mathew, a resident of Vartak Nagar, Thane, who travels to Vikroli said, “Usually Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays are the days when the roads have traffic as many offices follow the alternate working day pattern nowadays. However, Friday being a national holiday, there were many who opted to go to work today. Moreover, the hike in toll prices also led to some confusion and traffic at the toll naka in the morning.”The announcement of the hike in toll charges did not go well with the commuters and activists in Thane. “There is no daily or return pass system at the toll naka. This is a deterrent. We have to shell out more money both ways and during this pandemic, with no option of public transport, they have hiked the price further,” said Ashish Mule, 29, who car pools with his colleagues daily to Parel.Jayant Mhaiskar, chairman and managing director of MEP Infra, which manages the toll, said, “We have deployed additional staff at the toll naka for collection until people get used to the new rates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-plaza-sees-chaos-on-first-day-of-toll-hike/story-9lDYVxLVAGiB9RN0ZGaJVL.html
02-10-2020||City||BG Shekhar appointed as additional commissioner of police in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai police commissionerate has got a sanction for a new post of an Additional Commissioner of Police, Crime.An order issued by the Home Ministry of the State government on Wednesday informed that BG Shekhar, DIG from State Reserve Police Force has been posted as the Additional Commissioner of Police in Navi Mumbai. The order said that a post of DCP with Railways in Mumbai has been transferred and upgraded to accommodate DIG rank officer in Navi Mumbai. Shekhar, on Thursday took charge as the first Additional Commissioner of Police, Crime of Navi Mumbai. Navi Mumbai was previously a part of the Thane commissionerate as Zone V. In 1994, a separate commissionerate was formed with KS Shinde as the first commissioner. Till 2010, the rank of Commissioner in Navi Mumbai was that of Inspector General and was later upgraded to Additional Director General rank to accommodate Ahmad Javed as the Commissioner of Navi Mumbai. Along with that was created another post of Joint Commissioner of DIG rank in 2010.Shivraj Patil, DCP, headquarters, who was transferred on Thursday, said, “During my tenure, no proposal was sent to home ministry for the new post. We are checking records to verify if such a proposal was sent before my tenure.” CP Bipin Kumar Singh said, “This post will definitely help the city. Additional CP will head the crime branch so there would be a close supervision on crimes happening in city. The crime branch cases will have consultation by a DIG rank officer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bg-shekhar-appointed-as-additional-commissioner-of-police-in-navi-mumbai/story-dT2uZY7lGgwCS3FOGBZC6M.html
02-10-2020||City||Six arrested for kidnapping, dacoity on Mumbai-Goa highway||The Pen police in Raigad arrested a gang of six for kidnapping and dacoity after they robbed ₹40 lakh worth truck of plastic raw materials along the Mumbai Goa Highway. The accused held the truck occupants hostage after assaulting them and drove them around for three hours before dumping them along the highway.On September 14, Chandrakant Gunge, 32 was transporting plastic beads for a plastics company in Chennai in a 14-wheeler truck along the Mumbai-Goa highway. At around 7.30 pm, a group of nine persons travelling in an SUV overtook Gunge’s truck near Gagode Khind, Pen.The men forced into the truck and beat up Gunge and two attendants. After robbing them of cash and mobile phones, they bundled them into the car.“They tied up the three and blindfolded them. The accused drove along the highway for over three hours and threw them around 15km away in Eerwadi along the Mumbai-Goa Highway,” said an officer.The police found the empty truck dumped in the Malegaon Taluka police jurisdiction, Nashik. Subsequently, one of the accused, Sadanand Amritka was caught after which five others were also nabbed from Nashik and Mumbai. The police recovered the stolen plastic from Nashik.“So far, we have arrested six men and three more are wanted,” said Anil Paraskar, superintendent of police, Raigad.The gang previously stole trucks of soaps or groceries. They would target any truck and then find customers as per their heist bounty. The accused had rented the SUV car.The other accused have been identified as Mumbai residents – Shahanshah Gulhasan, 20, Hansraj Munneshwar, 48, Mohammed Zakir Iliyas, 20, -- Nashik resident Roshan Khabia, 33 and Mohammed Javir Shaikh, 28, a resident of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-arrested-for-kidnapping-dacoity-on-mumbai-goa-highway/story-V3KoIZpAtNgNdi6HSHlUhN.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Students in Maharashtra find first session of state CET exam easy||Most of the students who appeared for the first session of the Maharashtra common entrance test (MH-CET) on Thursday said they found the exam easier as compared to the papers of the previous few years. Around 5.32 lakh aspirants from across the state have registered for the exam, which will be conducted in two shifts everyday till October 6. “All the PCB (Physics-Chemistry-Biology) questions were very easy and almost all of them were from within the prescribed syllabus. As the exam was held online, some students were feeling anxious but the test was conducted smoothly,” said Om Trivedi, one of the aspirants who appeared for the exam on Thursday. This is the first time that the exam authority will conduct only two papers—Physics-Chemistry-Maths (PCM) and Physics-Chemistry-Biology (PCB) — in multiple sessions, as the combined third paper of PCMB has been dropped from the entrance exam altogether. “The exam was conducted keeping in mind the current [Covid-19] scenario and considering the mental status of the students who have been studying for the past few years for these entrance exams. This year has been very stressful and having an easy paper for CET was confidence boosting for us,” said Anvir Sahay, another aspirant. HT had previously reported how this year the registrations to the state CET exam sore by more than 1 lakh aspirants as compared to last year. Official records shared by the state CET cell reveal that 5.32 lakh aspirants registered for the exam this year, as compared to 4.13 lakh aspirants in 2019 and 4.35 lakh registrations in 2018. Experts attributed the rise in registrations to the delay in conducting national-level entrance exams for engineering courses as well as to the introduction of new-age courses such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Science and Analytics, Blockchain, among others, by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-in-maharashtra-find-first-session-of-state-cet-exam-easy/story-Fd2wBD4aL06ohDjFjGIH1I.html
02-10-2020||City||17-year-old robs gold worth ₹2.49 lakh in Navi Mumbai, detained||Sheltering a runaway 17-year-old at the start of the lockdown ended up in betrayal for a Vashi-based caterer. The teenager who stayed with the caterer ran away with a bag of gold worth ₹2.49 lakh on Sunday. The boy stayed at the caterer’s house in Vashi and even worked for him.A Navi Mumbai-based auto driver discovered the minor boy at a railway station on March 10. The juvenile told him that he’s an orphan and ran away from his uncle’s house in Uttar Pradesh, fed up by the torture. With no place to live for the minor in a new city, the auto driver called up Prakash Bhagwat, 39, and told him if he would be willing to shelter the boy for a few days.Bhagwat who runs a catering service, agreed to provide shelter at his Vashi home, where he stays with wife and a brother.“Out of sympathy, the complainant continued sheltering the minor. Taking advantage of their trust, the minor stole valuables from the house,” said Vinayak Vast, ACP, Vashi divn.During investigations, the minor was traced at a chawl in Jogeshwari (E). He has been sent to a children’s remand home in Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-robs-gold-worth-2-49-lakh-in-navi-mumbai-detained/story-tlxPSxSCVKGg58pOsVtLjJ.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Freedom of expression should be exercised within four walls of Constitution: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) while observing that criticism of persons holding public posts has become rampant on social media, said while such persons should face and bear it, the citizens were required to exercise restraint to an extent so that the dignity of the post was not abused and to ensure there is no ‘unfair’ criticism beyond the rights provided under the Constitution. The HC made the observations while hearing the plea of a Nagpur resident seeking to quash a first information report (FIR) against him for posting abusive tweets against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya Thackeray on Twitter on June 1 and 30. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the petition by Sameet Thakkar, 32, was informed by advocate Abhinav Chandrachud that the petition sought that the FIR against Thakkar be quashed and set aside as well. Thakkar also sought interim protection from arrest. A complaint was registered against Thakkar at VP Marg Police station on July 2 by advocate Dharmendra Mishra, a legal consultant for the Shiv Sena, for posting abusive and offensive tweets on June 1 and 30 against the Thackeray duo. Thakkar was booked under sections 292 (obscene acts or words in public), 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Information Technology Act. While making light of the complaint, Chandrachud submitted that persons holding public posts should let go of such comments at times and referred to former Supreme Court judge justice VR Krishna Iyer’s observation: “The dogs may bark but the caravan will pass.” He added that the SC had also observed that those who occupy positions of power should have ‘thick skin’ while reacting to criticism. In light of this, he said the ‘obscenity’ charge against his client was excessive. Advocate JP Yagnik, for the state, assured the court that Thakkar would not be arrested if he cooperated with the investigation and attended the police station as and when called for questioning. After hearing the submissions, the court while addressing Chandrachud said, “Sometimes the tweets are abusive. The rights of your client cannot violate someone else’s constitutional rights. Responsible citizens should know they have rights, but to what extent.” Justice Shinde said, “Now it has become easy to criticise through social media posts. People think they can get publicity if they post something against the PM or CM. Perhaps, they think that is the easiest way to get publicity. You know now even the judiciary is not an exception.” He further added that as it was a known fact that the rights to freedom of speech and expression were not absolute, citizens should refrain and ensure that someone else’s rights are not violated because of their abusive language. The bench said that democracy allows citizens to be free, and hence there will be comments, but the comments have to be within the four walls of rights under the Constitution. After Chandrachud assured the court that his client would abide by the court’s observations, Thakkar was directed to appear before the investigating officer on Monday (October 5) and posted the matter for hearing on October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/freedom-of-expression-should-be-exercised-within-four-walls-of-constitution-bombay-hc/story-M3XGnSHPJpRJcw1GnufVIO.html
02-10-2020||City||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray inaugurates MBVV police commissionerate||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday through video conferencing inaugurated the new Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) police commissionerate which will temporarily operate from a Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) building in Ram Nagar, Mira Road for an annual rent of ₹27 lakh. The chief minister had in July-August announced the formation of MBVV police commissionerate with IPS officer Sadanand Date appointed as the first commissioner. Date was awarded the President’s medal for bravery during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. The CM said that the new commissionerate was a long pending demand of the people. Referring to the Hathras gang rape case, Thackeray said that such crimes will not be tolerated in Maharashtra.Date said the commissionerate will do its best in maintaining law and order in the areas.Till the formation of MBVV comissionerate, Mira-Bhayandar fell under Thane (Rural) police district while Vasai-Virar under Palghar police district. The state government has sanctioned 4,708 posts for the new MBVV commissionerate. A total of 1,006 posts from Thane (Rural), 1,165 from Palghar and 317 from other areas will be transferred to the new commissionerate, said police sources adding that an additional 2,200 posts will be added to the region. The recruitment for the same will be done in two phases. In the first phase, the government will hire 1,022 personnel including 975 constables, and in the second 1,082 personnel will be recruited. The Home department has also allocated ₹174 crore for the MBVV commissionerate, which will include 13 police stations which are part of the two districts as well as seven new police stations. The cabinet has, in July 2019, approved ₹3.82 crore for the construction of the new police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-inaugurates-mbvv-police-commissionerate/story-qO1zVlkRy4Txf3O2UeWurN.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai online exams begin at few colleges, others to start exams next week||Even as the status of the final-year (summer 2020) online exam lies in limbo across several state universities, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday announced the successful commencement of online exams in some of its affiliated colleges. Most city colleges, however, have decided to start their exams from October 5.While exams at five state universities has been indefinitely deferred due to an ongoing pen-down strike of non-teaching staff members, MU said their decision to decentralise online exams helped ensure the schedule stays as is.“Since all colleges have been divided under different clusters, these clusters have been given the choice of conducting exams as per their schedule as long as the same is conducted between October 1 and 31 and that it is conducted online in multiple choice question (MCQ) format,” said a statement released by MU on Thursday evening. It further added that the varsity has appointed an exam monitoring committee to coordinate with all lead colleges in every cluster and get regular feedback from them.“Today MU vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar had a virtual discussion with thousands of students to find out the problems they are facing. Helpline numbers are functional and students have been assured that they will face no problem with online exams,” added the MU statement.HT had previously reported that less than 48 hours before the online exam was scheduled to begin, authorities at the Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University released a statement confirming that their exams have been deferred indefinitely due to a pen-down strike called by all non-teaching staff demanding the immediate implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission wages. Late on Tuesday evening, authorities of universities in Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Amravati also released a similar statement announcing their decision to defer exams that were scheduled to begin on October 1 at all four universities. Nanded University released a similar statement on Wednesday morning deferring their exams as well. In separate circulars released by the examination departments of the respective universities, the spokespersons highlighted that new dates for exams are yet to be finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-online-exams-begin-at-few-colleges-others-to-start-exams-next-week/story-gjqf3UDSQRvKkHtAOWGxmK.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Two commuters use fake identity cards to travel by local trains in Mumbai, arrested||In a drive to curb unauthorised commuters on local trains, the commercial department of Western Railway (WR) nabbed a man on Wednesday. Andheri government railway police (GRP), too, arrested a woman for using fake identity. There has been a rise in instances of people creating fake identity cards of essential services workers to be able to board local trains for their regular commute. In the first instance, Mira Road resident Ramesh Takke, 36, was arrested when trying to board a local train using a fake identity card. Takke was reportedly in touch with people who make fake identity cards for travelling by local trains.“We have started intensive drives to check unauthorised travel. There have been five incidents of people travelling with fake identity cards that were caught during inspections till now. We request passengers who are not authorised not to travel by locals,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, WR. WR then handed Takke over to GRP.Inspector Bharat Chaudhary from Andheri GRP said they have arrested Takke on the charges of forgery and cheating. According to Chaudhary, Takke, who works at a printing press, asked one of his contact to make a fake identity card. “We have arrested Takke based on the forged identity card that he had received from his contact. We have also detained the person who had sent him the forged identity and are investigating his role,” said Chaudhary.In another incident, Andheri GRP arrested a woman for stealing the identity card of a neighbour, who is a nurse, and sticking her own photo on a photocopy of the identity card. “The woman’s mother-in-law had informed us of the incident, based on which we arrested the woman for forgery and cheating,” added Chaudhary.Earlier, WR had detained two people travelling with fake identity cards at Borivli station.The Central Railway, too, has detained 30 people till now for unauthorised travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-commuters-use-fake-identity-cards-to-travel-by-local-trains-in-mumbai-arrested/story-OaWzS8RI2TbdJ274eFxBSL.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Conducting entrance test not possible: PU panel||A special panel of Panjab University on Thursday said that it is not possible for the varsity to conduct entrance exams for five-year integrated law course in the present circumstances.This comes two days after the varsity told the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) that it will reconsider its decision of scrapping the entrance test for the course run, following an aspirant’s plea. The panel, headed by syndicate member Anu Chatrath, in its meeting on Thursday reiterated that the conduct of the entrance test is not possible, especially since the university has to complete the admission process by the end of October as per the guidelines of the University Grants Commission.DPS Randhawa, who is a member of the panel, said, “According to the UGC guidelines, the admission should be completed by October 31 and the academic session will get late if we will not carry out admissions during this time.” The proceedings of the committee will be finalised on Friday and sent to vice- chancellor Raj Kumar. Besides scrapping UG entrance tests this year, PU has also scrapped entrance tests for PU-CET (PG), MPhil/ PhD, PULEET, PUMEET and MBA (executive) due to the pandemic.The decision to scrap the exam was taken on August 11 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, and was initially challenged by two law course aspirants, who argued that the premise to not hold the entrance was invalid when PU was conducting such exams for other courses. Class-12 marks as a sole criterion for determining the suitability of a candidate for admission to the course would neither be reasonable nor reliable, they had argued. Following the plea, the high court had asked PU to reconsider its decision by September 15. However, PU again decided against holding the exam, which resulted in the second round of litigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/conducting-entrance-test-not-possible-pu-panel/story-vQv1lBNxMS74IXeSw5QEiN.html
02-10-2020||City||Civic officials, police clash in Kalyan, video goes viral||In a perfect example of lack of co-ordination between two authorities, several residents caught without wearing mask were made to wait for more than an hour to pay fine in Kalyan on Thursday morning.The police officials who caught them did not have the receipt book and claimed that the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials who were supposed to reach the spot at 10 am reached only at 11.45 am.This led to an argument between the police and KDMC, which was caught on video by passers-by.The police and the civic officials had carried out a joint operation against people not wearing masks in Kalyan and Dombivli.On Thursday morning, a team from Bazarpeth police reached Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk in Kalyan for the joint operation at 10am. “Yashwant Chavan, senior police inspector of Bazarpeth police station, and his team members started catching the violators. But, as the KDMC officials had the receipt books and the authority to impose fine, they could not fine the people. Those caught for not wearing mask were asked to wait along with our team till 11:45 am, after which the KDMC officials reached the spot and started taking the fine,” said an official from Bazarpeth who was at the spot.A KDMC official reached the spot at 11.00 am but he didn’t have the receipt book. At 11:45 am, when Bhagaji Bhangare, ward officer, C Ward, KDMC, reached the spot, the police officers at the spot got into an argument with him as to why they took so long to get the receipt book.In the video that went viral, the police are heard saying, “This is not the way to work, if you are not interested, then do not force us to take action. Ensure the next time you are on time.”Yashwant Chavan, senior police inspector, Bazarpeth police station, did not comment on the issue and said, “Such things keep happening in the department and we should not take it seriously. Our main priority is to take action against the violators and not let small arguments come in the way.”Bhagaji Bhangare, ward officer, C ward, KDMC, denied there was any delay and informed the KDMC has collected almost ₹1 lakh fine till date.“On Thursday, we had assigned three teams to the police to fine people without mask. Two teams were stationed with Bazarpeth police, while one was with Mahatma Phule police. The Mahatma Phule police are also fining people travelling without mask on motorcycles and vehicles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-officials-police-clash-in-kalyan-video-goes-viral/story-57z6d3MtDbMotrqhBQVjUP.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||Maratha quota: After different view on SSR case, Parth Pawar goes against NCP line, to move SC||After going against the party line to demand a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Parth, grandnephew of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, has jumped into the politically crucial matter of Maratha reservation. He has announced that he will file an intervention application before the Supreme Court (SC) in the ongoing petition over reservation to the Maratha community. Supporting quota for the community in government jobs and education, he has asked Maratha leaders to wake up to fight for the cause and has also sought intervention by the state to resolve the crisis. Interestingly, Pawars are Marathas and the NCP chief is the most powerful leader from the community. The NCP is also known as a party dominated by the Maratha leaders. Parth is the son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, nephew of the NCP chief, who is also deputy chief minister in the MVA government. “Devastated to hear of the tragic death of Vivek who committed suicide for the cause of Maratha reservations. Before a chain reaction of such unfortunate incident starts, Maratha leaders have to wake up & fight for this cause. Requesting Maha govt to step in to solve the crisis,” he said, in a series of tweets. He was referring to a suicide committed by Vivek Rahade, 18, from Beed on Wednesday. Rahade has recently appeared for NEET exams and was worried about its results, according to news reports. On September 30, he died by suicide at his farm. The family has claimed that he has committed suicide for Maratha reservation. “The flame that Vivek has ignited in our minds can set the whole system ablaze. The future of an entire generation is at stake. I have no choice but to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court and file an intervenor application in the Maratha reservation matter pending before it...,” Parth added further. After a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court stayed the reservation for Marathas in jobs and education for 2020-21 on September 9, the issue has become politically sensitive as the community has announced state-wide protests. The state government has filed a petition in the SC to vacate stay on implementation of the quota.Marathas were granted 12% and 13% reservation in employment and education, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. “We don’t see anything wrong in his demand. In fact, it is good that someone from the party wants to fight for the cause of the Maratha community as the NCP has been in favour providing reservation since day one. He (Parth Pawar) has all the right to make a demand from the state government, at the same time as an individual, he also has all the right to support a movement,” said party spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik.In August, Parth was publicly rebuked by the NCP chief over demanding CBI probe into Rajput’s death, going against the party stand. Pawar had called him “immature” and had also said he doesn’t give a damn about what Parth says. Later, after the Supreme Court allowed handing over the case to CBI, Parth had tweeted, “Satyamev Jayate” (truth alone triumphs). The tweet had no mention of the case, but it is assumed that he was referring to the Apex court’s judgment in the actor’s death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-after-different-view-on-ssr-case-parth-pawar-goes-against-ncp-line-to-move-sc/story-F5Uw1DaGR4hJbRMHPAgLIN.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP’s Pravin Darekar-led Mumbai cooperative bank gets notice over losses, loans to sugar factories||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Pravin Darekar-led Mumbai District Central Cooperative Bank Limited has been served notice by the state cooperation department for alleged discrepancies on six counts, including losses in the last financial year, reduction in capital receipts, recovery of loans to sugar factories and corporate companies and loans to cooperative housing societies for their self-redevelopment.In a letter dated September 18, cooperation commissioner and registrar Anil Kawade formed a team of three officials in Mumbai to examine alleged irregularities in the bank, one of the leading cooperative district financial institutions in the state. The team led by divisional joint registrar Bajirao Shinde has been asked to check into losses of ₹47.99 crore and capital adequacy ratio (CAR) to 7.11% in the financial year 2019-20. The team has also been directed to examine loans given to sugar factories and corporate loans and their recovery, expenditure on the modernisation of bank offices, including its core banking solutions over the last five years, and loans to cooperative housing societies under its ambitious self-redevelopment scheme.Darekar, leader of opposition in the legislative Council, has, however, said that the notice is not an inquiry but an inspection of account books, and the action was politically motivated. The cooperation department team has been asked to submit its report within a month. “It is true that we sustained losses of ₹47 crore in the last financial year, but they have been made up within the second quarter which ended on September 30. Similarly, the CRAR has been increased to 10% now. They have been talking about computerisation, which was never done in the last five years. Our recovery of loans to the sugar factories and corporate companies is up to mark and the loans helped us in earning ₹125 crore. They have been saying that there was no Reserve Bank of India (RBI) permission taken for the self-redevelopment scheme. We recently met RBI officials and they praised our initiative,” he said, adding that the team deputed for the examination of the records will be handed over all documents. The bank has been steeped in controversy over irregularities in its account books over the last few years. The bank, led by Darekar as its chairman, faced various charges of irregularities, including disbursement of loans of ₹2.35 crore to relatives of the chairman using fake documents. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), the regulating authority, had directed the state cooperation department in March 2018 to file a first information report (FIR) regarding the misappropriation of funds by two of the bank’s branches in Borivli. In March 2015, the economic offences wing of the Mumbai Police registered an FIR against Darekar and three other officer bearers for misappropriation of funds and embezzlement amounting ₹128 crore. They faced charges of misusing the overdraft facility, dubious transactions in the names of around 60 labour credit societies formed in a single day and irregularities of ₹5.9 crore in allotting a contract to set up a disaster recovery system – a backup for IT-related operations.According to an official from the cooperation department, political pressure prevented any solid action from being taken in the past. “The bank has faced allegations of irregularities and embezzlement in the past too, but no action has been taken as yet. No FIR was filed despite NABARD directives to the government for fraudulent transactions. The EOW has completed its investigation in ₹128 crore scam but no charge sheet has been filed owing to political pressure from the then BJP-led state government. The action in that case and even in other cases is unlikely, even after the change in power in the state. Arrests of the accused under section 88 and action of attachment of properties of the directors under section 98 of the Cooperation Act was possible, had the inquiry been taken to the logical end. The fresh inquiry ordered by the cooperation commissioner is a routine process and could prove to be grievous if it is conducted seriously,” an official from the department said.Darekar, who was a Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) legislator from 2009 and 2014, joined BJP after his defeat in the 2014 Assembly elections. BJP sent him to the Legislative Council in June 2016 and he was elected leader of opposition in the upper house last year.Darekar said that the notice sent was out of political ego and claimed that the government is attempting to suppress his voice. “The bank sent a notice to the cooperation department for the recovery of ₹250 crore against the guarantee given by the government for loans to the sugar factories. We demanded to not give new guarantees to the sugar factories until the old guarantee to banks like us was settled. The notice by the cooperation department is because of our notice for the recovery of guarantee to them. The government wants to suppress my voice,” he said.The legislator added that he has been given clean chit by the Bombay high court in all other cases pending against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-s-pravin-darekar-led-mumbai-cooperative-bank-gets-notice-over-losses-loans-to-sugar-factories/story-vqDtTGGAKejr4eBJNqIfaO.html
02-10-2020||City||Covid-19 Navratri restrictions leave potters out of business||Sixty-year-old Dhanjibhai Kumbhar, who once used to be busy making garba pots (decorated earthen pots) ahead of the Navratri festival, is now sitting idle at his home. While he had no time to even relax earlier, he now has all the time in the world contemplating the future of his business. With the Maharashtra government, on Tuesday, banning dandiya, garba and processions during Navratri, the artisans who usually look forward to some business during the festival have lost all the hopes.“The ban has led to more tense atmosphere among us artisans as we have no other means to earn. Whatever we earn during the festival is saved for the rest of the year. With no garba and processions, who will buy the pots. Our business will be affected badly,” said Kumbhar.The state had issued an SOP on how Navratri would be marked in the state. The state home ministry suggested that all dandiya, garba and cultural programmes should be cancelled this year to ensure the safety of the citizens. The government stated that all the festivals must be celebrated in a simple manner. The festivals of Navratri, Dussehra and Durga Puja are about to begin with Navratri scheduled from October 17, and Dussehra slated for October 25.The garbo pots are placed overhead while performing garba dance during Navratri. People in Gujarati Kumbharwada locality have been keeping the tradition alive for the last 75 years.With poor business during this year’s Janmashtami due to Covid-19 pandemic-led lockdown, artisans at the Gujarati Kumbharwada in Kalyan claim to have no orders for the upcoming Navratri also. “Janmashtami this year saw very low sales and we fear the same during Navratri. I have not received a single order for the pots. People used to keep visiting Kumbharwada to select their favourite pots. This year, no one has come to us,” said Kumbhar, who runs this business with his wife. The couple, however, has started making the pots, looking forward to some business in the coming days. Men in the family make earthen pots and women decorate them with different colours and designs. The pots are decorated with shining glass materials, colourful threads, glitters and colour paints. They are in the price range of ₹25 to ₹400-₹500 depending on their sizes, colours and decorations. The couple is not tech-savvy and hence are unable to take up the business online. Their two sons work in private companies and are not keen on taking up the business too. “Today’s generation do not have interest in this traditional business. Taking the business online is not my cup of tea. The lockdown has completely affected my work,” said Kumbhar. The couple makes the garbo pots outside their house, dries, colours and decorates them for customers. Every year, it gets order for around a thousand pots a month before the festival. During Janmashtami, Kumbhar used to get orders for at least 500 handis, but this year only 200 were ordered. Of these, he could only sell 100 as many customers did not turn up. The remaining 100 handis are still kept at his house. “During the festive season, I manage to earn at least ₹30,000 a month. This time, I could hardly earn anything. We are completely clueless if we should continue making the pots or not,” he added. Harshada Jawre, 20, who comes to Gujarati Kumbharwada every year to make the pots and decorate them with her creativity, says she has no work this time and has earned very little. “I have been doing this work for almost nine years and this is the first time there is no work at all. Usually, I earn from ₹8 to ₹100 for each pot, depending on the size and type of the pots. When there is a lot of order, I earn enough,” said Jawre, who lives near Kala Talao, Kalyan (W) with her mother and two brothers. She added, “The Kumbharwada that used to look very attractive with beautiful pots during festive season now looks like a normal place. We used to work late nights, colouring the pots and enjoying it. This time there is no such atmosphere here.” BOX ABOUT GUJARATI KUMBHARWADA Located opposite Kalyan’s Kala Talao, the narrow lanes of Gujarati Kumbharwada have potters producing thousands of clay lamps, pots that illuminate city homes during Navratri and Diwali festivals. Men in the family arrange the mud, shape them into pots and diyas. Women and college-going girls paint hundreds of brown lamps and pots into colourful and decorative ones. In the past, 50 families used to make diyas. Today, only around 10 of them do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-navratri-restrictions-leave-potters-out-of-business/story-x3p3AUyJd1G3tLz8kw3itI.html
02-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for raping eight-year-old girl||A 28-year-old slum-dweller was arrested for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl on Thursday. The accused, Gora, alias Ishwar, was nabbed by passers-by who rushed to the child’s rescue on hearing her cries. The accused took a severe beating by the enraged crowed before he was handed over to the police.Police said the accused lured the child with chocolates and took her to a vacant plot behind a market, where he raped her.The victim has been admitted to the Ludhiana civil hospital, where her condition is stated to be stable.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO, Daresi police station, said Gora had been booked for rape under the IPC and POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-raping-8-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana/story-9FeRXmGhImgGHyJgGHt3nK.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Durga Puja may remain low-key this year: No pandals, cultural programmes||Despite the Centre relaxing limits on religious and cultural gatherings in its latest reopening plan on Wednesday, several Durga Puja committees in Delhi said they have decided to tone down festivities this year for fear of the spread of Covid-19. Organisers said they will do away with pandals, cultural programmes, and the worship of large idols this year.“It would be immensely risky to organise a community Durga Puja this year. First, there is the general risk of transmission. Second, visitors will not be allowed to be frisked while entering the venue, adding to a security risk. Third, if Covid-19 cases surface, the venue will have to be sealed under the current protocols,” said Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of the Durga Puja Samiti at Matri Mandir in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave.Saha said there will be no idols this year, no cultural programme, gatherings for reading the shlokas (popularly known as anjali), decorated pandals and bhog (food offerings to the deity distributed among devotees).Other organisers that have decided to cut down on the celebrations in a similar manner this year — and go only by the bare basics — include those in Kashmere Gate, the city’s oldest Durga Puja Samiti (committee), B-Block and Mela Ground in Chittaranjan Park, and Mayur Vihar Phase 1.These are some of the prominent Durga Puja venues in Delhi, that witness around 500-odd community pandals each year.Tamal Rakshit, executive committee member of the Durga Puja committee in Chittaranjan Park B-Block, said, “Community celebrations involve immense amount of risk for both the organisers and the devotees. No matter how much prepared the organisers are, the situation can get out of hand in multiple ways. We have to be scientific here. We have decided to keep the celebrations low-key with no idols and cultural programme.”New guidelines on gatheringThe central government’s guidelines relaxing Covid-19 restrictions, issued on Thursday, which removed the maximum limit on the size of religious and cultural gatherings in case of an open venue, could decide the future course of action.For halls and closed venues, the maximum limit has been extended from 100 to 200 individuals.The guidelines, however, are yet to be notified in the Capital by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). This essentially means any gathering beyond 50 individuals (as per the last notified guidelines) is still prohibited in Delhi.The DDMA is chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.A senior official of the DDMA said organising Durga Puja would still require separate permission – to be cleared by police and sub-divisional magistrates. The matter is likely to be discussed by DDMA later this week.“Even if the administration gives us permission in the days to come, there is hardly any time to prepare now. So, we are left with no option than to go ahead with celebrations without idols, pandals and cultural programmes. The rituals will be done on a smaller scale,” said Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee at north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate.Preparations for the festival take anything between two and three months, several organisers said. They involve rounds of planning, getting sponsors, hiring idol-makers, which many organisers get from West Bengal.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department, Safdarjung Hospital, said: “At this point, people should prioritise social distancing above everything and anything. They should avoid gatherings and follow rituals at homes or indoors, without any community participation. It is for their safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/durga-puja-may-remain-low-key-this-year-no-pandals-cultural-programmes/story-d7iSr1OEdsm3XTAR5MZLaP.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||‘Plantation drive harming ecology of Central Ridge’: Experts||The landscape of Delhi’s Central Ridge on Thursday morning had a less greener hue than it usually does during the post-Monsoon October period. Dug up patches of land – covering several hectares – could be spotted planted with hundreds of young saplings replacing the native species of shrubs and ground vegetation in these areas. The pits, barely two-three metres apart in some cases, were surrounded by dying creepers and pruned branches of existing trees, which had been pushed to the periphery of the plantation area.Delhi-based environmentalist and author Pradip Krishen walked around the area with other tree activists, ecologists and journalists on Thursday to explain the extent of “damage” caused to the native species by this “undesired plantation”. “My guess is that around 10-12 hectares have been flattened already. The Ridge has a dry, rocky, and thin soil. Most of the saplings that are being planted here won’t survive here if they are not watered regularly and perpetually,” said Krishen.Having walked for about three kilometres through the protected forest land, an abundance of jamun, cyrus, maulshri, ullu, kassod, and kadamb saplings meets the eyes, which Krishen said cannot be considered native to the ridge and should not have been planted here.He added that at least 30 native species that could grow well here — including amaltas, chudail papdi, dhau, dhak, hingot, ronjh, bistendu and khair, among others, — must be planted. These trees are well-adapted to prosper under the harsh conditions of the ridge.Some patches of ground vegetation and shrubs had been cleared away using a JCB machine to dig the pits.“The rootstocks are still here, which means they can grow back,” said Padmavati Dwivedi, a tree activist, who led the first tree census of Delhi a few years ago. Touching the tiny leaves sprouting out of a rootstock, Dwivedi said, “If they had to clear out patches for plantation, why not remove the invasive vilayti kikar through proper procedure instead of using machines, which would further damage the ecosystem.”The Central Ridge, located near Karol Bagh, spreads over 864 hectares of which 423 hectares are managed by the forest department. It is a part of the Aravallis, one of the oldest mountain ranges in the world. It is infested with vilayti kikar (prosopis juliflora), an exotic and invasive tree species, which with its deep roots sucks up much of the groundwater leaving the land dry. The vilayti kikars also do not allow sunlight to reach the forest floor, which in turn prevents other species to grow along with it. The Delhi government had in 2018 proposed a project to replace the tree species with indigenous varieties. However, the project is still awaiting the nod of the state cabinet.Following a series of separate orders by Delhi High Court last year to plant tree saplings (including mango and jackfruit) as compensation, a plantation drive was launched at the Central Ridge area by the Delhi forest department. This drive, experts however feared , could disrupt the fragile ecosystem of the ridge.On Thursday, environmentalists and tree activists walked around the Ridge area to take stock of the several green patches that had been cleared by JCBs, leaving behind empty pits, with little space between them. Even the saplings that had been planted were done so in a grid-like manner.“Forest restorations are to be done in a planned way. For instance, trees which may grow together are planted in one area. Pioneer trees, which grow alone, should be planted in a separate area. There seems to be no such planning here. The Ridge forest is an open thorn forest and yet the holes had been spaced for a dense woodland,” said Krishen, who has been working for over a decade to restore degraded parts of the desert in around Jaipur and Jodhpur.The activists also said that a plantation drive being carried out after the rainy season would not serve its purpose. “In a 25-30 hectares patch of the ridge, the forest department is carrying out plantation activity at a time when the monsoon season is over in Delhi. The only time to plant on the dry, rocky, thin-soiled ridge is early in the rainy season. Most of the pits are lying empty,” Krishen wrote in his letter to Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday, requesting his intervention to halt the plantation drive.While L-G’s office did not respond to repeated requests for a comment on the matter, Delhi government’s environment department reacting to Krishen’s letter said that the plantation is being done on the directions of the high court of Delhi.The department said in response to HT’s query said that “from last year to now, at least 32,000 saplings have been planted under the drive, with 9,000 more waiting to be planted for which the pits have been dug up. However, the pits are empty because the saplings to be planted here have to brought by the litigants. The saplings brought by them were not suitable and hence they were asked to return them and get new ones. Besides, the 13 varieties of species that have been planted here are as per the list of species mentioned in the court order.”Explaining the use of JCB machine, the department said that the machine was used only at places where the soil was very hard and pits could not be dug manually.Highlighting the urgency of the matter, activists said that continuing with the plantation would set everything back, damage the area, and cause soil run-off. “Until we have the expertise and a dedicated team of ecologists, designers and landscape architects who can study the soil and not just species and try to emulate natural forest systems similar to that of the Ridge, we should leave the area as it is,” said Krishen.CR Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem in Delhi University, said that he had last year told the forest department that indiscriminate large-scale plantation will disturb the biodiversity of the ridge. “This kind of plantation activity must be stopped. No exotic trees could be planted here. The ridge is a huge recharging zone and indiscriminate plantation can disturb the aquifer system. I had given a list of species that could be planted here. Also, the department has to first restore its native ecosystem by removing vilayti kikar and growing native species,” said Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/green-experts-alarmed-at-indiscriminate-plantation-drive-at-ridge-want-l-g-to-intervene/story-9nIYgPFrqPVidYyG0dsRPI.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt will kick off campaign to curb air pollution||State environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said the government will launch a widespread campaign to curb air pollution, which peaks in the national capital during the winter, with an action plan he said that would include preparing bio-chemicals, and spraying them across 800 hectares of farmland in the rural belt of Delhi where farmers burn crop stubble. The Delhi government is going to set up a centralised system to produce biochemicals, aimed at preventing stubble burning, at Najafgarh’s Kharkhari Nahar village, under the supervision of scientists from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), which has recently developed a low-cost solution to stop farmers from setting fire to paddy stubble. The IARI has demonstrated this technology in Delhi, Haryana and parts of Punjab. The solution will be sprayed at Delhi farmlands free of cost, the minister said during a press conference. “To stop stubble burning in Delhi we have formed an action plan, under which farmers will need to fill up a form with details of their village, area under cultivation and when they want the Delhi government to spray the chemical to tackle stubble burning, “ said Rai. Based on the form, the government will deploy officials to spray the chemical at the designated farmland. Agricultural development officers at all districts will lead the task of filling up of forms and creating awareness about the same, he added. The centralised system for preparing the chemical spray at Kharkhari Nahar village will be set up on October 5, while the chemicals will be produced from October 6 at 400 different camps here under the supervision of IARI scientists, who have developed the technology. “Within a few days of starting production, the first round of chemicals will be ready. Based on the demand, we will spray the chemical through tractors at the farm fields,” Rai said. He also said that during a joint air pollution review meeting comprising Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan and presided over by union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday, the Delhi government has requested the states to adopt the decomposer technology to curb stubble burning, fumes from which travel to Delhi contributing to high pollution levels during winter. “Last year there was no stubble burning inside Delhi. But in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and western UP, massive stubble burning took place, contributing to 45% of overall pollution levels in Delhi. This is also the time when Diwali is celebrated, and the amalgamation of all these factors affect Delhi’s air quality,” Rai said. He added that though the central government offers a subsidy to farmers to purchase equipment so that they don’t need to burn paddy stubble, not many farmers have been availing it because they have to spend a considerable amount on procuring it. “In Delhi, the central government gives around ₹3 crore as subsidy to farmers so that they can buy machines and do not burn stubble. But only 80 farmers in Delhi have applied for. We will use our scheme, we will use the bio decomposer technology on 800 hectares land of Delhi for just Rs 20 lakh while the farmers will not have to pay anything,” the minister said. Besides, he said that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a meeting with 10 government agencies including municipal corporations on October 5 where each agency will be submitting their action plan for the winter. The minister also said that besides stubble burning and locals emissions there are various activities in the NCR towns such as Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad, which contribute to pollution in Delhi. While thermal power plant in Delhi has been shut down in Delhi, 11 thermal plants at the NCR contribute to pollution in Delhi and must be replaced with better technology. “The fumes from thermal plants contribute to 9% rise in PM 10 levels while 11% increase in PM 2.5 levels, he said. Besides, brick-kilns of outdated technology running in these towns also adds to pollution. There are around 1,640 brick kilns in UP, 161 in Haryana and 164 in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-will-kick-off-campaign-to-curb-air-pollution/story-t1XieiIUObEil8xjgS2Z2O.html
02-10-2020||Election:||Filing of nomination papers for Bihar Assembly Election 2020 begins||Filing of nomination papers for the Bihar Assembly elections commenced on Thursday when notification was issued for the first of the three-phase poll.Seventy-one of the total 243 constituencies go to polls in the first phase on October 28, though only three independent candidates turned up to file their nomination papers on the first day.Election Commission sources said that two candidates filed their nomination papers in Aurangabad while one did it in Wazirganj.Filing of nominations for the first phase will come to a close on October 8. The process may pick up momentum once the major players, including the ruling NDA and the opposition Grand Alliance, decide which seat is to be contested by which constituent.Many key Assembly segments go to polls in the first phase, for which the last date of withdrawal of nomination is October 12.One among the seats where contests would be closely watched is Mokama in rural Patna, where mafia don-turned- politician Anant Singh would seek to prove a point to his former mentor, Chief Minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar.Singh had begun his political career over a decade ago as a JD(U) MLA and retained the seat for the party twice before parting ways ahead of the 2015 Assembly polls which Kumar fought in alliance with arch-rival Lalu Prasad of the RJD.He retained the seat as an Independent in 2015, defeating the JD(U)’s Neeraj Kumar, who is currently a powerful minister in the state cabinet.Booked under the stringent UAPA last year following the recovery of hand grenades and an AK-47 rifle from his residence, Singh seeks to retain his seat with support of the RJD-Congress combine though it is not clear whether either party is willing to field him as the official candidate.His wife Veena Devi had unsuccessfully fought from Munger in the Lok Sabha polls last year. His late elder brother Dilip Singh, himself a history-sheeter, had served as a minister in the Rabri Devi government.The first phase is also likely to be in the spotlight because of former IPS officer Gupteshwar Pandey, who had served as an outspoken DGP of Bihar until taking voluntary retirement last week and following it up with a formal induction into the JD(U).He is expected to be fielded from one of the Assembly segments in his native district of Buxar, all of which go to polls in the first phase.Other prominent figures whose fates might be decided in the first phase include veteran Congress leader and former Assembly Speaker Sadanand Singh, who has been winning Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district on the trot, and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi who will be looking forward to retaining Imamganj as the NDA candidate.Notifications for the second and third phases will be issued on October 9 and 13, respectively. Elections for those two phases will be held on November 3 and 7. Votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/filing-of-nomination-papers-for-bihar-assembly-election-2020-begins/story-cxy73HucwCvATupXizswFM.html
02-10-2020||City||BKU farmers show black flags to Kurukshetra MP Saini, former minister Kamboj||Farmers associated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Thursday showed black flags to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and former Haryana minister Karan Dev Kamboj in Yamunanagar. The leaders were on their way to attend a public event in a village in Yamunanagar’s Radaur segment. BKU district president Sanju Gudiyana said the farmers staged a protest against both the leaders in Uncha Chandana and Bakana villages of Radaur. “The farmers and villagers showed their anger by displaying black flags and obstructing their cavalcade,” he said. Deputy superintendent of police Randhir Singh said the farmers were agitating at a corner when the MP was crossing and he halted for five to ten minutes to talk to them. MP Saini was not available for comment. However, his personal assistant Ravi said the MP had stopped to talk to the agitating farmers at his will. “We were heading for an event in Bakana village to address some farmers on the agriculture laws and met the protesters on our way. The MP asked the farmers to leave the road and join the event to clear out their misconceptions on the laws,” Ravi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-farmers-show-black-flags-to-kurukshetra-mp-saini-former-minister-kamboj/story-r68z2UWq1mnIWTDP6oY2nM.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Four Kothrud buildings broken into; seven locked flats burgled||Multiple apartments in four buildings located in Bhusari colony, Kothrud, were broken into late on Wednesday night, the Kothrud police have confirmed.Of the places broken into, one is an office space while the remaining six flats are located in two buildings. The buildings have been identified as Siddhesh Apartment, Mukund Apartment, Shweta Residency and Runwal Eden, according to a local resident, who asked to remain anonymous.“All these buildings are around 100m away from each other and they all have security guards. One of the guards saw someone and chased them, but they were already on their way out,” said the local resident, who lives in the neighbourhood.All the houses broken into were locked. A case in the matter is being registered at the Kothrud police station. As the complainants were all out of station, the process was on till late on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-kothrud-buildings-broken-into-seven-locked-apartments-burgled/story-hp6VCG9oFXUDbjVDzilyCJ.html
02-10-2020||Mumbai||3 new damselfly species discovered in Western Ghats in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka||Researchers and nature conservationists have discovered three new odonate species of reedtail damselflies (Protosticta species) from across three states in the southern Western Ghats.The new species include the blue-legged reedtail (Protosticta cyanofemora) from the wet, evergreen forests of Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary in Kollam, Kerala and Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve in Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu. The second species – Myristica reedtail (Protosticta myristicaensis) was documented from the Myristica swamp at Kathalekan in Shivamogga, Karnataka, and the third species – Shola reedtail (Protosticta sholai) was identified from the Upper Manalar area of Meghamalai Wildlife Sanctuary in Theni, Tamil Nadu.Similar to dragonflies, damselflies are small soft-bodied insects with a long and slender abdomen, two pairs of wings, three pairs of long legs, and very large eyes. They eat smaller insects or smaller damselflies. In this case, the distinguishing factors among these new species were bright blue legs and eyes for the blue-legged reedtail; very small size with distinct turquoise eye colour for the Myristica reedtail, and light yellow legs and yellow abdominal markings for the Shola reedtail. Among them, characteristic features such as their claspers and prothorax (part of their thorax) differed significantly.The findings by Shantanu Joshi and Krusnamegh Kunte from the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, KA Subramanian and R Babu from Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Chennai, and Dattarprasad Sawant from KEM Hospital, Mumbai, were published in the international taxonomic journal Zootaxa on Wednesday.“The idea for this research started when I was conducting some surveys in northern Karnataka. At Myristicta swamp – a unique habitat endemic to the Western Ghats – I came across a distinctly unique damselfly. It was small in size and flying near tree roots,” said Joshi, adding that he confirmed that this was an undescribed species. “With my collaborators from ZSI, we found two more species of the same genus across different forest regions within the Western Ghats’s biodiversity hotspots.”Prior to these discoveries, there were nine known reedtail damselfly species endemic to the Western Ghats. “Our findings have increased this number to 12. Five of these 12 species [42%] have been described within last five years, indicating high potential for odonate species discovery from this region, and also emphasises the need for protecting the overall Western Ghats biodiversity,” said Joshi.“More research and molecular analysis are needed to study relationships of these species in the Western Ghats, with those from the Himalayan and Southeast Asian regions,” said Subramanian.Western Ghats is a globally recognised biodiversity hot spot with over 193 species of dragonflies and damselflies of which 40% are endemic to the region.The findings come at a time when the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Union environment ministry to finally notify the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around 1.4 lakh-sqkm Western Ghats spanning across six states, which has been pending for six years, by December. Of the proposed 56,825 sqkm, all six states have proposed that over 6,000 sqkm should be further reduced from the final notification, an affidavit by the Union environment ministry submitted before NGT read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-new-damselfly-species-discovered-in-western-ghats-underlines-need-for-habitat-protection/story-xhCBEe7dRLA5lgxMElyq0J.html
02-10-2020||Pune||‘Festering’ friendship leads to murder: 1 held||A man was arrested by the Pune police on Thursday night, for the murder of a 25-year-old.The victim, identified as Ajay Khude (25), a resident of Bhavani peth, was found by passers-by dead, lying on an open ground in Kondhwa on Thursday morning, with a stab wound on the left side of his chest.His body was sent for a post-mortem to Sassoon General Hosptial.The arrested man has been identified as 30-year-old Sonu Dhumal. “The two were close friends and had recently had a falling out after the deceased suspected Dhumal of being involved with his wife. It caused friction between the two. They were drinking last night and started fighting about it and it turned violent,” said police sub- inspector Santosh Shinde of Kondhwa police station. The deceased, Khude, was named as an accused in an earlier case of attempted murder registered in Bund Garden police station. The complainant in that case was Dhumal. “The same reason led to a violent fight between the two,” according to PSI Shinde. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Kondhwa police station against Dhumal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/festering-friendship-leads-to-murder-1-held-for-body-found-in-kondhwa/story-Fp7MBZw72AkUxZFpVptjKJ.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Pune trial pendency 4th highest in nation||Pune city has a pendency of 96.4%, and a conviction rate of 12.9%, in cases related to crime against women for the year 2019, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau of India (NCRB).The publication, titled ‘Crime in India, 2019’, compares data from all states and union territories along with data from 19 metropolitan cities. The definition of metropolitan, as per NCRB, is a city that has a population in excess of 10 lakh. However, only metropolitan cities which have a population of at least 20 lakh have been considered in the study.In 2019, the courts in Pune sent 1,172 cases to trial. A total of 12,420 cases are pending trial from the previous years.Of all the cases which went to trial in 2019, 58 were convicted, 384 were acquitted and eight cases were discharged.These are only among cases which reached the legal end of investigation. There are 2,432 cases, including 1,390 cases from 2019, and 1,042 cases from previous years, which are awaiting investigation by the police.While cases keep mounting in the annals of the judiciary in the city, the addition to the burden has lessened under this category in the past three years, according to the data. The annual number of cases registered in Pune has, however, come down compared to 2017. From 2,032 in 2017, and 1,481 in 2018, the city police registered 1,390 cases in 2019.On a national level, NCRB report points to an increase in crimes against women in the 19 cities it surveyed in the year 2019, as compared to 2018.“A total of 45,485 cases of crime against women were registered during 2019, showing an increase of 7.8% over 2018 (42,180 cases),” reads a part of the summary of the report.Discussing reasons for cases getting stuck in court, a senior police inspector of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police, requesting anonymity, narrated an incident of a minor’s rape at a labour camp. “The girl woke up in the middle of the night and was walking towards the bathroom when this man pulled her into his room and raped her. During the assault she raised an alarm and the neighbours and her parents came and rescued her, but he had already done the deed by then. The parents settled the matter when the boy agreed to give money and marry her. When that promise fell flat three days later, they came to the police. When the case was registered, he agreed to marry her. Now the complainant and her parents do not wish to pursue the case. How do we make such a case stand in court? This is not the only incident of its kind.”“Firstly, awareness of people about registration of these cases - there is a stark increase as these complaints are taken up on a fast track basis. Judicial persons have not increased proportionately. Secondly, this has simply added to the pendency that was already high. The usual issues of availability of witnesses and complainants for procedures like identification parade are also majorly at play. For example, the labourer women who come here for work, they register cases and then are forced to change location as per their work. It is difficult to trace them. After all, no court wants to keep pendency on purpose but n number of reasons are at play,” said Advocate Leena Pathak who practices in Pune district court and is a public prosecutor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/96-pendency-of-cases-involving-crime-against-women-in-pune-ncrb/story-VXAJvdzBp4qX40cnLrhpRN.html
02-10-2020||Pune||Maha-Metro labour force doubles in Sept to 4,500 workers||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) claims to have its workforce back to full strength in the city. Currently, according to Maha-Metro public relation’s officer Hemant Sonawane, 4,500 labourers are working on Pune Metro sites.“This is double the strength as compared to July-August, when Maha- Metro resumed work, post lockdown,” Sonawane said on Thursday.In the past two weeks, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also Pune’s guardian minister, visited Metro sites in the city to keep abreast of the latest metro developments.Sonawane added, “It is true that due to Covid-19 lockdown, Maha-Metro’s work has been delayed. Workers returned to their respective states. However, now at least 80 per cent of the labourers have returned begun work.” The metro lines from Swargate-Nigdi and Vanaz-Ramwadi are 43% complete. This includes a six-kilometre stretch, from Agriculture College ground to Swargate, on the Nigdi-Swargate line. Atul Gadgil, Maha-Metro’s director, said, “Maha-Metro made an effort to bring back the labourers to the metro sites. Maha-Metro wrote letters to various district collectors in respective states and requested them to issue passes for labourers to travel.” On September 19, Ajit Pawar visited both, elevated and underground metro works and said that the state government would ensure that Maha-Metro’s work is not get affected due to financial reasons.Maha-Metro, in September, also achieved a breakthrough by completing digging of the 1,600-metre underground tunnel from Agriculture college to the civil court, Shivajinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maha-metro-labour-force-doubles-in-sept-to-4-500-workers/story-9ZNWqkgyvX0rLzEdHqzecK.html
02-10-2020||Delhi||Weekly mkts rules eased, DDMA call on schools, cinema halls later||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has ordered that status quo should be maintained in all activities permitted in the national Capital so far, even as it allowed two weekly markets to be held per day per zone instead of one from Thursday. Also Read: States, UT govts will not impose any local lockdown outside containment zones: Centre in new guidelinesThe order, issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, on Wednesday night followed the Union home ministry’s guidelines to unlock almost all activities by allowing a graded restart of schools, partial reopening of movie theatres, and large gatherings including political and religious events.Since these fresh relaxations have been allowed by the Central government from October 15, the Delhi government said a decision on permitting all such activities will be taken in a graded manner and not during a single DDMA meeting. Clarifying Delhi’s current position after the Centre’s guidelines were released, the DDMA’s latest order stated: “The situation of Covid-19 has been reviewed and it has been decided that status quo in respect of prohibited/permitted activities (including activities on trial basis) may be maintained in NCT of Delhi till 31.10.2020 or further orders, whichever is earlier.”Also Read: Make social gatherings safe with tissues, sanitiser, masks: Delhi health minister “It has also been decided that opening of two weekly markets per day per zone in all three municipal corporations/ New Delhi Municipal Council/Delhi Cantonment Board may be allowed instead of one weekly market per day per zone,” read the order. Senior officials in chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said the government had urged Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to allow all weekly markets to resume operations in the city. Baijal is the DDMA chairperson, and Kejriwal it’s vice-chair.“The proposal was sent to the L-G, but the L-G instead allowed two weekly markets per zone per day. The chief minister was of the view that all weekly markets should now be allowed to open as the people engaged in this activity are already facing a lot of hardships due to the lockdown. Now when everything is opened, they also are demanding resumption of full operations,” said an official on condition of anonymity. The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter. The latest DDMA order also clarified that any form of public gatherings such as protests and rallies will continue to be prohibited until further orders. “It is further directed that all social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/political functions/other gatherings and large congregations shall be continued to be prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi,” the order stated.A senior government official said DDMA will meet in the next few days to review the city’s Covid-19 situation and decide whether movie theatres and, more importantly, educational institutions should be reopened and if yes, how. “Schools in Delhi have anyway been ordered to stay shut till October 5. So, a decision is likely to be taken within the next four days. Central universities such as Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will also have to wait for DDMA orders,” said the official on condition of anonymity.The Centre’s guidelines state that the decision for reopening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner can be taken by the states/Union Territories after October 15 “in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”. However, if students preferred to attend online classes, they would be permitted to do so. The guidelines said attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.Besides, interstate buses have also not been allowed in Delhi till now despite them being allowed under the Centre’s previous unlock guidelines.The Central government has permitted all of these activities from October 15, leaving it to the state governments to decide whether they want to implement it or not depending on the prevailing Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-5-status-quo-in-delhi-more-relaxation-for-weekly-markets/story-jUJEXaf0bVviCBqwmUp8sI.html
