03-10-2020||City||Will contest all 50 seats in next Mohali MC elections: BJP||With the culmination of their alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Mohali have said they will now contest the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections on all 50 seats, adding that they had been feeling suffocated with the Akalis.Though the date is yet to be decided, the MC elections are likely to be held next month, in 50 wards, with 2.36 lakh people voting. As the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and a splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa are still uncertain over contesting the polls, Mohali is in for a three-cornered contest among Congress, SAD and BJP.In the last MC elections, of a total 50 seats, BJP had contested on 20, but won only six.Ashok Jha, BJP secretary and spokesperson, Mohali, said, “We were feeling really suffocated with SAD as they always suppressed us. The decision of snapping the ties should have been taken much earlier. Also, they never offered us the post of deputy mayor or senior deputy mayor.”Sukhwinder Singh Goldy, executive member of Punjab state BJP, said, “Now, we will be in a better position to serve the people of Mohali.” On the other hand, NK Sharma, district president, SAD, said, “We treated them with full respect and now they are leveling baseless allegations. In 2022, they will come to know the reality of whose side the people of Punjab are on.” Meanwhile, Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Congress was ready for the MC elections. “The people of Mohali have seen development in the last few years and we are hopeful of winning the elections with a clean majority. Both BJP and SAD will be wiped out.”In the previous five-year term of the MC House that ended on April 26 this year, Congress had 14 councillors and the SAD-BJP alliance had won with 23 councillors; Azad group, which was led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, had won 10 seats; and two seats were won by independent councillors. In August 2017, Kulwant Singh had joined SAD.Out of the 2.36 lakh people who will be voting in the MC polls, 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Castes (SC) category. Five seats in the MC House are reserved for SC candidates, two for women (SC), three for backward classes (BC) and two for women (BC). There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are for women and 20 for men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-contest-all-50-seats-in-next-mohali-mc-elections-bjp/story-9LENYnthWxJkmyLrjDn85L.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||20,000 to appear for UPSC prelims in Chandigarh today||More than 20,000 students from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will appear for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Civil Services preliminary examination to be held in the city on Sunday.Around 50 centres, including various government schools and colleges, have been designated for the examination, which will be conducted in two slots—9.30am to 11.30am, and 2.30pm to 4.30pm. Entry will begin an hour before the exam commences.Though the exam was supposed to be held on May 31, it was postponed in the wake of the Covid lockdown. However, standard operating procedures such as mandatory wearing of masks, temperature screening on entry and social distancing will be followed in all centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-000-to-appear-for-upsc-prelims-in-chandigarh-today/story-pVWPFsuvWmrtFKq7jBESSI.html
03-10-2020||City||Chhatbir Zoo set to reopen on October 15||After a gap of nearly seven months, the Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, is set to reopen on October 15.Zoo field director M Sudhagar said, “We are preparing for the reopening on October 15, but we are waiting for the final nod from the state government. Instructions have been given to the workers to ensure social distancing among visitors. All safety precautions will be taken.”“We are deciding on how many visitors to allow at one time,” he added.Since closing down on March 17 owing to the nationwide lockdown, the Zoo has suffered a loss of ₹3.5 crore. The Zoo had been earning ₹1.8 lakh a day before the lockdown and was hoping to become self-reliant in the next two years. Authorities say it will take at least six months to recover from the said losses.Projects on haltThe Punjab government had planned to open a Dinosaur Park on two acres in the Zoo at a cost of ₹4.5 crore, which was being developed via a public-private partnership (PPP) mode, but only 50% work has been completed so far.An aquarium was proposed to be set up; and an exotic animal exchange programme, wherein the Zoo was set to import exotic animals including zebras, giraffes, chimpanzees and gorillas from Africa, was slated to begin as well.Numerous features such as an aviary and new ticket counters were also added to the Zoo premises, besides carrying out road maintenance to attract more visitors.The zoo spends around ₹30 lakh a month on meat, fodder, grains, fruits and vegetables for the animals.The revenue is generated through outsourcing of the parking, canteen and lion safari—all of which had to be closed due to the pandemic.The zoo used to attract around 3,000 visitors a day. The tickets were priced at ₹80 for adults and ₹40 for children, which contributed to generating a daily average revenue of ₹1.8 lakh. Lion and deer safari tickets cost ₹75 per visitor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhatbir-zoo-set-to-reopen-on-october-15/story-UJuyRKzIU8SyQcedXYZ4SM.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Coerced by NCB to implicate Dino Morea, Ranbir Kapoor, Arjun Rampal, says arrested film executive||Film executive Kshitij Ravi Prasad, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its probe into the alleged drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, told a special court on Saturday that he has been “coerced by the agency to falsely implicate Bollywood actors Ranbir Kapoor, Dino Morea, and Arjun Rampal”.“Subsequent to September 27, I have been repeatedly harassed and coerced into falsely implicating Dino Morea, Arjun Rampal and Ranbir Kapoor in the present proceeding despite me repeatedly stating that I don’t know the said persons and have no knowledge of such allegations,” reads the handwritten statement submitted by Prasad before the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Saturday.In his plea, he has also claimed, “The NCB has been consistently threatening and coercing me to make statements against Karan Johar and other senior officers of Dharma Productions and that in the event I do not they would falsely implicate my wife and other family members.”Prasad was remanded to judicial custody till October 6 by the court on Saturday. “During the hearing, the judge asked Prasad if he had any complaint. Thereupon, he went in the witness box and made the claim that he has been forced by the investigating agency to implicate Bollywood personalities,” his lawyer Satish Maneshinde said.The NCB has denied all allegations made by Prasad. “The allegations are completely false. He has been arrogant and non-cooperative throughout his custody with us and that has been conveyed to the court. The court granted him judicial custody. Names of the mentioned persons do not figure in any of his statements. This is his feeble and frivolous attempt to divert the focus of the investigation,” NCB’s zonal director, Sameer Wankhede, said. Prasad, who was in NCB custody till Saturday, was arrested on September 26 for allegedly receiving contraband from alleged peddlers who had allegedly supplied hashish to Showik and Rhea Chakraborty. The agency had claimed that Prasad’s role was revealed during the interrogation of Sanket Patel, one of the alleged drug peddlers. The agency had said that Patel told them that he had delivered ganja (weed) to Prasad at his residence in Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-coerced-by-ncb-to-implicate-dino-morea-ranbir-kapoor-arjun-rampal-says-arrested-film-executive/story-vaiuggMPlqqsueZXARdt7K.html
03-10-2020||City||Road mishaps snuff out three lives in Ludhiana||Three young lives were cut short in three separate road accidents on Friday. A 26-year-old man from Rajasthan was killed and his three friends were injured after their car rammed into a stationary truck parked along National Highway-44 near Sahnewal. The deceased, Ketan Mehta, was a native of Bahadurgarh, Rajasthan. His friend, Dipender Singh of Alwar, Rajasthan, told the police that Ketan was driving the car in which he and two other friends, Ashwani Kumar and Rinku Puri, were travelling to Dalhousie.When they reached near Zimidara Dhaba in Sahnewal, Ketan failed to notice a stationary truck and rammed the car into it. The impact of the crash killed Ketan on the spot, while the other three car occupants suffered severe injuries. The truck driver fled the scene with his vehicle, as passers-by informed the police and rushed the injured victims to a hospital.ASI Harpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said the unidentified truck driver had been booked under Sections 283 (obstruction in public way), 304-A (death by negligence), 427 (damages) and 337 (endangering people’s life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They will arrest him soon, he added.In the second case, an unidentified vehicle drove off after hitting a 20-year-old pedestrian, claiming his life.Police said Deepak Kumar of New Shimlapuri was on his way to a market when the vehicle hit him near Janta Nagar. The unidentified driver has been booked for rash driving and causing death due to negligence on the statement of Vishnu Bahadur, father of the victim.In another hit-and-run mishap, a 21-year-old cyclist died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near Shiv Chowk on Friday. The deceased, Tikka Ram, was a resident of Daba Road and worked at a factory. His uncle, Dhan Bahadur, complained to the police that Ram was cycling back home from work when an unknown vehicle hit him and sped away.On his complaint, Moti Nagar police have registered a case against the unidentified driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-mishaps-snuff-out-three-lives/story-W4FgQOq382sDg8zHEwtKkI.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Shiv Sena, Congress, NCP slam BJP as AIIMS report calls death suicide||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies, Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday over the issue of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death after an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) panel headed by Dr Sudhir Gupta concluded that the actor died by suicide and it was not a murder. While Sena said it stands vindicated, state Congress unit demanded a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) into the “conspiracy to defame Maharashtra and find the mastermind behind it”.The BJP, however, said the investigation was ongoing and the party wants “justice” for the late actor.In its conclusive medico-legal opinion to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the case, the six-member AIIMS medical board of forensic doctors dismissed the claims of “poisoning and strangling” made in the case of Singh’s death. The premier institute’s forensic chief Dr Sudhir Gupta termed it “a case of hanging and death by suicide”. “We welcome the comments by Dr Gupta on the medical probe into the untimely and unfortunate death of Sushant Singh Rajput. We also believe people are the best judge to know who was using the issue for political gains and how a motivated campaign was run against the state government and certain people in the government. We will wait for the final report to be released by AIIMS to decide further course of action,” said Shiv Sena spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi. “We stand vindicated and have maintained that the truth will prevail.”Congress, on the other hand, demanded an SIT probe, while NCP said a case should be filed against those spreading fake news. “After the official confirmation by AIIMS panel head Dr Sudhir Gupta… it is proved that investigation by @MumbaiPolice was honest and forthright. It is also clear that it was a conspiracy of Modi govt with help of their fake media allies to defame Maharashtra,” said Sachin Sawant, general secretary and spokesperson of state Congress unit in a series of tweets.“Now we demand government of Maharashtra to form an SIT to nab the conspirators and their mastermind… And take appropriate action against these fake channels to save our democracy as their fake stories are harmful for our country,” Sawant tweeted.The NCP said CBI should now complete its investigation in a month and “bring out truth before the people”.“This proves that the entire campaign was politically motivated and BJP is exposed. We want CBI to complete the probe in the next one month so that people know the truth. They have already taken two months, how much more time do they need,” said state minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik.NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said a criminal case should be filed against those who ran a campaign to defame Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government. The BJP, meanwhile, said it wanted to ensure justice for Rajput. Ram Kadam, BJP MLA and party spokesperson, said the CBI investigation is ongoing. “We have never questioned the efficiency of Mumbai Police. We wanted the state government to give them free hand to probe the matter. On what grounds had the police had said that it was a suicide case? We have been trying to get justice for Rajput’s family,” said Kadam, adding that the MVA government wanted to “protect the drug mafia and thus never investigated that aspect”.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. A controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterparts. The probe was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of the Bihar Police’s first information report (FIR) filed on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, who has accused actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money.Chakraborty has denied all allegations levelled against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-shiv-sena-congress-ncp-slam-bjp-as-aiims-report-calls-death-suicide/story-5nacSWCIIBvh1DGRJRforM.html
03-10-2020||City||GLADA acquires 416 acres in Sekhowal village for Mattewara Industrial Park||Inching closer to making the Industrial Park project near Mattewara village a reality, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has acquired 416 acres in Sekhowal village against a compensation of Rs 80 crore.This is part of the 960 acres acquired so far for the park, set to come up on around 1,000 acres of government and panchayat land in Haidar Nagar, Sekhowal, Salempur, Sailkiana and Machian Kalan villages of Ludhiana district.Earlier in July, Sekhowal residents had opposed the land acquisition, citing that it was the source of income for around 70 families of the village.However, following a series of meetings at the village last week, the villagers agreed to hand over 416 acres to the government. In its place, the village panchayat has decided to purchase around 250 acres in the nearby villages with the compensation amount. This land will be leased out to villagers for farming.“The villagers have given consent for the project and the land has been transferred to the government,” said Dhir Singh, a former sarpanch of Sekhowal.GLADA chief administrator PS Gill said, “GLADA has taken possession of 960 acres for construction of the industrial park. At a few places, government land in possession of different departments, including animal husbandry and horticulture, has been transferred to GLADA. Apart from this, panchayat land has been acquired in various villages against a compensation of Rs 86 crore.”He added that the future course of action, with regards to how the industrial park will be developed and what it will comprise, has yet to be decided by the state government.ACTIVISTS MIFFEDMeanwhile, social activists have decided to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the Punjab government’s decision to develop an industrial park near Mattewara forest.Social activist Kuldeep Khaira said, “The project will destroy the Mattewara forest and its wildlife. Establishment of an industrial park will also pollute the Sutlej river, which flows through the forest area. The Sekhowal gram sabha had also approved a resolution against the land acquisition in the past. The administration is not releasing information regarding the project even under the RTI Act.” Another activist Ranjodh Singh, who had earlier written to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to rollback the proposal, said,”We will take up the matter with the state government again.”Sub-divisional magistrate, Ludhiana East, Baljinder Singh said, “The villagers have accepted the compensation provided for the land by the government. No one was pressured. The land has been transferred to GLADA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glada-acquires-416-acres-in-sekhowal-village-for-mattewara-industrial-park/story-GIt8dBS00rsDlmwl181WhK.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 1,188 new cases, 25 deaths||Haryana on Saturday recorded 25 deaths, spread across 10 districts, and 1,188 new cases of Covid-19, as per the health bulletin. Four people each succumbed in Panchkula, Hisar and Jind, three each lost the battle to the infection in Sirsa and Yamunanagar, two each died in Ambala and Rohtak, while the infection claimed lives of one each patient in Gurugram, Rewari and Panipat districts. The death toll in the state has climbed to 1,450 while the cumulative count of cases has touched 1, 32,576. In the past 24 hours, as many as 1,542 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 1, 18, 258. The number of active cases further came down to 12,868 from 13, 247 on Friday. Haryana’s recovery rate has now risen to 89.20%, from 88.83% on Friday. The rate at which infections are doubling also improved from 31 days on Friday to 32 days on Saturday. The positivity rate stood at 6.65%, the bulletin said.At 277, Gurugram had the highest number of new cases, followed by Faridabad (134), Hisar (116), Panchkula (70), Rewari (61), Rohtak (58), Sonepat (55), Kurukshetra (51), Ambala (50), Yamunanagar (28), Sirsa (48), Karnal (43), Panipat (26), Jhajjar (38), Mahendergarh (36), Palwal (23), Bhiwani (39), Jind (19), Kaithal (10), Charkhi Dadri (4), Nuh (2). As per the bulletin the number of critically ill patients also came down to 290 that included 40 on ventilator support and 250 on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-1-188-new-cases-25-deaths/story-dfj3gre7VCnJkpUOXU2k6O.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Parents of students to protest ‘unjust’ fee hike on October 10 in Mumbai||Several parents of students from the city are planning to join the nationwide protest against unjust fees charged by private schools on October 10. As part of the protest organised by the Forum for Fairness in Education, a city-based NGO that works in education, parents and students of private schools are urged to bang plates from their homes between 7am to 7.05am on October 10. “The issue of indiscriminate fee hike is affecting parents across the country; especially in the current situation, as parents are facing pay cuts and job losses. It is becoming difficult to pay the hiked fees. We are urging the governments to take strict action against such schools,” said Jayant Jain, president of Forum for Fairness in Education. Parents of several schools in Mumbai had written to the state education department complaining about the indiscriminate fee hikes levied by schools. In September, the department formed two panels and are now in the process of inspecting these schools. Parents said that with schools not willing to have a discussion with them, they are having a tough time opposing hikes. “Schools are resorting to all sorts of unjust practices such as removing students from online classes, charging late fees to parents etc. Children are already stressed in the transition to online learning, and schools are adding to the pressure,” said the parent of a school in Central Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-of-students-to-protest-unjust-fee-hike-on-october-10-in-mumbai/story-aAMuiwmR6lTOBeLEbsZKKL.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Woman kills husband with paver block on Bandra skywalk in Mumbai||A 35-year-old woman killed her 40-year-old husband by smashing his head with a paver block at the skywalk in Bandra (West) on Friday. The incident took place in front of their 6-year-old daughter. According to Bandra police, the body of the victim, Vijay Singh, was found when his daughter approached a man at a tea stall near the railway station saying her father was injured and bleeding. Upon seeing the body, the man informed the police and Singh was subsequently taken to Bhabha Hospital. “Singh was declared dead on arrival. There were multiple injuries on his head and face. We also recovered a cement paver block with blood stains from the crime scene,” said an officer from Bandra police station. The six -year-old told the police that her parents had a fight during which Singh hit her mother, Mehrunissa, with a stone. Mehrunissa retaliated and hit Singh back with a stone, said the officer. Following the statement, police officers checked CCTV footage and saw Mehrunissa leaving the crime scene. Following this, police started searching for her and she was found near Bandra flyover. She, too, was injured and bleeding from her head. She was taken to hospital, added the officer. “The suspect is currently undergoing treatment and is under surveillance at the hospital. She will be arrested,” said the officer. Nikhil Kapse, senior inspector, Bandra police station, said, “A case has been registered under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, and we are investigating the further. His wife is our prime suspect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-kills-husband-with-paver-block-on-bandra-skywalk-in-mumbai/story-wzKbOyeyk3fGktJAX5OJZM.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Two men booked for attempt to murder in Mumbai||Dahisar police on Thursday booked two men for allegedly trying to extort ₹1,000 from a 21-year-old college student at knife point and attempting to kill him by smashing his head with a paver block when he refused. The victim is currently admitted in Shatabdi Hospital and is out of danger. The accused have not been arrested yet.The victim, Manish Singh, a resident of Kajupada in Borivli (East), was stopped by the accused —Pravin Uttekar alias Utya and his accomplice — at an isolated spot near Hanuman Tekdi around 1.30am on October 1. The duo allegedly demanded ₹1,000 from Singh at knife point and when he refused, the accused started abusing him. Uttekar picked up a paver block and hit Singh on his head, said Dahisar police. Singh was later taken to the hospital, where the police recorded his statement. A case has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 263 (erasure of mark denoting that stamp has been used), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 37 (1)(C) and 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act.MM Mujawar, senior inspector, Dahisar police station, said, “We are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-men-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-in-mumbai/story-WUFpWP1VWQgP7qYRzUwRHM.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Following glitch, University of Mumbai allows IDOL students to take paper again||Students of the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) of the University of Mumbai who couldn’t take their final BSc, BCom and BA exams owing to technical glitches on Sunday, will be allowed to retake the exam at a later date, said the university.Even before the third-year BA, BCom and BSc exams kicked off on Sunday, several students had complained that they were unable to access the link for downloading question papers. This year, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, exams are being conducted online.In a statement, the university said that third-year BCom students who missed their first paper on Sunday will be allowed to take the exam on October 9 whereas third-year BA students will be able to take their exam on October 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/following-glitch-university-of-mumbai-allows-idol-students-to-take-paper-again/story-SMSPxNbO1n1uMVdKpgpZrL.html
03-10-2020||City||Hooda, BJP-JJP leaders lock horns over farm laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party leaders on Saturday trained guns at former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, accusing him of misleading the farmers even as “his own government had launched the contract farming laws in 2007”. Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal said, “In 2007, the Congress government had introduced contract farming in Haryana, which did not mention the MSP. Even in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress manifesto had promised to repeal the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. But now, Congress workers are provoking the farmers to hold protests in the state as they have themselves been wiped out of power by the public.”She further said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has clarified that the minimum support price (MSP) is not going to end and the union government has announced the MSP for the next Rabi season crops.”Meanwhile, Jannayak Janata party (JJP) president Nishan Singh said, “The Congress is alleging that the MSP system is going end but our government is purchasing Kharif crops at MSP. Once the procurement process ends, the farmers’ will know the real truth behind these laws.”The JJP leader further said, “The union government brought the same contract farming law along with two others, which was implemented in the state during Hooda’s regime and Hooda had advocated for the same before the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to implement across the country.”Reacting to BJP-JJP leaders’ allegations, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said his party will not allow implementation of the new farm laws in the state.“The ruling party leaders are misleading people about our contract farming law, which was implemented during my tenure as a chief minister of Haryana in 2007. The contract farming rule framed by my government says the agreed rate or contract rate shall not be less than the MSP of the proceeding year. Where there is no MSP and no agreed rate, the amount of security shall be calculated at the rate of 15% of the prevailing market rate of agreement,” the former CM said while asking the ruling party leaders if the new laws have such provisions to protect farmers.Hooda further said that the government has one option now – it should promulgate a fourth ordinance which guarantees that the farmers’ produce will be procured at MSP and any person or firm found purchasing below this price would face a criminal case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooda-bjp-jjp-leaders-lock-horns-over-farm-laws/story-HyuTvx8UJPIY90gcXKVuSN.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic corporation distributes 50 smart phones to patients at Covid-19 jumbo centres||In an effort to increase communication between Covid-19 patients and their family members, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has distributed 50 smart phones at Covid-19 jumbo centres on Saturday. In addition to this, the civic body also plans to procure 600 tablet phones for the patients. Due to the contagious nature of Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – patients are being kept in isolation wards, where their family members are not allowed to visit, leaving patients to remain alone for days, until the end of their treatment. HT had previously reported how this often leads to sadness and depression among patients. In order to address the issue, BMC provided smart phones to the patients so that they can chat and opt for video calls with their family members everyday. “We have observed in our civic-run hospitals that patients who talk to their relatives daily, have a better recovery rate. Though this is not scientifically proven, we believe that it may help in the early recovery of patients. This may also help in curbing the mortality rate,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. The facility has been made available free of cost for patients. “We have Wi-Fi in all the centres. Patients won’t have to shell out any money for internet usage. We have also bought the sim cards and will recharge the phones from our budget,” said Kakani. BMC said it has allocated a budget of ₹1.3 crore to procure 600 tablets and it is likely to get them by next weekend. Psychiatrists have welcomed the move and believe it might help in improving the mental health condition of patients. “Patients, irrespective of their age or gender, get scared when they get detected with Covid-19. In such a situation, when they stay alone for days, it leads to depression and anxiety. Many patients experience the same sadness even after they get discharged. But if they talk to their family daily, it might contribute in their faster recovery,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-corporation-distributes-50-smart-phones-to-patients-at-covid-19-jumbo-centres/story-Q7GfCZOeoSgZoZoCv9iINO.html
03-10-2020||City||Four-month-old Ludhiana boy among 10 dead, 135 test positive for Covid||A four-month-old boy was among the 10 people who succumbed to Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Saturday, even as 135 fresh cases were also confirmed.With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 18,333, out of which 760 patients have died.On the bright side, as many as 91% patients (16,702) have recovered so far, leaving 868 active cases.Besides the infant from near Sherpur Market on 33 Foot Road, who was suffering from myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle), the other nine deceased are a 68-year-old man from Phullanwal village, a 67-year-old man from Joshi Nagar in Haibowal Kalan, a 63-year-old man from Samrala Road, two 62-year-old men from Dreamlane in Haibowal Kalan and Urban Estate, Dugri; a 57-year-old man from Vikas Nagar, Pakhowal Road, a 54-year-old man from New Kundanpuri and a 47-year-old man from New Shivpuri.The positive patients confirmed on Saturday include 61 patients with influenza like illness symptoms, 19 were referred from outpatient departments of different hospitals and eight are contacts of positive patients. Among them 10 patients are police personnel, five healthcare workers and one pregnant woman.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said, “In all, 179 fresh cases were detected in the district on Saturday, but 44 patients are from other districts and states. Similarly, 15 deaths were reported, out of which 10 were residents of Ludhiana, while the rest were from other districts and states.”Sharma said till date, 44,240 people have undergone home quarantine and the number of patients still in isolation was 3,087. As many as 3,688 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Saturday. Their results are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-month-old-ludhiana-boy-among-10-dead-135-test-positive-for-covid/story-Cy1FBf4onrjLWY3qWo4vQN.html
03-10-2020||City||Union govt to spend ₹1 lakh crore to boost agri infrastructure: MoS Kataria||Union minister of state for Jal Shakti, Ratan Lal Kataria on Saturday accused the opposition parties of spreading false information about the three agriculture legislations passed by the Union government.“These bills are historic and will bring major reforms in agriculture marketing by increasing the income of farmers but some opposition parties are spreading lies and misleading farmers for political advantage,” said Kataria in an interaction with media persons at Kurukshetra. Kataria said that these bills will not have any impact on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the existing mandi system in the country. Kataria said the centre has decided to spend Rs 1 lakh crore to boost agriculture infrastructure and Rs 500 crore to improve the financial condition of farmers. He said that the MSP will continue as the government had paid Rs 7 lakh crore as MSP in the past six years. Kataria, however, urged the farmers to adopt alternative crops as paddy is a water guzzling crop and the production of 1 kg of rice takes 3, 500 liters of water. “Farmers should take the advantage of the schemes initiated by the state government for crop diversification,” said Kataria.Replying to a question on Hathras incident, the union minister said that the Uttar Pradesh police was working on the case and action was taken against officials for their negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/union-govt-to-spend-1-lakh-crore-to-boost-agri-infrastructure-mos-kataria/story-7adJQ3lQ2nrCmDaRaZu03N.html
03-10-2020||City||Blaze ravages quilt factory in Ludhiana’s Chattha Colony||It took 10 fire tenders four hours to control a massive fire that broke out at a quilt factory in Chattha Colony on Bahadurke Road on Saturday. Though all workers managed to escape to safety, goods and machinery worth lakhs was gutted in the incident. As the fire erupted around 3pm, some workers inside the factory tried to douse the flames, but realising that their efforts were going in vain, they informed the fire brigade and rushed out of the factory. The fire sent plumes of smoke in the air, putting area residents and workers in panic. The reason behind the incident remains uncertain. Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said, “We received an alert at 3.25pm and pressed 10 fire tenders into service. However, there was only a single entry and exit point in the factory, posing difficulties in gaining access. Besides, excessive heat and smoke also dented fire-fighting efforts. We had to break the boundary walls of the unit from two sides to enter the factory and put out the fire. The factory had various anomalies with regard to fire-safety arrangements.”“Some workers claimed that a coworker was still inside the factory. But no one was found during the search. The 10 fire tenders were refilled over 40 times and the flames were controlled in around four hours. There was no injury or casualty,” Singh said. Scrap goes up in flames at mini-secretariat buildingScrap stored on the first floor of the mini-secretariat caught fire around 3pm on Saturday. While the reason behind the fire was not ascertained, a major tragedy was averted as the fire brigade doused the fire in no time, stopping the flames from spreading to the notary kiosks. Narrow escape for driver, helper as truck catches fireA truck driver and his helper had a close shave after the vehicle’s cabin caught fire on the flyover of National Highway-44 near Samrala Chowk on Saturday evening. The duo rushed out as soon as they saw the flames and informed the fire brigade, who reached the spot and controlled the fire. Short-circuit in the engine is said to be the reason behind the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blaze-ravages-quilt-factory-in-ludhiana-s-chattha-colony/story-ysSDvmfYcXZbp76fligX8K.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Discom serves disconnection notices to 1.1 lakh defaulters||Irked by the cold response from power consumers to the repeated instalment offers to clear their heavy dues, the Noida division of power distribution company – Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – has decided to cut supply to as many as 1.1 lakh defaulters in the district from October 15. Their dues tally up to ₹33.75 crore, discom officials said. PVVNL chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said the discom has already prepared a list of defaulters. “It has been classified into three categories. Of the 1.1 lakh defaulters, 60,000 have not paid their bills for at least one year and their dues amount to over ₹28.5 crore. The second category has 24,500 who have not paid their bills for the past six months and their total dues are ₹5 crore. The third category is of 25,500 defaulters have not cleared their dues for the past three months and have dues of ₹3.25 crore,” he said. He further said PVVNL has already started sending notices to the first lot of 60,000 defaulters. “We’ll start disconnecting their supply from October 15, even though the festive season is beginning soon. We are not going to hear their pleas or give them grace time as all our instalment offers to clear dues were ignored. Without clearing their full outstanding dues, their supply will not be restored,” he said. The chief engineer also said without proper revenue generation, it will be impossible for the distribution companies to improve the power scenario in the district. “Notices to the second and third category of defaulters will be issued in the third and fourth week of October, respectively. After seven days of serving the notice, we’ll start disconnecting their supply as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/discom-serves-disconnection-notices-to-1-1-lakh-defaulters/story-b83UJoyoFqiDRmnA7B8r2L.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad-based fashion designer survives abduction bid||A 28-year-old fashion designer escaped an abduction bid near her highrise in Indirapuram on Thursday night. The suspects allegedly tried to inject sedatives into her when she was boarding her vehicle. She fought off her attackers who had inflicted injuries on her while they tried to sedate her. Police said the matter is pending investigation.Based on the woman’s complaint, Indirapuram police registered an FIR under Indian penal code (IPC) sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354a (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 366/511 (kidnapping attempt) at Indirapuram police station. The woman’s father said they had gone to a nearby market on Thursday night. While exiting the market, the woman offered to fetch the vehicle. “As soon as she opened the vehicle door, a man pushed her into to the front co-driver’s seat, while another held her neck from the back seat,” said the father, a senior health department officer with the UP government. “While trying to overpower her, one was telling the other to inject the sedative they had brought along with them. They repeatedly tried to inject the sedative to her body but she resisted. She suffered eight to 10 injuries on her thigh, but she continued to fight.” “The man in the driver’s seat turned on the ignition in an attempt to drive away, but my daughter grabbed the keys. She foiled his attempt at least three times. A man from the highrise who was passing by, head the commotion and alerted the guards. Seeing people approaching, the two men fled the spot,” he said. According to the family’s statement, one suspect could have been around 20-years-old while the other could have been between 25 to 30 years. “They were not wearing masks and she may be able to identify the one who sat in the driver’s seat. The car also had cameras inside, which we gave to the police,” the woman’s father said. The family said they had no grudge with anyone and couldn’t say what the motive could be. The woman, according to her father, was rushed to a local hospital where she was treated for her injuries. According to police, the car camera caught a man fleeing, but the image was not clear. “Our teams are working on the case and also trying to scan nearby CCTVs to get clues on the two men,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city), Ghaziabad. Police officers said they are investigating the case from all angles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-based-fashion-designer-survives-abduction-bid/story-JPJCtZQ7Kg3PYzv9olMTeJ.html
03-10-2020||City||Yamuna authority board mulls over three models to develop Film City project||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida), in its 68th board meeting held on Saturday, decided to conduct a feasibility study for the proposed Dedicated Infotainment Zone (Film City) project in Sector 21, planned along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. The authority suggested three models – public-private-partnership (PPP), to be developed by Yeida on its own, or a single developer to be chosen.The authority put forth all three models in the meeting and discussed the same to decide the future course of action.Going by rules, Yeida takes all its policy-related and other important decisions in its board meeting. Once the proposals are discussed, the authority sends these to the state government for a final approval before implementing the same on ground, said officials.In the PPP model, the authority and a master developer will together form a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop this project. In this, the authority may be responsible for land, and the developer for the capital to develop, run and maintain this project. In the single builder model, Yeida will allot the land to a private entity that will develop and further sub-lease the premises. And in the third model, the authority will on its own develop the internal and external infrastructure and allot the space to filmmakers.“We put forth all these models. The board members discussed all issues related to the project and decided to conduct a feasible study. We will send these discussions (minutes of the meeting) to the Uttar Pradesh government for further guidance,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the Yamuna authority.While it is not known when the decision on the most appropriate model will come through from Lucknow, Yeida officials said that the state government wants to execute this project as soon as possible.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on September 18 had announced the development of the Film City project in the area. Subsequently, on September 20, Yeida had sent a proposal stating that it has got 780 acres of land earmarked for industrial and 220 acres for commercial usage in Sector 21 that is suitable for a film city. The land is located only 6 km away from the scheduled Jewar airport and is located at a distance of 12 km from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.“We want to set up institutions of film research and development of cinema, film production houses, international academies, film studios, artificial villages, museums and other recreational zones for filmmakers,” said Singh.Officials said Yeida hopes that the film city project will not only boost growth but also attract international investors to the region, thereby helping in job creation and growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-authority-board-mulls-over-three-models-to-develop-film-city-project/story-isS7WvlqEJo2BXHiG1HUsO.html
03-10-2020||City||Due to pandemic, Yamuna authority keeps land allotment rates unchanged||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority on Saturday decided not to hike land allotment rates for the financial year 2020-21 in view of the slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority also discussed at least 24 other proposals such as the Jewar airport project and metro connectivity in its 68th board meeting chaired by senior IAS officer Alok Tandon. Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari, Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan and YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh and other top officials were present in the board meeting. The authority organised the meeting to discuss important issues such as the film city and airport projects.In one of biggest decisions, the authority to keep land allotment rates for the 2020-21 financial year unchanged. The authority had not increased the rates in its board meeting held on February 29, 2020, as well in view of the slowdown in the real estate sector.“The board decided not to hike any land allotment rates for the 2020-21 financial year due to the economic crisis in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The land allotment rates will remain the same as the previous financial year,” Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of YEIDA, said.Before this, YEIDA had in May 2019 approved a 4 to 8% hike in land allotment rate for group housing, builder plots, industrial and institutional plots. The prevailing rate for residential land is R15,620 per square metres, R16,225 per square metres for group housing land and R7,560 per square metres for institutional land, officials said.Apart from this, the authority has also decided to work on all projects such as a road link and a high-speed metro to connect the proposed Jewar airport with the rest of Delhi-NCR. The authority will first have to seek approval from the state and the central governments as per rules before finalising the infrastructure projects that will strengthen connectivity between the Jewar airport and the Indira Gandhi airport in Delhi and other nearby cities, officials said.Multi-model urban transit system proposal: The YEIDA has decided to provide multi-model urban transit connectivity between Jewar and the rest of Delhi- NCR cities. It also plans to connect nearby cities such as Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad and Muradabad with the airport via road network to attract traffic to this ambitious project. The authority is mulling over a proposal to build a high-speed metro to connect Delhi’s Indira Gandhi airport with Jewar and plans metro connectivity between Greater Noida and Jewar. Expansion of Jewar airport from 2 to 6 runways: The YEIDA discussed how to procure land to expand the airport from two runways airport to six. The YEIDA will seek approval from the state government before starting land acquisition to expand the Jewar airport. Development of smart city near airport: YEIDA has also approved a proposal to develop a ‘smart city’ with dedicated zones for commercial, entertainment, residential and recreational activities near the airport site.It also approved a proposal to seek a Rs5,000 crore loan from state agency HUDCO to acquire the land for various purposes, including development of urban areas and other infrastructure projects. A proposal to allot 2,000 square metres land for a trauma centre to be built along the Yamuna Expressway to cater to accident victims was also cleared. The authority has allotted this land at a rate of Rs1 per square metres under a national health mission scheme, officials said. The YEIDA had also allotted land for free to the UP skill development to set up a vocational institute to train youth of this region and employ them.Box:Important proposals discussed in board meetingFilm CityMulti-model urban transit system proposalExpansion of Jewar airport from 2 to 6 runwaysDevelopment of smart city near airportInterest of 8.5 % to be applicable on land duesLand rates not hikedTime extension for lease-deed for 3 months due to covid 19HUDCO to give Rs 5000 crore loan to authorityPenalty on late payment of plot instalmentDeveloper asks to reschedule their land duesInstant building map approval8704 square metres land allotted to skill centre5 acres land allocated for power stationFree land allotted for construction of 100-bedded trauma centre and government hospitalLand to be allotted for Toy CityElectronic vehicle recharging stationLand pooling policy adoptedMedical Device Park to be developedAirport farmers get reservation in plot schemesApparel Park to be developed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/due-to-pandemic-yamuna-authority-keeps-land-allotment-rates-unchanged/story-mEvyl3h8lyTNssW0Di81UO.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Traffic on DND Flyway affected for two hours as political parties make beeline to Hathras||The heavy police presence at the Uttar Pradesh borders with Delhi in view of the attempts by political parties to reach the home of the Hathras rape victim created a traffic snarl trapping commuters for more than two hours at least.Scores of Congress workers had gathered at the DND Flyway in support of their leaders, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who heading to the victim’s village on Saturday afternoon. Traffic police first blocked five lanes on Delhi-Noida side of the Flyway at noon. “Traffic on DND is heavy. Those heading to Noida are advised to take Akshardham route,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted at 1:49 pm. However, from 3pm, when Rahul and Priyanka were at the border, the Flyway was completely blocked. Over 500 Noida police personnel were deployed at the Flyway, creating a security wall at the toll plaza. Traffic, which was till then moving slowly, came to a complete standstill with a jam up to a kilometer-long. Gaurav Kumar, a commuter, was forced to park his car on the road. “I was going to Noida Sector 62 but was caught in the jam. Noida traffic police should have made prior arrangements to avoid inconvenience to commuters,” he said. Several buses and goods carriers were also stuck in the traffic jam. Police personnel managed to make way for the ambulances managed to make a way for two Noida-bound ambulances that were stuck for 15 minutes there.Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Noida said that the large gathering of people at the DND Flyway restricted traffic. “We had diverted the Delhi bound traffic to Kalindi Kunj and Noida Entry gate. The Noida bound traffic was also diverted by Delhi police. However, some people were stuck in traffic jam. We opened the DND Flyway at 5:15 pm, about 15 minutes after the Congress convoy passed,” he said.Saha said that the Noida traffic police did not report traffic related incidents or violations at DND Flyway on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-on-dnd-flyway-affected-for-two-hours-as-political-parties-make-beeline-to-hathras/story-4rCUzofcAVNpOr3pnGxNWL.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Senior citizen injured as high-rise lift in Sector 74 develops snag||A 75-year-old man living in a high-rise in Sector 74 was injured on Friday afternoon after the lift he was in malfunctioned.The incident was reported from one of the towers in Capetown society where Ravindra Agarwal, the victim, lives with his family. According to the senior citizen’s family members, he entered the lift on the ground floor and pressed the button to go to the fifth floor. “However, soon after the lift started moving up, it came to a screeching halt. It was stuck between the ground and the first floors. He was alone in the lift at the time of the incident,” said Pragya Agarwal, his daughter.My father soon raised an alarm, Pragya said. However, no one from the maintenance agency came to his rescue for nearly 25 minutes, she alleged.“Finally, it was a security guard who came to my father’s rescue and managed to create space for him to come out. While getting down, he injured his legs. He is a heart patient and was in shock for a while, but he is recovering now,” said Pragya.The family shared the details of the incident with the apartment owners association (AOA). “There have been persistent issues with the lift. We have filed a complaint with the society management, and if necessary we may go for legal action also,” said Arun Sharma, president, AOA.The society management has denied the severity of the incident, claiming that the elderly man’s injury could be from a previous incident. “Due to a technical issue, the lift engaged its brake system barely one metre from the ground. A maintenance team was rushed to the spot immediately and the man was rescued. The glitch is being worked on,” said Anuj Pachauri, the society’s facility manager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/senior-citizen-injured-as-high-rise-lift-in-sector-74-develops-snag/story-XEG3uJzaduld0wYF3kkruO.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to beautify Jagraon bridge, statues of martyrs||After sprucing up the 114-year-old iconic Victoria Memorial Clock Tower, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) will now take up the beautification of the Jagraon Bridge and statues of prominent personalities across the city. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting to review the smart city project at the mayor’s camp office near Rose Garden on Saturday.Sandhu said colourful lights will be installed to beautify the statues of Mahatma Gandhi (near Mata Rani Chowk), Kartar Singh Sarabha (near Bhai Bala Chowk), Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon (near mini- secretariat), BR Ambedkar (Jalandhar bypass), Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev among others. The project will be taken up under the Smart City Mission. The mayor said a proposal had been made to install the Tricolour near Jagraon bridge. The officials also discussed the construction and demolition of a waste plant in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-beautify-jagraon-bridge-statues-of-martyrs/story-55iSJXlCzPC19zK5Y0ACUM.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Tendering for e-buses’ maintenance/charging depot within fortnight, land handover complete||As part of its electric-bus (e-bus) project, Ghaziabad agencies will likely begin issuing tenders for the maintenance depot and charging station for the 50 buses it is slated to receive. Once the tenders are issued and winning firms finalised, it should take about four months for completion.The E-bus project was cleared by the UP cabinet in October last year for intra-city commute. Ghaziabad was among the 14 cities selected for the project. Scheduled to have been completed this month, however, the project ran into many hurdles not least of which was the Covid-19 pandemic. “Initially the land (measuring about 26,000 square metres, sqm) for the charging station/maintenance depot for the buses was identified in Bonjha. But the presence of many high tension power lines forced us to cancel it. Now, we have received possession of about 25,000 sqm in Akbarpur-Behrampur at the Ghaziabad-Greater Noida link road,” said Umesh Shukla, the project manager from the Construction & Design Services (C&DS), a unit of UP Jal Nigam tasked with developing the charging station. The entire project of the construction of the charging station/maintenance depot is estimated at ₹10 crore, 25% of which will be paid by the municipal corporation. “Once we get funds from the municipal-corporation, we will start the tendering process within a fortnight. Thereafter, it will take around four months to complete the project. The depot will have charging bays, maintenance and parking facilities for the e-buses,” he added. “We have started the process to provide the funds. The land handover at Akbarpur-Behrampur has also been given to the Jal Nigam (C&DS),” said MS Tanwar, municipal-commissioner. Six routes have been identified for the service– Anand Vihar to Muradnagar, Anand Vihar to ALT Centre, Dilshad Garden to Govindpuram, Dilshad Garden to Lal Kuan and Govindpuram police line to Noida City Centre besides Tila Morh to New Bus Stand. “Presently, there is no mode of intra-city travel by government buses. As a result, thousands of daily commuters including girls and women either use their own vehicles or forced to use shared autos. If the project is slotted to get complete next year, it would mean that the polluted conditions on city roads will continue to prevail this winter season as well,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation. Earlier in August last year, the Department of Heavy Industries had approved the sanction of 5595 e-buses to 64 cities, state governments, state transport undertakings for intra-city and inter-city operations while 600 of these were approved for 11 cities of Uttar Pradesh including 50 buses for Ghaziabad city. The approval was made under the phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India scheme in order to push for clean mobility in public transportation. The buses were proposed to run about 4 billion kilometres during their contract period and expected to cumulatively save about 1.2 billion litters of fuel over the contract period, which will result into avoidance of 2.6 million tonnes of CO2 (carbon dioxide) emission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tendering-for-e-buses-maintenance-charging-depot-within-fortnight-land-handover-complete/story-tVkUC6samJGfh7aLmjd15J.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Noida police report second Covid-19 death as SHO succumbs to infection||Noida: A 48-year-old station house officer of a police station in Noida’s central zone died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on early Saturday morning, becoming the second policeman to succumb to the infection in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.Amit Kumar Singh, who was posted at Phase 3 police station, was a diabetic and died due to kidney failure, said the police.“He had developed mild symptoms and was found Covid-19 positive on September 17, after which he was admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida. However, after the SHO developed certain complications, he was referred to a higher centre in Delhi on September 25 where he was undergoing treatment till now,” said a police officer.Police officials said that Singh, a native of Lucknow, was also a patient of high blood pressure and had been on ventilator support for the past five days. “He was diabetic and had developed complications during the treatment due to which he passed away,” said Ankur Aggarwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Noida police department.Singh’s family has been staying with relatives in Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh where his last rites were performed on Saturday, the police said.The SHO’s death due to Covid-19 is the second case in the Noida police department. On June 27, a 57-year-old diabetic police constable posted at the Surajpur district court had died of Covid-19 during treatment.The first Covid-19 case from the department had been reported on May 5 when a policeman with Dial 112 at Sector 20 police station had tested positive. So far, 240 police personnel of the Noida police commissionerate have tested positive for coronavirus. Out of 240 policemen, 208 have already recovered while 30 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-report-second-covid-19-death-as-sho-succumbs-to-infection/story-h3fI8Y6GayK4E8GDuLFCwO.html
03-10-2020||Noida||Six residential segments share 46% of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad||Six residential segments in Ghaziabad, including prime localities of Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara and Raj Nagar, accounted for about 46% of total Covid-19 cases in the district since the outbreak began in March. Residents associations claim they are not involved in the district administration’s strategy, while officials of the district health department say that they are increasing focus in these areas. According to official records, residential segment Karhera-2 (comprising Indirapuram) accounted fro 1541 cases, Carte (Kavi Nagar, Avantika, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar etc) 1398, Sahibabad-2 (Raj Bagh, Shalimar Garden, Rajendra Nagar, Lajpat Nagar etc) 1151, Raj Nagar 1116, Vaishali 796 and Vasundhara 754 during this period. The district then had 14,513 cases. The figures also indicated a high concentration of cases in urban segments, with the rural segments (of Dasna, Loni, Murdnagar, Modinagar and Bhojpur) having an overall share of only 14.9% of the total cases during the period. Doctors said the rising trend of Covid-19 cases in several residential pockets was probably due to large working population and high population density.“Residents too are to blame. They are complacent in wearing masks and adhering to health protocols. We get so many patients who visit us without wearing masks and we have to tell them each time to stick to protocol as the risk of Sars-Cov-2 has not subsided,” said Dr. Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “The trend may increase in winter as cases of flu generally increase then.”Residents welfare associations (RWAs) said that ever since the markets, daily bazars and weekly markets have opened up, social distancing has gone for a toss.“In areas like Indirapuram, there is hardly any enforcement. Containment zones are hardly contained. RWAs and apartment owners association (AOA) are not included in the district’s strategy either,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.Agreeing that residents were not being involved in the fight, Col (retd) T P Tyagi, presidnet of flat owners’ federation said, “We had already conveyed our issues in this regard to the local administration during our meetings held in past.” The district administration, however, said that they had included RWAs in their strategy.“We have increased surveillance, testing and monitoring of the high incidence areas in order to control new cases and spread of infection. Apart from this, we have requested the RWAs to help in awareness drives. Besides, we have also launched massive public awareness campaign through the vehicles of police and corporation,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The district health department said that they are aiming to test all in containment zones. “Our focus is on 100% testing in containment zones as several of the residential segments like Indirapuram, Vishali, Vasundhara, Kavi Nagar and Raj Nagar among others have most of the containment zones from where we are getting new cases. So, we are working of focussed strategy to contain cases in these areas with more testing and increased surveillance,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-residential-segments-share-46-of-covid-19-cases-in-ghaziabad/story-0xItppbChqmL89eJVBFmEJ.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||2019 saw uptick in juveniles caught for rape in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police in 2019 apprehended eight juveniles for rape, a significant rise in otherwise comparatively lean figures of those arrested for crime against women. Though Chandigarh witnessed a dip in number of offences committed by juveniles for third year in a row as per data provided by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), police registered eight rape cases against minors against five in 2018 and seven in 2017. However, in 2019, only one juvenile was apprehended for outraging a woman’s modesty and two for kidnapping, against five caught for the former and three for the latter offence in 2018. In 2017, police had detained seven juveniles for rape, three for outraging modesty and five for kidnapping. Overall, crime graph went downOverall, cases registered against juveniles saw a drop, with 117 in 2019 as compared to 137 in 2018 and 159 in 2017. However, Chandigarh was second to only Delhi among Union Territories that logged highest number of cases against juveniles (2,783) in 2019. At 49.7%, Delhi also recorded highest rate of crimes involving juveniles, followed by Chandigarh at 29.3%. As many as 208 juveniles were arrested in 2019, 36 of whom were caught for theft, 14 for burglary and three for murder. “Minors take to thefts to make easy money. Many of those apprehended admitted to having committed thefts to buy expensive phones or branded clothes and shoes, while a few were lured into crime to fund their craving for drugs. In fact, the ones involved in robbery and murders were also doing it to buy drugs,” shared a senior official of Chandigarh Police, who was not authorised to speak with media. Chandigarh Police’s endeavoursAccording to the police department, endeavours undertaken by the cops to impart skill development training to the children based in colonies bore fruit. The data pointed out that 208 such juveniles were school dropouts, of whom 178 had studied up to Class 10, while 22 left after completing primary schooling. The figures also revealed that 191 juveniles stayed with their parents, nine with guardians and only eight were homeless. UT director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal had started a skill development programme for them under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana to improve their lives and keep them away from crime and drugs. The police identified children who were into petty crimes, drug abuse and at high risk of getting involved in major criminal activities. NGOs were roped in that helped the police survey 22,000 children, 3,000 of whom from six peripheral areas were tagged as the high-risk category. They are in the age group of eight to 16. The police have enrolled them in vocational courses such as beauty and wellness, hospital assistance, retail store assistance, and food and beverage assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2019-saw-uptick-in-juveniles-caught-for-rape-in-chandigarh/story-NZJsf7qo6Pwa7tkGxYmpyN.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 years after revenue officer’s murder in Ludhiana, 5 accused booked for duping him of ₹35 lakh||Two years after the murder of a revenue officer, police on Saturday booked the murder accused for forging his signatures and withdrawing ₹ 35 lakh from his bank account .Police have booked Vir Aakarshit Moudgill of Harkrishan Nagar, Ludhiana; Nidhi of Zirakpur, Mohali; Karan Kapoor of Mandi, Himachal Pradesh; Raoneet Chopra of Amritsar and Saba Khan of Sudhar, Ludhiana. The five are accused of murdering Kanungo (revenue officer) Albel Singh in November 2018. Moudgill, who was a banker, has been arrested for kidnapping and murdering Albel, while the other four are yet to be arrested. Nidhi and Saba were also bankers. Albel’s son, Gurpreet Singh of Bulara village, told the police that ₹35 lakh was withdrawn from his father’s account after faking his signature. “My father had come in contact with the accused in 2016. When he complained about the missing money, the accused promised to return it but kidnapped and murdered my father instead,” said Gurpreet. Moudgill and his cousin Kamal Joshi had been arrested for murdering and dumping Albel’s body in a canal near Sangowal Village in November, 2018. Albel had gone missing on October 18, 2018. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forging valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471(knowingly using a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-years-after-revenue-officer-s-murder-5-accused-booked-for-duping-him-of-35-lakh/story-3IkdM9AgDALKstpk0VTG2O.html
03-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Head constable booked for rape||A police head constable, posted in the city, was booked for allegedly raping a 36-year-old woman on Saturday. The police said the woman, a Delhi resident, had earlier filed a zero-FIR at Bindapur police station in Uttam Nagar in Delhi, which was then marked to Sadar police station in Gurugram and an FIR was lodged here on Saturday. According to the police, the woman, who has a private job, alleged that she got acquainted with a police official from Gurugram in 2017 and after some correspondence, he took her to a hotel in Sector 49, where he allegedly sexually assaulted her. The police said she alleged that after the incident, he established sexual relations with her on multiple occasions and threatened her. Dinesh Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said, “The woman has levelled allegations against a police head constable. She had lodged a complaint in Delhi, where a zero-FIR was registered and based on that complaint, he has been booked. In the complaint, she has alleged that he had raped her. However, there are certain contradictions in her statement. It is mentioned in the statement that they got married. This is yet to be verified. We have summoned both the parties and a probe has been initiated. No arrests have been made so far.” In the complaint, the woman alleged that she got pregnant but the accused forced her to take abortion pills. She further alleged that he told her that he would get a divorce and then marry her. “In December 2019, he showed me fake documents of divorce from his wife, following which we got married in a temple in Ghaziabad. Later I found out that he had been lying and had committed a fraud. In June 2020, he called me to a hotel in Gurugram, and threatened to defame me on social media. He also threatened to implicate me in a false case and boasted about having contacts in police and CBI. I had filed a complaint earlier but had to withdraw under pressure from him” she said in the complaint.A case was registered against the accused police official under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station on Saturday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-head-constable-booked-for-rape/story-RlgXgzcBDnQ0DPoo4UNvnI.html
03-10-2020||City||Covid-19 impact: Many pre-schools shut down, leave teachers jobless in Ludhiana||In the last five months, the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has forced a number of pre-schools in the city to shut shop, leaving many teachers without jobs.More pre-schools are likely to shut down by the end of this month. A number of pre-schools situated in Gurdev Nagar, South city, Pakhowal Road, Dugri, Civil Lines have closed down as they were unable to meet monthly fixed expenses with many owners saying that the rent has been a major impediment.This move has been the last nail in the coffin for many teachers and Class IV employees, who have lost their jobs.Bugz and Beez preschool, located at the backside of Pancham Hospital, was running successfully till March this year, but the lockdown forced the owner to shut shop. Catering to nearly 75 children, the pre-school was running since 2017. Director of the school, Seema Sharma, said, “I started the pre-school three years ago with an aim to offer quality education, focus on the social development of a child, but the lockdown changed all my plans. With the schools being closed, very few parents were interested in online classes for their children. It was getting difficult to pay a monthly rent of ₹45,000, hence I decided to shut the pre-school.”The situation is no different for other pre-schools. DPS Kids Pre-school, situated on Pakhowal Road also shut down last month. Owner Bobby said, “There is no clarity on when we can re-open the school. We have informed parents that we have shut down and I will start another venture soon.”There are around 150 pre-schools in Ludhiana and several new playways and daycare centres have come up in the last two years.President of the Pre-school Association of Ludhiana, Amanpreet Singh Arora, said, “With pre-schools remaining closed since March-end, the owners are finding it difficult to survive. Uncertainty over the reopening of schools looms large, hence affecting those running in rented accommodations. Even parents are not willing to pay the fee due to which many of them are closing down.” Ishneet Sharma, director of Childhood Kindergarten Playway School, Punjab Mata Nagar, said, “Other factors have also led to the closure of pre-schools. It is often overlooked that what kind of quality is being maintained at an early childhood centre as there are no quality checks and no uniformity in the syllabus or age criteria. People who were running the pre-schools in rented properties could not meet their expenses as their income reduced to almost zero with parents completely refusing to pay even for online classes. Many owners were unable to bear the burden of monthly rent and teacher salaries.”Teachers left in the lurchI was working as a pre-school teacher for the last three years. Due to the pandemic, our pre-school situated in Dugri closed down as per government orders and in August the principal informed all the staff regarding the permanent closure of the school. Since I was left without a job, I decided to start tuition classes for students.Ankita Jindal, pre-school teacherFor the last 10 years, I was working as a caretaker for the day-care students in a preschool and used for work from 9 am to 4 pm. But after the coronavirus outspread in March, the school closed down and since then I did not receive my salary. I have run out of savings. On one hand, I’ve lost my job, while on the other, I had to pay my child’s school fee from my savings.Karamjit Kaur, Class IV employee of a pre-school||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-impact-many-pre-schools-shut-down-leave-teachers-jobless-in-ludhiana/story-eLg6lmMgIJHvgpQ4WH0GNP.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Khushwant Singh Lit Fest goes online this year||Khushwant Singh Literary Festival, which is being held for the past eight years at the Kasauli Club, is going online amid the pandemic this year. According to the organisers, the first Digital Edition 2020 of KSLF scheduled from October 9 to 11 will be thought-provoking, stimulating and pointing in the direction of ‘A New Life’, which is the theme this year. Several sessions are planned over the three evenings, with a number of writers and celebrities discussing their recent books and interacting with their questioners and interlocutors. The speakers include essayist and novelist Pico Iyer, historical novelist and environmentalist Amitav Ghosh, TV commentator Fareed Zakaria, activist Harsh Mander, columnist Shobhaa De, philanthropist Sudha Murty, write Chetan Bhagat and explorers Jono Lineen and Erling Kagge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khushwant-singh-lit-fest-goes-online-this-year/story-oLITyC1DmPRKOX3YI4N6kJ.html
03-10-2020||City||Dispute behind maximum murders in Ludhiana, reveals NCRB’s 2019 data||Dispute due to multiple reasons was the primary cause behind the 56 murders reported in Ludhiana district in 2019.According to the data released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), as many as 25 of the victims were killed following disputes – constituting 44.6% of the tally.As per the bureau’s report, there were 53 murders in 2018 and 56 in the subsequent year – a 5% spike in cases. 2017 saw the highest murders (59) among the three years.In Punjab, which had 679 murders in 2019, NCRB released homicide data for only Ludhiana and Amritsar cities, which had 18 cases in 2019.State capital Chandigarh had 26 cases. In all, the report provided data for 34 cities.In Ludhiana, nine people were killed as a fallout of family discord, while people losing their cool during petty quarrels ended in 11 murders.This included the death of a 42-year-old realtor, who was shot dead during a birthday party following an altercation at Castle’s Barbeque restaurant and bar in Ludhiana’s Pavilion Mall on the intervening night of September 13 and 14 in 2019. This murder, resulting from a petty quarrel during a party, had left the city shocked.Dispute resulting from money matters led to the murder of four people, while property dispute was also behind one such case.Police investigations had found personal rivalry as the reason for four murders, while in two cases, personal gain was the driving force behind two people being killed.The second leading cause in the city – resulting in 10 murders – was illicit relationships. While the police could not establish the cause behind six cases, they also found that two women were killed by their husbands or in-laws over dowry. The NCRB report lists three murders for dowry in Punjab, of which two were reported in Ludhiana.Murders are penalised under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, which may entail life imprisonment or even capital punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dispute-behind-maximum-murders-in-ludhiana-reveals-ncrb-s-2019-data/story-SWXlch3sypCvy4hJwz4cvN.html
03-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata to get first underground metro station in 25 years||Kolkata will get an underground metro station after 25 years on Sunday as the East-West line will be extended till Phoolbagan, an official said.The Phoolbagan metro station is the first underground one to be opened on the line that will connect Sector V to Howrah Maidan, he said.Railway Minister Piyush Goyal will flag off the first train from Phoolbagan through a video link, the official said on Saturday.Services of the East-West Metro began earlier this year between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium in the first phase.Commercial services between Phoolbagan and Sector V will commence from Monday, the official said.Owing to the COVID-19 situation, there will be no formal function at the venue.The underground MG Road metro station on the North- South line was opened in September 1995. All metro stations opened after that are either elevated or at grade-level.The Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) granted authorisation for extension of services from Salt Lake Stadium to Phoolbagan station in June.Local TMC MP Sudip Bandopadhyay and MLAs Sashi Panja and Sadhan Pande, both ministers in the state government, will not participate in the programme, sources in their party said, claiming that the state government has been kept in the dark about the event.According to the Metro Railway, Bandopadhyay and the two local MLAs have been requested to join the virtual event of the inauguration.Bandopadhyay said he was unhappy with the way the Railway Ministry had tried to “bypass” the state government.“I am happy about the project, but why the state government was bypassed? Why did they not inform or invite the chief minister, who is also the former railway minister? She had extended all sorts of help to the East-West metro project.I am unhappy with the attitude of the authority,” he told PTI.Bandopadhyay said he was out of Kolkata and could not join the event.He also said that during Banerjee’s tenure as the railway minister, she used to invite the state transport minister despite having political differences with the then Left Front government.Panja, however, said she is yet to receive an invitation or letter from the Metro Railway.Metro Railway said that as the programme is being held online and no inauguration ceremony was being held, the local MLAs and MP were requested to join the event.“There is no proper inauguration ceremony. Everything is happening through video conference. So there is no invitation of any sort. The local MP and the MLAs have been requested to participate in the video conference,” a senior Metro official said.On February 13, the 4.88-km-long first phase of the East-West Metro got functional.The public representatives of the TMC gave that event a miss as well, protesting against the absence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s name from the invitation card for the programme.Senior TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Fire Services Minister Sujit Bose and Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Mayor Krishna Chakraborty were invited but had stayed away in protest.According to a senior Metro official, completion of the East-West corridor is likely to be delayed by up to one year due to an accident caused by an aquifer burst in the Bowbazar area during drilling operations in August 2019.The 16.6-km-long rapid transit system, connecting the twin cities of Kolkata and Howrah, may be completed by mid- 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-to-get-first-underground-metro-station-in-25-years/story-M9KEAXgqBIgjHQgwWJhYlI.html
03-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Grand Alliance announces seat-sharing deal, VIP walks out in protest||The Grand Alliance (GA) on Saturday took the lead by announcing much-awaited seat-sharing deal among its constituents for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, scheduled to begin from October 28. As per the final agreement, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has been allocated 144 out of 243 seats, which has the share of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), while the Congress did well this time and got 70 seats and Valmikinagar Lok Sabha constituency, the bypoll on which is scheduled to be held simultaneously. This is the best-ever seat deal that the Congress managed to strike since it allied with the RJD in the state. In 2005, the Congress was given 51 seats to contest under the RJD-led coalition. Sources said that the Congress would leave two seats for the NCP to contest. The left parties, including the CPI (ML), the CPI and the CPM, have been offered 29 seats. Of this, the CPI (ML) has been given the biggest share of 19 seats. Announcing the final negotiation, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav thanked the coalition partners for reposing trust in his leadership and said that he stood with the side of people and would help them get rid of the corrupt, insensitive and inefficient regime led by CM Nitish Kumar in Bihar. He said the number of seats for the VIP and JMM would be announced in the next two-three days. Also read: Chirag Paswan seeks people’s support for ‘Bihar first’ vision document; may fight polls independentlyVisibly dejected at Tejashwi’s offer, VIP chief Mukesh Sahni walked out of the conference, accusing Tejashwi of betraying his faith by not declaring the seats for this party. “He backstabbed the party, which remained with him throughout,” said Sahni, adding that the next course of his party would be decided on Sunday. Earlier, Tejashwi said that some of the leaders might find it hard to adjust as the all constituents were given fewer seats than their expectations, they should be ready to make a small sacrifice to save Bihar which was facing deep crisis and rule of anarchy. “Four rapes and five murders every hour sum up the scenario people of the state are grappling with,” he said, adding that migrant labours, students and the poor would not have forgotten the miseries they had undergone during the lockdown. Reiterating his resolve to launch the process of filling up 10 lakh vacancies in the government at his first cabinet meeting, Tejashwi said the GA would emerge as a strong alternative for the people to the present dispensation which was founded on the betrayal of the mandate. “I am a theth (rustic) Bihari, who stands by his commitments,” said the RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s scion, adding that the fee to apply for the vacancies would be done away with. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) screening committee chairman Avinash Pande praised Tejashwi for his stint as deputy CM and said the GA wanted Bihar to prosper under his leadership. “He is son of Lau Prasad, who is better known as the messiah of the poor and leader of social justice not only in Bihar but in the country. A large number of young people associate themselves with Tejashwi with the hope for a better Bihar,” said the Congress leader, apparently projecting Tejashwi as the CM face of the GA.Also read: Tejashwi Yadav Opposition’s CM face, Congress gets 70 seats Exhorting the people to teach Nitish Kumar a befitting lesson for hijacking the popular mandate and topple, Pande claimed that farmers, youths, Dalits and the poor were deeply frustrated by the anti-people policies being pursued by the NDA out of owing to thumping majority accumulated by reeling out false promises and propagating falsehood. RJD leader and elder son of the RJD chief, Tej Pratap Yadav, Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh and leaders of left parties were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-grand-alliance-announces-seat-sharing-deal-vip-walks-out-in-protest/story-7S8ppnQgCX5eeV01gDLpTM.html
03-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept braces for a rise in respiratory illnesses with onset of winter||The district health department has instructed its healthcare workers to be on alert for an uptick in respiratory illnesses over the next few weeks as the temperature drops with the onset of winter.Officials explained that the upcoming season will pose two challenges amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic: first there will be an increase in the severity of respiratory diseases other than Covid-19, such as asthma, pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD). The second challenge will be to tackle the spread of Covid-19 itself, which, experts say is likely to speed up during the colder months (a pattern that has been well established with other respiratory illnesses, such as influenza).Health department officials said they are preparing to meet both challenges by shoring up testing for Covid-19 and beefing up surveillance for ‘winter diseases’. Medical officers, lab technicians involved in sample collection, and NHM field staff have been told to prioritise tests for people suffering from signs of respiratory distress, or severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI).Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, said, “The overall burden of respiratory diseases, both Covid and non-Covid, will rise in winter. The festive season is also coming up. So, there will be more social engagements and travelling. Low temperature and high levels of air pollution are perfect for symptoms of asthma and COPD to worsen. After monsoons, we knew that we will see more people coming in with flu-like symptoms; now we are expecting more people to come in showing signs of distress, such as chest pain, shortness of breath and upper respiratory tract infections.” All these patients, he added, would need to be tested for Covid-19, due to the overlapping nature of their symptoms.Dr MP Singh, nodal officer for containment zone management in Gurugram, added that the health department is prepared to absorb any such surge. “Our rapid response teams and field staff have been told that anyone showing even the slightest sign of respiratory distress needs to be given a test on a priority basis. The first step is to determine whether they are Covid-positive, in which case there is a particular course of treatment. If they are not, then they can be referred elsewhere to treat whatever it is they have. Our aim is to prevent the patient from going into acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which may be fatal.”As new daily infections, and test positivity, have slowly been dropping over the last few weeks, the health department has not had to urgently expand its testing capacity in September. “But we are well placed to conduct upwards of 5,000 tests per day by the end of October, so we will be able to accommodate anyone with symptoms who needs a test,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. He added that facilities for tertiary care are also available in adequate measure, with less than half of ICU and ventilator beds currently occupied, and only a quarter of general hospital beds with oxygen facility in use.Experts agreed that a heightened public health response would be required during winter months to keep the death rate of Covid-19 down. “In outbreak areas, or among vulnerable populations, authorities might want to consider giving free shots to protect against other respiratory illnesses, such as viral influenza or bacterial pneumonia. And of course, more tests for Covid-19 are a must because one should expect the transmission to accelerate in the winter,” said Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president ( research and policy) and director, Centre for Control of Chronic Conditions, PHFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-dept-braces-for-a-rise-in-respiratory-illnesses-with-onset-of-winter/story-juquTyWwmMK1nQ1FeLtM7K.html
03-10-2020||City||Model Sanskriti Schools: Fees will range from ₹200 to ₹500 per month||Gurugram: Model Sanskriti Schools being developed by the Haryana government will be following a varying fee structure for students in different classes, the department of school education has said. The fee in these schools will range from ₹200 to ₹500 on a monthly basis for classes 1 to 12, as per the latest guidelines released by the department. These schools will be recognised by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the classes will start from April 2021, the department said. Model Sanskriti Schools are schools that lay special emphasis on English as the medium of instruction. Last month, state education minister Kanwar Pal had said that over 1,000 schools across the state would be developed as the model schools. In the Gurugram district, 93 primary schools are being upgraded to these model schools with the first batch of English-medium classes slated to start in 2021. In a letter issued recently to district education officers across the state, the department shared directives, including the fee structure. According to the department, all such schools will have a separate co-ed wing where English will be the medium of instruction. While classes will also take place separately in Hindi, students enrolling in English medium classes will have to pay a monthly fee depending on the class level. Suman Sharma, who holds charge of the Government Model Sanskriti Primary School in Gurugram’s Sector 4/7 that was inaugurated last week, said that for students in classes 1 to 5, the one-time admission fee will be ₹500 whereas the same fee for students in classes 6 to 12 is ₹1,000. “The monthly fee starts from ₹200 for students in classes 1 to 3 and goes up till ₹500 for senior students in classes 11 and 12,” she said. Sharma further said that all schools have been asked to convene a meeting of the school management committee (SMC) and ensure that the names of the schools are changed to Model Sanskriti School. Besides, a school development plan is being created on the basis of which school infrastructure can be expanded, she said. As per the guidelines shared by the department, teachers in such schools will be selected through a special screening process and will be kept out of routine transfer drives. Teachers will also be given special training that will enable them to teach lessons in English. Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari said that while some schools had already started adopting the guidelines, others will be following suit so that arrangements are in place before the next academic year. “Schools that need to meet certain infrastructure requirements will be commencing work after holding consultations with the school management committee. Other steps such as the renaming of the schools have already been started. As far as teacher training is concerned, developments are awaited on that front,” said Kumari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/model-sanskriti-schools-fees-will-range-from-200-to-500-per-month/story-Pe3M4TKb2yM7L2a7wcfq0H.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid antibodies found in 7.5% of Oxford vaccine trial volunteers at PGIMER||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has found antibodies against new coronavirus in 7.6% of the volunteers who were screened for the Oxford vaccine trials which are underway at the institute. Similarly, 82.5% of the recovered patients who had come forward for plasma donation at the institute’s blood bank were found to have developed the antibodies. Professor Mini P Singh from the department of virology said that the till now 66 volunteers have been screened for the vaccine trails of which five were found to have developed antibodies.“Fifty-nine volunteers for the Oxford vaccine trial along with seven health workers (Non-Covid) making a total of 66 participants, who were healthy and never encountered any symptoms of the virus, got tested for IgG antibody test. Out of 66 tested, five (7.6%) were found positive for IgG antibodies test, clearly indicating that they had contracted the infection but were asymptomatic and hence had developed antibodies,” a statement from the institute quoting Professor Mini P Singh said.She added that the department of virology has also conducted the test on 80 Covid-19 recovered patients which comprised participants who had donated plasma and healthcare workers from the Institute. Of the 80 tested, 66 (82.5%) were found to have IgG antibodies, meaning thereby, that they developed antibodies post their recovery from the virus.”Singh further concluded, “This data shows that the majority of the recovered persons developed antibodies. However, among the healthy population, the seropositivity was found to be only 7.6% implying that most of the population in the tricity is still not exposed to the virus. However, it’s very preliminary data and larger systematic studies are on the way.” The institute statement quoting Professor Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, stated, “We are at a very preliminary stage of the study which is aimed at identifying the seroprevalence of Covid-19 at the community level and monitoring the transmission trends. It is too premature to say anything conclusively. The study is ongoing to collate more evidence to reach a definite result on the subject.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-antibodies-found-in-7-5-of-oxford-vaccine-trial-volunteers-at-pgimer/story-txiSnJR7qxrdccKeyyw8fI.html
03-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: GMDA invites bids for repairing Golf Course Extension Road||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has floated a tender for repairing the pothole-riddled Golf Course Extension Road (GCER), after the Gurugram Police brought up the issue of potholes and accidents on this stretch with GMDA officials. The police had found more than 350 potholes on a 6.3km stretch between Ghata T-point and Vatika Chowk on the GCER. Till mid-September this year, at least 20 accidents and four fatalities have been reported on the stretch, as per the data shared by the police. Last year, there were 46 accidents and 16 fatalities on this stretch.Jitender Mittal, chief engineer (infrastructure), GMDA, said, apart from fixing potholes, the tender also seeks to fix other structural defects associated with this stretch. In 2018, GMDA started taking over the maintenance of the master roads in the city from Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). It has now started floating tenders for the annual and periodic maintenance of master roads on a first-time basis, including for GCER.“Unlike most other stretches, where we are floating tenders for annual maintenance, GCER needs regular fixing. Hence, we are floating tenders for maintaining the stretch on a periodic basis rather than an annual one,” said Mittal. Mittal added that the stretch encounters frequent problems. For instance, last night, a drainage leakage occurred, which led to the stretch being inundated in patches. “The tender has been floated to address all such issues,” said Mittal, adding that they were waiting for the monsoon season to be over before commencing with any bitumen-related work.Bids for GMDA’s tender are valid till October 5 and the projected cost is ₹34.38 lakh, said officials.“We have highlighted several areas in the city, where traffic congestion, accidents, and illegal parking are rampant. Subsequently, we have shared the necessary information with various public bodies. The issues with GCER had also been conveyed to GMDA as part of this process. We are taking all steps to reduce accidents in the city,” said DK Bhardwaj, DCP traffic, Gurugram Police.As per a 2019 GMDA axel-weight report, GCER is designed to sustain a maximum load of 8-15 tons. However, during an inspection, most heavy vehicles were generally found to be carrying four-five times this weight, amounting to 30-40 tons, leading to the frequent formation of potholes. Further GCER is a major thoroughfare, carrying heavy traffic throughout the year. According to GMDA’s traffic study, the average number of vehicles plying on GCER per hour in June 2018 was around 4,100 vehicles per hour. This increased to 4,600 vehicles per hour in June 2019. By June 2028, the average number of vehicles per hour is expected to be around 7,000 while by June 2038, it is expected to rise to 11,500 vehicles, the report further stated.GMDA officials said that until a ₹300-crore project for building flyovers and laying the entire stretch with Pavement Quality Concrete (PQC) commences, GCER will continue to remain vulnerable to formation of potholes. Re-carpeting and maintenance work will only provide a temporary fix.The project is still in planning stages, said officials. PQC is a material used in the construction of national highways as well as airport runways.“Due to its connectivity to major road networks, as part of its Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP), GMDA is treating GCER like the outer ring road in Delhi. The flyover alone would not be able to address the problem of heavy traffic. The lower layer of road also needs to be in a position to sustain this weight. PQC is a tried-and-tested approach and GMDA can go ahead with this method, provided it is executed correctly,” said Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gmda-floats-tender-for-repairing-golf-course-extension-road/story-dllTWqNFH67csbMQmsNzXO.html
03-10-2020||City||Zero Covid casualty in Punjab’s Mohali district after 55 days||In a major breather for Mohali authorities, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded in the district on Saturday, for the first time since August 9. The development comes after a major surge seen in September, when 114 casualties were recorded. As many as eight people had succumbed on September 14, a record so far. The death toll at present stands at 199.Also, with only 88 people testing positive for the deadly virus on Saturday, the number of fresh cases went below 100 for the first time since August 17, when 102 infections had surfaced. While the tally has climbed to 10,833, 8,947 patients have recovered, including 166 discharged on Saturday. The number of active cases stand at 1,687, with the bulk in Mohali city, which also recorded 59 fresh cases, followed by 14 in Dera Bassi and eight in Dhakoli. Lalru accounted for three, Kharar for two and Kurali and Gharuan for one case each on Saturday. Even as fresh cases are showing a downward trend, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan urged residents not to become complacent and continue to take precautions. Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that extensive sampling and strict home quarantine has saved Mohali from community spread. 4 dead in Panchkula, 3 in ChandigarhIn the district’s neighbourhood, Chandigarh reported three deaths while four people succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula.The Union Territory’s toll rose to 172, with the death of two men, aged 43 and 32, from Hallomajra and Dhanas, respectively, and a 70-year-old woman from Sector 61. Meanwhile, the number of infections reached 12,360 with 148 people testing positive. However, 234 people were discharged as well, with which the number of those cured went up to 10,396 and active cases came down to 1,792.Panchkula recorded 70 fresh cases, taking the total to 6,189. Two men and women each died, with which the toll rose to 91. They have been identified as women, aged 23 and 45, from Raipur Rani and Buddanpur, respectively, and men, aged 63 and 67, from Kalka and Sector 25, respectively.Those who tested positive included a 20-day-old boy from Surajpur and two health workers. According to information shared by the Panchkula health department, 125 health workers have got infected so far.As many as 790 cases remain active, while 5,308 patients have been cured and discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zero-covid-casualty-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-after-55-days/story-6AuLEdHgk8ZeqzXXXNSjoN.html
03-10-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Donates blood for 106th time on retirement day A voluntary blood donor, Pankaj Kaul, who is a technical assistant-cum-officiating lecturer at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, planted a tree on the PGI campus on his retirement day. What’s more, he donated blood for the 106th time as he bid adieu to the institute. He had joined PGIMER in 1983 for graduation in medical laboratory sciences. His quest to learn more led him to do post-graduation and he went on to study technology microbiology (parasitology) as an in-service candidate. He topped it off with a doctorate.Journalists caught in the crossfire at Akali protest When Chandigarh Police resorted to a lathicharge on Shiromani Akali Dal activists at Zirakpur on Thursday to prevent them from entering the Union Territory amid prohibitory orders, the protesters ran towards the journalists for cover. Several journalists ended up bearing the brunt of the police action. The protest was led by SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with Rajya Sabha member Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana, and Dera Bassi SAD MLA NK Sharma. The SAD kisan march activists defied the police when they were told that only a few leaders would be allowed to meet the governor. No MC meet in September, Congress cries foul There was no general house meeting of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation on Friday. The Congress termed it a violation of MC rules and accused the ruling BJP of working against local democracy. BJP councillors also expressed dissatisfaction but chose to keep their views “off the record”. The common refrain was: “The meeting should be there. Let me check with the MC commissioner and the acting mayor.” It’s another matter that they never got back with the response to their queries. Car-borne thieves drive away with SUV mirror Beware, four car-borne thieves driving through Chandigarh at night are stealing whatever they can lay their hands on. A resident of Sector 38, Anuj Raura, lodged a complaint of the theft of a side mirror of the Fortuner parked in his courtyard. The thieves who took away the mirror were caught on CCTV driving an Etios. The CCTV footage showed two of the four men entering the courtyard and fleeing with the mirror. When VIP violators forget the mask They issue strict Covid guidelines but take it easy themselves. A photo of Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja was shared on a WhatsApp group of the district public relations office, showing him wearing the mask improperly as his nose was uncovered. Haryana Speaker and Panchkula legislator Gian Chand Gupta, who recently recovered from Covid-19, organised a havan (prayer meet) “to make the environment corona-free” but many participants were seen without a mask. Local Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta, who also recovered from Covid-19, was seen driving a tractor during a farmers’ protest without a mask. A festive breather in gloomy Covid times The new director of health services of Chandigarh, Dr Amandeep Kang, received a warm welcome when she took charge on October 1. As she stepped out of her car to reach office, employees of the Government Multispeciality Hospital, Sector 16, were seen clapping for her. Amid the cheers, she even came forward to hug several junior colleagues. “It appeared like a festival in these gloomy Covid times,” a senior doctor at the hospital said. Private school students reluctant to join back A week after academic consultations were started in Chandigarh schools, government schools are reporting a rise in the number of students joining such sessions with children of Classes 9 and 11 also coming along with the board classes. However, students of private schools are still reluctant. Most private schools that opened up partially for students from September 21 are yet to receive any student for academic consultation. The education department will soon hold a meeting with heads of private and government schools to start academic consultations for students below Class 9 as well. Confusion over late fee for PU admission According to the academic calendar for first year post-graduate courses released by Panjab University on September 29, the late fee with permission from the vice-chancellor is Rs 3,000. This is higher than the amount notified earlier. While teachers wanted to know how and when the hike was implemented, the dean college development council put out a notice saying the late fee with the V-C’s permission was Rs 2,040. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Amanjeet Singh, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-CMAesQBMj6AsWnl5MgaQkN.html
03-10-2020||City||Our take: Victims of cheating and theft, senior citizens in Chandigarh need to feel safe||At an age when they should be living comfortably on their savings and pensions, enjoying the golden years of their lives, senior citizens are falling victims to crimes in Chandigarh. The city has recorded the highest rate of cheating cases against those aged above 60 in 2019, a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) revealed recently.According to the Crimes in India 2019 report, seven cases were lodged under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code in Chandigarh, which has a population of 70,000, giving it a rate of 10.4 in 2019. This rate is calculated by taking into account the number of incidents per lakh population. Delhi came next with a rate of 9.2 and Maharashtra with 7.5. The national rate is 2.2 incidents per lakh population.The city also has the second highest rate of thefts against senior citizens with 29.8 incidents per one lakh population after Delhi at 48.5. To Chandigarh also goes the dubious record of the third highest rate of total crimes committed against seniors at 74.5 incidents per lakh population, placing the city third after Gujarat at 85.4 and Delhi at 93.8. A total of 50 crimes were committed against seniors in the city last year as against 64 in 2018. With 34 cases pending from previous years, the Chandigarh police investigated 84 in all in 2019, out of which chargesheets were submitted in 17 cases. As many as 44 cases are still pending.It’s not all that difficult to understand the reasons for the crimes. Many aged persons live on their own as their children have moved to other cities, even abroad, for work opportunities. Helpers left behind to care for them often end up exploiting them. As a majority of the elderly is also not computer savvy, they can easily be convinced by unscrupulous elements to share sensitive data such as bank account numbers and pin numbers and have the money siphoned off their accounts.A concerted effort needs to be made by the police to protect this vulnerable section of our society. Most importantly, banks need to be extra vigilant while handling seniors’ accounts, reporting suspicious transactions and ensuring attendants are ready at banks to help them. A special ‘seniors’ telephone helpline should be set up for anyone wanting to report fraudulent bank calls or needing information on their accounts.The police, apart from strengthening the beat system to check on seniors, should maintain lists of seniors without assistance and ensure areas and sectors where they live are patrolled at night.Resident welfare associations too can play a key role in seniors’ care, recruiting volunteers to call the elderly regularly, helping them with bill payments and medicine collections and checking on domestic helpers caring for them.Putting simple systems in place will ensure the safety and well-being of the people who need the city’s maximum care and attention in the later years of their life. Safe seniors What should be done to prevent crimes against the elderly? Chandigarh has recorded the highest rate of cheating cases against those aged above 60 in 2019. What should be done to keep them safe? Send in your responses, with photographs, to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by October 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/our-take-victims-of-cheating-and-theft-senior-citizens-in-chandigarh-need-to-feel-safe/story-SORKFGEAD5JeGCSaJ7YyHM.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi adds 2,258 new cases of Covid-19||Delhi reported 2,258 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, according to the daily health bulletin, down from the average 3,025 cases reported each day during the seven preceding days. This could be because of fewer tests conducted on Gandhi Jayanti, when only 39,306 samples were tested as compared to average of over 53,000 samples tested every day. The fewer tests meant a slight increase in the positivity rate, which still remained below 6%, at 5.74% as on Saturday. This was 5.19% the day before. The transmission of the disease is thought to be in control if a positivity rate of less than 5% is maintained over two weeks. Delhi also reported 34 more deaths due to the viral infection, taking the total toll to 5,472, the data shows. The cumulative case fatality ratio (CFR) – fraction of deaths among total cases reported – stands at 1.9%, slightly higher than the national average of 1.57%. The number of people hospitalized with the infection has also declined over the last ten days, dipping below 6,000 for the first time since a surge in cases in the second week of September. As on Saturday, 5,989 people were admitted to hospitals across the city with Covid-19. At its peak, the number of hospitalisations had been just over 7,000. “The availability of beds – especially ICU beds – has improved in the city over the last seven to eight days with the number of hospitalisations reducing by around 1,000. The situation is much better right now,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.The number of active cases or those with current infections has also come down to just over 25,000 for the first time since September second week. At its peak, there were over 32,000 active cases in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lowest-new-cases-in-delhi-since-aug-31/story-D2X80QzPDReztAQH81XcaO.html
03-10-2020||City||Two women die by suicide in Delhi’s Burari||New Delhi: Two women allegedly died by suicide in separate incidents reported from different residential neighbourhoods in north Delhi’s Burari on Friday, the police said. The cause of either suicide could not be immediately ascertained, the police said.According to the police, the first incident came to their notice around 3pm after the husband of a 28-year-old woman informed the police control room that she had hanged herself from a ceiling fan at their house. A police team took the woman to a nearby hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. The couple was married since 2012 and has two children, a police officer associated with the investigation said. “The husband told us they had an argument two days ago. We are probing if the woman took the step because of that,” the officer said. While police were probing this case, they received another call regarding the death of a woman at her home in Burari area. She was found in her room by her family members. The woman was in her final year of a BA course, the officer said. “Her family members told us that she was upset as her cellphone had fallen into water and it had stopped working. We are trying to find out if there was any other reason for the suicide,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-die-by-suicide-in-delhi-s-burari/story-I55cwJ9sKcTwKhdZuJrFZM.html
03-10-2020||City||4 injured in clash at BJP councillor’s office; 10 booked||Four persons, including the brother-in-law of a BJP councillor, sustained injuries after two groups clashed at the latter’s office in Kila Mohalla late on Friday. A gunshot was also reported from the scene.As per information, the groups gathered at the office of ward number 59 councillor Prabhjot Kaur to sort out an old conflict. But, things escalated quickly and a scuffle broke out between the two parties. Some members allegedly vandalised the councillor’s office and a car parked in the street.Soon, police reached the spot and started investigation. They said two of the accused have been apprehended.Amrik Singh Bhola, a BJP leader and husband of councillor Prabhjot Kaur, said around 10 days ago, the said groups had indulged in a scuffle over some issue in Kila Mohalla, following which they requested Bhola to intervene in the matter. So, the BJP called both the groups to his wife’s office for a meeting on Friday.However, Bhola said, the groups clashed again at the office. They called their accomplices, who came bearing sticks, iron rods and sharp-edged weapons.The BJP leader also alleged that one of the accused tried to assault him with a sharp-edged weapon, but his brother Pankaj came to his rescue and suffered injuries on his hands. In the attack, four persons, including Pankaj, Bunty and two others, have sustained injuries, Bhola said.After the locals gathered at the spot, the accused fled and police were informed.As per the complainant, Sahil Kumar, there was a monetary dispute between him and the accused.Division 4 SHO inspector Satwant Singh said a case has been registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against Sumit Shankar, Vicky Shankar, Babbal Shankar, Raj Dareja, Satnam Singh and their five accomplices who are yet to be identified. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-injured-in-clash-at-bjp-councillor-s-office-10-booked/story-5jWZf3bGCPj46PvYpK4hWN.html
03-10-2020||City||Special security in place for Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Ludhiana villages today||The police here have made special security arrangements ahead of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s visit to rural areas of the district on Sunday.Rahul, who will be leading his party’s tractor rallies in Punjab’s Malwa region from October 4 to 6, is expected to reach Ludhiana’s Jattpura village around 3pm on Sunday, after attending a rally in Moga.The security force of six districts has been deputed for Rahul’s Moga and Ludhiana rural tours. Police personnel have already been deployed at venues the Congress leader is expected to visit. Senior district police officials stated that the traffic movement on certain roads will be halted till Rahul’s cavalcade passes through. The traffic diversion plans have already been chalked out, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-security-in-place-for-rahul-gandhi-s-visit-to-ludhiana-villages-today/story-XyCHbvvd4e6y9zchUKAq3N.html
03-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC meets religious bodies to promote cleanliness, waste segregation||On the second day of MC’s ‘My Waste My Responsibility’ campaign, the civic body officials conducted meetings with the managements of different religious bodies, including gurdwaras, temple, churches and mosques, in the city on Saturday.During the meeting, the members were sensitised about the solid waste management norms and ways to deal with the waste generated in their premises. The authorities focussed on waste segregation at source and asked the managements to install separate dustbins for wet and dry waste.Moreover, the managements were asked to make announcements and install posters in their premises to promote waste segregation and discourage use of plastic bags.Cleanliness drives were organised in different wards of the city wherein the councillors appealed to the residents to extend their support to the civic body in keeping the city clean.Former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal urged shopkeepers to keep two dustbins in their shops to segregate wet and dry waste. Aggarwal said the dream to make Ludhiana a garbage-free city cannot be achieved without the participation of residents. While the MC staff is working hard to keep the city clean, the residents should also not dump the waste in open, he suggested.The MC had started the 15-day cleanliness campaign under the Swachh Bharat mission on Gandhi Jayanti in the city on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-meets-religious-bodies-to-promote-cleanliness-waste-segregation/story-LIshbsTPWcegn5HJvHcXnI.html
03-10-2020||City||Eight more succumb to coronavirus in Himachal||Eight more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the death toll in the state to 205, officials said. Three deaths were reported in Shimla district, two in Kangra and one each in Kullu, Sirmaur and Bilaspur. The state also reported 241 new coronavirus cases. The total number of positive cases in the state have reached 15,695. Also, 12,173 patients have recovered in the state so far while active cases stand at 3,292. Of the new cases, 50 were reported in Mandi district, 44 in Shimla, 41 in Kangra, 23 in Solan, 20 in Kullu, 13 each in Bilaspur, Chamba and Hamirpur, 12 in Una, 11 in Sirmaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. With 3,100 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 2,399 cases have been reported so far. Besides, 1,865 cases have been recorded in Sirmaur, 1,826 in Mandi, 1,391 in Shimla district, 13,36 in Una, 951 in Hamirpur, 883 in Chamba, 868 in Bilaspur, 705 in Kullu, 196 in Kinnaur. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district with 175 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-more-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-himachal/story-5RKemyPTdriiazouLHrZxH.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Be prompt in shifting Covid patients to hospitals, Chandigarh help desk staff told||Dr Amandeep Kang, who recently took over the charge of director, health and family welfare, along with other senior officials of the Chandigarh health department made a surprise visit to the help desk started by the administration to monitor Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation.Dr Kang instructed the doctors to be more vigilant, especially in the case of senior citizens and patients with co-morbid conditions, and stressed that the staff should be prompt in shifting the patients to hospitals to decreasing casualties. She also interacted with Covid patients in home isolation and enquired about their well-being besides taking feedback about the visit of health workers to their homes.Pvt hospital comes on boardThe health department has allowed Kare Partners Group India Private Limited to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients at its hospital in Sector 19D. The treatment will be provided under the rates approved by the department for private hospitals. Curbs lifted from parts of ManimajraRestrictions have been lifted from parts in Pipliwala town in Manimajra, which was declared a micro-containment zone in view of Covid-19 situation in the area. The last positive case in the area was reported on September 19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/be-prompt-in-shifting-covid-patients-to-hospitals-chandigarh-help-desk-staff-told/story-yyTehgrHaUNkHpGGSvdO8I.html
03-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: 6,120 aspirants to appear in UPSC civil services prelims||Over 6,120 candidates from Ludhiana will appear in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services preliminary exam across 17 centres in the district on Sunday.The exam centre at Government College for Girls has been reserved for physically challenged aspirants. It will accommodate 16 candidates on the day of exam.The test will be conducted in two sessions — from 9.30am to 11.30am and 2.30pm to 4.30pm. Jammers have been installed in the examination centres to check the use of unfair means.Keeping the Covid pandemic in view, the exam centre authorities have sanitised their respective premises. Masks and sanitisers will provided to the candidates and social distancing will be at the entrance and within the examination halls of the centres.Joint municipal commissioner Kulpreet Singh said, “Candidates have been advised to reach the centre well in advance and no one will be allowed to enter after 9.40am.”To ensure social distancing and adherence to Covid protocols, 10 police personnel will be deployed at each of the 17 centres in Ludhiana. They will make sure that no electronic gadgets are taken inside the centres. For the conduct of the exam across these centres, 510 invigilators have been appointed in the district.There are two centres each in Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College and Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women. Government College for Girls, Khalsa College for Women, Nankana Sahib Public School, BCM College of Education, RS Model Senior Secondary School, DCM Presidency School, SDP College for Women, Arya College for Boys, Ramgarhia Girls College, MGM Public School and DAV Public School, all have once centre each.The UPSC conducts the nationwide exam for recruitment to various civil services of the government of India every year. The candidates will have to appear in two papers of objective type, carrying a maximum of 400 marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-6-120-aspirants-to-appear-in-upsc-civil-services-prelims/story-V9srwn7Eu2LN4c7510iOtM.html
03-10-2020||City||Oppn doing hooliganism in name of dissent: Hardeep Puri on farm laws||Chandigarh Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday defended the farm laws enacted recently by the Centre and accused the opposition parties of creating “political hooliganism” in the name of dissent. “Whatever happened in Rajya Sabha the day these Bills were passed, the way a tractor was set on fire at Rajghat by Congress workers, and now attacks on BJP offices and dharnas outside BJP leaders’ houses in Punjab, all this show the real plot,” he said. Puri, as per BJP insiders, was specifically sent by the party high command to Chandigarh to hold a press conference on the issue. He also said the Narendra Modi government was committed to safeguarding the interests of farmers and minimum support price (MSP) system will continue. “Misinformation, disinformation and outright lies are being spread that the Centre intends to dismantle the MSP system,” Puri told the media. He said: “Lies are being spread that farmers’ land will be snatched by big corporates. Sale, lease or mortgage of farmland is prohibited. Farmers’ land is also protected against any recovery. All this is mentioned in the Bills.” The Union minister sought to know from the Congress and other opposition parties if they were opposing the farm Bills then why 33 of their 107 MPs in Rajya Sabha remained absent from the House on September 20. “The ordinances were promulgated in May. Go through the Congress manifestoes of 2017 (Punjab Assembly polls) and 2019 (Lok Sabha),” he said, adding former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former deputy chairman of erstwhile Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia had said that “these things” should be implemented, apparently referring to the new farm laws. Claiming that the new farm laws were a win-win situation for everyone, he said the BJP-led government wanted to put money in farmers’ pockets by liberating them. When pointed out that agriculture was a state subject, Puri said that it was mentioned in the Constitution that the Union government can legislate in this domain in the national interest. “Farmers will be the real beneficiaries as they will get better prices,” he said. Avoids direct attack on SAD Puri, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Amrtisar seat, avoided a direct attack on Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal that recently snapped ties with the BJP over the new laws. However, without naming Harsimrat Kaur, who resigned from the Modi cabinet last month, he said till September 6, she thought the Bills were good for the farmers. About the SAD’s claim that they had raised their concerns over the farm reform laws with the Centre, he said, “Where and when it was raised, I do not know. Som Parkash ji (union minister) and I also sit in the council of ministers.” “Whatever information was sought on the Bills was provided to the SAD. They asked for a written assurance from the Union agriculture minister and a statement in Parliament on the MSP, which was done. I don’t know what happened in three days ahead of the first Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha,” he said. Union minister Som Parkash said the SAD had supported the ordinances. Even former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal also spoke in favour of these Bills, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/oppn-doing-hooliganism-in-name-of-dissent-hardeep-puri-on-farm-laws/story-A36Iw0wPjnzd7EL2QAChGO.html
03-10-2020||City||‘Atal Tunnel a step closer to 24x7 connectivity to Ladakh’||The Atal Tunnel has brought some relief to people of Ladakh and is a step towards 24x7 connectivity of the region with the rest of India, said former minister and ex-BJP chief of Ladakh, Cherign Dorjay.Dorjay said people of Ladakh welcome the inauguration of the Tunnel but they also want Zojila Tunnel to be opened at the earliest.“Normally, Manali route opens up after Zojila every winter. Now, it will open before Zojila. Distance and travel time to Manali has also reduced,” said Dorjay.He said that in no way has Atal Tunnel provided 24x7 connectivity between Leh and Manali. “There are three passes - Lachung La, Taglang La and Baralacha La - on the Manali-Leh axis. Taglang La is the highest pass and gets heavy snow in winters. So does, Lahaul valley,” he said.“If we have to provide 24x7 connectivity to Ladakh, a tunnel, smaller than Atal Tunnel has to be constructed between Zanskar and Nimu,” said Dorjay.He said little progress has been made on Zojila Tunnel between Sonmarg and Drass in Kargil.The National Highways Infrastructure Development and Construction Limited (NHIDCL) invited fresh bids for the Rs 4,430-crore project in June this year.According to a recent report by a global security consultancy, Stratfor, China has reportedly started construction of at least 13 new military positions including three air bases, five permanent air defence positions and five heliports near the line of actual control (LAC) in the aftermath of the Doklam standoff in 2017.The report also stated that construction on four of those new heliports started only after the border standoff erupted in eastern Ladakh in early May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-a-step-closer-to-24x7-connectivity-to-ladakh/story-1jQG1nzknRf9dZf2Z21tTJ.html
03-10-2020||City||23-year-old ends life in Karnal, kin accuse 2 cops of harassment||Hours after a 23-year-old man ended his life at his home in Sadar Bazar of Karnal city, his family members accused two cops of forcing him to take the extreme step. The agitated kin took the body of the deceased to the district police headquarters and held a protest, demanding action against the cops. The cops have been identified as assistant sub-inspector Ravinder and head constable Vikram of the Sadar Bazar police post.As per family members, the deceased’s brother had been booked for his involvement in a clash. The two cops allegedly rounded up the deceased for questioning and also demanded Rs 50,000 to settle the case.Traumatised by this, he decided to take the extreme step, family members alleged and refused to cremate the body till the two cops are suspended. Later, they met Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia following which the ASI and the head constable were sent to police lines.Karnal deputy superintendent of police Rajiv Kumar said an inquiry has been ordered against the two cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-ends-life-in-karnal-kin-accuse-2-cops-of-harassment/story-PQTzlnUe6Jwpglw03Vl7VO.html
03-10-2020||City||Tihar superintendent transferred after murder of an inmate||New Delhi: A Tihar jail superintendent has been transferred after an inmate was murdered last week inside jail number 1. An inquiry related to the murder of inmate Sunny Dogra alias Sikander is currently underway after a video of prisoners from inside jail 1, alleging that the murder was planned by jail authorities, was widely circulated on social media. On Saturday, Tihar director-general Sandeep Goel said an “experienced officer” has been put in charge of jail 1.Dogra, who was lodged inside jail number 1 since June 2020 for illegal possession of arms, was stabbed to death on the afternoon of September 24. Within days of the incident, a 5-minute video recorded on cellphone camera had surfaced in which prisoners accused jail officers of “murdering Dogra for money”. The prisoners had also demanded that the case be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The video also showed prisoners holding knives, smoking cigarettes, and narrating the details of the murder within the jail premises.HT could not independently confirm the authenticity of the video, but senior prison officers on condition of anonymity said probe has revealed that the video was indeed recorded inside jail number 1.Tihar additional inspector general Mukesh Prasad had ordered an enquiry to probe the allegations and also find out how prisoners were freely using cellphones. Cellphone are banned inside the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tihar-superintendent-transferred-after-murder-of-an-inmate/story-mC8zYCd9beIdH42S1MO2aN.html
03-10-2020||City||‘Suicide’ by armyman: Kin allege foul play||The family of a soldier who allegedly committed suicide in Uri sector on Thursday, alleged foul play and marked their protest by placing his body at Satwari Chowk. This disrupted traffic movement for over two hours on Saturday afternoon.The deceased was a rifleman in the army and a resident of Samba. “My son had a passion to join the army. He was a C-certificate holder and a passout from MAM College. How could he commit suicide? I had talked to him on Thursday morning and he sounded cheerful. Also, how can anyone fire two gunshots to end their life?” mother of the deceased said.The family was outraged when body of the deceased was brought in a private vehicle by two soldiers in civvies, who were headed to their homes on leave. The family said his body should have been sent home with full military honours and demanded that he should be given the status of a martyr. His mother also demanded a second postmortem and an independent probe into the death. She alleged that the army did something wrong with her son. A former sarpanch of the deceased’s village claimed that the army is hiding something.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-by-armyman-kin-allege-foul-play/story-ZV0YBreDfSiMglRqSiqoHL.html
03-10-2020||City||Post-Covid, healthcare in India must take a Gandhian turn||Many years ago, on a train journey from Mumbai to Wardha, to appear for the entrance exam to the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Sevagram (India’s first rural medical college), I hurriedly read through a book on Gandhian thought, because it was a part of the exam curriculum. I did well in the examination, but chose not to join the college which was run by a board of Gandhian scholars and doctors. Instead, I chose the King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Mumbai. After spending 12 long years at KEM, I became a qualified super-specialist and then continued my supposedly stellar career path by eventually joining as a consultant at a ‘five-star’ private hospital, which primarily caters to the upper strata of the society and provides world-class care and results. Unfortunately, India’s healthcare, too, followed a similar trajectory: it moved away from villages into the metros, from preventive and primary care to curative and tertiary care, and from the public sector to the private sector. Today, as I reflect back, I wonder if joining the Gandhian institute would have been a more satisfying career choice. Also, had India decided to develop not just one, but hundreds of such rural (Gandhian) medical colleges and hospitals in the villages and small towns of our country in the 1960s and 70s (the Sevagram-Wardha medical college was started in 1969), the whole healthcare pyramid in India would’ve been the right way up, and not turned upside down, as it is today. If Gandhiji would’ve lived longer, it may have actually happened. Today, our erroneous health trajectory and our poor health infrastructure have been thoroughly exposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, eight months into the pandemic, as we are coming to terms with the virus, it’s time that governments must start thinking and planning about how to rectify the wrong path that we have taken. It is time for India’s healthcare to take a Gandhian turn, or shall I say, a U-turn. The young Mohandas was eager to become a doctor, but his brother and father had nipped his desire in the bud – the reason being that Vaishnavas should have nothing to do with the dissection of dead bodies. So he went to England and studied Law. But even for the Barrister Gandhi, health –both personal and social – was of great importance. His life, principles and writings, hold many lessons about health and healthcare.The first turn: From healthcare to health The first Gandhian turn – that we as individuals as well as a nation – must take, is to move away from just thinking about healthcare, without thinking about health. Prioritising health over healthcare means living healthier lifestyles as individuals and as a society and enabling its citizens to lead such lifestyles. It also means prioritising preventive care over curative care and primary healthcare over tertiary care. Not just Gandhi, but recently even the dean of the Boston University School of Public Health, Dr Sandro Galea, in a live online dialogue about Indian healthcare, in the wake of the pandemic, pointed out the need for India and Indians to emphasise health over healthcare.Gandhi was a short and lean man, but had a healthy disposition. Throughout his life, he was more than conscious about what and how much he ate, avoiding intoxicants and the need for regular exercise. An interesting example of his diet fanaticism was how during a serious illness, he refused to take cow’s milk (because of a vow he had taken to abstain from it due to ill-treatment of cows while milking them), and was then persuaded to take consume goat’s milk – which was much more expensive. That is probably why Sarojini Naidu once said to him, “How costly it is to keep you simple.” Gandhi, after a pause, had replied in a contemplative mood, “Yes, God will forgive me. I have to maintain my body in a healthy way so that I can carry on my mission.” Gandhiji was also a fitness freak, and walked nearly 18km every day for over 40 years. It has been estimated that he must’ve walked enough to go around the earth twice.Gandhi was equally concerned about the health of his colleagues and of the poor masses. He realised that health also depends on the air we breathe, the earth we live on and the water we drink. It meant that to be healthy, one needs to live in simple, but clean and uncongested dwellings. In his book ‘Key To Health’ published in 1948, he says that the general rule should be to live in a locality which is not too congested, and insist upon the house being well-lighted and well-ventilated. He believed that cleanliness is next to Vaishnavaite Godliness. His ashrams in Sevagram and Ahmedabad are examples of these beliefs. He would have been aghast at the urban sprawl of unhygienic and congested slums. Prioritising health over healthcare would mean providing proper housing and sanitation and not just good hospitals. In this context, the Prime Minister’s campaign for freeing India of open defecation can be considered a Gandhian initiative.The second turn: From metros to towns and villagesAs was mentioned in the beginning of this article, our health trajectory has been lop-sided. And although late in the day (a good 70 years after the Independence), it is never too late to make amends. Healthcare must move from the KEM hospitals in cities and metros to Kasturba Hospitals in towns and villages. It must move from the corporate Apollo Hospitals to modern public Sushrut or Dhanwantari hospitals. Why can we not imagine a reoriented healthcare system where people from metros go to towns and villages for getting their major surgeries done – and probably at a much lesser cost! Gandhi’s statement, “The future of India lies in its villages,” still holds good, although it has been consistently neglected by the disproportionate growth of Indian cities and urban regions, whereas there isn’t as much growth being witnessed in the villages. This applies to the healthcare infrastructure too. Over the past 20 years, the only meaningful healthcare infrastructure that has been developed in rural areas is a spattering of unregulated nursing homes set up by private doctors. Needless to say that the care provided in most of them is not up to the mark, many times unscientific and expensive. The other health-related infrastructure to come up in rural settings across the country has been the hundreds of private medical colleges run by politicians, where ironically, urban students come and study. Most of these institutions have made a mockery of Gandhian values and medical ethics.During his lifetime, Gandhi advised doctors to go to villages. And his interesting advice to them was: “He will not go out as a patron saint of the villages; he will have to go in humility with a broom-stick in his hand. There is a Trinity of evil – insanitation, poverty and idleness – that you will have to be faced with, and you will fight them with broom-sticks, quinine and castor oil, and if you will believe me, with the spinning-wheel.”I believe that even today, the paucity of doctors wanting to go to the villages is because they do not want to go there with the humility as suggested by Gandhi. They do not see themselves as social workers, while being a doctor. This mentality has to change. This can only happen with a Gandhian mindset. And thus, Gandhian values need to be taught as a part of the medical curriculum in all medical colleges, as they hopefully still continue to do at Wardha’s MGIMS. I would also suggest putting a moratorium on new medical colleges in cities and metros. The third turn: From specialists to generalists and paramedics, from tertiary care to primary careGandhi, while laying great emphasis on preventing diseases, also believed that the most common 42 diseases do not require a specialist doctor, and can be treated easily by a good nurse or a generalist doctor. Gandhi himself served as a nurse in Mission Hospitals and also during the Boer War in South Africa. In his descriptions of his illnesses during his lifetime, he describes how only after several basic therapies were tried, did he opt to go to a specialist doctor. In India, with our lop-sided healthcare trajectory, we have sadly moved away from primary healthcare. The initial efforts and enthusiasm to develop primary healthcare centres (PHCs) did not last long, and many PHCs exist today as dilapidated structures without staff and equipment. We do not even offer a postgraduation course in general practice at most of our medical institutions. The lack of good, modern, well-equipped primary healthcare facilities has led to overcrowding and overburdening of bigger hospitals and tertiary centres. In this context, the efforts of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi to rectify this anomaly by setting up a chain of modern Mohalla clinics have been exemplary, and must be emulated across the country.The fourth turn: From a non-scientific to a scientific and research-minded approachGandhiji was always scientific in his approach towards health and healthcare. He was very critical of the fact that the indigenous systems of medicine had not kept abreast with modern methods of research. Regarding Ayurvedic doctors, he has written, “They impute to Ayurveda an omnipotence which it does not possess, and in so doing, they have made it a stagnant system, instead of a gloriously progressive science.” As I write this, it brings to my mind the recent tall claims made by an Ayurvedic consumer goods and medicines manufacturing company regarding their new drug which could cure coronavirus.Gandhi praised western medicine for the “…brilliant array of discoveries and inventions which western physicians and surgeons boast.” Indian doctors and basic medical researchers have to go overseas to western centres to let their research flourish and bear fruit. We must facilitate our doctors and bio-researchers to be able to do meaningful research. Many of my surgeon-peers in Europe or USA spend a day every week in modern research labs attached to their hospitals and medical colleges. How many surgeons in India can do that?The fifth turn: From private to public health and healthcareThe final Gandhian turn to take is to move away from the limitations of an overwhelmingly privatised, disintegrated and for-profit healthcare system, to a more egalitarian, modern and predominantly public healthcare delivery model. The limitations of our exceedingly privatised model have been more than exposed by this pandemic. A similarly over-privatised system exists in USA and we know the havoc the pandemic wreaked in that country too.Gandhi was very clear in his views about the priorities of the medical profession. On February 13, 1921, on the occasion of opening of the Tibbia National Medical College, he said, “Lastly I shall hope that this college will inculcate among the students the belief that the profession of medicine is not intended for earning fat fees, but for alleviating pain and suffering”. Thus, he would have certainly been against a system which was largely for-profit. In 1991, when we liberalised the economy, the state withdrew many economic restraints, but it has also withdrawn from many of its social responsibilities: health and education. The pandemic has revealed the tragic consequences of abdicating these state responsibilities. The recent spurt of many national and state insurance schemes for citizens to avail treatments in private, non-modern, mom-and-pop, stand-alone nursing homes (it’s difficult to call many of them modern hospitals) cannot be equated to being treated in well-equipped public, modern multispecialty hospitals and centres.It is said, if you sweat in peace, you don’t bleed in the war. During this war against coronavirus, we are bleeding and bleeding much more than others because we did not sweat in peacetimes. We did not build the right health infrastructure. We did not prioritise the health of our people over healthcare. We left the health of our people to the mercy of the market forces. We allowed wealth to buy health. We disabled our citizens from even attempting to remain healthy by making them live in cramped and unhygienic conditions, where social distancing is an impossibility, and asking them to keep a 2-metre distances is a ridicule. I hope that the bright warning light that the pandemic has shone on our failures is strong and scorching enough to be perceived even by our blind or Nelson-eyed politicians.Let us not forget what Bapuji, the conscience-keeper of our nation, once said: “It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.”(Dr Santosh Karmarkar is a consultant paediatric surgeon and paediatric urologist at Lilavati Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/post-covid-healthcare-in-india-must-take-a-gandhian-turn/story-CqXKKpV2F3NKqAQQL8xEyO.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A dapper cradle killer||Observant citizens nurturing a passion for Nature and equipped with high-tech gadgets (the latest smartphones have very powerful cameras) can make productive contributions to our awareness of the behaviour of species. And, all from the comfort of a plush settee, if luck and chance come laden in a silver spoon! The Oriental Pied hornbill, a rare bird and beloved bird of Chandigarh, is a far more dapper cousin of the State Bird, the Grey hornbill.While most think hornbills are fruit eaters, this big bird’s formidable bill is not just a piece of eye candy. It can savage and mangle little birds and chicks with a force as brute as garden shears set upon a tender rose stem. The butcher bill can equally remove an egg from another bird’s nest with an extractive touch as delicate as a brain surgeon’s, before gobbling it whole and without remorse! In other words, the hornbill is a cradle predator.In a Sector 8 bungalow garden in Chandigarh, a pair of Pied hornbills staked out a nest of Rose-ringed parakeets in a tree hollow. The hornbills were on the hunt for chicks or eggs.Within a few minutes, the male hornbill pulled out a parakeet egg. The hunt was witnessed from inside the house by Nitin Sarin. He quietly took photographs bringing to light this aspect of hornbill feeding behaviour, the first such photo documentation from Chandigarh. Asian hornbills also hunt scorpions, lizards, geckos, skinks, earthworms, frogs, caterpillars, beetles, butterflies, cicadas, grasshoppers while some hornbill species list serpents on their omnivorous diet charts.A TRINKET GLITTERS IN THE NIGHTIt was assessed as a routine snake rescue call when Salim Khan made his way to a house in Sector 21, Panchkula, late on Wednesday night. The householders had seen the serpent take shelter underneath planks of wood in their garden and Khan told them to maintain vigilance till the time he got there. Khan nabbed the serpent easily but its patterns mystified him. In all his decades of rescuing serpents, the hawk-eyed Khan had never seen this one before. In the darkness as light shone on the serpent, it appeared to him as if dazzling zebra stripes had materialised on a reptile so far away from the African savanna. Identified later by field researcher and snake expert Vivek Sharma as the Himalayan Trinket snake (Orthriophis hodgsoni Günther, 1860), its rescue heralded the first authentic record of this species from Haryana. This species is encountered at elevations ranging between 1,000 to 3,200 m, so the Panchkula specimen was somewhat an oddity. It is possible that the serpent got swept by monsoon torrents in the upper hills and landed in the Ghaggar river bed adjacent to Sector 21, just as Himalayan fishes and flora travel far into the plains on water surges.This trinket species is found in India, Nepal and Tibet, is non-venomous and kills prey such as rodents, small mammals and lizards by constriction just like a python. It is also known as the Hodgson’s Rat snake. “Trinket snake species get their common English names as they are colourful and beautiful,” Sharma told this writer.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-a-dapper-cradle-killer/story-hR0WRYeyQD4Ym4fOtpytHI.html
03-10-2020||City||Civil aviation minister inaugurates two passenger boarding bridges at Chandigarh airport||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri inaugurated two passenger boarding bridges (PBBs) at Chandigarh International Airport during his visit to the city on Saturday. Now, the airport has five PBBs. The two PBBs are constructed at a cost of Rs 10.5 crores.The minister was also apprised about the ongoing works at Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) viz. construction of Southern taxi track, apron, and cargo. Ajay Kumar, CEO-CHIAL said that the PBBs are now available fully for the use of passengers and almost 90% of the total passenger traffic shall be making use of it. He said that the passenger facilitation has always remained on top of CHIAL’s agenda list and they are committed to make Chandigarh airport one of the best airports in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-aviation-minister-inaugurates-two-passenger-boarding-bridges-at-chandigarh-airport/story-51ZeV4P3ijFjCtQRip97uL.html
03-10-2020||City||Panipat man booked for raping, impregnating minor stepdaughter||A Panipat factory worker has been booked for allegedly raping his 16-year-old stepdaughter and impregnating her, police said on Saturday.The victim used to live with the accused as her mother had deserted them a few years ago. She told the police that the accused had raped her multiple times over the past few months in their rented accommodation.A few days ago, she managed to escape and reach her brother’s house in Taraori of Karnal. There she disclosed the matter to her sister-in-law, following which they lodged a police complaint.A zero FIR was first registered in Karnal, from where it was forwarded to the Panipat police. Rajbir Singh, the in-charge of police station in Panipat, said the accused has been booked under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code.The SHO said the accused has so far not been arrested but investigation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-man-booked-for-raping-impregnating-minor-stepdaughter/story-32SQsUJrC9iV8NdMrroGfN.html
03-10-2020||City||Delhi’s air quality may enter ‘poor’ zone on Sunday||New Delhi: With a dip in mercury and farm fires picking up in the neighbouring Haryana and Punjab, Delhi’s air quality may turn ‘poor’ by Sunday (October 4), government agencies have warned. The last time this year Delhi’s air quality was in the poor zone was in March. As per Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, Saturday’s average AQI was 189 -- in the moderate zone, close to the poor mark (at 201). So far this year, air quality has remained between good to moderate zones only. Overall, this year has so far seen cleaner air than 2019 with Covid-19 induced lockdown and a good monsoon keeping air quality under check. On a scale 0-500, a value of 0-50 is considered ‘good’ (minimal health risk), 51-100 is ‘satisfactory’ (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is ‘moderate’ (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease), 200-300 is ‘poor’ (breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure), 300-400 is ‘very poor’ (respiratory illness on prolonged exposure) and 400-500 is ‘severe’ (affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases). According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, Delhi’s air quality could deteriorate over the next few days. “Air quality may deteriorate to the lower end of the ‘poor’ category by October 4. An increase in stubble burning fires observed recently in Punjab, Haryana and bordering regions is likely to start impacting Delhi in the coming days,” the SAFAR bulletin released on Saturday said. According to officials in Haryana and Punjab, this year the crop stubble burning started at least a week earlier than last year. “Last year stubble burning incidents were recorded from October 1 , which is the usual scenario, however, this year farmers started burning paddy residue from September 25. This is why by October first week we have already had over 200 farm fires, of which a few are accidental fires as well, which we are verifying from field officers,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). From September 25 to October 2, Haryana has recorded 256 farm fires. Last year by the same time, only 35 incidents were recorded, according to HSPCB officials. National Aeronautics Space Administration (NASA) satellite imagery between September 22 and October 1 shows 880 farm fires in Punjab. Of this, the maximum, 554, were reported from Amritsar. In 2019, only 224 fires were recorded by October 1. “We have been monitoring the fire counts through satellite imagery. This year the farm fires started earlier than last year with Punjab recording a 100% increase than last year. But it also indicates that since the burning has started early, it is likely to not peak around Diwali when pollution levels spike the most and weather conditions are not favourable for dispersal of pollutants. The crucial period begins from October 15, when weather conditions start stagnating,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at IIT Delhi’s Centre for Atmospheric Sciences. According to scientists in the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there has been a consistent drop in night temperature over the past few days. On Saturday, night temperature settled at 20.3 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal while maximum settled at 36.1 degrees, two notches above normal. “Both day and night temperatures are likely to decrease from October 5. Also, the wind pattern and speed are changing. Falling of temperature and slow wind speed are not favourable for dispersal of pollutants. This combined with higher density of farm fires may lead to a deterioration in air quality,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-air-quality-may-enter-poor-zone-on-sunday/story-g1pGtq6vB9xw4cBzQs2HVJ.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bike thieves’ gang busted, 5 arrested||Haryana police busted a gang of motorcycle thieves, active in Kaithal and adjoining districts, with the arrest of five members. As many as 20 motorcycles stolen from different parts of Kaithal, Thanesar and Pehowa were recovered from their possession. A police spokesperson said that three members of the gang were arrested after an extensive interrogation of an accused who is already in police remand, while one member of the gang had been sent to judicial custody on October 1. After interrogating an accused, Ritesh, the police team had set up a naka on the intervening night of October 2 and 3 near Keodak and arrested three persons identified as Gokul, alias Sunny, Arun and Ankush. Earlier, police had also nabbed Ajay and Ritesh with a stolen bike on the night of September 30. The accused admitted that they used to steal bikes and hide them somewhere to sell them at throwaway prices. Meanwhile, the police also arrested two persons when they were carrying 1kg opium in a truck loaded with pulses in Sirsa district. Police spokesperson said the arrested persons had hidden the contraband in a truck which came from Jhabra area in Madhya Pradesh and were supposed to go to Punjab. The arrested accused have been identified as Gurjeet Singh and Gurdev, both residents of Sirsa district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bike-thieves-gang-busted-5-arrested/story-jSvTzk5dzGztJBAnOjGX5M.html
03-10-2020||City||Punjab Roadways readies for inter-state operations||Jalandhar With the state government relaxing some restrictions, including 50% cap on passengers in buses, Punjab Roadway has reached out to neighbouring states with the intention to resume the inter-state services after six months. The roadways officials have approached the Haryana, Himachal and Delhi transport authorities, seeking their approval to restart services. Haryana government had sought Punjab’s nod to start inter-state bus operations, while Himachal announced to resume the inter-state services last week. “We are now planning to start the inter-state service soon after receiving a nod from the neighbouring states. Haryana is ready but Delhi authorities are yet to decide on the standard operating procedure (SOP),” Parneet Minhas, deputy director, in-charge of roadways bus operations, said. Currently, roadways is running 40% of its fleet in absence of inter-state operations. General manager, roadways depot-1, Navraj Batish, said the profit was minuscule. “Now, we will earn more with no cap on passenger capacity,” he said. In its ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines on September 1, the Centre lifted the restrictions on the interstate movement of people and goods and did away with the mandatory approvals and e-permits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-roadways-readies-for-inter-state-operations/story-YPQ2RlPtQiAe6HQmhUKRqJ.html
03-10-2020||City||Another JJP MLA speaks out against farm laws||The Jannayak Janta Party, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana, seems to be divided on the recently enacted farm laws as another legislator from the party has voiced his opinion against the laws. Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag on Saturday claimed that he has conveyed his concerns over the laws to deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. He said it is unfortunate that even after many MLAs and farmers’ unions expressed concerns over these laws, the Union government seems to be reluctant to address the issues. “As a farmer’s son, I know the consequences these three laws will have. I have raised my voice against these bills at every stage. I have always raised the voice of farmers’ and labourers and will not sit quite in this fight. The three laws will be beneficial to only a few crony capitalists while the farmers’, labourers and consumers will bear the brunt,” he added. Sihag further said that though his views are different from that of the party, he has no differences with deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. “Dushyant became deputy CM with the support of other MLAs and not because of his political background. I am happy with the way the state government is functioning. Deputy CM Chautala always solved my grievances related to development work but my views on these laws are different from the party’s. I am surprised with the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi has introduced these laws against the farmers’ will,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-jjp-mla-speaks-out-against-farm-laws/story-B1XWTxIxivDPACJFZcWZbP.html
03-10-2020||City||Pathankot man booked for raping woman, duping her of ₹2 lakh||A Pathankot man has been booked for allegedly raping a 32-year-old woman for two years and duping her of Rs 2 lakh in cash. His parents have also been booked for cheating the woman.The accused has been identified as Suresh Saini of Taragarh village, Pathankot, and his parents, Avtar Prithviraj and Raj Rani.In her complaint to police, the woman said she had separated from her husband in 2018 over domestic violence and him suspecting her of infidelity. Saini was their tenant back then and often rescued her from her husband’s onslaughts.After her divorce, Saini proposed to her for marriage, which she accepted. After their families met, their wedding was scheduled for January 2019. Meanwhile, Saini forced her into physical relations without her consent. Besides, he borrowed Rs 2 lakh from her to start a business. As January 2019 approached, he advised her to postpone their wedding as his business was not profitable. Thereafter, he kept delaying the marriage and eventually refused to marry her, prompting her to approach the police.ASI Resham Singh, who is investigating the case, said Saini had been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused and his parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pathankot-man-booked-for-raping-woman-duping-her-of-2-lakh/story-6KfpMn9eOlvC4d9uOdNybN.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt issues guidelines for restaurants which are set to reopen||The Maharashtra government on Saturday issued Covid-19 safety guidelines for restaurants and other eateries which have been allowed to reopen from October 5.Hotels, food courts and restaurants can operate from Monday at 50 per cent of their seating capacity.As per the guidelines, customers should be screened at the entry point for coronavirus symptoms such as high temperature, cough, and cold.Only asymptomatic customers will be allowed inside.Also, putting on face masks will be mandatory, except while eating, the guidelines said.Customers must follow social distancing while waiting for service.Consent should be obtained from visitors for sharing their details with administrative and health authorities for contact-tracing related activities, the guidelines said.Hand sanitizers must be made available, and payment through digital mode should be encouraged while precautions should be taken during cash transactions.Rest rooms and hand-wash areas must be cleaned regularly.Plexiglass screens or similar barriers must be erected at counters where interactions with customers occur frequently, the guidelines said.Also, there should be separate entry and exit points.CCTV cameras on the premises must be fully functional and only cooked food should be included in the menu and raw or cold food like salads should be avoided, the guidelines said.Furniture should be disinfected on a daily basis, the guidelines added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-issues-guidelines-for-restaurants-which-are-set-to-reopen/story-JJno6rZsH0dOkLXlIFJ9TL.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||24/7 canal-based water supply project: Ludhiana villagers submit quotations for land acquisition||With the municipal corporation (MC) on the look out for 50-acre land for setting up a water treatment plant under the 24/7 surface (canal-based) water supply project, landowners from four villages have volunteered to sell their land to the civic body. Earlier this week, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh and other officials had met with panchayat members from different villages and asked villagers to submit a quotation,including the price of land, with the MC.As per the officials, villagers from Deep Nagar, Bilaspur, Bowani and Landa have submitted a quotation with the authorities, which would be discussed in the next meeting of the MC. Earlier, the MC had selected Rampur village to set up a treatment plant but the site was rejected on technical grounds. Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh said,”We are now focussing on villages that are close to the Sidhwan Canal, which will reduce investment and maintenance cost.”The ₹3,200 crore project is being funded by the World Bank. A team from the World Bank had visited the city in the first week of March and had directed the MC officials to identify the site by March 31, but the project was delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/24-7-canal-based-water-supply-project-villagers-submit-quotations-for-land-acquisition/story-XYgNbEjaTENEnRpBkkVTML.html
03-10-2020||Lucknow||UP mulls over creating employment commission in urban, semi-urban areas||The Uttar Pradesh government is considering the creation of a new and permanent regulatory body to ensure that at least one member of each family in urban and semi-urban areas gets a guaranteed employment much like in villages where every family gets 100 days’ work a year under the MNREGS, a government spokesman said on Saturday. The proposed employment commission will be a statutory body with the deputy chief minister as its chairman apart from having an executive head to be known as the employment commissioner who will be an official of the rank of the chief secretary. Various training and self-employment schemes and programme currently being run by different government departments will come under the new body. Also read: Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka allowed to visit Hathras gang-rape victim’s family“The employment commissioner, who will coordinate with the departments concerned, will have the power to issue directions with regard to employment and skill development training to any government department, private institute, industry and company,” said the spokesman. The proposed commission, according to the spokesman, will keep a keen watch on employment opportunities to be available in the state and ensure transparency in recruitment.“The commission will help the youth get a loan under various schemes from banks after arranging training for them as required by the industry,” he said. The commission will get job fairs organized for overseas jobs in coordination with the concerning embassies and high commissions of other countries. The Yogi Adityanath government had set up a temporary commission for the purpose of mapping skills of over 30 lakh migrants that had returned from various states amid the Covid-19 lockdown and help them get work as per their skill and suitability. The agriculture production commissioner (APC) and the industrial and infrastructure development commissioner (IIDC) jointly head this commission. “But desired results are not available since both the officers have totally different areas of work,” the spokesman said, adding, “This is why the government is considering setting up a statutory permanent employment commission”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-mulls-over-creating-employment-commission-in-urban-semi-urban-areas/story-7Syu4el2JBaOvAK8BwiOqK.html
03-10-2020||Kolkata||Dalits are being tortured most, dictatorship going on in the country: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Saturday launched a scathing attack on the BJP-led government at the Centre for running a “dictatorship” in the country and said the saffron party is a “pandemic” which is torturing dalits the most. Banerjee, who held a protest march against the Hathras gang rape case, said she will stand by the Dalit community till the end as her caste is “humanity” and she does not believe in differentiation on the grounds of caste and religion. The march, the first by the fiesty TMC supremo since March when the nationwide lockdown was declared to break the coronavirus infection chain, covered the 2-km distance between Birla Planetarium to Gandhi statue on Mayo Road here. Sharpening her attack, Banerjee said, “Covid-19 is not a big pandemic. BJP is the biggest pandemic. It is the biggest pandemic of atrocities against Dalit and backward communities.” “We should stand up against these atrocities ... The kind of atrocities that are taking place are completely unacceptable,” she said addressing the rally. “A dictatorship is going on across the country.Instead of government for the people, it is running a government against the people, the Dalits and the farmers,” she said. Hitting out at the Centre for allegedly failing to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, Banerjee said it seemed that the community spread of the disease has begun as people who don’t venture out and stay in a protective atmosphere are also getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/dalits-are-being-tortured-most-dictatorship-going-on-in-the-country-mamata-banerjee/story-iyHatZxBSt1qEAkq2Jf7DM.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||To escape Delhi Police, robber applies excreta on his body||A 23-year-old man, involved in four criminal cases, applied faeces on his body to avoid being arrested, but was held by police in Delhi’s Kashmere Gate area, officials said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Arjun, a resident of Madangir, they said. On Thursday, a police team patrolling Nitya Nand Marg near Kashmere Gate metro station noticed two bike-borne men behaving suspiciously. They were signalled to stop, but the suspects approached aggressively towards the policemen in order to intimidate them, a senior police officer said. “Their bike slipped and they tried to escape from the spot. However, one suspect managed to flee by running in the opposite direction of traffic coming on Yudhister Setu, whereas Arjun was caught after around one-kilometer chase,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said. He tried to use pepper spray on police but could not succeed. In order to escape from police’s clutches, he took out faeces from his trousers and applied all over his body and even smeared it on the uniform of a policeman. Notwithstanding the bizarre trick, the policeman caught hold of the accused and apprehended him, they said. Arjun, along with his accomplice, used to commit robbery. When they did not get an easy target, they used to spill oil over car to divert the attention of its driver and steal belongings from the vehicle, police said. He kept a knife and a pepper spray for threatening people and police. Raids were conducted to nab his accomplice, he said. A gold chain, one bike, one pepper spray, one bottle automobile oil used for spilling on car engines, ball bearing used for breaking glass and a knife were recovered from his possession, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-escape-delhi-police-robber-applies-excreta-on-his-body/story-EBCQV1o7TzywQrbd1sD1OP.html
03-10-2020||City||Suspense over Sidhu’s presence at Rahul’s tractor march on Sunday||As political temperature hots up on the issue of new farm laws, Congress leader and former party president Rahul Gandhi will launch a three-day protest march with 3,000 tractors from Moga on Sunday.There is no clarity, however, on the participation of party’s Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu has been among the Congress’ star election campaigners in the past, but is the bête noire of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Sidhu has not shared stage with Amarinder for over a year.Sidhu’s strained relationship with Amarinder became public after the former talked of a ‘friendly match’ at a Lok Sabha election rally in Bathinda on May 17, 2019, referring to alleged ‘inaction’ by the Amarinder-led government against the culprits of sacrilege incidents. Sidhu left the state cabinet in June last year after his portfolio was changed from local bodies to power.Cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who is overseeing Rahul’s visit, told HT on Saturday that a huge gathering was expected at the grain market in Badhni Kalan in Moga about 11am on Sunday.With AICC general secretary Harish Rawat meeting Sidhu in Amritsar on Thursday, it was believed that the cricketer-turned-politician will be seen at Rahul’s political programme. “All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretaries KC Venugopalan, Randeep Surjewala, newly-appointed Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda will attend the tractor rally. The CM and state party president Sunil Jakhar will be there. There is no official word on Sidhu reaching Moga tomorrow,” said Randhawa. It will be the first political event since March 22, when lockdown was imposed for the first time after the covid-19 outbreak, to have official sanction for the gathering of a large number of people. Congress’ protest has political significance, as Punjab has been reeling under organised protests by all 31 farmers’ associations and unions of farm labourers against the BJP and its former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), on the new farm laws.SAD, the traditional political foe of the Congress, has already registered its political presence by organising a statewide rally on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspense-over-sidhu-s-presence-at-rahul-s-tractor-march-today/story-xnnYTykzMc05cjebhgmFuO.html
03-10-2020||Pune||Seized liquor worth ₹50 lakh stolen in Talegaon||The Talegaon Police have lodged a case against seven persons for fleeing with illegal liquor stock worth ₹50 lakh, stored in a container, on Friday morning. The stock was seized by the Maharashtra state excise department during a raid conducted on Thursday night. The staffers at the excise department brought the container to their office, when the accused escaped with the container. Maharashtra excise inspector Nanabhau Phatangare has a lodged an official complaint in this regard. The complaint states that the container, with number plate MH 20 DE 0207, was confiscated by the excise department during the raid on Thursday night at Shankarwadi, near Somatane phata on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The container was brought to the office premises located on Talegaon Chakan road where a panchnama was conducted, the complaint stated. The FIR further added, “At around 1.10am, two cars with numbers MH 12 DM 2020 and MH 12 CD 2713 arrived at the office where some unidentified persons abused and assaulted the staffers including the complainant and took away the container in violation of the government rules.” Inspector (crime) Shahaji Pawar said, “It is a serious case where the accused prevented the government officials from discharging their official duties. The total illicit liquor stock kept in the container is estimated to be worth ₹50 lakh. Their details are being obtained and they will be arrested soon.” The accused have been booked under 395 ( punishment for dacoity ), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from the discharge of his duty ), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace ), 506 ( criminal intimidation ), and 34 ( acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention ).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seized-liquor-worth-50-lakh-stolen-in-talegaon/story-j8IBlUwrwS7QomWbkmsxoI.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s back to village programme- 3 to focus on execution of first two editions||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Friday embarked on the third edition of the back to village (B2V) programme. The 10-day edition will focus on implementation and execution of all that was conceived and achieved in the previous two editions. The first edition of the B2V programme was held under former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) governor Satya Pal Malik in June 2019 and the second edition under former lieutenant governer (L-G) GC Murmu in November. A senior official, tasked with supervising the project, said, “B2V-3 aims to build on the foundations of B2V-1 and B2V-2. This will be an action edition with focus on implementation and execution.” Shortly, after the constitution of panchayats in the UT, a first-of-its-kind week-long interface programme was devised. “The programme focused on energising the panchayats, collecting feedback on delivery of government programmes, capturing specific economic potential and undertaking an assessment of the needs of the villages,” the official said, adding that as part of the programme, a gazetted officer spent two days and one night in each of the 4,129 panchayats of the erstwhile state. The programme won plaudits across the country, the PM called it a ‘festival of development, public participation and public awareness’, in his radio programme Mann Ki Baat. The exercise of sending a gazetted officer to a village for three days was repeated again in the second phase in November. This time the objective was to follow up on B2V1, focus on 100% implementation of individual beneficiary-oriented schemes, focus on schemes and activities that can be undertaken to double farmers’ income, assessment of implementation of all measures and schemes aimed at empowerment of panchayats and spread awareness about them, said the officer. The programme again found mentioned in the PM’s Independence Day speech. While the first B2V-focussed on interaction and information – getting to know the difficulties of the people and taking the administration to the grassroots, the second B2V focused on strengthening and institutionalising panchayats, handholding the newly elected PRIs and focussing on saturation and 100% coverage of beneficiary- oriented schemes. In both phases, visiting officers participated in gram sabhas and learnt about people’s grouses. “The third edition aims to address the problems, grievances and demands through concrete action,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-back-to-village-programme-3-to-focus-to-on-execution-of-first-two-editions/story-L2i1ljs03FMpESayHBML6M.html
03-10-2020||City||PM politicised inauguration of Atal tunnel, did not announce financial package for Himachal: Congress||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Saturday expressed disappointment over Prime Minister Narendra Modi politicising the inauguration of Atal Tunnel and not announcing a financial package for development of the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement issued here, Rathore said the PM has once again left people of Himachal disappointed and his tour has proved to be political. He said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur claims that Himachal has a very special place in the PM’s heart but it turned out to be a lie. “Even the CM has failed to effectively put the demands of the state before the Prime Minister,” he added.Rathore also congratulated the people of Lahaul and Spiti for the inauguration of Atal tunnel. He said the Congress had contributed significantly in the construction of the tunnel, which should have been mentioned. He said the Congress leaders were kept away from the programme organised at Sissu in Lahaul. “Such discrimination was an injustice to the people. It was nothing short of a big festival but the government politicised it by making it a BJP programme,” Rathore said.He said the new agricultural law that the PM is making big claims about is not going to benefit farmers and horticulturists. “He should have also talked about the promises made to the people of the state but have not been fulfilled till date,” Rathore said.He said the construction of Rohtang Tunnel, which the PM is describing as the achievement of his government is completely beyond facts. “In 1972, the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi gave her in-principle approval for the construction of the tunnel and in 2010 the UPA president Sonia Gandhi, while accepting the final draft of its construction, laid the foundation stone on June 28, 2010. It would have been better if the PM in his address would have remembered the contribution of former PM Indira Gandhi, Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi in its construction,” Rathore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-politicised-inauguration-of-atal-tunnel-did-not-announce-financial-package-for-himachal-congress/story-VfkFh1wLKDX8accoLOaIfM.html
03-10-2020||Pune||Yogi government does not believe in law of land: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar criticised the Uttar Pradesh government over the Hathras incident, saying, “the way Yogi government stopped Congress leader Rahul Gandhi from visiting the family of the victim shows that the UP government does not believe in the law of the land and fundamental rights”.The NCP president while speaking to reporters at Vasantdada sugar institute in Pune on Friday said that he heard a statement of a police officer from UP, in which he denied rape. “Not handing over the dead body of the girl who was gang-raped to the family and cremating it without the consent is something which has never happened in the country. I don’t believe there is a government functioning as per law in UP,” said Pawar.Pawar said Hathras incident shows how the UP government and the local police are of extreme and wrongful who are taking the law into their hands.“Maharashtra too has witnessed rape cases, but the state government handled it legally and took immediate legal steps. The Uttar Pradesh government has been mum over it. The entire country is condemning it,” he added. Pawar said that Rahul Gandhi, his aides and a member of parliament went there to meet the family, however, they were not allowed to meet and they were arrested in the middle of the road.“It shows that you do not believe in law of the land and fundamental rights and that is why the reactions that are coming in in the country on the issue is appropriate,” said Pawar.Reacting to grandnephew Parth Pawar’s announcement of approaching the court, the NCP chief said, whoever wants to go can approach the court. “Anyone can go to court. Even if ten people go to court, it will help the state. Ultimately our aim is to lift the stay,” said Pawar when asked about Parth’s announcement. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Parth, son of Ajit Pawar, said he was devastated to hear the death of the Maratha youth who committed suicide and he will file an intervention plea on Maratha reservation. Without mentioning grandnephew Parth Pawar’s name, NCP chief said even if others want to approach the court, they can go. Recently Parth Pawar tweeted and demanded the courts be moved for getting Maratha reservation. Pawar also spoke about the Babri Masjid ruling and said that despite having all proof and evidence, this decision had come where no one was held guilty. Commenting on the Babri demolition case verdict, Pawar said that when the Babri mosque was demolished, he was in the P V Narsimha Rao government.He said that though he was defence minister, he was informed that the then union home secretary Madhav Godbole had given his inputs to the centre that the then Kalyan Singh government will not keep its promise of not touching the Babri structure.“But then Prime Minister P V Narsimha Rao was of the opinion that the centre should trust the chief of the state. Unfortunately, Godbole’s opinion was not considered and what he was anticipating, that incident took place,” said Pawar.BOX Before visiting the Vasantdada Sugar Institute, Pawar also visited the Serum institute where he was given shot of BCG vaccine. “I went there to inquire about development on Covid vaccine. I have also taken shot of BCG, which increases immunity.” Pune based Serum institute is is currently undergoing phase III trials of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yogi-government-does-not-believe-in-law-of-land-pawar/story-hBjJzuKJirwolNsJh0E1gO.html
03-10-2020||Kolkata||‘Will stand with Dalit brothers and sisters’: Mamata at protest against Hathras rape||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee took out a rally in Kolkata in protest against Hathras gang-rape case.“I feel like going to Hathras and meeting the victim’s family members; what has happened is condemnable,” she said at her first rally since Covid-19 pandemic began.“For me my caste is humanity,” Banerjee said, adding that she will stand by her Dalit ‘brothers and sisters’.The 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped and tortured by ‘upper’ caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14. She died in New Delhi Safdarjang Hospital on Tuesday.Meanwhile, workers of Congress and left wing parties broke police barricades near Esplanade Metro Channel in city while protesting against the gang-rape. #WATCH West Bengal: Workers of Congress & Left parties broke police barricading today near Esplanade Metro Channel in Kolkata, during their protest march against the #HathrasIncident. pic.twitter.com/fw3en5jk2VThe TMC has already started its campaign to raise the issue, targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Friday afternoon, TMC’s media cell in Bengal posted on social media videos of its four MPs engaged in a scuffle with policemen about a kilometre away from the Hathras victim’s village.The leaders were stopped by the police from going to the victim’s village to meet her family. #WATCH: TMC delegation being roughed up by Uttar Pradesh Police at #Hathras border. The delegation, including Derek O'Brien, was on the way to meet the family of the victim of Hathras incident. pic.twitter.com/94QcSMiB2kThe team was led by TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien and included Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/condemnable-mamata-banerjee-at-protest-against-hathras-gang-rape/story-Y51I2DgBmooLJNl7T715fL.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||31 killed in tiger attacks across Maharashtra in 2020, highest in a year since 2010||Tigers killed 31 people in Maharashtra in 2020, the highest in a year over the past decade, with a total of 153 humans being killed in the state by the wild cats since 2010. The state also witnessed most human deaths (57) in wild animal attacks, equalling the previous high of 2016, during the first nine months of this year. A total of 467 people have been killed by wild animals in Maharashtra between 2010 and 2020, revealed data from the state forest department.The incidents of humans losing life in tiger attacks have risen five times over the past decade, with 2010 witnessing 5 deaths, which gradually rose to 24 in 2017 and 2019, the previous high before this year (see box). Recent data tabled before the Lok Sabha by the Union environment ministry showed that Maharashtra also had the highest annual deaths due to human-tiger conflict in India since 2014.“The rise in tiger population, both inside and outside protected areas in Maharashtra, is the primary reason for the in human deaths,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra, adding that other factors could include forest fragmentation outside protected areas, rise in tiger numbers dispersing from one protected area to another, increased human activity in forest areas (agriculture, cattle grazing, firewood collection) or linear infrastructure or irrigation projects within the tiger landscape. Tiger population in Maharashtra has increased from 103 in 2006 to 168 in 2010, 190 in 2014 and 312 as per the latest assessment in 2018-19. “The problem is basically in Chandrapur, and a recent increase in incidents is being witnessed around Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal,” said Kishor Rithe, member, State Board of Wildlife (SBWL).Forest patches of Chandrapur district are home to 175 of the 312 tigers in the state, accounting for 56% of estimated tiger numbers, with 82 found in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, 23 in Central Chanda, 31 across Chandrapur forest areas, including Pandharkawada, and 39 in Brahmapuri. The district reported just five deaths in 2016, which shot up to 11 in 2017, 17 in 2018, 24 in 2019 and this year so far 26 of the 31 deaths in Maharashtra have been reported from this district. To avoid human-tiger conflict in Chandrapur, the SBWL during its 15th meeting on August 7, recommended the formation of a committee to study and deliberate measures to reduce the population of tigers. “It was highlighted that there have been more than 150 deaths in Chandrapur between 2007 and 2020, and with over 50% of the state’s tiger population in one district, the situation is worrisome. We have submitted a proposal to the state for a committee formation. An announcement is expected soon,” said Kakodkar. Apart from Chandrapur, one death each was reported from Yavatmal, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Bhandara and Nagpur districts this year. The eastern Vidarbha landscape has a forest cover of 22,508 sqkm and the human population there is 1.45 crore.During the lockdown phase (March-May), Maharashtra witnessed 11 deaths, including those of Mahua flower and tendu leaf collectors entering forest buffer areas as well as core zones. So far, five tigers involved in conflict have been captured, including one each from Yavatmal and Gondia, and the remaining from Chandrapur. Operations are underway to capture another tiger (RT1) at Rajura in central Chanda division since February. The wild cat has killed six villagers and has been eluding traps. “Higher conflict is owing to higher number of animals in the landscape. Immediate solution is capturing tigers, as human life is precious. For the long term, a proper policy decision followed by management is needed,” said Bilal Habib, tiger scientist, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. “This rise in conflict was expected and the trend is expected to be similar, if not higher, in coming years with a sizeable number of tigers on one hand combined with more tribal settlements inching closer to forest areas or encroachments getting aligned along the periphery of protected zones,” said Nitin Desai, director (central India), Wildlife Protection Society of India. Other experts said infrastructure projects, rise in human and cattle population, and fragmented forests interspersed with roads were a major cause for concern for dispersing tigers. “There is a need for declaring more protected areas (conservation and community reserves) and involve more people through eco-tourism. Or else, the antagonism will continue and both tigers and people will suffer,” said Bivash Pandav, WII scientist, and director, Bombay Natural History Society.SP Yadav, member secretary, National Tiger Conservation Authority, said, “Maharashtra has not approached us for any assistance so far. Once we receive a proposal, we can provide all technical assistance, advice, and any other requirement to deal with this matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/31-killed-in-tiger-attacks-across-maharashtra-in-2020-highest-in-a-year-since-2010/story-uodHikRC1froTJRwIS5WVI.html
03-10-2020||Patna||Bihar police files closure report in Chhotan Shukla murder case after 26 years||Having failed to crack Bihar People’s Party (BPP) leader Kaushlendra alias Chhotan Shukla’s murder case and a couple of other murder cases related to it, the Bihar police on Friday filed a closure report, after 26 years, before the CJM court in Muzaffarpur, citing insufficient evidence.Chhotan’s murder had triggered off a chain of crimes, including the killing of Gopalganj district magistrate G Krishnaiah, 35, by an irate mob in 1994.Chhotan, a resident of a village in Vaishali and the brother of former JD (U) MLA from Lalganj, Vijay Kumar alias Munna Shukla, was gunned down on December 4, 1994 in Muzaffarpur, when he, with four others, was returning from an election meeting at Keshariya assembly constituency.Also Read: Bihar assembly election 2020: NDA likely to announce seat-sharing arrangement todayA murder case was lodged on the basis of statement of the then sub-inspector of Brahmpura police station, Ravindra Kumar, against unidentified criminals.“After probing for 26 years, the police filed a final report in the court for case closure on the grounds of insufficient evidence. In the final report, all the evidence that was available and could be gathered during the probe and the gaps in evidence, have been detailed,” said the investigating officer of the case, Kailash Yadav.Also Read: Like in Sushant Rajput case: Bihar police gets FIR request from actor Akshat Utkarsh’s familyPolice officials said an RJD minister Brijbihari Prasad was shot dead at Patna’s Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, where he was undergoing treatment, in June 1998. The motive was cited as revenge for Chhotan Shukla’s murder, since Brijbihari Prasad was alleged to be involved in the killing.His brother-cum- deputy mayor Manmardan Shukla said he will seek legal help from senior lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-police-files-closure-report-in-chhotan-shukla-murder-case-after-26-years/story-6c6chN8dQS9dtVztCXHQAP.html
03-10-2020||Dehradun||Extended weekend sees rush of tourists in Mussoorie||A large number of tourists have arrived in Mussoorie to spend the extended weekend and brought rare cheer to the tourist industry of the hill town that has been among the worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.The easing of the Covid-19-related restrictions on tourism activities has encouraged travellers. Hoteliers said they were expecting a further improvement in the arrivals after almost no business for six months.Sanjay Agarwal, the general secretary of Mussoorie Hotel Association, said the hoteliers have been facing immense hardships since March end when the Covid-19 lockdown was implemented. “Now after the restrictions have been eased, we are getting bookings and queries from tourists for one week which is a good sign.”Agarwal said all the hotels in Mussoorie have got about 80% bookings. “All the hotels catering to the customers are strictly adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.”Sunita, a roadside roasted corn seller, said, “We have been facing difficulties because of losses to livelihood during the lockdown. But now this return of tourists has given us hope.”A bulk of the tourists have come from Delhi and the neighbouring areas. Shivani Madaan, a tourist from Greater Kailash in New Delhi, said, “We have been stuck in our flats for four months. Hence we decided to visit Mussoorie for a welcome change for our kids.”Another tourist, Ananda Das from Noida, said, “We are happy to get out of our homes and find some freedom in the hills. But at the same time, we are also cautious amid the pandemic.”Manoj Rawat, a local police officer, said at least 152 people have been fined for not using masks since Friday. “Police are strictly ensuring adherence to the Covid-19 precautions amid smooth tourism activities.”Rawat said additional police patrols have been deployed at major tourist spots to ensure smooth movement of the traffic in the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/extended-weekend-sees-rush-of-tourists-in-mussoorie/story-XKKh3UgdBv8ahfhktKJLWI.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Congress demands probe into attempt to ‘malign’ Maharashtra||The Congress on Saturday blamed the Centre and its “media allies” for defaming Maharashtra over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death while demanding a probe into “the conspiracy” and “the mastermind behind it”. The demand came after India Today quoted Dr Sudhir Gupta, the head of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (New Delhi) panel constituted to re-evaluate the actor’s post-mortem report, saying Rajput had died by suicide while ruling out murder. “After the official confirmation by AIIMS panel head Dr. Sudhir Gupta that #SushantSinghRajput committed suicide, it is proved that investigation by @MumbaiPolice was honest and forthright. It is also clear that it was conspiracy of [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi govt with help of their fake media allies to defame Maharashtra,” tweeted Congress spokesman Sachin Sawant.“Till yesterday the fake channels were peddling fake news of IPC [Indian Penal Code section] 302 [murder] in the case. BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leaders kept defaming Maharashtra. CBI & other agencies kept leaking fake information. In a night thousands of fake twitter, FB [Facebook] & YouTube acs were created by BJP IT cell.”“Now we demand govt of Maharashtra to form an SIT [Special Investigation Team] to nab the conspirators and their mastermind. Also to find the originators of SM [social media] racket by BJP IT team. And take appropriate action against these fake channels to save our democracy as their fake stories r harmful for our country,” said Sawant.Congress is a part of the Shiv Sena-led ruling alliance in Maharashtra.The Maharashtra police said Rajput died by suicide before CBI took over the case on August 5.Rajput was found dead in his apartment on June 14. His family has accused actor Rhea Chakraborty of abetting his suicide and misappropriating his funds. Chakraborty is currently in jail on drug-related charges pertaining to the case.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), another constituent of the state’s ruling alliance, said the CBI should now complete its investigation in a month and bring the truth before the people. “This proves that the entire campaign was politically motivated and BJP is exposed,” said NCP spokesman and minister Nawab Malik. “They [CBI] have already taken two months, how much more time do they need?”BJP leader Ram Kadam said the CBI investigation is still on and the aim was to ensure justice for Rajput and his family. “We have never questioned the efficiency of the Mumbai police. We wanted the state government to give free hand to the police to probe the matter.”Kadam alleged the state government wanted to protect the drug mafia and thus never investigated that aspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-congress-demands-probe-into-attempt-to-malign-maharashtra/story-pjy3I9YRpJ58x4txcKwJXM.html
03-10-2020||Lucknow||‘Hathras incident just an excuse, Opposition wants to trigger caste riots’: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh senior cabinet minister Ramapati Shastri on Saturday launched a counter-attack on the Opposition parties over the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras.“Opposition is behaving irresponsibly, wants to trigger caste riots,” alleged Shastri, who is minister for social welfare and SC/ST (Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe) welfare.In a televised statement, he said, “The Opposition has adopted a completely irresponsible stance and it does not want the truth to come out. The Dalit woman’s honour is not dear to the Opposition. The Opposition deliberately wants to get caste riots triggered”.“Behan Mayawati (BSP chief) is a former chief minister. She should have understood the seriousness of the matter. Medical, post-mortem examination and forensic reports gave ‘negative report’ (indicating there was no rape). Still she, by giving irresponsible statements on social media, has been insulting Dalit women. The chief minister has already constituted SIT (special investigation team) and action has begun on the preliminary report of SIT. This initiative of the government will bring out the truth,” he added.Also read: Hathras case LIVE - Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi stopped at Delhi Noida border“Why is the Opposition opposing narco-analysis and polygraph tests? Tweets, audio-tapes, old incidents of the Opposition point towards a caste riots conspiracy. Hathras is only an excuse,” he alleged.“The chief minister has already made a provision for a strict law pertaining to crime and atrocities on women which would fast track cases and bring swift justice. The CM already has made recommendations for the death penalty in the POCSO Act (Protection of children from sexual offences Act) cases. In cases of Dalits and women, the government is very alert. All such incidents are taken with full seriousness. In the Hathras case, the CM ordered Rs 25 lakh compensation, job to a family member (of the victim) and a house. Test reports have been made public as well,” Shastri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-incident-just-an-excuse-opposition-wants-to-trigger-caste-riots-up-minister/story-NLWW7pMoLL1wqrieYJN0SN.html
03-10-2020||Pune||‘Gandhian engineering’ important tool to boost sustainable development growth post pandemic – Raghunath Mashelkar||In today’s crucial times, there has been a major setback to the world’s sustainable development growth. In the post-pandemic period for all these issues, the only solution is Gandhian Engineering, said eminent scientist Dr Raghunath Mashelkar in the first webinar organised by Pune Knowledge Cluster organised on Thursday.He was taking on the topic of ‘Sustainable inclusive growth through Gandhian engineering’ on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.“Mahatma Gandhi was a great innovator as he introduced non-violence and also the use of ‘Charkha’ (spinning wheel) to spin clothes. For him ’Charkha’ symbolised innovation which had economic, social and spiritual overtones,” he said.“The inspiration of Gandhian engineering comes from his two teachings, first– earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s need, but not every man’s greed. And the second one is – I would say every invention of science should be made for the benefit of all. So if we put these principles together we have the principle of Gandhian engineering which is ‘getting more from less and for more.’ It is not just for more profit, but for more people,” he said.“When we speak of education, research and innovation, we can’t find a better place than Pune to have all of these with Pune Knowledge Cluster. And I hope that it turns out to be a great catalyst in fermenting new activities and bringing new opportunities,” he said.Pune city officially got the tag of ‘Pune Knowledge Cluster’ in the month of August this year through the office of Principal Scientific Adviser. The goal of Pune Knowledge Cluster is to connect organisations with high-level of expertise in diverse domains of science and technology, innovation and entrepreneurship, in and around Pune. The Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) has been designated to facilitate the project, and the funding for the cluster from the Principal Scientific Advisor Office will be dealt with by the office of the director of IUCAA. The aim is to bring together academia, research and development institutions and the industry of Pune and its surrounding regions to address the challenging problems of the region through innovative means, using scientific knowledge and engaging highly skilled human resources. Furthermore, Pune Knowledge Cluster aims to foster capacity building and promote skills development and entrepreneurship among the students and professionals of the city. In the initial phase, it would focus on air, water, health and sustainable mobility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/gandhian-engineering-important-tool-to-boost-sustainable-development-growth-post-pandemic-raghunath-mashelkar/story-DWMB9r6ndxze35y4jXUBeM.html
03-10-2020||Lucknow||2 arrested in UP businessman death case; hunt on for top cop||Two accused named in Uttar Pradesh businessman Indrakant Tripathi’s mysterious death case were arrested on Friday while raids were being carried out for the arrest of Mahoba’s suspended superintendent of police (SP) Manilal Patidar and inspector Devendra Sharma—both co-accused in the case-- said inspector general of police (IG), Chitrakoot Dham, K Satyanarayan. The IG said that police teams carried out raids at several places in Gujarat and Rajasthan in search of the two officers. On Friday, police arrested local businessmen Purshottam Soni and Balram, named in the FIR by Tripathi’s brother Ravikant for their alleged involvement in the extortion racket purportedly being run by Patidar, the suspended Mahoba SP.The arrests came following the report of the special investigation team (SIT), which indicted the SP and some others for driving Tripathi allegedly to the brink, forcing the trader to take his own life. Also Read: UP businessman murder case: SIT focuses on big guns named for ‘extortion’Tripathi had alleged that he was under pressure from the SP to pay a monthly bribe of Rs 6 lakh. When he went public with the bribe demand, then he was allegedly threatened by Patidar to implicate him in a gambling case. Tripathi was found dead with a bullet wound in his neck on September 8, two days after he released a video addressed to the chief minister. In the video, he levelled allegations of corruption against the SP, a Gujarat cadre officer deputed in UP, and feared that he may get him killed.Also Read: ‘Politics, not for justice’: Smriti Irani attacks Rahul Gandhi over plans to visit HathrasThe SIT, in its finding, has prima facie ruled out murder and concluded that Tripathi might have died by suicide under serious pressure. Another SIT constituted at the IG level to help the investigating officer, too, has indicated the same finding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/2-arrested-in-up-businessman-death-case-hunt-on-for-top-cop/story-oZHVr9Rs1hAOGyG4vfeCGJ.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Kshitij Ravi Prasad sent to judicial custody till October 6||Kshitij Ravi Prasad, a former executive producer of Dharma Productions, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its probe into the drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, was sent to judicial custody till October 6 by the magistrate court on Saturday.Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said Prasad was sent to judicial custody for three days to club his case with that of the other accused whose custody ends on October 6.“While seeking his judicial custody, we mentioned that Prasad never cooperated with the agency and was arrogant in his behaviour,” Sarpande said.He added that while Prasad had moved an application claiming he wanted to retract statements recorded by the agency, he had also not signed any statement so far.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was a suicide, not murder, says AIIMS panel chiefPrasad was arrested on September 26 for allegedly receiving contraband from alleged pedlars who had supplied hashish to Showik and Rhea Chakraborty. In its application before the court seeking Prasad’s custody, the agency had stated that during the house search, the agency recovered ‘one roll joint believed to be remains of smoked ganja.’The agency has claimed that Prasad’s role was revealed during interrogation of Sanket Patel, one of the alleged drug peddlers. Patel claimed that he had delivered ganja (weed) to Prasad at his residence in Andheri on the instructions of Karamjeet Singh. Singh is an alleged drug distributor believed to have a local network which provides drugs to people in the film industry.“He (Patel) further stated that he delivered ganja around 12 times to Prasad from May 2020 to July 2020. Further, Prasad make payment of Rs 3,500 each after taking delivery of 50 grams of ganja,” read the application of NCB seeking Prasad’s custody on September 27. The agency further submitted that during interrogation, Prasad admitted to having taken ganja from arrested alleged drug peddler Ankush Arneja and Singh through Patel. “From the above, it is clear that Prasad purchased hashish/ganja from Arneja; further Arneja used to purchase drugs from [alleged drug peddler] Anuj Keshwani. Hence, Prasad is part of the conspiracy for drug procurement with Arneja and his co-accused. Prasad was connected with Keshwani, and Keshwani was linked with Kaizan Ibrahim, who was further linked with accused Dipesh Sawant and Sawant was linked with Showik, Rhea, [and] Rajput,” read the remand application. While disclosing the alleged chain of distribution of ganja, the agency in its application had stated: “Patel supplied ganja/weed to Arneja and the said contraband was purchased by him from accused Singh. On the instruction of accused Singh, accused Patel purchased charas/weed and further delivered it to Prasad. Samuel Miranda [Rajput’s former house manager] and Prasad had taken delivery of ganja from Singh and his associate.” Prasad’s lawyer, advocate Satish Maneshinde, had contended that his statement was recorded forcefully. The lawyer submitted that Prasad was in detention for almost 50 hours. He alleged that Prasad was called in to record his statement on September 25 and was made to spend the night at the NCB office. “The next morning, when his statement recording resumed, Kshitij was categorically informed by Sameer Wankhede [investigating officer] in the presence of several other officers, that since he was associated with Dharma Productions, they would let him off if he implicated either Karan Johar, Somel Mishra, Rakhi, Apoorva, Neeraj or Rahil, falsely alleging that they consumed drugs. Kshitij refused to comply with this threat despite the pressure mounted on him as he did not know any of these people personally and did not wish to falsely implicate anyone,” Maneshinde had contended. “At the end of nearly 50 hours of interrogation, humiliation and torment, Kshitij, is his desperation to speak to his lawyer or family, unwillingly and under threat, signed the statement,” he had further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-singh-rajput-death-kshitij-ravi-prasad-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-october-6/story-rMkm8L7jsE6ZUo85DtHXVO.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Dombivli water pipeline burst hits supply in Thane, Navi Mumbai||A water pipeline burst at Desai Gaon in Dombivli late on Friday, affecting water supply to various parts of Thane, Navi Mumbai and Mira Bhayander. The repair work will be completed by 6 pm on Saturday only.The damaged pipeline led to flooding and caused traffic congestion near Palava city, Dombivli on the Shil Phata- Badlapur road on Friday evening. Some parts of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation also did not get water supply for a few hours on Saturday morning.The water pipeline is owned by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and authorities started the repair work Saturday morning. “These pipelines are old and often break. Around 6-feet-wide pipeline was damaged on Friday night. We will need the whole day for repair work. Temporarily water supply from Katai Naka to Mira Bhayander, parts of Kalwa, Mumbra and from Airoli to Ghansoli in Navi Mumbai was shut. To perform repair work for a few hours we had to stop water supply to certain areas within Kalyan Dombivli Municipal corporation as well,” said a senior MIDC officer. On Friday evening, water flowed into some of the slums and hutments in the vicinity. Water flow on the Shilphata- Badlapur road also led to traffic jams at night. “Water was flowing along the road when the incident happened, it started flooding immediately. It was only after the supply was stopped that there was some relief. Those staying in the slums had to throw the water out throughout the night,” said Dombivli resident Kalpesh Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dombivli-water-pipeline-burst-hits-supply-in-thane-navi-mumbai/story-DAAoBkvS1zv5uRusdJpzFK.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||To spread awareness about fire safety, Mumbai fire bridage to train corporators first||The Mumbai Fire Brigade will hold short training sessions with all 227 corporators of Greater Mumbai to create awareness about fire safety, the challenges faced in their respective localities, and how they can be tackled. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expects that through corporators, this information will reach party workers, community volunteers, and residents. This is part of BMC’s larger aim to ensure citizens are educated about fire safety.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the fire brigade and disaster management departments, said, “The Mumbai Fire Brigade is planning a series of interventions, from the point of view of saving maximum in number of lives if there is a fire. It has decided to tweak its inspection, compliance, data maintenance, and awareness creation policies. At the back end, this will involve meticulous maintenance of data, blue prints, permissions, and inspection related documents of buildings.This information will be available online. BMC will hold awareness sessions with elected public representatives to sensitise them about fire hazards in their localities, and design a plan for them to communicate this information to the voters periodically.” Also read: Fire breaks out at market near Chembur railway station in MumbaiBetween 2017 and 2020, 126 civilians died in fires across the city, and 849 were injured. As many as 109 fire personnel were also injured in these incidents. Kakani said there are simple things that need to be followed to ensure inhabitants of a building can safely vacate the building if there is a fire, such as keeping exit ways unobstructed, installing signages pointing at exits, displaying floor plans in a visible location and manner and regularly inspecting if fire safety systems of the building are working. “After BMC approves the blueprint and gives fire NOC to any establishments, owners should not make internal changes that will divert the original exit pathways,” Kakani added. He said lack of awareness only adds to the body count. During the Kamala Mills fire, for instance, a lot of people in the restaurant ran into the toilet and locked themselves in, believing smoke will not enter a locked toilet. “Such lack of awareness increases the chances of mortality in fire and needs to be addressed,” Kakani said. Sessions with elected public representatives will also comprise information about fire safety hazards typical to a locality. For example, the B ward area of Byculla, Bhendi Bazar, has old buildings, many of which do not have in-built fire fighting systems like sprinklers, and smoke detectors. It also has narrow roads and street parking, making it difficult for the fire brigade to access a building during a disaster; similarly, suburban wards have many high-rises that need to inspect their fire fighting systems periodically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/to-spread-awareness-about-fire-safety-mumbai-fire-bridage-to-train-corporators-first/story-vIHL158ekS1hdb1O3fdcsK.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||HC sets free 3 men convicted of killing priest in 2012, cites 3 reasons||The Bombay high court on Thursday set free three persons convicted for killing a 90-year-old priest from Chembur, attempting to kill his 79-year-old wife and robbing the aged couple of valuables.As per the prosecution’s case, the trio-- Mohmmed Intekhab Mohammed Imtiyaz Shaikh (28), Ganesh or Gopal Kanojiya (28) and Mohammed Istiyak Abdul Salam Shah (31) -- had on April 12, 2012, visited the house of the victims—90-years-old priest KS Parshuraman and his wife Rajamma (79)-- at Chembur for the purpose of repairing their refrigerator.The next day they visited the flat in the afternoon under the guise of handing over a bill for the payment made by them. After Rajamma opened the door, one of them demanded water, and as she turned to fetch water for him, she was followed by one of them. He gagged her mouth in the kitchen with a piece of cloth and the 79-year-old woman fell unconscious.About two hours later when she regained consciousness, she found her husband motionless on the sofa. She then called her brother, who rushed to the flat and took her to a private hospital where she had to be admitted for two days.Her husband was strangulated and had died on the spot.The couple had lost some gold ornaments in the robbery - four golden bangles of 10 grams each and Rajamma’s mangalsutra, a pendant of about 28 grams.Ganesh was the first to be arrested by the Mumbai police crime branch in connection with the murder of the aged priest and the robbery at his residence. He was apprehended at Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh on September 22, 2012. The other two were from Darbhanga in Bihar.The prosecution produced 19 witnesses and on August 22, 2014, an additional sessions judge at Mumbai convicted them for robbery, murder and attempt to murder, and sentenced them to life imprisonment.All of them appealed before the HC questioning the trial court verdict.At HC, the division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NJ Jamadar found that the conviction was unsustainable in the eyes of law due to lack of clinching evidence against the trio.Also Read: Covid-19: In Maharashtra, MMR worst hit with over 434,000 cases recorded since June 3The bench noted that Rajamma had weak eyesight and she could not identify the accused in the test identification parade and in the court as well. “The complicity of the accused in the present case firstly fails for want of identification by P.W. 1 (Rajamma),” the bench said while reversing the trial court verdict.All the booty allegedly looted by the gang was lying in Mumbai -- in travel bags kept in the shanties that the trio shared with others in Baiganwadi area, but the three were arrested from UP and Bihar. “It is surprising that all the three accused had left the stolen articles in Mumbai and fled to their native villages,” said the bench, indirectly raising suspicion about the prosecution’s claims.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was a suicide, not murder: AIIMS panel chiefThe judges were also surprised by the claim made by two roommates of two of the accused that they had revealed that they were going to their native places, as they had committed the robbery and the murder. HC said, it was surprising that none of the roommates came forward to report the matter to police till the time the accused were arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-sets-free-3-men-convicted-of-killing-priest-in-2012-cites-3-reasons/story-4tPo0L0QkQHQ9iOFvKR7FL.html
03-10-2020||Kolkata||No Bengal crime data in NCRB annual report, BJP targets CM Banerjee||As chief minister Mamata Banerjee planned to take to the streets on Saturday in protest against the alleged rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioned her over the absence of West Bengal’s crime data from the annual National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report.The report released on September 30 said West Bengal did not send the data to NCRB within the deadline.“Due to non-receipt of data from State of West Bengal and Kolkata city in time for the year 2019, data furnished for the year 2018 has been used to arrive at national and city-wise figures,” the report said.Also read: Hathras, Bhadohi incidents bolster TMC’s agenda to win back BJP’s Dalit votes in BengalBJP leaders said Banerjee is attacking Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, but keeping India in the dark about the law and order situation in West Bengal.“Even if the government had sent the report on time, it would have been an incomplete one. In the districts, most people are thrown out of police stations when they try to lodge complaints. Even if a general diary entry is made, police don’t file FIRs [First Information Reports] in most cases. If FIRs are registered, arrests are not made. When arrests are made, police do not pursue the cases in court. This is a routine affair in Bengal,” said BJP leader Sayantan Basu.He said Banerjee has no right to hold a rally on Hathras. “Did she hit the streets for the rape victims in Bengal and Kolkata?” asked Basu, referring to some specific cases that made headlines after the Trinamool Congress came to power in 2011.A West Bengal police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the compilation of the crime data was interrupted because of the Covid-19 lockdown. It was later sent to the NCRB in July, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-bengal-crime-data-in-ncrb-annual-report-bjp-targets-cm-banerjee/story-7qfwpFN72IhjlNoMBpBPOM.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Woman’s body stuffed in bed box in Delhi’s Chhawla: Police arrest friend in Assam||Eight days after the semi-naked and decomposing body of a 26-year-old woman was found stuffed in a bed box at a house in Delhi’s Chhawla, the police on Saturday said they arrested her friend for allegedly murdering her. The arrested man was identified by his first name as Satish.“The arrested man is married but was in a relationship with the woman. He suspected her of having an affair with someone else and believed that she had been ignoring him because of that. He killed her in a fit of rage at his rented home, stuffed the body in the bed box, and fled,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena.Also read: Man kills roommates after tiff over paying rentPolice said the woman, who worked with a multinational company in Gurugram, was from Jharkhand. The murder came to light on September 25 when neighbours noticed a foul smell coming from the house and reported the matter to the police.A police officer involved in the probe into the case, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a forensics team has told them the woman was killed at least two days before the body was recovered. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that the house was rented to a 27-year-old man, who also works with a private company in Gurugram. As the man was missing and his mobile phone was switched off, he became the prime suspect.”Meena said several teams worked on the case and the suspect was arrested from Assam.“Our teams worked on the call detail records, analysed CCTV footage and the suspect’s contacts, coordinated with different agencies, and finally nabbed him. The arrested man told us that after killing the woman, he sold his mobile phone and fled to Dibrugarh in Assam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-s-body-stuffed-in-bed-box-in-delhi-s-chhawla-police-arrest-friend-from-assam/story-JjyBFcsskIie9W1v8cuTcP.html
03-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In Maharashtra, MMR worst hit with over 434,000 cases recorded since June 3||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and surrounding areas, has recorded over 434,000 Covid-19 cases since the Maharashtra government started easing lockdown curbs under ‘Mission Begin Again’ from June 3, according to the state health department.MMR has also recorded maximum cases — 491,001 — compared to other regions in the state.The state has total 1,416,513 cases, of them, active cases are 260,876.MMR has recorded 434,207 cases between June 3 and October 2, as per the government data. On June 3, the region had 56,794 cases, which rose to 491,001 in four months, the data revealed.MMR consists of nine municipal corporations including Mumbai and rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts.After MMR, Pune region is the second most-affected area with 456,733 cases as on October 2. In the last four months, it has recorded 455,941 cases. On June 3, it had 10,792 cases.It comprises five municipal corporations, including Pune and rural areas of Solapur and Satara.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally mounts past 6.47 million, recoveries over 5.4 million“Both Mumbai and Pune are the cities where first few cases of coronavirus were detected in the second week of March. This is the reason it got spread in urban areas surrounding both the cities. Thus, they are the most hit regions across the state,” said a senior official from state health department, requesting anonymity.The trend of comparatively low daily Covid-19 cases for the past two weeks appeared to be continuing with the state reporting 15,591 cases on Friday. The state was reporting more than 20,000 daily in the beginning of September.The state’s toll rose to 37,480 with an addition of 424 fatalities on Friday. However, of these, 272 deaths were reported in the past 48 hours, 65 were from last week and 87 from the period before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-mmr-worst-hit-with-over-434-000-cases-recorded-since-june-3/story-lfjmh2Detq7nnTQswvUVeI.html
03-10-2020||City||Rajouri encounter: Bodies of 3 men exhumed, handed over to families for burial||The bodies of three men, who were described as terrorists after their killing in an alleged staged encounter in July, were exhumed on Saturday from a graveyard in the Kashmir Valley’s Baramulla and handed over to their families for burial in their native Rajouri in Jammu region, inspector general Vijay Kumar said.Cousins Imtiyaz Ahmad, 21, Abrar Ahmad, 26, and Mohammad Ibrar, 18, were killed days after they arrived in the Valley’s Shopian area hoping to find work.Also read: Two civilians arrested in Shopian in connection with July killingsThe Army initially said the three were “terrorists”. It later said an inquiry has prima facie brought out evidence indicating “during the operation [in which the three were killed], powers vested under the AFSPA [Armed Forces Special Powers Act] 1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened”. The army added consequently, the “competent disciplinary authority has directed initiation of disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable”.The Jammu & Kashmir police last week said the DNA samples of the three have matched with their family members in Rajouri.Baramulla’s senior police superintendent, Abdul Qayoom, said the bodies were handed over to the families after the completion of legal formalities.The three were declared as unidentified “terrorists” and buried in Baramulla, 102 kilometers from where they were killed.“Spare a thought for the parents of three young men whose bodies have been exhumed today. Three able bodied athletic men trek 80 kms in search of livelihood. And a few months later the parents take their violently ravaged bodies back. Imagine the plight of the parents,” tweeted former state minister Sajjad Lone.The police on Tuesday said that two civilians believed to be informers of security forces have been arrested in connection with the killings.Imtiyaz Ahmad’s mother, Shamim Akhter, this week told HT her son, who had passed class 12th this year, wanted to pursue his studies and had gone to Shopian to work as a labourer and earn enough money for admission to the Rajouri Degree College. “Those who killed my son and nephews [Abrar Ahmed and Mohammad Ibrar] should also meet the same fate. The barbarians did not allow them to have food and picked them up from their rented room...before killing them...” Akhter said the whole truth about their killing should be made public and the perpetrators should be hanged. She added they are yet to get any compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajouri-fake-encounter-bodies-of-3-men-exhumed-handed-over-to-families-for-burial/story-jgq3G1m4dtGvxFxrfyNPzN.html
03-10-2020||City||Hathras gangrape: Mayawati demands CBI probe, Akhilesh seeks FIRs against DM, SP||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Saturday demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe or one under a sitting Supreme Court judge into the alleged gangrape and murder of a Dalit woman in UP’s Hathras. Mayawati’s Samajwadi Party (SP) counterpart Akhilesh Yadav has demanded FIRs against the Hathras district magistrate and the superintendent of police.Also read: Rahul, Priyanka to set off for Hathras again to meet woman’s familyOn Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government suspended senior police officials in Hathras district and ordered narco-analysis tests for everyone involved in the case even as pressure mounted over the administration for the alleged blocking of media access to the family of the 19-year-old woman.In a set of two tweets in Hindi, Mayawati said, “There is a nationwide outrage against the Hathras brutal gangrape case. People are not satisfied with the initial probe reports that have come. BSP demands a probe by the CBI or a probe under the supervision of the Supreme Court.”She also said, “At the same time, the party makes a fervent appeal to President of India (Ramnath Kovind), since he hails from UP and is a Dalit, to intervene in getting the victim’s family justice.”In a tweet in Hindi late on Friday, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said, “Scared of public anger, the BJP may remove the district magistrate and the superintendent of police to hide its own acts. The Samajwadi Party demands FIR against these people so that they reveal the truth about what they did under pressure and at whose behest.” Akhilesh’s party on Friday observed a statewide ‘Maun Vrat (silent protest)’ over the incident and in many districts, the police lathicharged the protesters.On September 14, a Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in Hathras. After being initially treated at Aligarh Medical College and Hospital, she was taken to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she succumbed to her injuries on September 29. Hathras district police has come under criticism, first for an alleged delay in responding to the woman and her family’s complaint, cremating her body in the middle of the night without the family’s consent, and for throwing a cordon of police officers around the village that stopped the entry of all journalists, and now for allegedly seizing the phones of the victim’s family members.The suspensions were ordered on the basis of recommendations by a three-member Special Investigation Team which questioned the victim’s family members on Thursday. Government’s press note said that SP Vikrant Vir was suspended for alleged negligence and lax supervision of the case. He was replaced with Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal. “Narco and polygraph tests should be conducted on the accused, complainant and police officials,” the note added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-gangrape-mayawati-demands-cbi-probe-akhilesh-seeks-firs-against-dm-sp/story-Hcf9hTuXxVaoNU9bergWiN.html
03-10-2020||City||3 booked for raping minor girl for months in UP’s Bulandshahr||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district have booked three persons for allegedly raping a teenage girl for months, officials said.The family of the Dalit girl found out about her ordeal when they learnt she was four months pregnant. Also read: ‘Conviction in cases of crime against women highest in Uttar Pradesh,’ say policePolice have registered a case of rape against three accused. Two of them -- a 70-year-old and a 50-year-old -- have been arrested.Police said the accused knew the girl’s family and they raped the girl at different places over the past few months, impregnating her.Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police SK Singh said officials were sent to girl’s family to enquire about the incident and that a case was registered after that.The incident comes against the backdrop of a 19-year-old Dalit woman’s alleged rape and assault in the state’s Hathras. She died in a Delhi hospital due to the injuries she suffered. The incident has triggered outrage across the nation with politicians of rival parties hitting out at the state’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-booked-for-raping-minor-girl-for-months-in-up-s-bulandshahr/story-17Z4BxMUHhUWiRazGWGCQI.html
03-10-2020||City||Hathras gangrape: Rahul, Priyanka to set off for woman’s home again to meet her family||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra plan to leave for Hathras around noon on Saturday to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered. The Uttar Pradesh police prevented the two from meeting the family on Thursday. Congress leaders KC Venugopal, Rajesh Lilothia, Sushmita Dev, Ajay Lallu, PL Punia, and Deepender Hooda are likely to accompany the Gandhis.“Congress MPs [members of Parliament] under the leadership of former Congress President Shri. @RahulGandhi will go to #Hathras today [Saturday] afternoon to meet the grieving family of the 19 year old daughter of Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally assaulted & murdered,” Venugopal tweeted.Also read: Here is what is happening in Hathras and beyond“@INCIndia [Congress] delegation led by Shri. @RahulGandhi will meet the family members to hear their grievances & demand justice for the victim & her family who have been denied justice & severely traumatized by the BJP Government in UP.”The Uttar Pradesh police have cordoned off the woman’s village to prevent journalists and opposition leaders from meeting the family. The authorities have also allegedly seized phones of the family and put them under surveillance.The woman was attacked and gang-raped on September 14, and rushed to a hospital in Aligarh. Eight days later, on September 22, she recorded her statement, where she said she was raped and named the four accused. Her mother’s statement echoed the claims. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29, sparking nationwide protests.Later that evening, police drove the family and the victim’s body back to the Hathras village but proceeded to cremate the body without the consent of the parents. At 2.30am on September 30, the policemen cremated her body even as the family alleged they were restricted from even getting a final glimpse of their daughter.A day after the controversial cremation, prohibitive orders were clamped and the village was made off-limits for journalists and “outsiders”.Since then, protests against the crime have swept the nation and prompted several opposition leaders to try and visit the village – but have all been thwarted by the state police. Citing forensic reports, the police have denied that the woman was raped but experts have pointed to lapses in procedure during the medical examination.Priyanka Gandhi joined hundreds of people in New Delhi on Friday to express solidarity with the woman’s family. “We are all here to ensure that the girl gets justice. We will pressure the government to get her justice,” she said.“Her family has got no help from the state government. They must feel they are all alone. We are holding the prayer meeting for them. They should know that they are not alone and fight the injustice being done to them. We will put political pressure and every woman in this country must put moral pressure on the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-gangrape-rahul-priyanka-to-set-off-for-woman-s-home-again-to-meet-her-family/story-NblV1YxMD3l1PUQ5Bfp0UO.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder okay with Sidhu back as power minister, not Punjab Congress chief||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said that he does not have any problem with his bête noire Navjot Singh Sidhu joining back his cabinet at the power minister, a portfolio the Amritsar East MLA had spurned after the chief minister divested him of the local bodies ministry after the Lok Sabha elections last year. Capt Amarinder Singh was responding to the party high command’s fresh overtures to mollify a sulking Sidhu, during an interview to Hindustan Times at his sprawling farm house, Mohinder Bagh, in the Shivalik foothills near Chandigarh on Friday. Amarinder Singh sounded not amenable to offer any other portfolio to Sidhu. “I can’t change my ministers. They are all doing a good job.” On the speculation on Sidhu’s appointment as Punjab Congress chief in place of incumbent Sunil Jakhar in the run-up to the assembly elections in the state in early 2022, he said: “Why should somebody who joined the Congress three years ago become the president in place of Jakhar who has spent his life in the party?” He was alluding to Sidhu who switched from the BJP to the Congress ahead of the 2017 Punjab assembly elections. Amarinder’s comments on Sidhu assume significance in the backdrop of the dinner meeting on Thursday between the party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and Sidhu at the latter’s residence in Amritsar ahead of Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rallies in Punjab from October 4 to 6. The party is keen that Punjab Congress put up a united face during Rahul’s visit. The cricketer-turned-politician enjoys a good equation with the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-okay-with-sidhu-back-as-power-minister-not-punjab-congress-chief/story-bEHWNr4cARIJp2HGPr7AbL.html
03-10-2020||Bhopal||MP proposes steep hike in water charges, fine for spitting, urinating in public||The Madhya Pradesh government has proposed a steep hike in user charges for water supply, sewerage and solid waste management services in the urban areas to recover the cost incurred in providing these facilities as its revenue generation continues on the downward trend, according to a state government notification. The government has also proposed a hefty increase in the spot fines for various violations such as spitting or urinating in public places in urban areas depending on the population of the habitat. For instance, Rs 1000 spot fine may be imposed on a person who dumps solid waste, urinates, spits, defecates in open in cities with a population of one million and more. The fine will be less in cities with less than one million population. Similarly, heavy fines will be imposed on dumping of construction materials, non-segregation of solid wastes, interfering in or damaging the water supply system, disposing animal excreta in public etc, the notification said. Certain officials from the urban administration and housing department say if the notification is implemented in letter and spirit, the water charges in urban areas may see an increase up to 400% to 600% over the existing charges, which vary in every city.For instance, the user charges for water supply in Bhopal, Indore, Sagar and Jabalpur are Rs 180, Rs 200, Rs 150 and Rs 175 per month. Similarly, the charges for solid waste management, which is usually one third of the water supply charges, will also see a steep hike. The actual water charges to be notified are yet to be decided. The process is underway, said an official from the urban administration and development department. In Madhya Pradesh, more than 20 million people reside in urban areas, as per census 2011. There are as many as 378 urban bodies including 16 municipal corporations. Also Read: No doctor or even peon’: MP minister finds hospital staff missing, posts video on social mediaThe notification dated August 28, 2020 issued by urban administration department states, “Based on the actual expenditure on the items mentioned in rule 4 audited by local fund auditor or chartered accountant, the calculation of user charges for water supply services shall be done in such a manner that annual expenditure incurred on water supply services can be recovered cent per cent…Annual expenditure incurred on solid waste management system can be recovered cent percent. Sewerage charges shall be minimum 60% of user charges for water supply services.” As per an official, hardly 25% of the expenditure on the water charges is recovered from consumers due to two reasons- public not willing to pay and a shortage of manpower with the urban bodies and also a lack of professionalism in the urban bodies. For instance, Bhopal municipal corporation (BMC) incurs an expenditure of about Rs 300 crore annually on supply of water, including Rs 125 crore on electricity charges, Rs 40 crore on chemicals, Rs 30 crore on salaries and interest on loans etc, whereas, the realisation of water charges is about Rs 50 to Rs 60 crore annually. Also Read: Dalit woman kills herself after police refuses to lodge FIR on gang-rapeA study prepared in June 2019, for the 15th finance commission, based on 39 municipal corporations in the country which include Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur from Madhya Pradesh, states, “User charges for water supply, sewerage and solid waste management accounted for only 27% of the municipal operations and maintenance (O&M) expenditures in 2017-18.” On the issue of proposed increase in the user charges for water supply, commissioner, Bhopal municipal corporation, KVS Chaudhary said, “A committee will take a decision on the same. The rates will be notified based on the decision of the committee.” Retired executive engineer, BMC, RB Rai said, “The corporation needs to augment its revenue if it has to upgrade its facilities to provide quality water to people in the city.” State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “When people are facing a financial crisis due to loss of jobs, salary cuts or business losses due to anti-people policies of the central and state governments and their inefficiency in controlling Covid situation, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is looking for ‘Aapada me awsar’ (opportunity in disaster). The notification was issued secretly, that too, at a time when people are fighting against Corona. But Congress would not allow such malpractices by the government.” Minister for urban administration and development, Bhupendra Singh, couldn’t be reached for his comments. However, the state BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “The BJP government is sensitive towards the needs of people. I don’t think the state government will allow such a steep hike in the water charges. The party will bring the notification to the notice of the government if there is any proposed hike in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-proposes-steep-hike-in-water-charges-fine-for-spitting-urinating-in-public/story-i0oMsw3l3dIPh94lKYN8CL.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI moves closer to ‘poor’ as stubble burning begins in Haryana, Punjab||With changes in weather conditions and stubble burning picking up in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab, the national Capital’s air quality has started inching closer to the ‘poor’ category. Government agencies have warned that over the next two days, air quality may touch the ‘poor’ zone.At 6 am on Saturday, the air quality index (AQI), as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), was 172 in the ‘moderate’ zone. On Friday, the overall average AQI was recorded as 180, close to the ‘poor’ mark (at 201).Last month, AQI was in ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ categories. October too has so far seen ‘moderate’ days though with AQI values mostly remaining in the higher end of the category.On a scale of 0-500, with a value of 0-50, air quality is considered ‘good’ (minimal health risk), 51 -100 is ‘satisfactory’ (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is ‘moderate’ (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease), 200-300 ‘poor’ (breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure), 300-400 is ‘very poor’ (respiratory illness on prolonged exposure) and 400-500 is ‘severe’ (affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases).Also read: Delhi-NCR residents prep for bad AQI days ahead with air purifiers, indoor plantsAccording to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, Delhi’s air quality could deteriorate and reach the higher end of the ‘moderate’ zone as the day progresses. “Further deterioration to the lower end of the ‘poor’ category is likely by October 4. An increase in stubble burning fires observed recently in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring border regions is likely to start impacting Delhi in the coming days,” the SAFAR bulletin said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said a slight decrease in night temperature has already started while wind speed is set to reduce from October 15, which may lead to further deterioration of the air quality.On Friday, the maximum temperature was 36.4 degree Celsius, three notches above normal while the minimum settled at 20.6 degrees C, two notches below normal.“A slight decrease in both day and night temperatures is likely from October 5. A drop in temperature and reduction of wind speed is not favourable for dispersion of air pollutants,” said an IMD scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-moves-closer-to-poor-as-stubble-burning-begins-in-haryana-punjab/story-bK3GGwYlkyNih7JopF8ubK.html
03-10-2020||Bhopal||Bhopal newborn found dead with stab wounds, police say grandparents guilty||A woman here has been arrested for allegedly killing her newborn granddaughter on September 28. The child’s body was found with multiple stab wounds in bushes on a temple premises in a locality in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. The woman’s husband has also been arrested for helping her dispose of the body, said police. An official release from Bhopal police said, “After the dead body of the child was found wrapped in a shawl with multiple injury marks and blood stains all over the body in Ayodhya Nagar locality, five teams of police personnel were formed to track the murderer. Staff members of several nursing homes in the vicinity were questioned and CCTV footage in the area was examined to track the murderer. During investigation, it was found that her husband had helped her dispose of the dead body.” Also read: Indore hospital in the dock after patient, treated by homeopath in ICU, diesAs per the release, “The couple has a 19-year-old daughter who is single. When the daughter got pregnant, the woman, who possesses the skills of a midwife, found out about it. She helped her daughter deliver the baby on September 27 night but out of fear of social stigma, she killed the newborn with a blade and scissors. Later, her husband threw the body in the bushes in the slum area.” It said police have recovered the murder weapons. The couple will be produced before the court later on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bhopal-newborn-found-dead-with-stab-wounds-grandparents-guilty-say-police/story-VN2uTeYSvSXXpc9aZMlXeJ.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the plant lady||She looks like Virginia Woolf’s Mrs Dalloway, deciding she would do the shopping herself. Maybe she’s walking home after a productive excursion in the market. Each arm is weighed down with a bag. But it appears that this sari-clad woman has shopped for plants instead of dresses or books.Wrong. All wrong. Geeta isn’t a shopper, she’s a hawker of plants.“I have been selling phool-paudhe (flowers and plants) for a long time,” she says, stopping by this central Delhi street, on this pleasantly cool morning.Both her arms are occupied, and she’s also holding a little tub containing bottled saplings.“It’s heavy,” she murmurs, shrugging her shoulders. One of the bags around her arms contains mats and seed packets, she informs, and the other has ropes. Sort of strange stuff for a bazaar seller. Geeta explains that she doesn’t walk around the by-lanes like itinerant hawkers, but “I have a stall and I’m going to set it up now.” The mats are spread out on the pavement. The rope is to set up the stall, she says.Apparently, she also uses some of the ropes to hang a few plants in bottles, so as to catch the attention of potential customers.In her 50s, Geeta lives near Safdarjung Hospital, with her son and his family. “My son sells plants too, but in a different part of the city. These are not our plants though, but those of a thekedaar (contractor)… We only get the commission from the sales.”Responding to a query, Geeta admits that her life entails much hard work and not enough material comforts, “but at least I am able to earn, and so is my son, and that makes me satisfied.”Now a child appears and asks Geeta to identify a sapling.“It’s called money plant,” she says.“Isn’t it the one that grows quickly?” he asks.“Yes, beta (son).”“I already have them in my terrace,” he declares, and walks away with the smug satisfaction of the wealthy. Geeta quietly goes to the street-side, and watches out for potential customers among the morning’s passersby. Nobody seems interested. She walks on to set up her stall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-plant-lady/story-RdK2eeJUhwVqxhgwTBdUwI.html
03-10-2020||City||In Punjab, govt employees to face action if farm fires spotted on their rented out land||In an attempt to curb stubble burning amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab government has ordered legal action against its employees if farm fires are spotted on the land they have rented out to someone else for cultivation. The move comes after it was found that in the previous years many government employees had leased out their land in their native villages but failed to sensitise the cultivators not to burn the crop residue. “In every far fire incident, the name of the landowner is being mentioned specifically in the report this time. Action will be taken against the farmer in case of violation as per the law. But if the land belongs to a government employee, it will be mentioned in their annual confidential report (ACR) besides lodging an FIR against them,” said Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) executive engineer Kuldeep Singh. The government is taking initiatives amid the pandemic as stubble burning is harmful to health and inhaling bad air can aggravate the complications among people, particularly the elderly and those with comorbidities. “Nodal officers have been appointed in each village and different government departments were roped in the drive to prevent stubble burning. The nodal officer is responsible for ensuring that stubble is not burnt in that village. But if someone burns stubble, the nodal officer will compile a report and send it to the patwari who will forward it to the cluster officer for imposing a fine,” Singh said. The deputy superintendent of police (DSP) concerned will take legal action on basis of the report. District agriculture officer (Jalandhar) Naresh Gulati said awareness camps are being organised in the villages to sensitise farmers to not burn stubble and motivate them to use machines to dispose the crop residue in the fields.Meanwhile, the PPCB has detected eight stubble burning cases in Jalandhar and 12 in Kapurthala so far. In the last year, Jalandhar district had recorded 1550 and in Kapurthala over 1200 cases of stubble burning in the last session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-employees-to-face-action-if-farm-fires-spotted-on-their-rented-out-land/story-3s6rsQxP6ObIEqDbdGtFVO.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||To mount pressure on Centre, Akali Dal plans to take protests against farm laws to Delhi||With a view to mounting pressure on the BJP-led Central government to revoke the contentious agriculture laws, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is planning to shift its agitation to the national capital. To work out the modalities of the protests in Delhi, a meeting of the party’s core committee is expected to hold a meeting soon. “The SAD has decided to take its protests to Delhi. The schedule will be decided shortly. But we also want all the farmer bodies to come on a common platform with the Akali Dal to put a joint fight for their rights,” said former minister Bikram Singh Majithia. The senior leadership, including former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, ex-Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, sitting and former MPs and MLAs, former ministers, besides the district jathedars, and sitting and former members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandak Committee (SGPC) will take part in the Delhi protests. The SAD leaders will sit on a dharna outside Parliament to draw the attention of various political parties and farm bodies cross the country, it is learnt. Chain hunger fasts likely“Chain hunger fasts are likely besides the jathas courting arrests every day,” said a senior leader not willing to be named. On Thursday night, police detained Sukhbir, Harsimrat and other senior party leaders when they were trying to enter Chandigarh leading protest marches from Takhts of Sikhism. They were on their way to submit a memorandum, addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore demanding the repeal of the farm laws. The party’s farmer wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka said since the paddy harvesting season has started, farmers can’t make themselves available for the protests in Delhi. “So we have decided to make a plan in such a way that only our senior leadership is involved in these protests,” he said.“Also, wheat sowing will begin immediately after the paddy harvesting. The farmers can’t be troubled for at least a month,” he added.To get in touch with regional parties The Akali Dal has also decided to get in touch with other regional parties across the country to turn the ongoing stir into a national agitation. “The leaders of different regional parties have congratulated us for moving out of the NDA and initiating protests for the farmers’ cause,” said Maluka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/to-mount-pressure-on-centre-akali-dal-plans-to-take-protests-against-farm-laws-to-delhi/story-VBVjYxWddfGqIlfA2zA8DK.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Human-wildlife conflict: Committee set up to process victims’ claims in Chandigarh||The UT administrator has constituted a committee to process claims by victims of the human-wildlife conflict.The committee comprises the range forest officer (RFO) and wildlife inspector of the department of forest and wildlife, a representative of the deputy commissioner, a health specialist from the UT health department, and a veterinary doctor from the department of animal husbandry and fisheries.The RFO will receive complaints from residents, government functionaries, field staff and/or other sources, and make entries in the wildlife complaint register.On confirmation of the incident, the RFO will arrange the committee’s visit to the site of the incident within 24 hours of the receipt of the complaint. The committee will then submit a report to the forest department, which will release the compensation.In August this year, the administration notified the revised compensation to be given to people who are attacked by wild animals.As per the notification revised as per the directions of the Union ministry of environment, in case of death or incapacitation caused by a wild animal, ₹5 lakh will be given as ex-gratia relief.If a wild animal causes grievous injury, a compensation of ₹2 lakh will be given; ₹25,000 relief has been fixed for minor injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/human-wildlife-conflict-committee-set-up-to-process-victims-claims-in-chandigarh/story-cDl45aQ22O0WaBn6CadsCI.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||No entrance test for three-year, five-year law courses at PU this year||In view of the pandemic, Panjab University has decided against conducting entrance exams for admission to the five-year integrated law course run by University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), and the three-year bachelor of legislative law (LLB) course run by the department of laws, this year.The renewed decision was taken by PU on Saturday. A recommendation to that effect was also made by a special panel of the university on Thursday.Earlier, the decision to scrap the entrance exams was taken on August 11, but was challenged by two law aspirants, who argued that the premise to not hold the entrance was invalid when PU was conducting such exams for other courses. Class-12 marks as a sole criterion for determining the suitability of a candidate for admission to the course would neither be reasonable nor reliable, they had argued.The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) had asked PU to reconsider its decision by September 15. However, PU again decided against holding the exam, which has resulted in the second round of litigation.PU on Tuesday had sought three days from the high court to reconsider the decision again and upload its decision on the website.No entrance tests this yearAccording to a compliance report uploaded on the varsity’s website on Saturday, the controller of examination said the special committee set up by the vice-chancellor had recommended that entrance examination for BA LLB/ BCom LLB (honors) five-year integrated course and LLB (three-year) will not be conducted for this academic session. The same stands approved by the Panjab University.PU has already scrapped the entrance tests for all undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, PhD, honours graduate courses, management entrance test.‘Exam not feasible’“In view of the prevalent situation, it is not feasible to conduct the entrance examination for admissions to five-year and three-year law courses in the best interest of students and public at large,” stated the proceedings of the panel.The panel also observed that as per UGC directions, if admissions are not completed by the end of October 2020, the university will be left with no option except to declare 2020-21 as zero academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-entrance-test-for-three-year-five-year-law-courses-at-pu-this-year/story-SmTdhIBkS6z9q6OkwYuKJM.html
03-10-2020||City||Ambala MC gets 96 contractual employees on rolls||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel presented offer letters to 96 contractual employees, taking them on rolls of the municipal corporation at an event held at Panchayat Bhawan on Friday.MC commissioner Parth Gupta said the corporation had fulfilled their pending demand and had already taken 154 employees on board: “We are in the process of taking 23 more workers from 12 villages on rolls.”Goel and Gupta also flagged off the Swachhta Pakhwada to be celebrated from October 2 to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-gets-96-contractual-employees-on-rolls/story-odlN6Q8Y8qmv0tvSuIEEXJ.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Planning of Chandigarh resonates with Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy’||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Friday, the tourism department of the Chandigarh administration organised a lecture on the theme ‘Chandigarh–celebrating Gandhian values’.An online presentation was made by Deepika Gandhi, director, Le Corbusier Centre, on how the city relates it to the philosophy and ideals of Mahatma Gandhi. “The statute of land of Chandigarh by Le Corbusier clearly states that the city is made to provide all amenities to the poorest of the poor to lead a dignified life, resonating the Mahatma’s philosophy of catering to the lowest category of citizens for betterment of the country,” she said.She added that the provision of ample schools and colleges from the very inception of the city addressed Gandhi’s concerns that the salvation of the country was through education. The planning of the sectors was on the lines of a mini village, trying to recreate the mohalla, which was the essence of rural life in India, she said, adding that Chandigarh was neither a show of power nor a mere symbol of Western planning, but a product of the Indian ethos.Online interfaith prayer meeting held by PUChandigarh: The Department of Gandhian Studies of Panjab University (PU) in collaboration with the Bodhicitta Centre organised an interfaith and inter-religious online prayer meeting to mark Gandhi Jayanti on Friday.A second online special lecture event was organised in collaboration with the Panjab University Alumni Association on ‘Sustainable lifestyle in a pandemic world: A Gandhian approach’.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “At a time when the nation is preparing to respond to the direct health impacts of a pandemic, those of us who work on reducing violence and preventing conflict are also feeling the heat. The pandemic is already producing knock-on effects for safety at the individual level, the community level, as well as on international levels.”Professor Nawal Kishore Ambasht said he was fortunate enough to see Gandhi in person while he was on a peace mission in Noakhali. He asked the teachers to reintroduce Gandhian philosophy as a concept for values, life and thought, attitude of mind, living together and especially of peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/planning-of-chandigarh-resonates-with-mahatma-gandhi-s-philosophy/story-WuCTpYd50BaffCNVjKdkBJ.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Chandigarh MC chief launches special collection vehicles, ward-wise competition||In view of the next Swachh Survekshan 2021, Chandigarh municipal corporation has launched ‘Swachh Swaari’, a drive under which special vehicles will collect clothes, shoes, stationery and books from residents willing to donate.MC commissioner also launched ‘Swachh Ward’, an inter-ward competition, in which major indicators like waste segregation, citizen engagement, etc, will be assessed by an independent committee to declare ward-wise ranking on a monthly basis till January 2021.Mohali MC’s two-week cleanliness drive endsThe staff of the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) on Friday assembled at Phase-4 Bougainvillea Park to mark the culmination of the two-week ‘Clean Mohali Drive’. After paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary, an interaction was held with the residents on various aspects of the Swachh Survekshan, and a plastic picking drive was flagged off. Around 5.5 quintal plastic was picked up from various parts of the city. Plastic bottles and other waste material were handed over to an NGO to recycle. A massive plantation drive was undertaken to beautify resource management centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-survekshan-2021-chandigarh-mc-chief-launches-special-collection-vehicles-ward-wise-competition/story-OauLKXOS0ornFKHhnC9H3H.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ruckus in Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran after eatery owner refuses to extend credit||An eatery owner was attacked after he refused to extend credit to a few men in Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran, police said on Friday. The accused also damaged a large number of vehicles parked on the roadside with sticks and stones, and ransacked a couple of houses.Shopkeeper Kunal in his complaint said he operated a chicken corner outside his house, and for the last few days, Lakhan, Neema, Salim and Sonu, all residents of the same locality, had been frequenting his shop, partaking in the wares for free. Whenever he would ask for money, they would assure him of payment at a later time, Kunal told the police. On Thursday night, however, Kunal refused to serve them till they cleared pending dues, after which Lakhan got angry and threatened him before leaving. Two hours later, Lakhan brought along Neema, Salim, Sonu, Shammi, Sandeep, Smikaran, Surya, Nanu, Shiva, Rinku, Toni and others, who barged into Kunal’s house and assaulted him. The accused damaged a large number of vehicles parked on the roadside with sticks and stones, and in the rampage, ransacked Kunal’s cousin’s house and his employee Rohit Bihari’s house, Kunal alleged.Kunal further alleged that the accused even stole jewellery from his house and attempts were also made to kill his pet dog. A case of rioting was registered and police detained four people involved in the attack.Sec-35 advocate booked under Disaster Management ActMeanwhile, an advocate of Sector 35, whose house lies in a containment zone, was booked under the Disaster Management Act by moving out. Naresh Dilawari was booked on the complaint of one Leeon Chand, the nodal officer and in-charge of the containment zone. The allegations were that Dilawari went out despite being advised not to do so. He was rude with the duty officer who even offered to bring whatever he needed from outside.Sonepat loses purse to snatchersA Sonepat resident lost his purse to three unidentified persons who came on a motorcycle, the police said on Friday. Amit Kumar, who works as a driver, told the police the bike-borne men snatched his purse containing ₹3,000 in Mauli Jagran on Thursday. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ruckus-in-chandigarh-s-mauli-jagran-after-eatery-owner-refuses-to-extend-credit/story-HQ324wQH6fUbZf402eDc8N.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 23 deaths, 1,476 new cases||Haryana on Friday recorded 23 deaths, spread across 12 districts, and 1,476 fresh cases of Covid-19, as per the health bulletin. Among the 23 fatalities, three people each succumbed in Panipat and Hisar, two each in Faridabad, Gurugram, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Fatehabad, Jind and Charkhi Dadri and one each in Ambala, Palwal and Panchkula districts. The death toll in the state has climbed to 1,425 and the cumulative count of cases is 1, 31,388. In the past 24 hours 1,678 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 1, 16, 716. The active cases came down to 13, 247 from 13, 472 on Thursday. As of Friday, Haryana’s recovery rate rose to 88.83% from 88.55% on Thursday, the rate at which infections are doubling also improved from 30 days to 31 on Friday. The positivity rate stood at 6.68% against 6.69% a day earlier, the bulletin said. Gurugram recorded 261 new cases, Faridabad (157), Hisar (117), Rohtak (101), Jind (99), Yamunanagar (96), Ambala (85), Rewari (76), Sirsa (65), Sonepat (54), Karnal (52), Panipat (46), Kurukshetra (46), Panchkula (45), Jhajjar (37), Mahendergarh (31), Palwal (27), Bhiwani (27), Kaithal (23), Charkhi Dadri (15), Fatehabad (11), Nuh (5).The bulletin said there are 312 critically ill patients that included 40 on ventilator support and 272 on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-23-deaths-1-476-new-cases/story-aGDg6Uv90Pb71Yp85Xy3TP.html
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers stir in Haryana fading out, Cong banks on Rahul’s visit||Though the state’s farmers have demonstrated their angst against the laws, the intensity of the agitation is nowhere close to that of the neighbouring Punjab, say analysts The ongoing farmers’ agitation against the enactment of three farm laws by the Central government seems to be petering out in Haryana. Though in the past few days, farmers’ groups have demonstrated their angst – shown black flags and gheraoed ruling BJP and JJP leaders, including members of Parliament – the intensity levels of the agitation are nowhere close to that of the neighbouring Punjab, analysts say. The Congress and the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), who have drawn out a schedule of protests across the state against the farm laws, have also not been able to mobilise the farmers in big numbers. However, leaders of the grand old party are banking on the upcoming visit of former Congress president, Rahul Gandhi to give an impetus to the stir. “Rahul Gandhi’s support to the farmers of Haryana will boost the agitation. One can clearly see how and why the BJP-JJP government in the state is rattled by the announcement of his visit,” said a senior Congress leader. Political observers say that the ongoing paddy harvesting and procurement could also be a reason why the agitation in Haryana is not intense. Another factor is the influence of commission agents. “The agitation is primarily concentrated in the paddy growing districts like Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Kaithal but not much is happening in central and southern Haryana districts like Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari. The reason for this is the influence of commission agents who have supported the agitation in paddy growing districts along the national highway. The commission agents or arhtiyas have a strong presence in paddy growing districts in northern parts of the state and not so much in central and southern Haryana,” said an expert who did not wish to be named. Political scientist at Panjab University, Chandigarh, Prof Ashutosh Kumar said there was a basic difference in the way the agitation has gone about in Haryana and Punjab. “Both the Shiromani Akali Dal and the ruling Congress are vehemently supporting the stir in Punjab. Also, Haryana’s economy is somewhat different from Punjab and is not entirely dependent on farming. Proximity to national capital has helped Haryana’s economy. Farm sector reforms are hard as they involved rich farmers and has a direct visible impact over Punjab economy,” Prof Kumar said. All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) president, Yashpal Malik, who has announced Samiti’s firm support to Haryana farmers, said that Congress and the INLD have done their bit to mobilise farmers but the ideological divisions between the two has adversely affected the cohesion between the farmers groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-stir-in-haryana-fading-out-cong-banks-on-rahul-s-visit/story-YFdrlOkIkQ4tdIYdpF8HrL.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s record of 150 deaths due to fires in 2019 is city’s highest toll in five years||Fatalities in blazes -- be it in residential buildings, commercial structures or in vehicles -- in the national capital were higher in 2019 than in any of the last five years, according to data by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).A total of 150 persons died in fire-related incidents last year, up from 145 in 2018, showed NCRB data. The previous three years had reported relatively much fewer deaths at 64, 88 and 114, respectively.Also Read: Three fire incidents in Delhi, two factories guttedThe death toll rose last year majorly due to two big fires – a factory fire in north Delhi’s Anaj Mandi that left 43 dead on December 8, and a blaze in central Delhi’s Hotel Arpit Palace that killed 17 on February 12.The two massive blazes aside, 2019 had the highest number of fire incidents in Delhi in the last 10 years. “In 2019, we attended 943 fire calls of which 100 turned fatal. It is the highest number of calls we attended in the last decade. The previous highest was in 2012 when we attended 776 fire calls,” said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.Also Read: Delhi: Fire breaks out in manufacturing unit in Inderlok, no casualty reportedAlso, in 2019, as many as 16 persons died in fires in cars or other vehicles. Among the incidents that hit headlines was the one on March 10, when a woman and her two minor children were charred when the car they were driving caught fire in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar.The previous highest for vehicle fires in the last five years was in 2015 when 13 commuters died.“We have noticed that most of these blazes occur as vehicles are either not maintained well, or they get poor quality CNG cylinders fitted in their vehicles,” Garg said.The number of deaths in residential buildings (95) and in commercial buildings (22) were also the highest in the last five years. The previous highest deaths in residential buildings were in 2018 when 64 people were killed. For deaths in commercial structures, 2016 was the second worst year when seven persons had died.Also Read: Delhi fire: An explainer on why govt agencies are blaming each otherThe Anaj Mandi and the Hotel Arpit Palace blazes were behind the year 2019 topping in the two indexes. “The Anaj Mandi fire was in an illegal factory operating out of a residential building,” said Garg. As it turned out, both blazes were caused by short-circuit. “Our probe found short-circuit triggered the Anaj Mandi fire,” said a senior officer of Delhi Police’s crime branch, which probed the fire. Garg too said the hotel fire was due to short-circuit in one air-conditioning system.Unsurprisingly then, the number of deaths due to short-circuits (83) was not only the highest in the last five years, it was also the single biggest cause for fire-related fatalities in 2019.Also Read: Need strong punishment for lapses to improve fire safetyAn electricity board official blamed the short-circuits on “overloading” by consumers, “faulty internal wiring”, and “absence of protective equipment” in old buildings.While fire-related deaths in commercial buildings were mostly on account of the infamous hotel blaze, several other incidents led to 95 deaths in residential buildings.Among such incidents last year was a fire in a four-storey residential building in Jamia Nagar that left six persons dead on August 6. Garg said this particular blaze, and other similar ones, pointed to the dangerous trend of installing electricity meters in close proximity to parking lots on the ground floor or the basement.“If a fire breaks out in such meters, vehicles in the parking lot are quickly gutted and the stairs leading down to the parking lot are blocked by either flames or smoke, leading to deaths,” Garg said.The fire department has written to the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission to have such meters shifted from parking lots, he said. In September, one of the discoms sent an advisory to its customers, asking telling them to ensure electric metres are not installed in parking or enclosed spaces.While 2019 topped on many indexes, it was a year that saw fewer deaths (eight) in blazes in legal factories, which Garg said are usually equipped with fire-fighting equipment and safety exits. In 2018, 14 people died in factory fires. The number was 13 in the year before that.This year has been easier for Delhi when it comes to fire incidents. Until August 31, there were a total of 226 fire calls of which eight were fatal. The number of people killed in those eight incidents wasn’t immediately provided. “The lockdown and closure of commercial buildings and factories during that period could lead to far fewer deaths this year, compared to past years,” Garg said.SK Dheri, former DFS chief, said as long as building bylaws are bypassed and fire safety norms neglected, deaths will keep happening. “The Anaj Mandi deaths were due to illegal use of a residential building, the Hotel Arpit Palace deaths were because of disregard for safety rules. The situation will not improve unless exemplary punishments are handed out and large fines imposed by enforcement agencies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-record-of-150-deaths-due-to-fires-in-2019-is-city-s-highest-toll-in-five-years/story-wsPwK1IpV6Ss1p9Fs5gesN.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Districts ask for more volunteers at city’s hotspots||With the number of containment zones across the national capital consistently rising, the district administrations have written to the revenue department, asking for more civil defence volunteers to be allotted to them, a senior Delhi government official said on Friday.On October 1, Delhi recorded 2,615 containment zones up from 846 a month ago. In the same period, active Covid-19 cases in Delhi increased from 15,870 to 26,738, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletins.Civil defence volunteers help district officials check violation of containment norms in the sealed zones and ensure the doorstep delivery of essentials to the residents there. Also Read: Weekday cases in Capital fall below 3,000 after September 5“All resources of the districts have been engaged in Covid-19 management. At this point, having more helping hands would really help,” said a revenue department official, who asked not to be named.Delhi is sanctioned around 238,000 civil defence volunteers, the official said. However, he said, the city has only 46,000 enrolled volunteers, of whom around 22,000 are on active duty across departments.Currently, the revenue department has the highest number of civil defence volunteers with it — around 8,500. Of the total, at least 7,000 are engaged only on Covid-19 management. The transport department has around 7,000 civil defence volunteers with it as of now, said the official.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “Civil defence volunteers play a major role in management of containment zones across the city. In the coming days, we are looking forward to recruit more of them and engaging them in the fight against Covid-19.”Civil defence volunteers are not bound by any contract, and are paid an emolument of around Rs 730 for a day’s duty. Their enrolment is a round-the-year process, but they receive calls from the departments when their services are needed. The volunteers also help traffic police in managing traffic or ensure social distancing on the roads.The most active volunteers in terms of service are often prioritised. In the last one year, the government engaged over 5,000 civil defence volunteers in the rescue and rehabilitation of victims of the communal violence in north-east Delhi and implementation of the odd-even road space rationing scheme to reduce pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/districts-ask-for-more-volunteers-at-delhi-hot-spots/story-7kGh7hElZwGWbQVXI5MUcK.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi police’s Operation Eagle Eye reveals how auto lifters supplied snatchers with vehicles||The Delhi Police on Friday busted one of the largest syndicates of vehicle thieves and snatchers in the national capital and arrested 14 men, who regularly rented out stolen two-wheelers to snatchers in Delhi. Police said they have recovered at least 116 stolen two-wheelers from these men. The arrested also include the alleged kingpin who is believed to be involved in 89 cases of vehicle thefts. Police said snatchers preferred using stolen vehicles as these couldn’t be traced to themAlso Read: Rise in snatching cases alarming, no leniency for perpetrators: High courtPolice said the racket was busted during a special operation code-named Eagle Eye, which was executed by joint teams from Raj Park and Mangolpuri police stations in outer Delhi. Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said police had noticed that in recent cases of snatching, the vehicles used by suspects were mostly stolen. “Using stolen motorcycles is one way for snatchers to evade the police as they are registered in the owner’s name. An in-depth probe revealed a nexus between auto lifters, middlemen and snatchers. The auto lifters would provide stolen bikes to middlemen who would rent them out to snatchers for Rs 2,000 a day or a share in the snatched item(s),” Koan said. The DCP said the racket was active for the past two or three years at least and some snatchers were directly in touch with auto lifters in order to avoid paying the middlemen. “In case a snatcher could not afford to pay upfront the Rs 2,000, he was still given the bike, but on condition that half the snatched valuables will be handed over to the auto lifters at the end of the day. If they stole cash, then around 30%-40% of the loot was given to the auto lifters in lieu of bike rent,” Koan said.Also, the rent price varied, depending upon the make and type of motorcycle that the snatcher wanted to use. He said from questioning arrested snatchers, police got to know that they would always leave these motorbikes near public parks or in isolated parking lots to avoid being tracked. Koan said, “All 14 men accepted that they operated a racket of auto lifters and snatchers. They said the stolen motorcycles were being provided to snatchers on rent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/auto-lifters-rent-out-bikes-to-snatchers-to-evade-cops-racket-busted-14-arrested/story-VVkXl85ysjD4BlzdvFZH8O.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||NDMC flags off Lutyens Delhi bicycle tours||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) Friday flagged off a bicycle tour, as part of its ‘Cycle4Change’ pilot project to promote cycling in the capital city. The tour was launched from Bikaner House (near India Gate) and hundreds of participants rode on a 6km dedicated corridor up to Lodhi Gardens, said NDMC officials. The guided tour will be on for nine days — from October 2 to 10 — and is open to all, but participants who must bring their own bicycles. These can also be rented from one of the public bike-sharing stations in the NDMC area. NDMC chairperson Dharmendra said, “At the time when physical and sports activities have been drastically curtailed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, NDMC has initiated a move toward normalcy and road safety by organising cycle rides in the New Delhi area. To elevate the safety, convenience and experience of cyclists, we have dedicated this pilot corridor of 6km to a unique cycling experience, around a recreational space surrounded by wall paintings.” Based on the success of this pilot project, many more corridors in the NDMC area may be dedicated to cyclists in the winter months, he added.“The cycle tour is organised in two slots -- three hours in the morning (6am to 9am) and two hours in the evening (5pm to 7pm). Cyclists would start from Bikaner House and go via Humayun Road, Amrita Shergil Marg, Jor Bagh Metro station, Lodhi Garden Gate No.6, Lodhi Garden Gate No.11, Avenue Road-2, and Lodhi Colony Block-17 before arriving at the Lodhi Colony Cycle Plaza,” a statement from the NDMC said. A senior NDMC official said on Friday, around 1,000 cyclists took part in the morning tours, which stretched till noon on account of Friday being Gandhi Jayanti, a public holiday. The event, however, could not be held in the evening because of a protest demonstration at India Gate, the official said. At least four public bike sharing stations fall on this route, including one near Bikaner House and Lodhi Garden. E-scooters or motorcycles are not allowed in the tour, NDMC said. “We have tied up with traffic police to keep the corridor free of congestion during the tour slots. Also, we have deployed our marshals to ensure safety of women and children,” the NDMC official said. He added that the nine-day period will be assessed to see if this corridor could permanently be made into a dedicated corridor for cyclists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-flags-off-nine-day-bicycle-tours-through-lutyens-delhi/story-rkiZ9rGboQCDDvDQOfkyBL.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Experts to examine mental health of Delhi riots accused||A team of doctors, as part of a medical board, have started assessing the mental health of a man who is suspected of having schizophrenia and has been arrested by Delhi Police for being involved in three murders during the February Delhi riots. The man was arrested from Karawal Nagar, north-east Delhi, during the course of investigations, police said . Also Read: How the Delhi riots probe polarised society | AnalysisA Delhi court, on September 22, had passed an order for a medical board to be constituted after the jail superintendent informed that the suspect has been an outpatient department patient at IHBAS since 2011 and was being treated for “paranoid schizophrenia.”The court will now hear the case on October 6, when the medical board would submit its opinion on the accused.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav had directed the superintendent of jail number- 13, Mandoli, to put together a medical board — under the supervision of director of the Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS) — and to communicate to the court about the actual mental condition of the man after thoroughly examining him as per existing protocol.Also Read: Politicians who addressed anti-CAA protests mentioned in Delhi riots charge sheetThe court said that the board shall also communicate to it “whether it is safe to release the suspect on bail in the above matters, which are cases of murder and rioting.”“In case, it is not advisable to release him on bail, then whether he has to be kept in jail or elsewhere; the board shall also communicate as to whether the applicant is capable of taking his defence in the above-noted matters,” the court said in its September 22 order.The man, through his counsel, had sought bail stating that he was a “person of unsound mind.” Along with the bail plea, the counsel had also submitted the man’s medical records on August 28.“Yes, we have received the order and assessment would be done and a report be submitted at an appropriate time,” said Nimesh Desai, director, IHBAS.The suspect has been charged for the murder of Veer Bhan,48, Alok Kumar Tiwari,32, and Dinesh Kumar 35, all of which took place in Karawal Nagar during the riots between February 23 and 27 this year.In his report, the jail superintendent informed the court that the applicant has been registered as OPD since August 13, 2011. The report said he has been diagnosed to be suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, for which treatment is required.While passing the order, the court said that it was incumbent and in the interest of justice to have a proper diagnosis of the applicant, as to whether he is a person of “unsound mind” or not and if he is one, then whether he is capable of defending himself in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/medical-board-constituted-to-examine-mental-health-of-man-arrested-in-delhi-riots-case/story-DEiAH3aHeHAYmfjnLiSgWN.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||‘List pollutants that flow into Shahdara drain’: Yamuna Monitoring Committee tells UP govt||The Yamuna Monitoring Committee has directed the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) to submit a report on untreated or partially treated sewage and industrial effluents being discharged into east Delhi’s Shahdara drain — a stinking outlet that meets the river and adds to its pollution load. The committee in a review meeting with the state government on October 1 pointed out that two outlets from neighbouring Ghaziabad in UP — the Sahibabad and Indirapuri drains, which meet the Shahdara drain — carry a huge quantity of chemicals that cannot be treated by conventional methods. It said the agencies concerned must be directed to prevent industrial effluents from entering the drains and mixing with sewage. Besides these two, the Loni drain also discharges sewage into the Shahdara drain. Loni and Sahibabad are industrial townships in Ghaziabad bordering east Delhi, where the Shahdara drain flows and ultimately meets the Yamuna.The committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), for revival of the Yamuna, comprises former state chief secretary Shailaja Chandra and former NGT expert member BS Sajwan. “The COD (chemical oxygen demand) and BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) levels in the two drains way exceed the permissible limits. COD varies from 1,400 to 1,600 ppm (parts per million) while the permissible standard is 250 mg/l whereas BOD levels are in excess of 740 mg/l, as against the permissible limits of 30 mg/l,” stated the minutes of the review meeting. COD refers to the total amount of organic and inorganic chemicals in waste water. BOD is the amount of oxygen used by microorganisms in the oxidation of organic matter. “Since the gradual opening of industries, discharge from untreated industrial effluents in drains has again started, which has been contributing to pollution in the Shahdara drain, the most polluted among the 22 in Delhi that meet the Yamuna. It is causing massive pollution in the river. In many cases, the drains do not have sewage treatment plants (STPs) while in other places the plants are underutilised. A major chunk of pollution in the Shahdara drain comes from UP, which needs to be curbed,” said a member of the YMC. The committee has asked the UP government to provide the current status of the functioning of STPs in Indirapuri, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Noida, their capacity utilisation and whether they are meeting treatment standards. It wanted timelines for new STPs and other short and long-term measures to be taken for reducing pollution. A report submitted by the Central Pollution Control Board to the NGT in December 2019 said Sahibabad and Loni townships in Ghaziabad generate 575 MLD (million litres per day) of discharge for which there are only seven STPs with a total treatment capacity of 427 MLD in Ghaziabad. According to UPPCB officials, work is under way to improve the condition of STPs and set up new plants. “Work on a conveyance channel that will be able to carry and tap more sewage in the Sahibabad drain is already under way and will be completed by November. It was delayed because of restrictions in place due to Covid-19,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB (Ghaziabad). Manoj Misra, convenor, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said major part of the industrial pollutants in the Shahdara drain is from UP. “There are a number of industries in Ghaziabad which discharge their effluents directly or partially treated into the drains in absence of adequate treatment plants. The Shahdara drain meets the Yamuna downstream of Okhla barrage, half of which falls in Delhi, while the another half in UP,” Misra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/submit-report-on-pollutants-flowing-into-shahdara-drain-yamuna-panel-to-up/story-tFMkqeNTNXYIl0UJQurksN.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi topped list of fake notes seizure last year, says NCRB data||Delhi witnessed the country’s highest number of seizures of fake Indian currency notes in 2019 , statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) show.In terms of value of seized fake notes in rupees, the national capital figured fifth on the list, which Karnataka topped. Also Read: Economic crimes on rise in Maharashtra, Mumbai tops metropolitan citiesThe analysis of the NCRB’s data shows that circulation of fake notes of Rs 2000, Rs 500 and Rs 200 (new currency notes launched after the demonetisation exercise in 2016) increased in Delhi last year in comparison to 2018. As per the NCRB data, police seized 8,979 fake notes in the denomination of Rs 2000 (valued more than Rs 1.79 crore) in Delhi in 2019, which was 2,522 notes (nearly Rs 50.44 lakh) more than the seizure of the same currency fake notes in 2018. Police had seized 6,457 counterfeit notes of Rs 2000 valued a little over Rs 1.29 crore in 2018. Like Rs 2000 notes, there was a sharp rise in the seizure of counterfeit notes of Rs 500 as well in 2019. According to the NCRB statistics, the police had seized only 368 fake notes of the new Rs 500 notes in 2018, but this number rose to 4,583 in 2019. Similarly, there were only 57 counterfeit notes of Rs 200 that were seized in 2018,. But in 2019, the figure increased to 2,644, making police officials believe that printing, smuggling and circulation of counterfeit notes had increased in Delhi. Also Read: India records 1.6% rise in crimes in 2018-19: NCRB data“The increase in seizure of fake Indian currency of Rs 2000, Rs 500 and Rs 200 denominations is an indication that printing of fake notes was picking up pace after a lull of almost two years post demonetisation in November 2016,” said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. “Many of the fake notes we seized contained security features that were similar to the genuine notes, making it difficult for anyone to differentiate between them. Most such notes is pumped into the country through Bangladesh and Nepal. Delhi Police and other law enforcement agencies continue to bust gangs and their networks involved in circulation of such notes,” said DCP Yadav. According to the NCRB’s data, Delhi had the highest number of the seizure of fake notes (60,384) valued around Rs 3.01 crore last year. With 44,580 such notes being seized, Gujarat held the second position in the list. In terms of value of seized currency, Karnataka topped the chart having seized Rs 4.78 crore worth in fake notes. Apart from the seizure of counterfeit notes, the Delhi police in 2019 had also recovered 4,553 notes of Rs 1,000, which was banned after demonetisation. Former IPS officer Ashok Chand, who has served in the Delhi Police force, said, “There are two types of fake currency notes – one just a duplication of the genuine note without having any security features and the other that contains many security features and looks genuine. If the seizure of fake notes of the second category is increasing, then it is alarming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/highest-seizure-of-fake-currency-notes-happened-in-delhi-ncrb-data/story-BtvE5sykDK6uLFdhds6w6O.html
03-10-2020||Delhi||Weekday cases in Capital fall below 3,000 after Sept 5||The number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported in the Capital in a day dipped below 3,000 for the first time since the first week of September, barring weekends — when fewer tests are conducted. Friday’s health bulletin added 2,920 new cases of the viral infection in the city. To be sure, there has been a declining trend in new cases since September 26. So far, over 280,000 people in the city have been infected with Covid-19, and 5,438 have died. Of these, 37 deaths were reported on Friday. With more deaths due to the viral infection being reported for the past two weeks, the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) — the fraction of people who died among those diagnosed with the infection – increased to 1.37% from 0.76%. The cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of total number of cases and deaths reported from the city – is on the decline, however. It stood at 1.9% as on Friday, slightly higher than the national average of 1.6%. It was 2.5% in early September.“We do not know the reason there are fewer deaths in India. It could be because we are now giving several experimental therapies to our patients and have standardised the treatment protocol. It could be that we have a younger population that is less likely to die of the infection. Or it could be that the virus has mutated and is causing more infections but fewer deaths. Most patients we are getting right now are not very severe; they need oxygen support but not even non-invasive ventilation,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor in the department of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital. The number of hospitalisations has gone down across the city over the past few days, and fell to 6,071 as on Thursday, accounting for 22.9% of the active cases. The number of hospitalizations had gone up to just over 7,000 prompting the government to add more ICU beds in its hospitals and direct 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for Covid-19 treatment. The order has been challenged in the Delhi high court. As on Friday evening, 63.7% of the intensive care unit beds in the city’s hospitals were occupied, according to the Delhi Corona App.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-adds-2-920-fresh-covid-cases-on-friday-fatality-rate-drops/story-HcLHV86SOrCBBvbHCcFWqN.html
03-10-2020||City||2,538 fresh Covid-19 cases, 46 deaths in Pune district on Friday||On Friday, Pune district reported 2,538 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours. A total of 46 people were declared dead due to the infection, as per the state health department. Currently, Pune district has a total of 2.98 lakh Covid cases, of which 2.34 lakh have recovered; 5,905 is the death toll and 57,682 are the active number of cases. Pune rural reported 896 new cases, taking its total count to 63,766. Twenty deaths reported on Friday put the death toll at 1,265, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 1,043 fresh cases, taking its total count to 1,57,826. Eighteen deaths reported on Friday, put the death toll at 3,571.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 599 new cases, taking its final count to 76,635. Eight deaths on Friday put the death toll at 1,068.The state health department reported that 13,294 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the final discharged count to 11,17,720. The recovery rate in the state is 78.91%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.65%. Currently 21,94,347 people are in home quarantine in the state, and 29,051 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-538-fresh-covid-19-cases-46-deaths-in-pune-district-on-friday/story-OqIy5vieEsWggRJvm1sC6M.html
03-10-2020||Pune||Senior scientist of NCCS, Pune dies due to Covid-related condition||A senior scientist of the National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS) in Pune died on Friday. She was 58-years old and for the last one month was being treated in a private hospital for her Covid condition. The scientist is survived by her husband and daughter. She originally hails from Nagpur, but completed her studies in Mumbai and Pune. After completing her post-graduation from the University of Pune, she completed her PhD from the Cancer Research Institute in Mumbai, and in 1989 joined the NCCS. Her major work covered three broad areas - RNA biology, stem cells and cancer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-nccs-scientist-dies-of-covid-related-condition/story-igMbGdGZGvfOExNFoDNF3N.html
03-10-2020||Pune||Maha government to fix rates for Covid-19 treatment in rural areas, says Ajit Pawar in Pune||The Maharashtra government is going to fix the rates for Covid-19 treatment in rural areas soon, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday.Pawar took a Covid-19 review meeting at the council hall, where MPs and MLAs from Pune city and district were present.Pawar said, “In urban areas, the state government and municipal corporations fixed treatment rates. On the same line, rates will be finalised for hospitals operating in rural areas.”Pawar instructed the Pune divisional commissioner to start post-Covid counselling centres in the rural areas as well, like those planned for Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad. Divisional commissioner Saurab Rao informed the meeting that five counselling centres would start in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad to guide patients who have recovered from Covid-19 but are still facing various health and psychological issues.“Start these centres immediately in Pune and after that, start them in the rural areas,” Pawar said.Elected members pointed out that complaints over availability of beds have come down, but the administration needs to speed-up the testing process.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol demanded an increase in testing facilities in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-to-fix-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-in-rural-areas-ajit-pawar/story-MFGSTOXKZ2eAXN7EBYle3O.html
03-10-2020||Pune||Re-open Pune civic body’s Covid care centres to cope with rural influx, activists demand||A group of health political activists, across political affiliations, have demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) re-open all its Covid care centres in the city, to deal with the influx of rural patients coming in for treatment.A letter released on Friday, was signed by Congress spokesperson Gopal Tiwari, Indian Medical Association state (IMA) president Avinash Bhondwe, educationist P A Inamdar, IMA’s Pune president Dr Aarti Nimkar, Dr Anant Phadke, Dr Jayashree Todkar and the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Abhijit More; stated that patients coming in from outstations areas can be admitted to these Covid care centres instead of burdening private hospitals in the city.The PMC recently closed down 25 Covid care centres in the city as most asymptomatic patients prefer to stay home quarantine.The letter cited, in particular, centres located at Symbiosis - Vimannagar, SNDT - Karvenagar, Wagholi, Warje, Kharadi, Hadapsar and Yerwada – as the ones that need to be re-started.Tiwari said, “We are running the Rajiv Gandhi Smarak committee. We are offering the administration our services and will help the municipal corporation in the health sector. If the administration allows public participation, our organisation is ready to work jointly with the municipal corporation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/re-open-pmc-covid-care-centres-to-cope-with-rural-influx-activists-demand/story-EtgoVgYjQ5DkLDANBneZQP.html
03-10-2020||Lifestyle||Meals at Rs10: Charity wrapped in dignity||The biggest problem with poverty is the shame that comes with it, when you give the best you have to someone in need, it translates into something much deeper to the receiver. It means they are worth. These lines are from The Book of Kindness, written by Om Swami and they hold much value in an initiative started by Sanjay Dodrajka, a CA by profession. Under his program, Food with dignity, he has been providing meals at just Rs.10.Quoting Dalai Lama, Dadrojka says,“It is not enough to be compassionate. You must act”. He always wanted to do something tangible for the people who are in dire need of help. “As responsible citizens, we cannot leave everything to our government. We need to pitch in, directly. Every year, many people across the world fail at the very elementary task of staying alive. Not because they are sick or meet with an accident, but for the most damning reason of all – they starve for want of food. Hamari Udaan, a young NGO has taken up task of providing affordable food cooked in hygienic conditions for those who have no access to such meal.”Through small initiatives, Dodrajka has been involved in social service since his college days. However the idea to set up a full fledge NGO came to his mind after untimely death of a close school friend. “My friend died in an air crash in US and Hamari Udaan was born in 2014. The name being related to his passion for flying. The program has been running in Maya Enclave for almost twenty months now with a simple concept. Volunteers prepare the food in collaboration with ACT, another NGO from the area. This food is prepared every day in time to meet the lunchtime needs of passersby, often factory workers, autorickshaw drivers and labourers and other people from an economically stressed background. The food is hot, hygienic, fresh and tasty,” says Dodrajka.A minimal amount is charged for the food. “We charge a token amount of Rs. 10 per plate of food served. The reason for charging this small amount and not giving away the food for free is two-fold. Firstly, it ensures that the purchaser is accorded the full dignity of a paying customer. Refills are free and once a person has paid for a meal, he or she can eat to their content. Giving away the food for free would have reduced the beneficiaries to the status of beggars, something that we want to avoid. Secondly, the token amount ensures that there is no wastage. This is an equally important component and dovetails with the ideal of tackling hunger, one meal at a time,” says Dodrajka who runs this program in Maya Enclave nearby his work place to manage this project.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/meals-at-rs10-charity-wrapped-in-dignity/story-NIqcr952CtVeswxWslwZcO.html
