04-10-2020||City||Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation: Congress, BJP trade barbs||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress traded barbs at each other yet again over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). The spat began after the BJP wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, questioning why the Mumbai Police didn’t make any arrest in the drug links in the case and asked if there was any deliberate attempt to hide any political connection. In response, the Congress hit back, terming the BJP’s letter a “face-saving attempt”, after its conspiracy to gain political mileage from the SSR episode boomeranged. In his letter, BJP legislator Ram Kadam asked why the Mumbai Police did not probe the drug angle, despite doing the investigation for the initial 65 days. “The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) made 19 arrests in connection with the drug dealing in Bollywood and on the basis of the chat messages, they recovered from Rhea Chakraborty. Why was similar action not taken by the Mumbai Police? Was there pressure on the police to not take any action in drug dealing? Was it an attempt to save some mighty people? In its attempt, the state government has maligned the image of city police,” stated the letter. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The police department was headed by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for five years, why did he not ask the police to investigate drug dealing in Bollywood? The BJP made big noise in the Rajput case and hatched a conspiracy to malign the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra. Social media was used to generate sentiments against Maharashtra. The probe was handed over to CBI, which could find nothing wrong in the case. An inquiry by the SIT should be initiated against the conspiracy,” he said. Sawant has also questioned why NCB has not been probing involvement of Ssandip Singh, who was the producer of a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, despite having faced charges in drug dealing. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Congress has planned protests in all districts on Monday over the Hathras incident. State unit chief Balasaheb Thorat said, “The protest will be staged in all districts on Monday and the agitation will continue until the family gets justice. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has no right to continue in the chair after the incident and the way the case was handled. We are surprised that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who chanted the slogan ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ is silent on the entire episode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-singh-rajput-death-investigation-congress-bjp-trade-barbs/story-3AYr9Xlpx1eM8P484vxiBJ.html
04-10-2020||City||Eight-year-old girl raped by uncle in Bhiwandi||A 26-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping his eight-year-old niece in Bhiwandi. The minor had gone to stay at her uncle’s home in Bhiwandi two months ago as schools were closed. During her stay, the accused threatened the girl and raped her several times. According to Ganeshpuri police, the accused’s wife filed a complaint with the police after she discovered the crime. She told police that she had brought her eight-year-old niece from her village to her house two months back. The accused, a labourer, was at home since the lockdown. His wife would do odd jobs at shops or as a domestic help. Mahesh Sagade, in-charge, Ganeshpuri police station, said, “The accused had been raping the girl while his wife was out. He had threatened the girl but after suffering from severe pain, she told her aunt about the attacks. We have arrested the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-year-old-girl-raped-by-uncle-in-bhiwandi/story-CWFKyy8IKbnpuqrVyGp6vM.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai schools participate in Climate Action Project, introduce related curriculum||Several schools in the city will participate in Climate Action Project, an international initiative that aims to create awareness about climate change and environmental threats amongst school children. Through the project, schools will teach a six-week curriculum on climate change in collaboration with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Jane Goodall Institute and United Nations (UN). A total of 107 countries are a part of the initiative. City-based schools like Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School (CNMS) in Vile Parle, Sanjivani International School in Navi Mumbai and Navy Children’s School, Colaba are participating in the project. “Climate change is real and it’s high time we start talking about it at the school level. Through this initiative, we want students to participate in the crusade against climate change,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal, CNMS and climate action ambassador with the project. Schools will start teaching the curriculum from this month, and will gradually introduce different themes and concepts related to climate change and environmental hazards. As part of the six-week programme, schools will not only include climate change and climate action as part of their everyday teaching but will also encourage students to take up several activities like environmental awareness drives, tree plantation programmes, etc. “We have started the programme at our school and to begin with, geography teachers have been entrusted with the responsibility of teaching the curriculum. Just last week, we had a conversation with students about Greta Thunberg and showed them one of her talks to encourage them to talk about climate action,” said Vandana Saxena, principal, Sanjivani International School. Sanghvi said more schools in the city are likely to join the campaign in the coming days. “We have sent out an appeal to several schools and have also written to the state education department in this regard. We hope that more schools participate for the good cause,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-participate-in-climate-action-project-introduce-related-curriculum/story-SYqOyaIYoxRLDtHqXJz96K.html
04-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad schools gear up for graded opening, chalk out safety measures||Ghaziabad: As schools gear up to re-open classes, as directed by the Uttar Pradesh government in its recent guidelines issued on October 1, the Independent Schools Federation of India (ISFI), a body of 100 different schools in Ghaziabad, held a meeting with member schools on Sunday during which it prepared list of measures likely to be put in place when students return.The Uttar Pradesh government had last week announced the guidelines for the reopening and said that all schools and coaching institutes, outside containment zones, will be allowed to open in a graded manner after October 15. However, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari in his order had said that the decision to open schools will be taken by the district administration, on the basis of the local situation with respect to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, as well as in consultation with schools.“We have chalked out different measures which will be put in place when schools reopen. We have proposed that initially they will be opened only for classes 10 and 12 and there will be two shifts of three hours each. In the next phase, we plan to allow students of classes nine and eleven. The names of students will be put on respective seats and not more than 20 students will be allowed in one class. There will be no operation of air conditioners and students shall not share food/water etc., with fellow students,” said Subhash Jain, president of ISFI.The measures have disallowed canteen and playground facilities and barred assemblies. The health protocols of mandatory wearing of masks, social distancing and thermal screening at entry gates will also be taken up.The school premises will also have posters and boards displaying different precautionary measures needed for protection against Covid-19.“We are still brainstorming whether to resume transport facilities, while keeping in mind the number of students who will come for classes. The decision will be taken up at a later stage and we are also waiting for the standard operating procedures (SOPs) which are to be issued by the government,” Jain, added.He said that consent of about 50-65% of parents has already been received by about 40 of the member schools while it is in process for others. The list of measures prepared by the ISFI will also be communicated to the district administration on Monday.The UP government guidelines had said that students will be allowed to attend only with the written consent of parents and that no school will be allowed to make parent consent mandatory.“A lot of time was devoted to chalk out measures for safety of students and staff as well. In our schools, we have parents of 57% of students who have given their consent for allowing their children to attend school. Besides, all of these parents who have consented have requested for provision of transport facility. We will be rolling out measures and expect that teams from the administration/health department inspect the premises and certify compliance before schools open up classes,” said Jyoti Gupta, director of DPS Sahibabad and member of ISFI. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said safety measures are necessary in wake of the pandemic.“Apart from measures listed by ISFI, the administration, along with the health department, will mull over additional measures. A list of final measures will be chalked out before schools open up. We expect all schools to strictly adhere to guidelines and implement all health protocols. Once schools open up, our teams will conduct surprise inspections to ascertain whether all guidelines are being followed,” he added.Members of the district parents’ association, however, said many of them are not willing to send their wards to school due to health risks brought on by the pandemic.“At the ground level, it will be difficult to contain children when they are in school and among their friends. Many parents are still not willing to send their children to school as they feel that the children could contract the virus and no one will come forward to take responsibility. From Monday, we will start sending mails to the Ministry of Human Resource Development, the Uttar Pradesh government as well as the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights for intervention and deferring the opening of schools,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of the Ghaziabad Parents’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-schools-gear-up-for-graded-opening-chalk-out-safety-measures/story-bwMp3AMidK4o3GIxBZ5XjI.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC to plan distribution of Covid-19 vaccine across Mumbai||With the case tally crossing two lakh last week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will in the next two months draw up a strategy for distribution of vaccine for Covid-19, which is expected to be available in the coming months. According to BMC, initially, 30% of the city’s total population of over 1.24 crore, including frontline workers and senior citizens, will need vaccine. The civic body plans to take help of private hospitals, along with government and civic-run hospitals for vaccine distribution. The strategy will be drawn after BMC’s door-to-door survey under ‘My Family-My Responsibility’ initiative concludes in the last week of October. Starting September 15, BMC, with the help of 5,000 teams consisting 15,000 frontline staff, has started to screen citizens for Covid-19 symptoms. Along with it, the civic body is also educating citizens about safety and precautions to be undertaken for living with Covid-19 in the coming months. The civic body said it will have to use the network of civic hospitals, clinics, health centres, maternity homes along with several private hospitals in the city to give vaccines to the vulnerable group. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “The arrival of the vaccine may take some time, but we will start our planning from November, once the ‘My family-My Responsibility’ programme is completed. The programme will give us data on individuals or groups who need to get the vaccine first. The planning for the vulnerable target group can be done in a week. Whenever the vaccine arrives, we can give it to this vulnerable target audience within 15 days using our civic-run health infrastructure and with the help of private health care institutions.”BMC officials said they also have some data on senior citizens, who were screened as part of initiative to bring down the mortality rate. The civic body has screened over 10 lakh senior citizens and recommended several of them opt for oxygen therapy, as their oxygen levels were low. Several Covid-19 cases among senior citizens were also identified owing to this drive, BMC officials said. BMC also said the vaccine distribution strategy will be amended from time-to-time based on the guidelines from the Central and state government. The Central government has already formed an expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan, from identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration.A week ago, BMC kicked off trials of Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Oxford University. The trial is being undertaken at the civic-run KEM Hospital. Kakani said, “We are going to conduct trials on around 100 individuals to start with, and they will be monitored for around six months to check the reaction to the vaccine. We are also conducting trials using anti-tuberculosis vaccination (TB) — Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) – vaccine. In the BCG vaccine, we will monitor the patients for at least three months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-plan-distribution-of-covid-19-vaccine-across-mumbai/story-QH4dsK1RvS34u5Qe1It6xH.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||₹135.6 crore spent towards Mumbai Trans Harbour Link environment impact reduction: MMRDA tells NGT||Dismissing allegations that the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) negatively impacts the ecology around its construction site, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that ₹135.6 crore has been spent towards environmental impact reduction.The NGT principal bench will be hearing the matter on Monday.MMRDA is building the MTHL – a 21.8km-long bridge connecting Sewri in Mumbai to Chirle, Nhava-Sheva in Uran – which is expected to be the country’s longest sea link.The NGT on August 24 directed MMRDA to submit the MTHL project status and respond to allegations of large-scale environmental damage to the coastal ecology, flora and fauna around the construction site. The bench was hearing an application by Mumbai resident Dileep Nevatia challenging the coastal zone regulation (CRZ) clearance granted to the project.“MMRDA has incurred a total cost of ₹1,356,807,548 towards compliance with the impugned CRZ clearance and environment impact reduction as of August 31,” the read MMRDA’s affidavit recently submitted before the NGT. HT has a copy of the document which further read, “Allegations by the appellant that the MTHL project will negatively impact the environment is misconceived and does not present the entire picture.”According to MMRDA’s submissions, ₹5.05 crore had been allocated for compensatory mangrove afforestation entrusted to the state mangrove cell across 200 hectares. Of the ₹5.05 crore, ₹2.79 crore was paid on December 4, 2019, and was used for plantations across 105 hectares (ha) in Palghar and Mumbai suburbs. The remaining ₹2.76 crore will be spent on plantations over the next six years on 118 ha of land identified in Palghar. For mitigation of marine water pollution caused by nearby industries in the Mahul-Sewri creek area, MMRDA allocated ₹5.8 crore to the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) for undertaking a water quality study and developing an effluent treatment plan for the creek. MMRDA paid ₹86.31 crore to the Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation (an autonomous body that assists the mangrove cell in coastal marine conservation) for a host of environmentally benefitting activities.Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell), said, “All payments have been received for various research projects, conservation activities, mangrove mapping, infrastructure development, and corpus funds for the foundation. Some of the funds have already been spent while the rest are slated for proposed aids of coastal and marine ecosystems.” The Mangrove Foundation was also paid ₹31.92 crore for habitat quality assessment and migratory bird monitoring program for MTHL. The foundation, in turn, appointed the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) to prepare periodical reports on monitoring of flamingos and other avifauna.Lastly, MMRDA paid ₹6.59 crore to the Alibag forest department, to identify degraded non-forest land, declaring it as reserved forest and undertaking compensatory tree plantation across 47.4 ha area. “MMRDA has taken all requisite and necessary steps to ensure all requirements as mandated by the Union environment ministry and Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (both CRZ clearance issuing authorities) are satisfied,” the affidavit said.The NGT in 2015, under the same application, had rejected the CRZ clearance issued to MMRDA and the planning agency was forced to get a new clearance by January 2016 post which an environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared and construction began.BG Pawar, joint commissioner, MMRDA said the entire MTHL project cost was around ₹20,000 crore. “Of this, ₹135 crore has been carefully allocated towards environment conservation based on the EMP prepared by an appointed consultant. The key focus has been to ensure there is no harm to the ecology and our mitigation plans have seen this through with a substantial amount of construction completed.”Meanwhile, HT had reported on August 30 about BNHS’ report that identified a marked decline in bird numbers at Sewri near the MTHL construction site. Flamingo numbers were 13,813 in January 2019 and 60,733 in March 2019, which fell to 4,395 in January 2020 and 4,106 in March 2020. The report, however, carried a caveat that MTHL construction impact on birds, whether temporary or permanent, could be inferred only after five years of post-construction monitoring.MMRDA’s affidavit explained that their contractors had been maintaining photographic and video evidence (also submitted to NGT) of flamingos from May 2018 to February 2020. “The submissions clearly show substantial flamingo numbers thereby belying the contentions of the appellant,” the affidavit said. Pawar said construction equipment was fitted with mufflers and exhaust silencers to contain noise levels, and barriers were placed to restrict construction or movement near mudflats. “A special lighting system (warm white coloured light 3,000K temperature) had been provided to ensure birds were not disturbed during night-time construction,” he said. Environmentalists said payments being made to safeguard the environment were less than 1% of the total project cost and after the project is completed, much larger environment destruction was expected. “MTHL will be a gateway for opening up ecologically sensitive areas of Uran and Ulwe for development. It will allow real estate and industrial activities by destroying wetlands and mangrove forests towards the eastern seafront and reclaim remaining bird habitats recommended for protection,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust.GREEN FUNDS FOR MTHL TO PAY FOR GIANTS OF THE SEA MUSEUM IN AIROLIOf the ₹86.31 crore paid to the Mangrove Foundation for environmental impact reduction for the MTHL project, ₹10 crore will be used for the construction of the country’s first solar-powered marine mammal museum - Giants of the Sea – at the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre at Airoli, Navi Mumbai. The museum will house skeletal remains of endangered marine species such as the Bryde’s whale, sperm whale, Indo-Pacific humpbacked dolphins and finless porpoises, which will all be on display. A separate area has been allocated for housing skeletal remains of turtles that washed ashore along with different areas of the Mumbai coastline. The entire five-acre complex will be powered by solar with the museum built across 2-acres. Other features include a kilometre-long boardwalk through mangrove forests in the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary, new interactive displays on marine biodiversity along Maharashtra’s coast, a watchtower for bird enthusiasts and to witness the expanse of mangrove cover at Thane creek, an entrance plaza, a visitors centre, and a parking space for tourists.NOISE BARRIERS POST MTHL CONSTRUCTION TO AVOID DISTURBANCE TO BIRDSMMRDA has decided to install sound barriers (micro-perforated or rockwool barriers that reduce traffic noise on either side of an elevated road by 75-80%) along the entire length of the 21.8 km MTHL bridge post-construction. “Barriers will be placed on both sides of the bridge especially in areas passing through flamingo congregations on mudflats to ensure minimum disturbance to migratory birds. We will also be using special lighting on the bridge to ensure birds are not harmed by bright lights,” said Pawar.HOW MUCH OF THE MTHL CONSTRUCTION IS COMPLETE?According to MMRDA’s affidavit till August 31, 100% work for a temporary jetty for MTHL has been completed, 54% pile foundation work has been finished, 64% of open foundation or interchange activities has been completed, 30% pile caps, 27% piers, 8% pier caps, and 7% precast segments have been completed. These are works involving laying the foundation of a structure and building basic engineering design across the subsurface layer along with a range of depths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/135-6-crore-spent-towards-mumbai-trans-harbour-link-environment-impact-reduction-mmrda-tells-ngt/story-cPdHixc8rdcMmBd1wmZKWP.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses relief to Ordnance Factory Board exam aspirants||After a gap of almost seven years, a division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) conducted a hearing on Sunday. The chief justice conducted hearings of two petitions filed by 10 persons who sought urgent relief with regards to the recruitment exams of the Ordnance Factory which start from October 5. The limited relief sought by petitioners was to be permitted to appear for the exams as they were held once every four years. The court, however, refused to intervene as they had not challenged the eligibility criteria for the recruitment exams. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petitions of Mahesh Bhalke and others through video conferencing, was informed that they were working in an ammunition factory and were pursuing diploma courses for chargeman in various institutes affiliated to the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE). The advocate submitted that the final exams of the diploma course were to be held in April/May but were postponed due to the pandemic. He further submitted that they were desirous of appearing for the recruitment exam for the post of chargeman announced by the Ordnance Factory Board in May. However, as the final exams of their diploma course were pending, they were deemed ineligible for the recruitment exams. Hence, they approached Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) seeking relief in the form of waiving of the eligibility criteria, but after CAT refused, they approached the HC. The advocate for the petitioners submitted that as the exam was held once every four years and there was a proposal for privatization in the near future, they did not want to miss out on the opportunity to appear for the recruitment exams. After hearing the submissions, the court said, “We are fully sympathetic to your case as you have said in your petition that this job opportunity comes only once in four years. But a Supreme Court (SC) judgment stares us in the face,” said Datta, adding that the Apex court judgement said that if a candidate was not eligible on the last date of application, an employer could not be held liable to allow the applicant. The last date of applying for the recruitment exams was June 15. The bench then said that as the recruitment notification and the eligibility criteria of having passed diploma course was not challenged in the petition, it could not intervene and dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-relief-to-ordnance-factory-board-exam-aspirants/story-2kxZn5TAr2EnaHp8hvjuYN.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Cong wants Yogi to answer 5 points raised by Priyanka on behalf of Hathras victim’s kin||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ on Sunday said they had doubts over the SIT (special investigation team) probe into the Hathras Dalit woman’s alleged gang-rape and murder case.Alleging that the state government’s recommendation for a CBI probe was for misleading people, the party leaders asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to answer five points raised by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on behalf of the victim’s family.Speaking at a press conference, Ajay Kumar Lallu and Mishra said Priyanka Gandhi had raised the points brought up by the victim’s family after she and party leader Rahul Gandhi met them at their village in Hathras on Saturday evening. On her return to Delhi, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted a list of questions and demands of the family.Quoting the family, Priyanka said that they wanted a judicial probe through the Supreme Court and suspension of the Hathras district magistrate.Also read: Hathras gang-rape accused defended at meeting held at ex-BJP MLA’s residenceShe added that the woman’s family wanted to know why their daughter’s body was burnt without their consent. The Hathras family asked why they were being misled and threatened, Priyanka said.“Questions of Hathras victim’s family — 1. A judicial probe be conducted through the Supreme Court. 2. Hathras DM be suspended and not given a big post. 3. Why our daughter’s body was burnt using petrol without our permission? 4. Why are we being repeatedly misled and threatened? 5. We brought ‘flowers’ from the funeral pyre, but how do we believe that this dead body is that of our daughter?” she tweeted in Hindi.“It is the right of this family to get answers to these questions and the UP government will have to give these answers,” the Congress leader added.Ajay Kumar Lallu said the Congress workers and leaders across the state had taken to the streets to get justice for the victim’s family.They held demonstrations across all districts of the state on Sunday.In Lucknow, the Congress workers protested at the GPO park, demanding action against the Hathras district magistrate. Police arrested many protestors and sent them to Eco Garden in the city’s suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cong-wants-yogi-to-answer-5-points-raised-by-priyanka-on-behalf-of-hathras-victim-s-kin/story-NRdYT1Q3v0lnwYO3oTGLWI.html
04-10-2020||City||Lifting of Sunday lockdown brings back life to Ludhiana markets||The city markets could be seen buzzing with crowds on Sunday after the government withdrew the complete lockdown, giving a much-needed boost to the businesses. Manpreet Singh Bunty, president of the Akalgarh Market Shopkeepers Association, said, “It is a huge boost to the city’s economy. Earlier, the trade was being done through middlemen as the buyer could not visit the markets. But today, customers visited the market to purchase products which is a positive sign for us,” said Bunty.On the other hand, Mamta, a sales manager at a clothing store in Chaura Bazar, said that a huge rush was witnessed in the market from morning till evening.“Despite farmer protests and disrupted train services, each shop managed to have made some sales. It is a positive beginning. As the weather is changing, we are expecting more business next week.” said Mamta.However, the customers remain absent from upmarket shopping destinations located at Mall Road and Ghumar Mandi. “Due to prolonged lockdown and government restrictions, a majority of our customers have shifted on the online platform. However, some have begun visiting and, we are expecting to bounce back during the festive season,” said Sunil Mehra, a cloth merchant at Ghumar Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lifting-of-sunday-lockdown-brings-back-life-to-ludhiana-markets/story-NHdGTXXwNMJyPuKhhQj7eM.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||IT Park project: CHB to build EWS houses elsewhere||Decks have been cleared for the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to build the mandatory housing units for the economically weaker section (EWS) on another location within the city instead of the proposed group housing project at the IT Park.A sub-committee of the UT administrator’s advisory council — standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning for the city — has approved the CHB’s proposal to shift EWS housing scheme from IT Park.“The CHB will be given a one-time exception and be allowed to build the EWS housing units somewhere else than the IT Park group housing project. The exception will, however, neither be applicable for any other project in the IT park nor to any private builder,” said a senior UT official. Notably, in every project, either government or private, a portion of the units or land has to be reserved for EWS. Officials said that UT has followed the Punjab’s policy on government housing projects to allow shifting of the EWS units out of the IT park project.“The committee’s approval will be submitted before the advisory council and views of its members will be taken before the decision is put into action,” the officials added.The project is planned on 17 acres on two sites at the IT Park, and will comprise 784 flats, offering four, three and two bedrooms, besides facilities such as a swimming pool and gym. In 2015, the board got back 123 acres of prime land from Parsvnath Developers and decided to develop residential housing there on 20 sites after it couldn’t get buyers for the land. About seven acre land has also been earmarked for flats for the officers of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. This project comprises EWS flats as well. The administration plans to allow development of 18 sites for housing projects by private developers.The administration’s contention is that shifting EWS flats to another site will increase the number of flats to be offered on sale to the general public and will lower the prices of the units. CHB will now prepare a detailed plan and proposal for the shifting of the EWS housing units.Approved by the administrator last month, the IT Park Housing scheme is likely to be floated by the end of this year or early next year. CHB is awaiting environment clearance for the project, even as the flats’ pricing has also to be finalised.According to CHB officials, the flats will be priced based on the current collector rates, and will likely cost higher than its existing housing projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/it-park-project-chb-to-build-ews-houses-elsewhere/story-tFRvgETPmKPPfTu9ETuyEN.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||6-year-old girl dies after mini truck hits motorcycle||A six-year-old girl was killed after the motorcycle she and her parents were riding was hit by a light duty truck at the Dhanas Milk Colony where she lived on Sunday evening. The truck hit the motorcycle when Pari’s father, Mani Rana, attempted to take a turn at the Milk Colony Chowk. Pari received head injuries after both she and her mother Munni Devi, riding pillion, were thrown off.She was declared dead by doctors at the Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 16 while her mother was administered first aid.Rana, who is a tailor, escaped unhurt.Truck driver Bhisan Sahni, who is from Bihar, has been arrested and a case registered against him under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sarangpur police station. Both the vehicles have been impounded.42-year-old mason killed in road mishap A 42-year-old man, working as a mason, was killed in a mishap on Airport Road on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Biru Khan of a village in Dera Bassi, was riding his motorcycle when he was hit by a car bearing Delhi registration number, police said. He was rushed to hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. A case was registered against one Sundar Das, based on the car’s registration number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-year-old-girl-dies-after-mini-truck-hits-motorcycle/story-cJYAlIyPpqA7CnNbRfzxDN.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||2,615 adults went missing in 2019 in Chandigarh, only 18.5% traced||These are grim statistics. Only 18.5% adults out of 2,617 persons who went missing in Chandigarh were traced till the end of 2019, making it the lowest recovery rate among the union territories (UT), reveals data released recently by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Women outnumbered men, with 1,373 reported missing as against 1,244 males and 528 children (226 boys and 302 girls). Only 16.1% adult males returned home, which is also the lowest recovery rate in the UTs. On the likely reasons for the disappearances, a police official said many adults left home to “pursue dreams” or because of love affairs.Unfortunately, elderly persons were abandoned by families not willing to take care of them. “Adults make a conscious decision to leave home,” feels Rajesh Gill, who teaches at Panjab University’s department of sociology. “The will of the family to bring back the loved one who has gone missing is the driving force. Many senior citizens who go missing are not traced as they are considered a liability.” Family circumstances play a vital role, says Ranjay Vardhan, who works at the department of sociology, at the Post Graduate Government College for Girls in Sector 42. Many people are reluctant to return to an “unsettled” family. “With the disintegration of the joint family senior citizens are considered a liability and thus no one is even bothered if they do not return,” adds Vardhan. Only 32.6% missing children traced in 2019 Of the 528 children reported missing, 202 (135 girls and 67 boys) disappeared last year and 326 (159 boys and 167 girls) could not be traced over previous years.By the end of 2019, only 172 children, including 113 girls and 59 boys, were recovered or traced.About 356 minors (67 boys and 189 girls) are still missing. Considering the vulnerability of children to being sexually violated or becoming victims of human trafficking, special programmes such as project muskaan were initiated to trace them.  “Children are considered assets so more effort is put in to trace them,” feels Vardhan. “When children leave home the family shows strong will to trace them. Police is also forced to act owing to the pressure of the parents, thus more children are traced,” says Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-615-adults-went-missing-in-2019-in-chandigarh-only-18-5-traced/story-0ROgd9x6HYD5DN7qAH6flK.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||At last! GMADA to e-auction 113 Mohali properties||Finally, after a gap of nearly seven months, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will e-auction 113 residential and commercial properties from October 10 to October 26 after slashing the reserve price by 10%. To attract more bidders, an additional 10% off will be offered for full payment in 60 days. The last auction for these properties was held in February this year after a 20% cut in reserve prices, when 32 of the 67 units were sold. The next auction planned from July 21 was postponed due to the lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak. GMADA additional chief administrator Rajesh Dhiman has said the auction will be held from October 10 to 26. The 10% reserve price discount and the additional 10% off on full payment was done to get more buyers and help revive the reality sector, he added.GMADA will also be hoping for improved sales during the festive season when buying property is considered auspicious. The auction is estimated to fetch GMADA Rs 800 crore. These include 16 residential properties on plots ranging from 100 square yards to 500 square yards and others located in Eco-city-1 and sectors 64, 61 and 56. Commercial units include 25 booths in sectors 59, 60, 61, 63, 65; six shop-cum-offices (SCO)/shop-cum-floors (SCF)/single storey shops (SSS) in sectors 61, 53, 56 and 64, with sizes ranging from 125 square yards to 241 square yards. Seven IT industrial plots are located in sectors 83 and 101 and one hotel site in Sector 66-B with a reserve price of Rs 12.70 crore.Then there’s a school site in Eco-city-1 and three group housing sites, including one in sector 66 and two in Medicity. “Due to recession we had been demanding that reserve prices should be slashed and now we hear a cut of 10% will be given. That will get a good response,” said Shailander Anand, former president, Mohali Property Consultants Association (MPCA). The move will encourage healthy competition and help GMADA earn a bigger profit, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-last-gmada-to-e-auction-113-mohali-properties/story-ayPXUaPjIysp6soAA5iTbP.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||‘Unite to protect sisters, daughters’: Akhilesh Yadav’s clarion call||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday asserted that ‘those who have families’ should unite to protect their sisters and daughters.“Only then the arrogance-induced slumber of the rulers would end,” he said in a series of tweets after a day of protests by almost all Opposition parties in against the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras.Akhilesh’s tweets in Hindi stated, “In cases of rape, be it Hathras, Balrampur, or Banda, every government should rise above the politics of religion, caste, class, vote, influence, biases and pledge for women’s safety and security.”He also demanded security for Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary, saying that the lathi-charge by “government, administration, and police” on him was deplorable when he had gone to Hathras to meet the victim’s family.Also read: Hathras gang-rape accused defended at meeting held at ex-BJP MLA’s residenceThe government must shed its arrogance and provide him with security, he demanded. The former UP chief minister also said narco-analysis test should be done on officers.“Once narco tests are done on the officers then it would expose on whose “maha-aadesh (ultimate order)” the officers act. The real culprit may hide under many layers of lies but the truth would surface and power would vanish,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/unite-to-protect-sisters-daughters-akhilesh-yadav-s-clarion-call/story-riEXP0xTbA4bc9dTiii4nL.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 held for killing migrant woman worker collecting paddy grain in their field||A man, his brother and son were arrested by the Dera Bassi police on Saturday for the death of a 42-year-old woman migrant worker after her foot was crushed under a tractor-reaper when she refused to leave their fields while collecting leftover paddy grain.The family members of the deceased later blocked the Barwala road demanding justice.Mithlesh, a migrant worker living in Bhagat Singh Nagar on Barwala road, had reportedly gone to the fields to pick leftover paddy grains from the fields when the three men who owned place asked her to leave. She refused and the four had a heated argument after which Mithlesh’s foot accidentally came under the reaper and was crushed, police said. She died on the spot.A reaper, mounted on a tractor, is used to cut the crops.Dera Bassi station house officer (SHO) Satinder Singh said Harwinder Saini, his brother Parveen Saini and son Rohit Saini were arrested for murder and produced in a local court before being sent to two-day police remand.Satinder Singh said Mithlesh was a labourer who had ventured with two of her children into fields owned by the Sainis. She was nowhere to be found when the children looked for her at lunchtime. They then brought their maternal uncle and other relatives to the spot after the Sainis refused to answer their queries.The family members informed the police after spotting some pieces of Mithlesh’s clothing and her tiffin box.Investigations revealed that the Sainis had dumped the body in an area close by. It was then recovered and kept in the Civil Hospital mortuary, the SHO said. Mithlesh’s family members ended their protests after police assured them of help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-held-for-killing-migrant-woman-worker-collecting-paddy-grain-in-their-field/story-ioyOjdvxOuvHoqW18KNUmM.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid count drops below 200||With only 184 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, the number of fresh cases recorded in the tricity dropped below 200 for the first time since mid-August. It was on August 8 when this grim milestone was breached for the first time, with 209 people testing positive. In the following days, the numbers kept fluctuating and the 300-mark was crossed on August 19. The surge continued in the following weeks and reached its peak on September 13, which witnessed 865 fresh cases. Since then the pandemic has shown a downward trend, though deaths due to that mid-September surge continue, with five recorded on Sunday as well. At 85, Chandigarh recorded the maximum number of cases on Sunday, followed by 67 in Mohali and 32 in Panchkula. While one patient succumbed in Mohali, taking the district’s death toll to 200, Chandigarh and Panchkula recorded two casualties each.The tricity’s tally is inching towards 30,000, with 29,566 people tested positive so far, of whom 3,871 (13.1%) are still not discharged. As many as 467 patients have died while 25,228 have been cured so far, making it a fatality rate of 1.6% and recovery rate of 85.3%.DSP tests +ve in ChandigarhDeputy superintendent of police Jaswinder Singh is among 85 people who tested positive in Chandigarh on Sunday. The total stands at 12,445, of which 1,673 cases are active.Meanwhile, 202 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 10,598.The death toll rose to 174, as an 87-year-old woman from Sector 19 and a 67-year-old man from Manimajra succumbed. Both had comorbidities.To ensure the downward trend of infections continues, the Chandigarh administration has decided to conduct surprise raids at pubs and discotheques after receiving reports of social-distancing norms being flouted at such establishments, posing risk of community spread.Death toll reaches 200 in MohaliWith a 66-year-old man from Sialba Majri, who was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbing after testing positive for Covid-19, the death toll reached 200 in Mohali district. For the second consecutive day, the district recorded less than 100 fresh cases, with only 67 people testing positive on Sunday. The total stands at 10,900, of which 1,537 cases remain active. As many as 9,163 patients have been cured, including 216 discharged on Sunday. Two health workers +ve in PanchkulaIn Panchkula district, a 11-month-old girl from Sector 26 and a four-year-old girl from Sector 12 are among 32 people who tested positive, taking the total to 6,221. Meanwhile, the number of health workers who have caught the virus in the district reached 127, with two more testing positive on Sunday.Those who died include a 34-year-old man from Rattewali who was suffering from diabetes and a 61-year-old man from Sector 12 who had hypertension.The toll has reached 93, while 5,467 patients have been cured so far, leaving 661 cases still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-count-drops-below-200/story-Azyt25kCbHmn6QnUsbXcmI.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Career advancement scheme: PU teachers await pending promotion||More than 50 teachers at Panjab University are still waiting for their pending interviews for promotion under career advancement scheme (CAS).The interviews of teachers were fixed in March and April, but due to the Covid-19 outbreak, many of them could neither be held on the scheduled date nor could be rescheduled.After showing discontent over the pending cases of promotions under CAS and the delay in the meetings of selection committees of such cases, the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) had in February written to PU vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar to expedite the process, after which dates for the interviews were fixed. However, not all interviews were held due to the pandemic.Dr Dolly of PU’s directorate of sports, whose interview for CAS promotion is pending, said, “We are eagerly waiting for the interviews.” PUTA had on Friday told the V-C that pending CAS interviews should be held without any further delay.Its letter to V-C reads that interviews, both physical as well as virtual, are being conducted by other universities for the recruitment of faculty as well as CAS promotions. Various state public commissions have recently held physical interviews for faculty recruitment, with experts coming from different parts of the country.”PUTA president Professor Rajesh Gill said, “When the entire country has been opened up under the process of unlock, conducting CAS interviews is also possible. More than 50 teachers are waiting for interviews. The university can even opt for online mode for interviews as well. Experts of the neighbouring varsities can be invited to conduct the pending interviews.”Meanwhile, V-C Raj Kumar said, “The interviews have been delayed due to the pandemic. The experts, chancellor nominees, cannot come from other states during this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/career-advancement-scheme-pu-teachers-await-pending-promotion/story-bIXHE8y3llrafcHOad5B7J.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Corona, not Ravana, to go up in flames this Dussehra||Last year on Dussehra, Tejinder Chauhan bettered his own world record by erecting a 221-foot tall Ravana effigy, 11 feet taller than his previous one and weighing 7,000kg, at Dhanas in Chandigarh. Costing ₹35 lakh, it had drawn nearly one lakh people at the time of burning.But this year, Chauhan has different plans. He will be replacing his towering Ravana effigy by a miniature version that will bear a ‘Covid-19’ face.This for the first time since 1987, when Chauhan made his first 20-foot tall Ravana effigy, that his annual creation is going for a major size cut.“Because of the pandemic, we can’t have a huge gathering, so, I have decided to make a small effigy. It will be less than 10-ft tall,” says the 54-year-old. “The significance of burning the Ravana effigy is to wipe out evil forces. A Covid-faced effigy comes with the hope to see the end of the deadly virus soon,” adds Chauhan, who hails from Ambala’s Barara village.Dealing with pandemicFrom when Chauhan’s 175-ft high Ravana made into the Limca Book of Records in 2009, he has increased the effigy height on seven occasions. He has 15 permanent artists/workers and hired 25 more on contract for six months.“I have retained all the 15 employees even during the lockdown. For the other 25 workers, I have provided them ration or money as per their need,” says Chauhan, who pitches 90% percent of the funds for the effigy every year while the rest come as donations. “I had no formal training in making effigies or sculptures, but over the years, I had learned this art on my own. This year, I got an assignment to make a 51-ft tall Shiva idol for a temple in Mullana, Ambala. The expense of salary of my permanent workers is coming through that project. They (referring to his workforce of 40) have helped me live my passion and taken risks while fixing crackers into the tall effigies by climbing over 200 feet. So, now it’s my duty to take care of their families,” he says.Reflecting upon the pastOver the years, Chauhan has had to sell his ancestral land to fund his projects.“I am spending the money for a cause, not any debauchery. So, my family has never objected to my selling the land when required,” says Chauhan. “My son works as a gym trainer in Yamunanagar. He is 27 years old, so taking care of family is his responsibility now,” he adds.Recalling how he started making effigies, Chauhan said once in his younger days he took to hooliganism as a revolt against his father’s strictness. Later as redemption, he resumed the Ram Lila and Dussehra activities which were stopped for four-five years at his native village due to terrorism in the neighbouring Punjab.“Since I took Dussehra out of Barara in 2018 due to a venue issue, Sri Ram Lila Club Barara, which we had formed in 1987, stopped staging the Ram Lila. Now, I organise Dussehra under the club’s banner only,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corona-not-ravana-to-go-up-in-flames-this-dussehra/story-GXAuy2MJtc37ttv6UA6CmO.html
04-10-2020||City||1,142 liquor bottles found dumped in Ambala drain||As many as 1,142 bottles of illicit liquor were found dumped in a drain near Devi Nagar village in Ambala on Sunday.The bottles of different brands and quantities, some along with cartons, were found dumped. As per the details, most of the liquor had labels that read ‘For Sale In Haryana’, while some were for sale in Chandigarh and Arunachal Pradesh. An FIR was registered on the complaint of sub-inspector Amar Singh, who said the liquor was dumped in the drain with an aim to destroy it. Besides local liquor, the seizure included 817 bottles (750ml each) of foreign-made liquor.Station in-charge Suresh Kumar said the case was registered under Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 61 of the Punjab Excise Act against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-142-liquor-bottles-found-dumped-in-ambala-drain/story-vqPLh5L0Vi9ETnB6PfywLL.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||10 arrested as police raid spurious liquor factory in Panchkula||Ten persons were arrested as a joint team of Panchkula police and the chief minister’s flying squad on Sunday raided a spurious liquor factory and seized 33 boxes with alcohol and other material .Acting on a tip-off on October 3 at 1 pm that spurious liquor was being sold at Mauja Sarakpur village on the Mauli-Raipur Rani Road, the team raided a factory in the area at 10:20pm on Sunday.Two tanks of 1,000 litre capacity each, one filled with water and another with spurious liquor were found at the site and boxes packed with alcohol with labels of ‘Malta’ seized with a 40-litre can of spirit and other materials.People who were at the spot pasting the labels on the bottles were arrested with a few other men who were making the liquor. Their names were revealed as Krishan from Sarakpur, Ranbir from Mirchpur (Hisar), Sagun Singh of Kurukshetra, and Surender Pal and Gautam from Saha, all in Haryana; Jaibir, Ram Lakhan and Prem Singh from Bareilly; and Rajesh Kumar from Shahjadpur, all in Uttar Pradesh; and Bhim Singh of Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh.Investigations revealed that Krishan and Ranbir bought the material to make spurious liquor from Panipat and sold the product at Saha, Shahjadpur, Naraingarh, Shahabad and other areas.A case under section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act, and sections 420, 465, 468,473,120B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-arrested-as-police-raid-spurious-liquor-factory-in-panchkula/story-NnrjswR2zKlYliCU7yCmuJ.html
04-10-2020||City||No extension in online registration date for admission to meritorious schools of Punjab||The Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab had decided not to extend the online registration deadline for admissions to 10 meritorious schools of the state.The last date for online registration was September 30.Earlier, the last date was extended nine times and the authorities were unable to conduct the common entrance test (CET) due to the Covid-19 outbreak.So far, 23,000 students have registered online against 4,600 seats for Class 11 admissions in the 10 meritorious schools of the state.The society has written to the higher authorities to allow them to conduct the CET this month.After the Centre allowed the common entrance examination for admission to various colleges, the Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab decided to conduct the exam this month.Punjab meritorious schools’ assistant project director Inderpal Singh Malhotra said, “We have requested the higher authorities and after receiving a go-ahead, we will conduct the entrance examination. We had already extended the last date several times and now it will not be extended further.”While uncertainty looms over the exam date, teachers said that students are worried about how to prepare for the exam that used to be held in the first week of May till last year.Kamalpreet Singh, a government school teacher, said, “I have five students in my class who have shown interest in taking admission to meritorious schools but with delay in holding the entrance exam, all have decided to continue with their studies in our school only. Almost all subject teachers have covered 40% syllabus till now and are taking online classes and if the students join the meritorious schools, then how will the teachers complete the syllabus before final exams which are conducted in March every year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-extension-in-online-registration-date-for-admission-to-meritorious-schools-of-punjab/story-4ZJApy7fjxTWXPryhb8Y8J.html
04-10-2020||City||UPSC civil services prelims: 46% attendance recorded in Ludhiana||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) preliminary exam witnessed low attendance as merely 46% of candidates reached the centres in Ludhiana on Sunday.At least 17 centres were set up at various schools and colleges for 6,120 candidates, but 54% of candidates remained absent.The centre set up at Government College for Girls was reserved for physically challenged aspirants.The examination is held in two sittings. According to information, 2,859 candidates appeared in the first exam from 9:30 am to 11:30 am and 3,261 gave it a miss. While 3,280 candidates did not appear for the second exam that was conducted from 2:30 pm to 4:30 pm. And only 2,840 candidates appeared for the second paper.Several candidates did not turn up for the exam due to Covid-19 fear.Cops were deployed at the exam centres for the frisking of candidates. All the candidates had to undergo the thermal screening process at the entry gate and proper social distancing norms were followed.An examinee Ashish Rajpal said, “I found paper 1 difficult as more questions were related to history. The questions from commerce, general knowledge was also tricky. There were proper Covid arrangements at the exam centre and social distancing was maintained inside the classrooms as well.”Another candidate Sunil Kumar, who hails from Doraha, said, “Both the first and the second papers were lengthy and I was writing till the last minute. I found the general knowledge section a little tough. This is my first attempt for the civil services exam.”Municipal corporation zonal commissioner, Kulpreet Singh, said, “Proper arrangements were made at all the examination centres and the paper was conducted smoothly.” The UPSC conducts the nationwide exam for recruitment to various civil services of the government of India every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/upsc-civil-services-prelims-46-attendance-recorded-in-ludhiana/story-4F9poVY6otfawSfi4vg7uI.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Weekend thundershowers in Mumbai, second-highest 24-hour October rain in a decade||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) witnessed cloud cover, loud claps of thunder, lightning and two spells of moderate to heavy showers between Saturday evening and early Sunday morning.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of Mumbai and the suburbs, recorded 55.8 mm rain over 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, which is the second-highest 24-hour October rain in a decade and highest since 2012.On October 13, 2011, Mumbai had recorded 71 mm while 140.8 mm rain was recorded on October 4, 1988, which is the all-time high 24-hour monthly rain. The weather bureau had issued a ‘yellow alert’ for Saturday and predicted thunderstorms during the evening and late-night. On Saturday, dense cloud cover from 5.30 pm onwards were seen over parts of Kalyan followed by rain over parts of Navi Mumbai, Thane and then the Mumbai suburbs and finally south Mumbai with intense rain spells across isolated areas with wind speed ranging between 30-35 kmph. Also read: Covid-19 vaccine - Why patents can hurt India, South Africa“Mumbai witnessed two distinct events of thunderstorms with lightning, associated with intense spells of rains. One during the evening 5 pm to 8 pm on Saturday and second on early morning between 3.30 am to 5 am on Sunday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 15 mm rain between 8.30 am Saturday and 8.30 am Sunday. Many areas in the suburbs, south-central Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan received rainfall between 70 mm and 100 mm overnight. However, no rain was recorded between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm Sunday.The IMD said these thunderstorms were symptoms of southwest monsoon withdrawal and were common during this time of the year. “The thundershowers were short-lived but were witnessed across the Konkan coast and isolated areas of interior Maharashtra. However, there are chances of very light to light rain through the week,” said Hosalikar.Location-wise, rainfall over 15 hours (5.30 pm Saturday and 8.30 am Sunday) showed maximum rain in areas around Malad 106.6 mm, Dahisar 103 mm, Ram Mandir Goregaon at 94.5 mm, Mira Road 84.5 mm, Borivali 76.8 mm, Andheri 72.8 mm, Bhandup 69 mm and Powai 64 mm, all falling under heavy rain category. Meanwhile, thundershowers brought cool weather over the city which had been over a degree Celsius above normal since the beginning of the month. The maximum temperature dropped to 29.5 degrees Celsius in the suburbs and 28.4 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai, both 3 degree Celsius below normal. The minimum temperature in the suburbs was 22.6 degrees Celsius while south Mumbai was 24 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees Celsius below normal. The city and the suburbs could expect cloudy conditions with the possibility of light rain on Monday, the weather bureau said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/weekend-thundershowers-in-mumbai-second-highest-24-hour-october-rain-in-a-decade/story-dHAy7yTz0xwKFCesGvm40H.html
04-10-2020||Kolkata||India to have world’s largest clean energy-driven railway network: Piyush Goyal||The Railways has embarked on a massive electrification drive and by 2023, the country will have the world’s largest 100 per cent clean energy-driven rail transport system, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday.The railway minister also said that work way underway to set up an infrastructure for generating 20,000 megawatt of renewable energy, which will provide power for running the entire network.“By 2023, the Indian Railways will be the world’s largest 100 per cent electrified rail transport system,” Goyal said at the inauguration of an underground station of the citys East-West Metro corridor.He contended that “no other part of the world, not even the most-developed country”, has launched such an ambitious project.The entire world is watching India’s massive thrust towards environment-friendly modes of transport, he said, adding that the project is a crucial part of the Union government’s initiatives to build a green nation.Asserting that the country is marching ahead in the direction of self-reliance, Goyal said that the railways has become almost 98 per cent indigenous equipment procurer, save certain technology products, which will also be indigenised gradually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/india-to-have-world-s-largest-clean-energy-driven-railway-network-piyush-goyal/story-JbDwLfwmJUNS3cf0Ku922H.html
04-10-2020||City||Two Jalandhar residents held for snatching, vehicle lifting||Daresi police on Sunday arrested two Jalandhar residents for snatchings and vehicle lifting. The police have recovered a gold chain and parts of a motorcycle which they had stolen a few days ago from Phagwara.The accused have been identified as Baljit Singh alias Rinku and Ashish Kumar, both residents of Goraya in Jalandhar.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO at Daresi police station, said that the police have arrested the accused from the Daresi area following a tip-off.He said that the accused on September 18 had snatched a gold chain from Gopal Krishan of Sekhewal road. A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC was lodged against the accused following the complaint.The SHO added that during questioning, the accused revealed that they used the stolen vehicles to commit snatching. They used to dismantle the stolen vehicle and sell the parts to scrap dealers.The accused are already facing trial in two cases of snatching and assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-jalandhar-residents-held-for-snatching-vehicle-lifting/story-QfcjlS2tNV4BYdwK9FjVjK.html
04-10-2020||City||Arrested for assaulting ASI, woman thrashes another cop in Raikot police station||A woman arrested for assaulting an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) thrashed a lady constable in Raikot police station, police said on Sunday.The woman, her two children and kin also tore the woman constable’s uniform.The police have lodged an FIR against the woman identified as Madhu of Noora Mahi Mohalla of Raikot, her son Vansh, daughter Ravina and relative Jagsir Singh after arresting them.The constable said that when they were questioning Madhu, her children and kin came to the police station and created a ruckus there. Her son had started recording a video of the incident on his mobile phone and when the woman constable asked him to stop recording, the accused started thrashing her. The cop said that her son and kin also molested her. A case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causes hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force used to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 186 (voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at Raikot City police station. On Friday, the woman had thrashed ASI Najar Singh and tore his uniform, during his visit to Noora Mahi Mohalla of Raikot. The woman was arrested and a case was lodged against the woman under Sections 353, 186 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arrested-for-assaulting-asi-woman-thrashes-another-cop-in-raikot-police-station/story-xfhn9fgW7fekSmLHEjOWfJ.html
04-10-2020||City||Man thrashed, robbed of ₹50,000 in Ludhiana||Police on Sunday booked two persons for thrashing a 38-year-old man and robbing him of ₹50,000 in Kutbewal Gujran village.The accused have been identified as Shanty and Kewal Singh, both residents of Kutbewal Gujran village. Complainant Sukhdev Singh of the same village said that he runs a chit fund scheme and was going to members’ house to collect money. He stopped his scooter on the roadside to attend a call when the accused who were passing from the area, started abusing him for parking his vehicle on road. Soon, they landed in a heated argument and the accused started thrashing Sukhdev and made off with ₹50,000 from his scooter. ASI Ram Kishan, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 323, 379, 506, 341 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Ladhowal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-thrashed-robbed-of-50-000-in-ludhiana/story-sN2GAgOrwKO9twfKjteQwO.html
04-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Burglars strike at garment shop, flee with ₹5,000 cash, clothes||Burglars decamped with Rs 5,000 in cash and ready-made garments amounting to Rs 40,000 from a garment shop at Surjit Colony near Pippal Chowk in the early hours on Sunday. The gang also attempted theft at a general store adjoining to the shop.In his complaint to the police, Appu Ram, 45, of Sherpur area said that on Sunday morning, he received a call from shopkeepers in the market informing him that the shutter locks of his shop were broken.When he went to his shop, he found the items were ransacked, and on checking he reported that garments worth Rs 40,000 and Rs 5,000 in cash were missing. ASI Gurmeet Singh from Ishwar Nagar police post said that a complaint has been received. The police are scanning the CCTVs installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-burglars-strike-at-garment-shop-flee-with-5-000-cash-clothes/story-Gs7qzYQTy0xfrqzInhcgIM.html
04-10-2020||City||Man robbed of bike in Shivpuri||A resident of Tibba road here was robbed of his motorcycle on Shivpuri bridge, police said on Sunday.In his complaint to the police, Rajinder Kumar, 28, a resident of Prem Vihar said that on Saturday he had gone to Shivpuri to meet his friend and while he was waiting on Shivpuri bridge, two bike-borne miscreants came from the rear and flashed a sharp-edged weapon and snatched the key of his bike and fled the scene. The Basti Jodhewal police lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused and initiated an investigation.ASI Vijay Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 379-B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Basti Jodhewal police station. The police are scanning the CCTVs to get a clue of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-robbed-of-bike-in-shivpuri/story-EpC8ywvo3eLCxOosuPZ2vL.html
04-10-2020||Pune||Agharkar Research Institute scientists claim discovery of two species of pipeworts in Western ghats||Scientists from Agharkar research institute, Pune (ARI) discovered two new species of ‘pipeworts’ in the Western ghats of Maharashtra and Karnataka – one of the 35 hotspots of biological diversity in the world. These new species belong to a plant group known for their varied medicinal properties. It completes its life cycle within a small period during monsoon, and exhibits the great diversity of the Western ghats, with 111 species in India. Scientists from Agharkar Research Institute (ARI), Pune, found these new species while exploring the biodiversity of the ghats. They wanted to trace the evolutionary history of the genus Eriocaulon and made extensive efforts to collect as many species as possible from India, especially from the Western ghats. “While critically examining our collection, we came across two accessions, which showed different floral characters than earlier known species. Hence, we studied morphology and its DNA to confirm the novelty,” said Ritesh Kumar Choudhary, lead author of the study. “Identification of the species belonging to Eriocaulon is very difficult as they all look similar, which is why the genus is often referred to as ‘Taxonomist’s nightmare’. Its tiny flowers and seeds make it difficult to distinguish between different species,” Choudhary pointed out. Their study was published in the journals ‘Phytotaxa’ and ‘Annales Botanici Fennici’. The one reported from Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra was named as Eriocaulon parvicephalum (due to its minute inflorescence size), and the other reported from Kumta, Karnataka was named as Eriocaulon karaavalense (named after Karaavali = coastal Karnataka region). “Future studies will focus on elucidating the evolutionary history of the genus in India. A thorough investigation of the phylogenetic relationship between all Indian species would also help in prioritizing the conservation of threatened species in India. We are also trying to develop DNA barcodes, which will enable us to identify the species with just a portion of the leaf.,” said PhD student Ashwini Darshetkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/agharkar-research-institute-scientists-claim-discovery-of-two-species-of-pipeworts-in-western-ghats/story-BF32Ls4hCnQsI9HX5pKlVJ.html
04-10-2020||City||No age bar for learning, says JJP MLA pursuing MA political science at 72||There is no age bar for learning, said Ishwar Singh, MLA of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) from Guhla assembly segment of Kaithal district, who appeared in MA first year exams at the age of 72.The former Rajya Sabha MP and two times MLA is doing his master’s in political science from the distance learning centre of the Kurukshetra University.The exams were conducted online as per the UGC guidelines and Ishwar appeared in his last paper on Saturday.“I remained a teacher, MLA, MP and member of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, but appearing in the exams has made me very happy because I am still a student,” he said.Revealing his source of inspiration to resume his studies, he said, “After teaching for eight years, I joined politics and was elected from Guhla in 1977 on the Janta Party ticket, and in 1978, I was appointed as the chairman of the Haryana education board. But I resigned from the post as I felt that my educational qualification was not enough to deserve that position and decided to resume my studies,” the MLA added.Ishwar, who completed most of the higher studies after being elected as MLA, has also done MA in public administration and history. Despite his hectic schedule and routine engagements, he decided to continue his studies as he did his at graduation at the age of 37, LLB at 42, and is doing his third MA now at 72 years old.Recalling his struggle for education in his younger days, he said, “I had to travel more than 15km from my village, Jadhola in Kaithal, to Pehowa to attend school. There was no electricity and we studied under the light of earthen lamps.”“But time has changed now. Education is more accessible these days. I wrote my exams online while sitting in my office,” he said, adding that he utilised the Covid-19 lockdown period for his studies and is expecting a good result.Ishwar also wants to spread awareness about the importance of education among the people. “I never attended college as I was not a regular student, but I never failed in any exam. I proved that we can continue our studies even if we have a busy life,” he said.Having a long political career, he remained associated with the Congress party for almost 40 years and was considered a close aide of former chief minister late Bhajan Lal. But during the last assembly election in 2019, he joined the JJP and got elected from the Guhla (reserved) assembly seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-age-bar-for-learning-says-jjp-mla-pursuing-ma-political-science-at-72/story-vE0XZTApi7fvtPWHMXF1OK.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out near Jumma Masjid in Mumbai||A level two fire was reported on the first floor Ismail building, a ground plus three complex in Mumbai’s Masjid Bunder Cutlery market area on Sunday evening. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s disaster control room said that no injuries have been reported so far.The operation to douse the fire is underway as five fire engines were also rushed to the spot.This is the second incident of fire reported from Mumbai within a fortnight. An incident of fire was reported at the foreign post office at the Exchange building in south Mumbai on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-near-jumma-masjid-in-mumbai/story-EVGj2IEbLnRlcjsJIYc6rJ.html
04-10-2020||City||BJP-JJP leaders will face the brunt of supporting farm laws in Baroda bypolls: Abhay Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Sunday said the BJP-JJP leaders will have to face the brunt of farmers in the Baroda by elections amid protests against the newly-enacted agriculture legislations.While addressing a meeting of party workers at Sonepat’s Gohana, Chautala said the residents of 54 villages in Baroda constituency will install a sign banning the entry of BJP-JJP leaders to protest against the farm laws. “These (BJP-JJP) leaders are supporting the farm legislations which were enacted to destroy the farming community. I am surprised how they will face people in Baroda. Our party is standing with the farmers and will not allow them to implement these laws in the state. The BJP-JJP leaders will have to bring police force to enter Baroda villages to seek votes,” he said.The INLD leader said the chief minister himself does not know about Baroda and he has failed to give development projects to this constituency in the last six years. “Chief minister Khattar should resign as he failed to address the grievances of people. Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda sought votes from Baroda constituency in the name of bringing power to the area but he did nothing for the residents during his regime,” he said.He claimed that his party will pitch a strong candidate for the November 3 Baroda bypolls and BJP-JJP candidate’s security will be forfeited.On former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally in Haryana, Chautala said he is misleading the farmers over these legislations and his party had tried to bring similar laws during their tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-jjp-leaders-will-face-the-brunt-of-supporting-farm-laws-in-baroda-bypolls-abhay-chautala/story-vMAjhxa7HZuzeXu0LSKqwI.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress misleading gullible farmers on agriculture laws: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday accused the Congress of misguiding the “gullible farmers” on the newly enacted agriculture laws. “Haryana farmers are aware of who is safeguarding their interests. The state and the Centre have taken many historical decisions in the interest of farmers,” he said, while speaking to reporters at his residence in Sirsa on Sunday. “Rahul Gandhi doesn’t fully understand the three agriculture laws brought by the Centre...My doors are always open for farmers. I am a farmer and ready for any questions from them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-misleading-gullible-farmers-on-agriculture-laws-dushyant-chautala/story-vqjnos58ixQbOiaWrNH0aO.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi to hold tractor rallies, road shows in Haryana on October 6, 7||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is all set to begin the tractor rallies and road shows in Haryana from October 6 against the Centre’s newly enacted farm laws. According to Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja, Rahul Gandhi will step inside the state territory from Punjab via Devigarh border on October 6 from where he will lead a tractor rally up to Pehowa in Kurukshetra district. At Pehowa, the HPCC has planned a show of strength where the Congress leader will address the farmers. After the Pehowa rally, Rahul Gandhi will travel to Kurukshetra town and stay there overnight. Selja said Rahul Gandhi will kick start the road show from Pipli grain market on the second day. The road show will pass through Nilokhedi before terminating in Karnal. Ahead of Rahul Gandhi’s Haryana visit, the Congress has decided to hold sit-in protests at district headquarters across the state on Monday, demanding justice for the Hathras gang-rape victim. On Sunday, the HPCC held a meeting in Delhi to chalk out a plan for Rahul’s Haryana visit against the “anti-agriculture black laws.” Haryana Congress in-charge Vivek Bansal, HPCC president Kumari Selja, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Congress MLAs, former minister Captain Ajay Yadav and former state party chief Dharampal Malik were among those present in the meeting. “Haryana Congress will give a rousing reception to Rahul Gandhi,” Selja said, pointing out how the farmers were subjected to a lathicharge at Kurukshetra. “Rahul Gandhi will show to the state government the importance of a dialogue in taking the nation forward,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rahul-gandhi-to-hold-tractor-rallies-road-shows-in-haryana-on-october-6-7/story-dP40nMeJGYcJvmCnFjDuvJ.html
04-10-2020||City||Spread awareness on benefits of agriculture laws: Haryana CM to progressive farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday interacted with a group of progressive farmers and urged them to spread awareness on benefits of the new farm legislations ‘enacted to bring reforms in agriculture marketing’. The CM hailed the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking the historic decision by bringing these laws. He claimed that these initiatives will help farmers get remunerative prices of their produce and also give them more freedom to sell their produce. Earlier, Khattar announced three initiatives—Pragatisheel Kisan Samman Yojana, Pragatisheel Kisan Trainer Yojana and Kisan Mitra Yojana— for the progressive farmers and asked them to reap benefits of government schemes and interest free loans for agriculture sector.He said there is a need to make agriculture profitable to ensure that the farmers get at least ₹1 lakh per acre annually. “I agree with farmers, who say that they should leave agriculture if they cannot earn ₹1 lakh per acre in a year. Now, there are several other options and many farmers are earning more than a lakh,” he said.“There is a wrong perception about the word contract and contractor. We should understand it deeply as there are several examples where the farmers were getting assured income with contract farming,” Khattar said.‘Congress will not be allowed to spread lies’Cautioning the Congress that its “tendency to spread lies will not be allowed anymore”, Khattar said no one will be allowed to take law and order in their own hands in the state. The CM’s tough stance was in response to a question regarding Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Haryana to lead the protests against the agriculture laws. Taking a dig at Congress, the chief minister said that before this the party had protested against the ‘Citizen Amendment Bill’, the removal of Article-370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the ‘Ram Janam Bhoomi’. “All of this is going to end very soon because people and farmers have now understood everything,” he added. “ Farmers and Arthiyas are being misled but they will not fall prey to such tactics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spread-awareness-on-benefits-of-agriculture-laws-haryana-cm-to-progressive-farmers/story-R9OC13cFREFxvRABz6ALFJ.html
04-10-2020||City||Glitch in e-kharid portal slows down paddy procurement in Haryana||Farmers in Haryana are a worried lot after a technical snag in the e-kharid portal has led to slow procurement of paddy in the mandis of the state.The tardy lifting has caused glut in the mandis as the farmers are not getting enough space to unload their produce in the overflowing grain markets. The harvesting of both parmal and basmati varieties is on peak in the state.Aimed at empowering farmers and extending ease of doing business to traders, the e-kharid system was launched for Haryana in September 2016. Under this system, direct payment is made into the accounts of the farmers for their produce.On Sunday, the ahrtias complained that the farmers were unable to sell their produce due to the technical problem on the e-kharid portal for several hours and therefore the rice millers have been purchasing it without any formalities.“I reached the mandi with the produce at 3.30am on Sunday. I had to wait for about five hours in the queue outside the mandi as there was no space to unload the produce. I have not been able to sell my produce yet and will have to wait till Monday as there was no procurement,” said Ramesh Kumar, a farmer, who was present in Ladwa grain market of Kurukshetra district.A commission agent in Kurukshetra, Naresh Kumar, said, “There were problems with the e-portal and it has affected the procurement for several hours causing inconvenience to the farmers who had brought their produce in the mandi as per the schedule.”A senior officer of the state agriculture marketing board said there was some technical problem with the e-portal but it has been fixed. “The procurement will improve from Monday,” he added. The official said to ease the lifting, the state government is taking help of rice millers as they have enough arrangements for the procurement. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal, who was in Karnal on Sunday, said the government has made all arrangements for the procurement and every single grain of the farmers will be procured on MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glitch-in-e-kharid-portal-slows-down-paddy-procurement-in-haryana/story-XssW3WSg7AuJudU1S8EroM.html
04-10-2020||City||Lecturer appointment case: Former V-C among nine employees of Sirsa varsity booked for violating norms||Police have booked nine employees of Sirsa-based Chaudhary Devi Lal University for allegedly appointing a lecturer by violating norms at the varsity in 2007.Police said former vice-chancellor KC Bhardwaj, then registrar Vazir Singh Nehra, former deputy registrar NC Jain and six others have been booked under Sections 120-B, 420 and other relevant sections of the IPC and Sections 13(1), 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act for violating norms while appointing Himani Sharma as a lecturer at the varsity.The complaint Sambhav Garg said the varsity had advertised three posts of lecturers on a regular basis for business administration in 2006. “The candidates were selected for three posts in 2007 and Himani Sharma was not among them. She was in the waiting list with two others. Later, she was appointed as a lecturer in an illegal manner. She worked in the varsity from 2007 to 2013. Then, she got selected as an assistant professor at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar and is presently working there,” Garg said. Sirsa civil lines SHO Jitender Singh said, “The nine accused will get the documents by Monday after which we will begin a probe in the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lecturer-appointment-case-former-v-c-among-nine-employees-of-sirsa-varsity-booked-for-violating-norms/story-NJ5GiDVsoaxuE25CyeqQ4O.html
04-10-2020||Kolkata||Piyush Goyal inaugurates Kolkata’s Phoolbagan metro station, thanks PM Modi’s intervention||Union railways and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday virtually inaugurated the new Phoolbagan station of the East-West Metro that will connect Salt Lake to Kolkata and Howrah. The East-West metro comprises 5.8 kilometres of elevated section and 7.2 kilometres of underground section, part of which will run beneath the Hooghly river, making it a first of its kind in the nation, said Goyal. The Phoobagan station in the eastern fringes of Kolkata is part of the underground section. The already operational elevated section was inaugurated by Goyal in February this year. “Good news for Kolkata Metro commuters! Services of East-West Corridor are now extended till Phoolbagan, where an underground station with modern amenities has been commissioned. Our Govt is focused on creating quality infrastructure under the leadership of PM @NarendraModi ji,” tweeted Goyal. Also read: After quitting Grand Alliance, VIP chief keeps all options open for Bihar pollsIn a live speech shared on social media, Goyal said, “It is very very commendable that all the engineers, workmen, the railway officials worked amid the Covid pandemic, rather, worked extra (hours) during the pandemic to complete the Phoolbagan station in time for Durga Puja. I think it is a great gift for the people of Kolkata.” Goyal said the metro expansion project got delayed for several years because of problems related to land acquisition, resettlement issues, among other reasons, Prime Minister Narendra Modi intervened after the BJP came to power in 2014. “Because of his focused monitoring of this project and his personal intervention, the project got started again in 2015. He could realise that the people of Kolkata are facing a lot of difficulties due to the delays. He ensured adequate availability of funding. I am told the entire East-West project will be completed by December 2021,” Goyal said. The Union minister said that by 2035, around 10 lakh people will use the metro services every day. Meanwhile, Sudip Bandopadhyay, Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha MP from Kolkata North constituency and two local TMC legislators, Sadhan Pandey and Paresh Pal, boycotted the inauguration programme, saying chief minister Mamata Banerjee was not invited which was an insult to her. Two BJP junior Union ministers from the state, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, were invited to the event. “Without Mamata Banerjee’s help, the entire metro project could not have progressed. She worked hard to make it a success and the BJP is trying to take the credit,” said state urban development minister Firhad Hakim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/piyush-goyal-inaugurates-kolkata-s-phoolbagan-metro-station-thanks-pm-modi-s-intervention/story-cbXpiLo5AN9hGyxkJm1gDP.html
04-10-2020||Election:||After quitting Grand Alliance, VIP chief keeps all options open for Bihar polls||A day after quitting the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led Grand Alliance (GA) over seat-sharing deal, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni is in talks with the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) to give shape to the third front in the state ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar, beginning October 28. Talking to media persons on Sunday, Sahni, who flashed on Bihar’s electoral horizon in 2015 as ‘Son of Mallah, said that he was talking to RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha and JAP chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav to offer another formidable alternative to the people of the state. “Political situation in Bihar is still quite fluid. Our party may also tie-up with Ram Vilas Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which too has dumped the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The VIP may contest all 243 seats in Bihar if things did not materialise its way,” said Sahni, adding that the list of first phase candidates would be announced tomorrow. As many as 71 legislative assembly seats of the state are going to polls in the first phase on October 28, the last date of nomination of which would end on October 8. Also read: Lok Janshakti Party to contest Bihar assembly polls aloneOn Saturday, the VIP dealt a blow to the GA by opting out accusing GA’s chief ministerial candidate and RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of betraying its trust. “Yadav backstabbed me, as he did during the Lok Sabha elections by denying the preferred seat to the VIP, even though we stood firmly behind him in every negotiation,” said Sahni. RJD national spokesman Manoj Jha said Sahni’s acts had stunned him as it was completely unexpected. “We have differences with the BJP and other parties, but there is a decent way to dissent. “We don’t indulge in politics of chhura-khanjar (knives). Other parties might be doing it. Sahni has lost the credibility of trust in politics and it will not be undone,” said the RJD leader. Senior GA leaders said that Sahni’s demand was irrational. “The VIP was asking for 25 seats under the GA and the post of deputy chief minister, which was too big a deal to concede to. We were ready to offer him seven to eight seats for which he initially agreed,” said another RJD leader. A section of GA leaders said that Sahni’s conduct had come under a cloud as he had already declared to opt out of the coalition a few weeks ago. “In 2015, he campaigned for the BJP. His party, the VIP, was formally launched in 2018. Later, he joined the GA in 2019 and contested three seats under the alliance. However, his party failed to win any seat,” said an RJD leader.RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, whose party had teamed up with Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to fight the state polls, said Sahni had talked to him for a broad coalition. “The final shape of the coalition will emerge tomorrow if he continued the dialogue,” added the RLSP chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/after-quitting-grand-alliance-vip-chief-keeps-all-options-open-for-bihar-polls/story-89MTK0xcyoc8ih2hKs2AAL.html
04-10-2020||Dehradun||Over 50,000 pilgrims visit Char Dham shrines, more than 92,000 e-passes issued||With Uttarakhand government removing the condition of mandatory Covid-19 test for Char Dham yatra a few days ago, there has been a surge in pilgrim influx to these Himalayan shrines with over 4,800 pilgrims making bookings for the pilgrimage on Saturday. This is a record for maximum single-day pilgrim booking to Char Dham during the pandemic. Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said 92,516 e-passes have been issued since July 1 and over 50,000 pilgrims have visited Char Dham shrines in this period. He said Char Dham shrines were opened to the public in the state on July 1 and from July 25, these shrines were opened to people from other states. “On Saturday, 4,844 pilgrims made bookings for e-passes for Char Dham pilgrimage which is a single-day record during the pandemic,” he said. Given the increase in the influx of pilgrims, the Char Dham board has increased the number of pilgrims who can visit the shrines now.Raman said the daily allowed number of pilgrims has been increased to 3,000 for Badrinath, 3,000 for Kedarnath, 900 for Gangotri and 700 for Yamunotri. “This has been necessitated following an increased footfall of pilgrims after Unlock-5 and based on the availability of accommodation, food and other arrangements, including social distancing, as assessed by respective the district magistrates”, he saidThe four Himalayan pilgrimage sites - Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath - collectively called Char Dham, are among the most revered pilgrimage sites in Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Also read: Bhim Army chief wants ‘Y’ security cover for Hathras gang-rape victim’s familyTraditionally, Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, proceeding to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, record 29 lakh pilgrims visited Char Dham, compared to over 27 lakh pilgrims the previous year, including 9.2 lakh to Kedarnath, 10.2 lakh to Badrinath, 4.4 lakh to Yamunotri, and 5.03 lakh to Gangotri. On September 29, the state government decided that a negative Covid-19 report will not be needed for pilgrims to visit the shrines. The government released new guidelines for visiting Char Dham shrines, according to which pilgrims are required to register on the official website of the Board and take an e-pass for visiting the shrines. The pilgrims have to undergo thermal scanning at the entrance of the shrines and if their body temperature is found higher than the normal then a Covid-19 test will be conducted. The cost of the test will be borne by the pilgrims. Such pilgrims will be allowed entry into the shrines only after testing negative. In June, the state government had restricted the number of local pilgrims for Char Dham pilgrimage. The authorities had capped the daily influx of local pilgrims, allowing only 1,200 pilgrims per day for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for the Yamunotri shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/over-50-000-pilgrims-visit-char-dham-shrines-so-far-more-than-92-000-e-passes-issued/story-U5ovxxg2wPFj2o77sgOm5L.html
04-10-2020||Pune||MSRDC recommends relief for 13 toll booth operators in state; RTI activist alleges favouritism||The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has proposed relief to thirteen toll booth operators in the state and recommended an aggregate reimbursement of Rs 173.57 crore to them.The information related to the same was obtained by Right To Information (RTI) activist Vivek Velankar who had filed an application dated September 1 before the MSRDC seeking details of names of toll operators and how much relief has been given to each of them. Wen all sections of the society have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, then why are toll booth operators being favoured, questioned Velankar.A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23 and the entire transportation sector and roads were closed for vehicular traffic for a period of 24 days. The Union Ministry of Surface Transport decided to free collection during the said period with a decision dated April 20. Following the decision, highway traffic across the country had reduced considerably and toll operators had to sustain losses during the said period.Taking into consideration their losses, the Union ministry of surface transport and finance ministry came up with a policy to compensate the toll operators for their losses. The policy entailed that the toll operators will be compensated for the lockdown period and also till the traffic returned to normal levels on the highways and tolling roads.Velankar was furnished with a letter signed by chief engineer SV Sontakke. The letter addressed to the secretary (roads) public works department dated August 21 stated that the relief for the contractors have been sought under Atmanirbhar Bharat programme.“Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the tolling collection operations were stopped all tolling plazas in Maharashtra under MSRDC. The ministry of road transport and highways conveyed that the lockdown period and subsequent low traffic due to the outbreak may be treated as a force majeure of the concession agreement by the ministry of finance. The total period of stoppage of collection works out to be 24 days for the first phase and the reimbursement to all the toll agencies for the second phase i.e., after the resumption of toll collection and attaintment of 90 per cent traffic growth shall be submitted after the closure of lockdown. The traffic at present is well below the 90 per cent of traffic pattern mark,” the letter stated.Velankar said, “My reasoning is all the toll booth operators will be given this concession across the country. All sections of the society starting from hawkers, businessmen, municipal corporations and councils and other local self-government bodies have been affected due to the pandemic. How appropriate is giving compensation to only one sector and leaving other sectors to fend for themselves. Why is this step-motherly treatment and unfair treatment being given to all and only toll booth operators are being favoured.”Vijay Waghmare, joint manager, MSRDC, said, “Our toll monitoring cell will address these issues which have not been addressed and make necessary recommendations. Most of the issues have been answered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/msrdc-recommends-relief-for-13-toll-booth-operators-in-state-rti-activist-alleges-favouritism/story-pZzM1rs31z6OzaM6vjuQuL.html
04-10-2020||Pune||Couple offers free ambulance service to needy||Amid the pandemic, when the city is facing a shortage of ambulance services, a couple - Deepa and Deepak Parab- has converted their van into an ambulance and are helping underprivileged people reach the hospital on time without paying any charges.The Parabs by profession train women bouncers at Ranragini Self Defence Academy, Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Swargate, which is currently closed due to the pandemic.“We started the ambulance service in the second week of May. We initiated it after one of my students lost her father due to Covid-19 and as the ambulance owner was asking them to pay Rs 3,500 for a ferry, they couldn’t afford it,” said Deepa.”Whenever we get a call for ambulance services anywhere in the city we rush to help,” said Deepa.“Two doctors are my friends and they help me take the patients to the hospital. Till now, we have ferried over 50 patients to the hospital of which two were pregnant women and two were senior citizens,” said Deepa.Rafiq Shaikh, a resident of Swargate, said, “My father was unwell during the lockdown period and he suffers from a heart condition. We wanted to take him to the hospital, but the ambulance service was not available. My friend gave me the number of Parab and because of them, we could take my father to the hospital on time.”Ask Deepa – how she manages to serve people when her own business is in a mess due to lockdown restrictions and she says, “A bouncer’s work is to protect people, so what if I not able to train bouncers, I am still protecting the needy by making available an ambulance service for them.”To support themselves financially – the couple sells sanitisers and also offer services to sanitise houses.“Along with the selling of sanitisers, we also provide services of sanitisation of homes. My husband or I visit homes wearing PPE kits and charge only Rs 1,000. Of Rs 1,000 that we get, Rs 500 is for the social cause,” said Deepa.Deepak himself drives the ambulance as it saves money spent on drivers, she says.Contact detailsFor free ambulance service (Covid/non-Covid patients) call 9623018435/9764967776||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/couple-offers-free-ambulance-service-to-needy/story-x74xA41ie4PlONN1hpcK8L.html
04-10-2020||Pune||No more free accommodation for health workers at private hotels||The government will now discontinue accommodation in private hotels for health workers attending to Covid-19 patients at Sassoon General Hospital.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that it is not feasible for the administration to accommodate the health staff in private hotels and with most activities are open now the staff can stay home. Sassoon hospital has seen about 4,271 Covid-19 positive patients of which 1,504 were declared dead. It was also one of the first tertiary care hospitals in the city to admit Covid-19 positive patients.“For those who are not able to stay at home, government residence will be provided soon,” he said.“They have already decided ten places, which are government rest houses and hostels, which will be used as accommodation for the Covid-19 health staff. We have sent a proposal to the state government and since, I have taken charge I have also sent repeated reminders to the hospital to clear dues. They have forwarded it to the DMER. Last week in a meeting, the government decided to clear dues of private hotels,” he said.“Nowhere in Maharashtra does the health staff stay in private hotels. Initially, we had decided to provide accommodation, but now it is not feasible. We too are even living with our families now and everything has opened up, so accommodation at private hotels is a liability,” he said.“However, we have listed some government rest houses and lodges where staff can stay,” he further added.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said, “All the private hotels where the health staff is accommodated are booked under the district collector. They are responsible for the bills and dues.”In a letter to senior police inspector Bund Garden police station, Sassoon hospital’s dean wrote that about 60 health workers were asked to leave from a city hotel on October 1 at 8pm which mostly consists of women workers in a very insulting and derogatory manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-more-free-accommodation-for-health-workers-at-private-hotels/story-TUW4HplQIlRWQMIUIYDDJJ.html
04-10-2020||Dehradun||How youngsters in Uttarakhand are helping researchers in ISRO-sponsored project||Amid the pandemic with not much work in hands, the youths living near the Himalayan alpine meadows, locally known as Bugyals, are helping researchers study their condition by surveying them in an Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)-sponsored project in Uttarakhand. The youths have been trained by the nodal agency of project in the state - Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) - to click the photographs of the vegetation present in the meadows and send them with latitude and longitude coordinates back to researchers to enable them to study them. There are more than 80 meadows in Uttarakhand and under the project, six of them have been included in the first phase. The meadows included are Kedarnath-Mandani, Madhmaheshwar, Chopra, Valley of Flowers, Bedni and Dyara. Devendra Singh, who lives in a small hamlet near Bedni Bugyal in Chamoli district, is involved in the survey of the meadows. “We joined the project after we were contacted by USAC officials about it. They explained that as we are familiar with the meadows, we could help them in studying the present condition of the vegetation including different medicinal herbs,” Singh said. Also read: Bhim Army chief wants ‘Y’ security cover for Hathras gang-rape victim’s familySingh who works as a guide to the trekkers coming to Bedni Bugyal said due to the lockdown and ongoing pandemic he was not having much work and when the offer came, he accepted as it was about saving the meadows. “We were more than happy to join the project as it was about studying the beautiful meadows and saving them. If they would be saved then it would be good for our future only. Also, they will be paying us for our work which would help us in this pandemic,” said Singh. He informed that the USAC gave them basic training on WhatsApp video call before starting the work. “They provided us with satellite images of the meadows consisting of the spots where we needed to visit and take photographs of the vegetation to send them by uploading on a mobile app installed on our mobile phones,” said Singh, adding that they started their work on September 23 and ended it on September 28 while covering an area of about 15-20 square kilometre. “We then submitted our results to the USAC on September 29. We have agreed to work with them in the future also,” he added. Another local youth Akash Chauhan, who is involved in the project in the Valley of Flowers National Park, said he has been “learning a lot while working on the project”. A second-year B.Sc. student in Dehradun, Chauhan returned to his village amid the pandemic which is located close to the Valley of Flowers. “We have been visiting the Valley of Flowers from our childhood and when we were offered the opportunity to work on the project, we happily agreed,” said Akash who is surveying the vegetation at the UNESCO World Heritage site with his friend Aditya Chauhan. Akash said he started the work on September 25 and will continue for about 10 more days. “We are learning a lot about the existing vegetation and the effect on them due to various factors like climate change,” he said. “We leave home early morning at around 8 and return in the evening at around 5 after completing our day’s work as per the directions given by the USAC. We are coming to know about different sorts of plants and herbs,” said Akash. Describing the work of locals important to the project, MPS Bisht, director, USAC, said, “We decided to involve the locals because they are very much familiar with the meadows, plus working on the project would also generate interest for science in them.” Bisht also said that they also made a point to include them to provide them with some productive work during the pandemic. “We provided them with virtual training and told them what all they are were supposed to do. So far, all of them have been enthusiastically doing that and sending us the photographs of the vegetation in the meadows,” he said. “The information provided by the youths from the field survey will help the researchers to study the condition of existing vegetation on various factors like the impact on their growth due to climatic change and others,” said Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/how-youngsters-in-uttarakhand-are-helping-researchers-in-isro-sponsored-project/story-Ix9qt9hmV8qXxXRXrFPOTN.html
04-10-2020||City||Tripura royal scion forges alliance with indigenous parties to work on NRC, CAA, empowerment||Tripura’s royal scion Pradyot Kishore Deb Burman has forged an alliance with two indigenous political parties in a bid to work together for socio-economic, cultural and political rights of the indigenous people, including National Register of Citizens (NRC), Citizenship (Amendment) Act ( CAA) 2019, the empowerment of autonomous district council (ADC) ahead of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls, whose dates are yet to be announced. The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), an apolitical forum founded by Deb Burman last December, held a meeting with the Indigenous Nationalist Peoples’ of Tripura (INPT) and Tripura People’s Front (TPF) on October 1 and 2. A decision was taken at the meeting to form a high-level united coordination committee to work together on various issues, including the NRC; the CAA, 2019; detect, delete and deportation of illegal voters; inner line permit (ILP), the empowerment of the ADC under the 6th Schedule of the Constitution through direct funding and land rights.Also Read: Tripura scribes wear black badges to protest against CM’s ‘threat’ over reporting of state’s Covid-19 situation “ INPT, TPF and TIPRA have jointly resolved to work unconditionally without any self-interest for the social, cultural , political and economic rights of the indigenous people, “ stated the joint press statement signed by TIPRA chairman Deb Burman, INPT general secretary Jagadish Deb Barma, TPF president Patal Kanya Jamatia. “I have tried my best and succeeded in ensuring that INPT and TPF along with TIPRA unite unconditionally on the basis of ideology. I will also appeal in writing to all other organisations and parties such as IPFT, TPF, TIPRA who agree with our ideology to come front and unite with us ... I would like more leaders to come and unite as one alliance . On my part, I am not taking any political role or position and would like to devote my energy in ensuring more unification in the future,” Deb Burman stated in a social media post.Deb Burman had floated TIPRA last December, three months after resigning from the Congress over his alleged differences with party’s former general secretary Luizinho Faleiro regarding a Supreme Court (SC) case related to the NRC’s revision. TIPRA had protested against the CAA, 2019. TTAADC polls were slated to be held on May 17, but could not be held because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The new election dates are yet to be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-royal-scion-forges-alliance-with-indigenous-parties-to-work-on-nrc-caa-empowerment/story-XqTqnmyjKNnr60WCa0qiDI.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Work on Delhi metro’s Pink Line’s unfinished stretch delayed due to Covid-19||A small unfinished stretch on the Delhi Metro’s Pink Line was expected to be completed by September end this year but it got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, sources said.The Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor or the Pink Line spans about 58 km with 38 stations. However, a small portion in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri area has proved a bottleneck for the DMRC authorities for a long time, due to which, the line is disjointed for some distance there.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation authorities have been working on ironing out the land and other issues that has halted the connecting of the two sides on that stretch.“But for the pandemic, we would have opened the missing link by September end. Now, we hope to do it by March 2021,” an official source told PTI.Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018 and all station on the line have been opened.“Work is in progress on this section in Trilokpuri which is still not connected on the corridor. The foundation work has been completed and pier casting work is going on. Preparations are in progress for pier cap casting as well. However, 17 houses have still not been evacuated and the matter is subjudice,” another source said.The total length of the stretch which “remains to be linked is 289 metres”, he said.The first section to be opened on the Pink Line was the over 20 km-long Majlis Park-Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus segment in March 2018, which for the first time connected the north and south campuses of the Delhi University on the metro network.This was followed by inauguration of the stretch from South Campus to Lajpat Nagar; and then of the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake segment and eventually of the Lajpat Nagar-Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 part of the line.The bottleneck near Trilokpuri station had arisen due to multiple issues, including land acquisition, resulting in a portion of metro segment -- then about a few kilometres remaining incomplete -- rendering the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake station a terminus.Thus, currently a very small stretch between the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 stations is left to be joined. No station remain to be opened, so this linking should happen soon, the source said.The stations on Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake-Shiv Vihar stretch are Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake, East Vinod Nagar-Mayur Vihar-II , Mandawali-West Vinod Nagar, IP Extension, Anand Vihar ISBT, Karkardooma, Karkardooma Court, Krishna Nagar, East Azad Nagar, Welcome, Jaffrabad, Maujpur-Babarpur, Gokulpuri, Johri Enclave and Shiv Vihar.  The main highlight of this section of Pink Line is the presence of three interchange stations -- Anand Vihar (with Blue Line), Karkardooma (with Blue Line) and Welcome (with Red Line).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/work-on-delhi-metro-s-pink-line-s-unfinished-stretch-delayed-due-to-covid-19/story-JFqb6SuyXNkepEZ5EzUnrK.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: Facebook user booked for spreading rumours via ‘morphed’ content||Police on Saturday night registered a first information report (FIR) against a Facebook user for spreading rumours by allegedly using morphed screenshots of a TV news channel in connection with the alleged gang-rape and subsequent death of a Dalit teenager (19) last week in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Hathras district. The circulation of such material was an effort to disturb law and order and disrupt communal and social harmony in UP, the police said.Police officials said the FIR was registered in Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station after getting inputs from agencies investigating the Hathras incident that some organisations and people were involved in a conspiracy to incite the sentiments of a particular caste and hatred towards another caste. They said the attempt was made to malign the image of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath through fake posts and content.Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Woman’s family wants Supreme Court-monitored inquirySomen Barma, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Central, Lucknow Police, said the FIR was lodged against Facebook user Munna Yadav, whose account was used to spread rumours and fake information about the Hathras incident. He said the FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by sub-inspector (S-I) Bhupendra Pratap Singh. Anil Kumar Singh, the additional station house officer (SHO) of Hazratganj police station, is investigating the case, Barma said.The DCP said the charges filed in the FIR pertain to sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different castes), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 420 (fraud), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery with purpose of cheating), 469 (forging electronic content) and 500 (defaming a person) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Sections 505(1)(a) (causing mischief with intent to cause fear among the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquillity) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the IPC were also included in the FIR, Barma said. The charges under section 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 and section 63 of the Copyright Act, 1957 for using morphed screenshots of a TV news channel were also slapped against accused Yadav, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-facebook-user-booked-for-spreading-rumours-via-morphed-content/story-pn5GuS2JowRCaESTVnvW8H.html
04-10-2020||Dehradun||23-year-old woman raped in Dehradun, accused yet to be arrested||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man in Sahaspur area on the outskirts of Dehradun late Saturday evening, police said. The woman lodged a complaint on Saturday night, after which police registered a case and initiated a probe. A police officer privy to the probe said, “The woman said that on Saturday evening she stepped out of her home to go to a nearby market when three men started following her. After some distance, the three caught her and took her near a culvert. There, two of them held her down while the third one raped her,” said the officer. Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Woman’s family wants Supreme Court-monitored inquiryThe three then fled from the scene after threatening her against informing anyone. She, however, went to the nearby Sahaspur police station, lodged a complaint and identified one of the accused. Confirming the incident, Arun Mohan Joshi, senior superintendent of police, Dehradun said, “The police took the victim for a medical examination on Sunday. In the primary medical report, there are no external injury marks but we are probing the case, considering all facts and angles.” “No arrest has been made yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/23-year-old-woman-raped-in-dehradun-accused-yet-to-be-arrested/story-gr290QNwTmWCimAUKnqpuO.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: Handle cases related to women, SCs/STs with sensitivity, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked officials to handle cases related to women, girls, Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) with sensitivity.The CM said this to police and administrative officers during a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) review meeting. “The most complicated of problems could be solved through dialogue,” he said.“Attempts must be made to sort out various problems through dialogue with the affected people. The police should act promptly and deal with sensitivity in cases related to women, girls, SCs and STs,” he said.On Saturday, Adityanath had said his government was committed to ensure justice to each and every victim. He had said that efficient and sensitive policing was needed to strengthen the foundation of good governance, curb crime and maintain law and order in the country’s most populous state .Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Woman’s family wants Supreme Court-monitored inquiryOn Friday, Adityanath had said that those who thought of disrespecting the honour of women would get exemplary punishment.The comments had assumed significance amid national outrage over the alleged gang-rape of a Dalit teenager (19), who had died last week two weeks after she was sexually assaulted by four upper caste men in UP’s Hathras district. The CM has recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the incident that has grabbed the headlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-handle-cases-related-to-women-scs-sts-with-sensitivity-says-yogi-adityanath/story-BJQkC86XswzUetZQc4PMNK.html
04-10-2020||Pune||Pune district crosses 3 lakh Covid case mark; 2,396 fresh cases, 27 deaths reported on Saturday||Close to six months after the lockdown began, Covid-19 cases in Pune district crossed the three lakh case tally mark and continued to remain the worst affected district in the state due to the coronavirus infection and one of the worst affected cities in the country. According to the state health department, the district reported over three lakh total Covid-19 cases, of which in 2.37 lakh cases, patients have recovered, 5,932 deaths have been reported and currently, there are 57,501 active cases. Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, said, “The testing rate in the city is the highest in the country which is why more cases are coming up now. We are reporting more cases from rural areas too, but off late new cases emerging from Pune city has also gone down. “The district reported 2,396 fresh virus cases and 27 deaths due to the infection on Saturday. Pune city reported 1,077 new cases taking the total count to 1,58,903 and 15 deaths took the death toll to 3,586. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 598 new cases taking the final count to 77,233 and seven deaths took the death toll to 1,075. Pune rural reported 721 new cases taking the total count of cases to 64,487 and five deaths took the death toll to 1,270, according to the state health department. According to the state health department, 16,835 patients were discharged on Saturday in the state taking the total count to 11,34,555 and the recovery rate in the state is 79.3 %. Also, 14,348 new cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total to 14,30,861. In addition, 278 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 38,198. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.64%. Of 70,35,296 laboratory samples, 14,30,861 have tested positive (20.34 %) for Covid-19 until October 3. Currently, 22,03,966 people are in home quarantine and 28,414 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-crosses-3-lakh-covid-case-mark-2-396-fresh-cases-27-deaths-reported-on-saturday/story-z0gRHPB923ntiZZoc3M1nN.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi starts kheti bachao yatra in Punjab||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sharpened his attack on the Centre over its farm liberalisation plans on Sunday, alleging that corporate houses were setting the agenda for the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP)-ruled government.After launching ‘kheti bachao yatra’, a three-day protest march involving about 3,000 tractors, Gandhi said the Congress party stood firmly with the agrarian community and will fight against the three controversial farm legislations, passed in Parliament’s monsoon session. “A couple of chosen corporate houses are issuing diktats to the central government on policy formation. Lands of farmers in states such as Punjab and Haryana that have contributed significantly to the national food security for decades is now facing the threat of acquisition by the powerful corporate houses,” the former Congress president said in Moga.Also Read: Farm laws violate federalism, will fight them out legally: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder SinghThe venue of the rally at a grain market was well attended by villagers, including women, who registered their opposition to the new farm laws.The Wayanad MP said the Narendra Modi government wants to dismantle the well-established agricultural marketing system with new rules.“Farmers of Punjab and others have expressed rejections of rules by holding demonstrations. If voted to power, the Congress party will trash these rules. These legislations are a direct it on the economy of the farming sector,” he added.The BJP-ruled central government rejects the Congress’s charges that the new farm laws will benefit corporate entities, and argues that the legislations will usher in reforms in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers. The BJP also accuses opposition parties of politicising the issue and misleading farmers.Earlier, the Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh urged Gandhi to bring farmers at the national level under one roof for an organised protest against the Centre.At Sunday’s rally --- held in the shadow of Covid-19 ---Amritsar East Congress legislator Navjot Sidhu said Punjab should call a special assembly session on farmers’ issues.“Farmers need minimum support price (MSP)...if the central government intends to dilute it, then the Punjab government needs to step in to ensure profitability on their crops. Punjab buys pulses from other states for distribution for welfare schemes. It should promote the cultivation of pulses and oilseeds, and cooperative concept should be encouraged...” Sidhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rahul-gandhi-starts-kheti-bachao-yatra-in-punjab/story-lVBSwQX7GKv8YP2qAMZsLL.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai restaurants, hotels get ready to welcome guests from Monday||Preparations are in full swing in Mumbai hotels and restaurants to meet the requirements under the guidelines for reopening and welcoming guests from Monday, over six months after operations were first suspended in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic outbreak. Testing staff for Covid-19 and training them to meet the requirements under the new standard operating procedure (SOP) for resumption of operations, sanitising of the premises, revision of menu, transport arrangement to bring outstation staff and revision of the seating arrangements to ensure social distancing, are some of the things keeping the hoteliers busy.Take the case of the upmarket 1522--Bar and Kitchen at Andheri (East), which has prepared an exhaustive safety manual for its hotel staff.“We are holding workshops for our staff from the last five days so that they can comply with the SOPs released by the government,” said Pratik Shetty, partner, of the facility.The state government, while allowing hotels and restaurants to resume operations from September 5, has capped guest attendance to 50 percent of their existing capacity. In addition, it has stressed that hotels need to ensure the safety of their staff as well as their patrons. Mirah Hospitality, which runs 10 hotels under the brand name Rajdhani, Hitchki and Bayroute in Mumbai, has arranged buses to bring back 100 staff members from Rajasthan. 800 staff members working in their outlets have to produce a Covid-19 negative test before rejoining.“We are concerned with the health of our staff as well as of the consumers and are not ready to take any chances in this matter,” said Aji Nair, COO – food and beverages division, Mirah Hospitality. Also Read: Restaurants in Maharashtra reopening from tomorrow. Here are the guidelinesThe Pritam Group of Hotels is arranging buses as well as flight tickets to bring back their outstation staff. “We will keep the outstation staff in quarantine for a couple of days before they resume work,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, director, Pritam Group of Hotels.Many outlets are revising their menu to cut out a number of dishes to deal with low footfall and shortage of staff. 1522-Bar and Kitchen would have 45 dishes instead of the usual 80 as they will work in the restricted environment.Many outlets are tweaking the seating arrangement to ensure at least one metre distance between two tables.There are approximately 4 lakh hotels, restaurant and bars in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-restaurants-hotels-get-ready-to-welcome-guests-from-monday/story-qkOwuGBMKdKqFFSBXK0QJK.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Unlockdown tales or emerging from hibernation||This year has seen all the twists and turns of a spine-chilling potboiler, with no one able to predict the story or its end. We were made to hibernate this year, much like the grizzly of the tundra region, the only difference being that we did it in the peak of summer, some of us looking like bears with our self-trimmed coiffures and capacious midriffs. Technically, we were not sleeping, but our minds had definitely gone numb to the happenings of the outside world. The partial opening of the world, heralded the end of our confinement. Hence, we needed another bust of energy to get going. While it was difficult to stay put in our shells, it was equally cumbersome to come out of that sluggish mould. My lazy bones had got accustomed to the comfortable environs of slumber land, and I started finding every excuse to stick to my pad. The online portals sounded more feasible, than my earlier rushed trips to the market for every little pick. My limbs craved cardio exercises and the digestive system growled due to its acidic rise, but I would not budge. It took me sometime to shake off that inertia, and finally, one day, I stepped out of the house. The road outside the gate looked wider and deserted. Many new plants had cropped up along the pathway. As I walked around my block, a sense of freedom engulfed me. Going a step further, I came across many familiar faces, in the park. I may have appeared a little uncivilised staring at their masks and trying to recollect their names. I had forgotten some, but that did not dampen my enthusiasm to wave out to them, like long lost friends. Switching on the ignition of my car gave me a few moments of anxiety when it failed to start. It too was taking its time to wriggle out of its languor. Once it started, I felt as if I had forgotten the finer nuances of driving. I had to furtively look around, hoping that nobody had noticed the shoddy job I had done while reversing the vehicle. Then came the wedding of a dear one and I was among the lucky 50 invited. The tagline at the end of the e-invite left me doubting my luck as all women attendees were requested to wear golden masks. I was wondering whether they were celebrating the wedding or the virus. For someone whose new best friends were track suits and flip flops, the thought of wearing a heavy dress and make-up was already loathsome, and now a new accessory had been added to my wardrobe. The fact that merely six months ago I would be strutting around in high heels attending three weddings a week, seemed a far-fetched story now. However, for slow movers like me, the norm of social distancing is being followed vigorously while my struggle to overcome my inner indolence still has a long way to goalkagaurkashyap@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-unlockdown-tales-or-emerging-from-hibernation/story-ZJGgzPpEiV6bRdgtmrbpUJ.html
04-10-2020||Pune||Hurt by woman’s admonition, man murders infant in Satara||The 10-month-old baby found dead in a well in Satara district of western Maharashtra had been murdered by a man, who was stalking the infant’s mother, police officials said on Saturday. The Satara police have arrested a 28-year-old man for murdering the infant and harassing his mother, who had reprimanded the accused for his act, according to superintendent of police Tejaswi Satpute. Satpute said that the baby had gone missing on Tuesday from his house after which the family from Kalaj village in Phaltan tehsil in Satara, approached the police with a complaint at Lonand police station. After the search, his body was recovered from a well nearby the residence. During the course of investigation, the baby’s mother informed the police about Abhijit Ramdas Lokhande, who was constantly harassing her. The police then detained Lokhande, who during interrogation admitted to his crime. The police booked Lokhande for murder and abduction of the infant, along with stalking the woman. Satpute said the infant was allegedly abducted from a room when other members of the family were working elsewhere in the house. The suspect sneaked into the room and took him away. Later, Lokhande threw him in a well, located a few metres away from their house on Thursday. “When we began the probe, we got to know about Lokhande while collecting information from the family. Initially, he did not answer our questions. However, Lokhande later admitted to his crime and explained the chain of events. He murdered the baby as he was hurt after the woman asked him to stay away from her,” said Satpute. Police officials said Lokhande was trying for a job in the police department and had on two occasions applied during the recruitment drive. However, on both occasions he could not clear the physical test, said police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hurt-by-woman-s-admonition-man-murders-infant-in-satara/story-nEYyQkGEFXWR1mStuqke3O.html
04-10-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Paying extra at restaurants for safety measures necessary, say Pune residents||The entire world has been affected by the pandemic and the Indian economy has also been affected severely. However, the decision of reopening restaurants in the city is a bit tricky. It is of course a risk that will be taken by people, however, there should be strict guidelines to ensure that the Covid-19 norms and safety measures are followed at dine-in restaurants. I’m sure citizens going to restaurants would not mind paying a little more to ensure this. Also, the restaurants need to ensure that social distancing is followed thoroughly. It is then the public’s choice whether to go to the restaurant or not. However, at least the money circulated through this business will help the businesses reach the break-even point. And hence I think, the decision should be taken in a positive light. Priya MitraBe particular about your own safetyBeing safe is the mantra to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown was an unavoidable step to fight this invisible global enemy. Every human being has been affected, so was the economy. One such business that took a major blow was the restaurant and bar sector. The government has now allowed this sector to reopen doors and start business from October 5. Many people may think it should not be allowed as it is leisure activity and not essential, but when I think about the business owners of this sector, I feel that for them it is their source of income. So, even they should have the right to earn, but with complete care and precautions which shall keep their guests safe from this virus. If we wish to visit a restaurant and have some good time, we should be very particular about our own safety too. Kshitij L DeshpandeBetter to start dine-in than allow illegal service I support the decision to reopen restaurants in the city for dine-in. Let’s accept that restaurants are not just a luxury, not at least in a city like Pune where a large section of working people, including both men and women, rely upon restaurants in their routine life. Also, many restaurants in the city have already started serving food discreetly, in an unhygienic way. Customers are eating on the street side. Dining halls are closed, but they have made temporary seating arrangements outside. People are sitting in the side garden or narrow lanes nearby, consuming food items purchased as a ‘parcel’. If allowed, the restaurants can sanitise their dining area and officially serve their customers in a more hygienic and safer way. It can probably save many restaurants from closing down permanently, many hotel employees from losing their jobs, and many owners from going bankrupt. Even after reopening, the small-time restaurants are going to face several challenges on the hygiene part. The increased sanitation expenses might eat up their profits or make them lose customers over increased food prices. I think we as customers should also look at the restaurant business more empathetically and support them in these difficult times. Mandar ShindeRestaurants should be closed for some more timeSince March, we all have learned to cook at home and the personal economy of individuals is also under control. But the life of cooks and employees of restaurants has been hampered. The street food vendors have already started their operations and people are also going there. The restaurants should get the opportunity as well. But, even with 50% operational capacity, I feel it’s risky. This could have been closed for some more time. Once the customer leaves, the table and the related area needs to be cleaned and sanitised. For this to take place, the restaurants have to spend more on safety and they will charge extra. Our economy will be hampered definitely. Harshada BabrekarAdopt strategies to adapt to changing timesCovid-19 is something that is not going to finish easily and we have to learn to live with it. I think it is time to reopen restaurants and resorts to open up the economy. Also, people now want to step out and have food, so reopening is necessary. Safety during such times depends on both the restaurant owners and customers. With all precautionary measures, owners have to start resorts and customers also need to be supportive. Fewer complaints and more coordination are the two things that help every business restart smoothly. All the owners should consider Covid-19 as a challenge and change certain strategies and be more productive. Reshu AggarwaalVulnerable people should avoid dining outPune’s food service industry was extremely vibrant in the pre-Covid days, providing direct or indirect employment to thousands in its organised and unorganised segments. Though risky, reasons like economic compulsions, pressure from the industry struggling to survive after having incurred massive losses in the last few months, repayment of borrowings, loans taken for infrastructure lying idle, job losses and efforts to bring normalcy in the daily life, must have necessitated this decision. As stated by USA’s Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, even with reduced seating capacity and the distancing of tables, there is nothing like complete Covid-19 protection in on-site dining, whether indoor or outdoor and that there always will be a risk of infection. From the lessons learned so far, it is evident that 60+ years old, those with pre-existing medical conditions and obese are more vulnerable to this infection. It is advisable for elderly people to avoid dining out till such time we have a vaccine. Dhairyashil VandekarNeed to support the restaurant industryThe restaurant industry is struggling across the globe and India is not in a different position. Since the government of India has allowed its operation, then we should welcome this move. We are also well aware that the Covid-19 numbers are still on rise so we should learn to live with this as a part of our life. Furthermore, it is important to let businesses resume with relevant safety measures considering the government reformed rules and guidelines. Several restaurants have already resumed their operations in India and they are witnessing a great response. The first thing is to ensure that the best safety and hygiene standards are maintained. Since the government is yet to share the official does and don’ts so they should start looking for safety and hygiene factors followed by other countries. This is an inevitable reality and we should support the restaurant industry to get it back on track and it is the citizen’s responsibility to follow the proper guideline and ensure no one is violating the laws. Shalini SharmaImperative to follow safety measuresI welcome the decision of reopening of dine-ins at restaurants in a controlled manner. This is not the first pandemic the world has seen and it will not be the last, we have to adapt to changing times. Having said that, it is imperative for restaurants to follow all precautionary measures and safety protocols put down by the civic authorities. It all eventually boils down to every individual to not compromise and become complacent with respect to protecting themselves by following safety procedures. The focus should be consistently on boosting immunity and following safety measures while we are unlocking in a steady manner. Roshan ShettyNeed to revive our economyIn my opinion citizens should take full responsibility while visiting these establishments. It is the responsibility of these establishments to maintain hygiene and safety of their visitors and staff. The socio-economic standard has fallen drastically and the employees are suffering the most. Compared to the country’s population, the number of Covid deaths is low. We have to move on and strive to revive our lives and our economy. Manjiree Patwardhan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-paying-extra-at-restaurants-for-safety-measures-necessary-say-pune-residents/story-LG9Uw4VUAIyqBzea1vgVNL.html
04-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to open training centre for teaching pottery: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday announced that the state government would open a training centre for teaching art and making pottery items. CM Rawat made the announcement while distributing pottery wheels, which run on electricity, to potters at a function organised at Uttarakhand Mati Kala Board under the Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana. Rawat stressed the need for identifying areas in the hill state, where pottery work is being carried out and also areas where suitable raw material is available for making pottery items. Rawat announced that the Uttarakhand Mati Kala Board, which was set up last year, would be provided 200 machines for kneading clay. “Efforts have to be made to encourage making pottery items by embracing modern technology. The younger generation understands the significance of modern technology. We have to encourage special skills and craft that will help the state in carving out a unique identity,” he said.Also Read: Hill cutting for Char Dham road on in full swing: SC panel chief Rawat said the demand for pottery items has increased following a blanket ban on the use of plastic in the state. “During the festive season and the Kumbh mela in Haridwar to be held early next year, the demand for pottery items will increase significantly. Efforts have to be made to fulfil this increased demand,” he said. The CM also announced that efforts would be made to encourage the use of pottery items such as pots in government offices across the state. Uttarakhand Mati Kala Board vice-chairman Shobharam Prajapati said state government’s encouragement to pottery products would help a lot of people in the state. Prajapati said that the Uttarakhand Mati Kala Board was set up with the objective to help those families who have been traditionally involved in making pottery items for centuries and also those who want to take it up as a livelihood.PHOTO: One of the electricity run pottery wheels distributed by the chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. HT Photo (Filed by Neeraj Santoshi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-open-training-centre-for-teaching-pottery-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/story-NRhkaKWv2PNSt93zgO5UkM.html
04-10-2020||Pune||Three in police custody; Pune police on lookout for five other assailants of Shiv Sena’s Maratkar||The Pune police are on the lookout for five suspects while three others are in custody in the murder case of Shiv Sena youth wing leader Deepak Maratkar (36), who was stabbed to death in Budhwar peth.The three people in police custody have been identified as Ashwini Kamble, Sunny Kolte, and Mahendra Saraf, according to the police. Kamble and the deceased man had been involved in a feud since 2017 local elections when they were pitted against each other from their respective parties. Both of them lost the election that year. Maratkar and Kamble had been at loggerheads ever since, according to the police. “There have been multiple cross complaints from both the sides, but all were non-cognisable cases. There have also been preventive actions against both of them,” said Swapna Gore, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1, Pune.Saraf, who is a former Shiv Sena member, has had his own qualms with Maratkar since 1998, according to police. Maratkar is the son of Vijay Maratkar, a two-time former corporator who recently passed away due to Covid-19.“Sunny Kolte is the partner of Kamble. He facilitated the union of mutual rivals of the deceased, Saraf and Kamble. He is also a suspect for arranging the hit. These three were the brains behind the planned attack,” said senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Faraskhana police station. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Arms Act has been registered at Faraskhana police station against eight people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-in-police-custody-pune-police-on-lookout-for-five-other-assailants-of-shiv-sena-s-maratkar/story-rEvsLcDPPXZJ9GxoC2qTeO.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Humour in innocence||Shaarav, our three-year-old grandson, was upbeat when he arrived after a fruitful visit over the weekend to his other set of grandparents. He laid out the newly acquired mini bowling alley set and lined up for the strike. However, even though his underarm throw was impressive, the end result was two pins down out of six. As we looked at each other in awed disappointment and before I could reassure him that he would do better in the next attempt, his innocent observation came as a surprise that made us laugh: “Dadu, no point. This set is made in China!” Similarly, there is no dearth of wit and innocent humour in the Armed forces. My first commanding officer (CO), when I joined my regiment on commissioning in 1981, had a unique style of conducting his monthly durbar (interaction with the troops of his unit). At the end of his discourse he would highlight the good and not-so-good-actions by the boys during the month. During one of those meetings, Sowar Hawa Singh, stood up in rapt attention on being called out by the Risaldar Major (senior-most junior commissioned officer) and ordered to explain why his Shaktiman vehicle (Army truck) had veered off the road and hit a tree. “Shriman, mein sikhlai ke anusar seedha dekh kar gaari chala raha tha ki achanak sadak par ek ubhaar aaya aur gaari out of control ho gayi (As taught I was looking straight ahead when I encountered a bump on the road and lost control),” was Hawa’s forthright submission. Bumps were speed-breakers, newly introduced on the cantonment roads and a cultural change for the no-holds-barred tank driver. But the CO was not taken in. “Ubhaar se pehle ek board laga tha ki aage speed breaker hai (there was a signboard for a speed breaker)”. Not the one to be indicted for no fault of his, Hawa was at his innocent best: “Shrimaan, maine baad mein check kiya, yeh board sadak ke baain taraf tha aur mein seedha dekh raha tha (The board was to my left and I was looking straight ahead).” A speechless CO smiled and announced the end of his darbar. Just the other day, I went to the CSD (Army canteen) to apply for the purchase of a car. The dealing clerk, an ex-serviceman, after examining my case, confirmed that the purchase was in order. I went about completing intricate formalities, including an online transfer of the sum to the CSD depot (controlling authority) at Jalandhar. A special courier reported at Jalandhar to obtain the release order. Alas! The indent was rejected, citing the reason: Not authorised. The dealing clerk, myself and everyone in the chain had failed to notice the existing instructions. The blame game started with the buck stopping at the dealing clerk, notwithstanding the fact that the canteen management had displayed the instructions on a huge board at the entrance of the canteen which we failed to notice and the clerk forgot to remember. The guy took the onus of the faux pas squarely upon himself and remarked with all humility at his command: “Sir, putting on a mask is cumbersome, it covers the mouth and nose but blurs the vision too.” avnishrms59@gmail.com (The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-humour-in-innocence/story-i6HyUmVLuufDaqgJQk8UxK.html
04-10-2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot writes to PM Modi, urges national project status for East Rajasthan Canal Project||Sachin Pilot, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi has demanded a national project status to the desert state’s ambitious East Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP). The ERCP proposes to provide drinking water to 13 districts of Rajasthan and irrigation water for 2.8 lakh hectares (ha) of land through 26 large and medium size projects. Pilot stated the ERCP would prove to be a lifeline for Rajasthan’s 13 districts. In these districts, animal husbandry and agriculture is a major occupation of the people but depleting ground water availability is adversely affecting farming, he said. “The NITI Aayog has also included Dholpur and Karauli districts in eastern Rajasthan in the category of aspirational districts as they are semi-developed,” said Pilot. It is a well-known fact that for development of any area, water availability is a must for which the ERCP was conceptualised and submitted to the central government.“Even you (the PM) had assured of considering the project in a meeting held in Jaipur in 2018,” said Pilot, who represents Tonk in the Rajasthan legislative assembly. Rajasthan’s geographical area is 10% of the country’s landmass, but only 1.16% and 1.72% of surface and ground water, respectively, is available in the desert state. Pilot cited that of the 295 blocks in the state, 245 are under dark or critical zones. He said the state government has submitted the ERCP in a bid to bring 2.8 lakh hectares under irrigation, which required the Centre’s approval and financing.“The project will accelerate the development not only in eastern parts of Rajasthan but of the entire state. I have requested the PM to give technical sanction and financial assistance for the project, which is Rs 37,247 crore,” said Pilot, the former chief of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (RPCC). Jhalawar, Baran, Kota, Bundi, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa, Karauli, Alwar, Bharatpur and Dholpur are the 13 districts that are under the ERCP. The project seeks to ensure availability of sufficient water for drinking and irrigation by 2051 in Jhalawar, Baran, Kota, Bundi, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa, Karauli, Bharatpur and Dholpur districts. Earlier, the Rajasthan governments, led by incumbent CM Ashok Gehlot, and his predecessor Vaundhara Raje, who belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had raised the demand of granting a national project status to the ERCP. In February, Gehlot had written to Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who represents the Jodhpur constituency in the Lok Sabha, and had urged him to ensure that the ERCP is granted the status of a national project. Gehlot had also raised the issue before PM Modi during a meeting of NITI Aayog in June, 2019. He had reminded Modi about his promise made during a public meeting in Rajasthan and urged him to give an early approval to the ERCP as a national project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/sachin-pilot-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-national-project-status-for-east-rajasthan-canal-project/story-fuLQweRtk6hxn5eCYtEZBJ.html
04-10-2020||Pune||Lecture series, new certificate courses planned as Deccan College, Pune enters its 200th year on Oct 6||From monthly lecture series on recent researches in the field of Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Linguistics, Sanskrit and Lexicography by eminent scholars and publication of monograph series on these subjects to new certificate courses being planned, the Deccan College postgraduate research institute, hailed as the third oldest educational institute in India and the first college to have postgraduate and research institute in the entire Deccan region, has lined-up events to mark its 200th year on Tuesday. The institute (deemed to be university), plans to celebrate its bicentenary year with various programmes amid solid record of undertaking various key research and excavation projects including Inamgaon, a post-Harappan archaeological site. The college has given to the world of archaeology some of the well-known archaeologists like MK Dhavalikar, who received the Padma Shri. Professor Prasad Joshi, acting vice-chancellor of the Deccan College, said, “The institute has immensely contributed to research in the fields of Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Linguistics, Sanskrit and Lexicography as well as in the fields of Sociology, Anthropology and Maratha History over the past 199 years.”The University is going to commence a series of workshops on Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Linguistics, Sanskrit and Lexicography to make current researches in these subjects popular and public-oriented, added Joshi. According to him, some ongoing projects at the institute by three departments, include the Sanskrit Dictionary Project, Marathi Dialects Project of the Linguistics Department, Gorewada Archaeological Theme Park project and a joint project with APH Solapur University: Junnar Archaeological Museum Project funded by RUSA. He said that two proposed projects of the University will be financially supported by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India in collaboration with C-DAC. A special online programme is being organised to mark the 199th Foundation Day and the inauguration of the bicentenary year on October 6 at 4pm. Dr Bhushan Patwardhan, vice-chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC) will deliver the key note address. Dr GB Deglurkar, former chancellor of the University will also give an address on this occasion. Dr AP Jamkhedkar, chancellor of the University will preside over the function. According to ex-director K Paddayya, it has been a proud moment to be part of this college where he studied and later worked for 57 years. “I am associated with the Deccan College since 1963. It is often said that we are like raw lumps of clay who are transformed and moulded into scholars after studying at this college,” said Paddayya. Deccan institute’s department of Sanskrit, started in 1948, carried out one of the most ambitious and prestigious projects - Encyclopedia of Sanskrit. “So far, we have published 34 volumes covering around 6,000 pages. The published volumes cover around one lakh fifty thousand words. In size, it is three times bigger than a dictionary of any language all around the world. Though it is a dictionary, it is more of an encyclopedia. A regular dictionary gives just the meanings of the word, but this traces the changes in the meaning of the word in literature spread over more than 3,500 years,” said Bhav Sharma, Editorial Assistant, Department of Sanskrit and Lexicography. HistoryIt was started on October 6, 1821, as the Hindoo College by the Bombay Presidency government at the initiative of its governor Mountstuart Elphinstone using the Dakshina Fund, which was started by Khanderao Dabhade, a Maratha Sardar and continued by the Peshwas for propagating Sanskrit studies. It was renamed as the Poona College on June 7, 1851, and later as the Deccan College in October 1864. The Deccan College was shifted to the new campus covering an area of 115 acres near Yerawada on March 23, 1868. Today, the department has excavated over 100 sites and added various relics, some dating back to the medieval period, to their existing collection. These artefacts are carefully preserved in the museum for visitors. Department of linguistics The linguistics department, the first department in this discipline in India, began in 1939. Prof SM Katre was the founder of the department. Professor Sonal Kulkarni-Joshi, head of the department of linguistics, said, “I have been a masters student at the Deccan College and faculty member for more than 15 years. Both in Indian academics and abroad, my affiliation with the Deccan College is highly regarded within linguistic circles. It is a matter of great pride to be a part of this great academic legacy.” Museums Founded in the year 1939, the Deccan College Archaeology Museum (DCAM) is the brainchild of eminent archaeologist Padma Bhushan HD Sankalia. The museum features Sankalia’s collection of artefacts as well as a collection of vestiges from different research scholars. Following the numerous excavations carried out by the archaeology department, the initial collection of artefacts soon became an assemblage of cultural material dating back to the prehistoric era. Developed for academic purposes, the museum now features a huge collection of artefacts categorised into nine galleries. The galleries are divided into categories: Stone Age or prehistoric period (before 6000 BC); Chalcolithic or Copper Age (4500- 3500 BC); Megalithic culture; early history; sculptures; epigraphy (inscriptions) and numismatics (the study of coins and related objects); sciences in archaeology and ethnoarchaeology (the study of people for archaeological reasons). The second museum is on The Maratha History Museum. This Museum -cum-Archives of the Deccan College contains important historical records of the late 18th and early 19th centuries, useful for a student of Maratha history. Library Another important aspect of the Deccan College is the library. According to K Paddayya, ex-director Deccan College, the library is a very important component of the institute and has a special place in the world of higher learning and research, both at the national and international levels. It is a unique library having collection of two lakh books mainly in the fields of Archaeology, Ancient Indian History, Medieval History, Anthropology, Linguistics, Sanskrit, Philosophy and Religion. It has inherited a rare collection of books from the old Deccan College whose origins go back to 1821.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lecture-series-new-certificate-courses-planned-as-deccan-college-pune-enters-its-200th-year-on-october-6/story-v8nGrsDOdr0661th4laWVK.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: It makes sense to guard yourself against guilt||We are living in a competitive world where people have to work for hours to make both ends meet. In some families, the earning members have to take up two or three jobs side by side to make enough for their sustenance. Along with this we have to look after the emotional needs of our family members too. Doing so can at times lead to increased anxiety levels resulting in outbursts, failure to control our emotions of hurt, pain, anger, which often overpower our natural temperament. Then, certain emotions are transient and give way feelings of guilt for doing what we have done. Guilt is an emotion and it triggers a sense of having done something wrong or having not done something right at the right time. It is an emotion everyone goes through. When I became a mother and had to leave my infant son at home and go to college, I was filled with a sense of guilt. Though he didn’t show signs of anxiety or anger as he played and waved me goodbye smilingly, yet I found it tough to reconcile with the guilt of not spending time with him. Guilt is a natural emotion. In childhood we have all had our naughty moments when we voluntarily indulged in pranks. I used to change nameplates of our neighbours’ homes and plucked raw fruits from their trees. When aunties complained I used to be filled with a sense of guilt for having spoilt the fruits and for hurting people’s feelings. Nobody likes the experience of guilt, but it is a part of being human and has its origins in making unintentional mistakes, causing involuntary hurt, anger, misconstrued trust and so on. However, guilt can make us feel sad, unhappy, powerless and worse. Guilt is part and parcel of our life. During childhood, feelings of guilt arise from innocent mistakes and we tend to forget them quickly. But as we grow and thrive in a family our thoughts are governed by our intense desire to be the perfect partner, parent, sibling, son and daughter. Despite all our efforts, there are times when we realise that we haven’t been able to live our lives the way we should have or failed to raise our children as we wished them to be. Often, we despair over not being professionally competent or over neglecting our hobbies and health. Now, however, I feel the best way to deal with guilt is to accept reality, try to overcome it by finding a way to control those emotions, be comfortable, make peace with them. Most often our sense of guilt originates from some previous experience or memory and doesn’t have much to do with our present situation. Once we realise that everybody makes mistakes, we take the first step towards transformation by forgiving ourselves, take a more rational view of a situation and manage emotional responses better. How truly it is said that though we might not be able to control external circumstances, we can control our emotional response to them. Oscar Wilde rightly said, “I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them” So controlling emotions of guilt and emerging as a better human being with a positive spirit and moving ahead needs to be the mantra for overcoming guilt. What do you say? ritukumar.gmn@gmail.comThe writer is a professor at MLN College, Yamunanagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-it-makes-sense-to-guard-yourself-against-guilt/story-oJteWY0btqKDne6110dj2L.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: Woman’s family wants Supreme Court-monitored inquiry||The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly gangraped in Hathras last month, said they were against a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe on Sunday, and sought a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry instead. Upper-caste groups, in a mahapanchayat in Hathras on Saturday, had welcomed Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s recommendation of the CBI probe.“We do not require a CBI probe, but want the proceedings to take place in a fast-track court under the supervision of a Supreme Court judge,” the brother of the woman, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, said.Meanwhile, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government continued its probe and recorded the statements of the woman’s family members.“We are open to anyone who wants to present himself before SIT and get his or her statement (recorded),” said senior IPS officer Bhagwan Swaroop who heads the three-member SIT.At Saturday’s mahapanchayat --- called by former Hathras MLA Rajveer Pehalwan and attended by about 700 people --- participants welcomed the recommendation of the CBI probe and also questioned the objections raised by the woman’s family to such an investigation as well as the narco-analysis test. The speakers at the mahapanchayat claimed the four men arrested for the gangrape were innocent.The participants decided that the lawyers who attended the mahapanchayat would meet SIT members to apprise them of the “facts”.Also Read:From Hathras gang-rape victim’s death to CBI probe recommendation: What we know so farOn Sunday, the authorities placed barricades around Boolgarhi village so that no more than five people at a time could enter.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, a five-member delegation of the Samajwadi Party, and Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary are expected to visit the village on Sunday.Meanwhile, safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) continued their protest in Agra on Sunday against the gangrape and THE death of the woman. On Saturday, the sanitation workers had pelted the municipal corporation’s garbage removal vehicles with stones.On September 14, the woman had alleged that she was gang-raped by four men. On September 29, the woman succumbed to her injuries at Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi. She was cremated by authorities at night as her family members alleged police rushed the entire process, a charge that led to nationwide outrage. However, the administration said the cremation was conducted with the family’s consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-woman-s-family-wants-supreme-court-monitored-inquiry/story-rQpwqpJEntCIkjgl3aUobP.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Raped by father for 4 years, UP teen dials cops, gets him arrested||A man from Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district was arrested for regularly raping his 16-year-old daughter for the last four years. The arrest was made after the girl phoned the UP police emergency response service, also called UP 112, on Saturday and narrated her ordeal, the police said on Sunday.Fatehpur police station inspector Manoj Chaudhary said the accused was a drug addict who had been sexually assaulting his daughter for the last four years. His wife tried to stop him many times, but he brushed her aside, the inspector added. Eventually, the girl called UP 112 and revealed her plight to the police, he said.Chaudhary said a case of rape was registered against the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and he was arrested.Two held for raping neighbour’s minor daughterIn another incident, two men aged 20 and 21 years were arrested for allegedly raping their neighbour’s 15-year-old daughter in Saharanpur district in the early hours of Saturday, the police said.Also Read: 70-year-old among 3 booked for raping minor for months in UP’s BulandshahrInspector of a police station in the area said an FIR under Section 376 D (gang rape) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered on the complaint of the girl’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/raped-by-father-for-4-years-up-teen-dials-cops-gets-him-arrested/story-sByDW2TLYUtnJE4GIhEn8J.html
04-10-2020||Education||Mumbai University final year exam being held online despite challenges||Interruption in internet connectivity, power outages and other disruptions like computers and mobiles hanging in the middle of the examination are some problems faced by students appearing for University of Mumbai final year exams, being held online due to coronavirus crisis.Colleges on their side are trying to tackle some of the issues faced in organising online examinations by allocating more manpower to operate helplines, conducting a series of mock tests and continuous invigilation during the tests. “We selected a software provider who assured us that the exams will be conducted through a cloud server requiring minimum bandwidth, so that students, no matter what part of the country they are in, can appear for the exam without getting bogged down by low internet connectivity,” said Hemalata Bagla, principal of K C College.She added that while the fresh candidate exams are scheduled to begin on October 7, the college is currently handling backlog--allowed to keep term (ATKT) exams. “Our helpline works in a way that during an exam, students can directly clear doubts about a question with a teacher from the department. We also have some students complaining about load shedding in some parts of the state, which is why we devised a method to send reminders to students, hours before the exam, asking them to charge their phones/laptops in advance and keep it ready,” added Bagla. Also Read: UPSC Prelims 2020: Candidates reach centres for exams, say ‘mature enough to follow precautions’D G Ruparel College has conducted mock tests to ensure all students get a good understanding of the system before final exams.“Still, we’ve had cases where students could not access the exam link because either they had provided a wrong email id or their mail inboxes were full and therefore, couldn’t appear for the paper. We have considered such cases and assured rescheduling of examination for such students,” said Tushar Desai, principal of the institute. On Saturday, a small batch of students from the institute received a wrong question paper due to a technical error. The college will conduct a re-examination for the subject once all other exams are over.“No one will miss out on appearing for the exams,” said Desai and added that on the first day of the exam, 1,128 students appeared without any complaints. Also Read: CLAT 2020: Modifications in questions and the answer key for UG, PG exams releasedWhile several affiliated colleges to Mumbai University started online exams from October 1 itself, others have decided to conduct exams starting the coming week.Most colleges are using a combination of software and applications in order to ensure invigilation during the exam.“The software continuously tells us if a student is writing the exam or not and when we find a student isn’t appearing for the paper, we contact him/her immediately to find out the reason,” said Anushree Lokur, principal, Ruia College.Most colleges have opted for randomisation of questions and answers in order to avoid any form of cheating during the exam. “We had a case of a student automatically logging out of the exam due to very low internet connectivity.Once he re-started the exam, the remaining questions had been reordered including the options of answers to each question. With technology at hand, we are trying to do our best to conduct exams as fairly as possible,” said a senior professor of a south Mumbai college. Final year (summer 2020) exams for all state universities have to be conducted online this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Close to 2.3 lakh students from the University of Mumbai will be appearing for exams online this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mumbai-university-final-year-exam-being-held-online-despite-challenges/story-wn2QMaOQDBCzEaGHXFpDSK.html
04-10-2020||City||Two naval officers killed in glider crash in Kochi||Two naval officers were killed after a power glider they were flying lost control due to a technical snag and crashed in Kochi on Sunday morning, said a spokesman of the Indian Navy.The glider took off from the INS Garuda as part of a routine flying programme at 7 am and it developed a technical glitch and crashed near Thoppumpady 20 minutes later.Lieutenant (Lt) Rajiv Jha (39) and petty officer Sunil Kumar (29) died in the crash, said the spokesman.People, who were out on a morning walk, were eye-witness to the crash and informed the local police. Also Read: Ready to sell Navy’s former aircraft carrier INS Viraat for Rs 100 crore: Mumbai firmA naval team rushed to the accident site and tried to shift Jha and Kumar to the naval hospital at INS Sanjeevani, but both succumbed to their injuries on the way.“The officers were critically injured in the incident. They breathed their last on the way to the naval hospital. The Southern Naval Command has ordered a board of inquiry into the accident,” said the spokesman. He said both Jha and Kumar were experienced glider pilots and their sortie was part of a routine exercise.The glider’s wreckage has been shifted to the naval base at Kochi. Lt Jha belonged to Dehradun in Uttarakhand and Kumar was from Bhoj in Bihar. Another naval officer was also killed at Karwar in Karnataka while paragliding two days ago. Fortunately, his co-rider was saved by local fishermen and he is undergoing treatment at a local hospital in Karwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-naval-officers-killed-in-glider-crash-in-kochi/story-70bCuZ659vrlbtUtilDmCJ.html
04-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police set up special grievance cell for Jammu Kashmir residents in state||Police in Uttarakhand have set up a special cell in Dehradun to address the grievances of residents of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), which became a union territory (UT) on October 31, living in the hill state. The cell was launched on Saturday following an order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to stop incidents involving attacks, intimidation, social boycotts or harassment against the J&K residents, including students, said police. Ashok Kumar, director-general (D-G) (law & order), Uttarakhand Police, said, “The cell was set up in line with the MHA’s order to stop attacks, intimidation or other similar incidents against the J&K residents. We have appointed Mamta Vohra, additional superintendent of police (ASP), as the cell’s nodal officer.” Kumar said, “The cell will take action against any person found involved in these incidents against the J&K residents living in Uttarakhand. The cell will safeguard the J&K residents.” The state shared the contact details of ASP Vohra, where any J&K resident living in Uttarakhand can contact her for redressal of a grievance. Her mobile number and email id is 9412029346 and mamtavohra@gmail.com, respectively. A delegation of J&K Students’ Association (J&KSA) had met Kumar a few days ago and pleaded with him to set up a similar cell. Nasir Kheuhami, spokesperson, J&KSA, expressed his gratitude to the Uttarakhand Police for the launching of the cell. “We are grateful to the Uttarakhand Police for acceding to our request and setting up a special cell for redressal of our grievances. It will be of great help as many J&K residents, including students, are living in Uttarakhand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-set-up-special-grievance-cell-for-jammu-kashmir-residents-in-state/story-VjiJI7OhxZ09GiAUBJeqPI.html
04-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: HAM-S seals deal with JD(U), all eyes on BJP-LJP||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) has entered a seat-sharing agreement with the ruling Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), in the poll-bound state.The deal was brokered amid an uncertainty over the next move of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which will get its quota of seats to contest the upcoming assembly polls as an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre.The NDA is yet to announce a seat-sharing deal involving all its constituents amid growing differences between the JD(U) and the LJP, which has been questioning chief minister Nitish Kumar’s style of functioning.HAM-S, which aligned with the JD (U) following its exit from the Grand Alliance (GA) --- comprising the main opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and some Left parties --- will contest 10 constituencies in the 243-seat Bihar assembly.Of the 10 seats, three HAM-S candidates would contest on the JD(U) symbol, said party spokesman Danish Rizwan. He said the party would like eight candidates to contest on its symbol.Also Read: Land mines biggest challenge for security forces in first phase of Bihar pollsHAM-S parliamentary board meeting will be held on Sunday afternoon to decide on the names of the candidates.Earlier, Majhi had maintained that his return to the Nitish Kumar-led JD (U) fold was unconditional because of a “mutual understanding”.Manjhi will contest from the Imamganj assembly seat in Gaya district. Manjhi confirmed that he would contest from Imamganj, but refused to share details about the candidates of the other nine seats.“BJP parliamentary board meeting is slated to be held in Delhi today. Our meeting will also be held this afternoon. I shall speak about who will contest from which seat after the meeting,” he said.Imamganj was the only seat that the HAM-S won in 2015 when Manjhi defeated JD(U)’s Uday Narain Chaudhary. However, he lost from Makhdumpur, from where his son-in-law is tipped to be the candidate in the upcoming assembly polls.Also Read: Bihar assembly election: Key LJP meeting on hold due to Paswan’s healthKumar had made Manjhi the Bihar CM in May 2014, though the latter had to quit the following year after the two leaders came face to face in the assembly polls.Manjhi was a part of the cabinet of seven Bihar CMs, including four from the Congress, in his political career spanning over four decades.His induction into the JD(U) fold was seen as an attempt to neutralise the LJP’s growing political ambitions.In 2015, the HAM-S was part of the NDA and had contested in 21 assembly seats. But, the regional party had managed to win only one seat that of Majhi’s. It had a vote share of 2.2% in 2015 assembly polls.Political analyst Ajay Jha said that the upcoming Bihar assembly polls were taking an interesting turn because of the emergence of new political equations at the last minute ahead of the elections. “Pre-poll arrangements are likely to be guided by post-poll possibilities,” he added.The elections in Bihar will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7.The results will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-assembly-election-2020-ham-s-seals-deal-with-jd-u-all-eyes-on-bjp-ljp/story-b8VNygfZUruc7gM1ldDPwO.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Restaurants in Maharashtra reopening from tomorrow. Here are the guidelines||The restaurants in Maharashtra will be reopening from October 5 after more than six months of a complete shutdown necessitated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The directorate of tourism of the Maharashtra government on Saturday issued extensive guidelines for restaurant owners and diners, including operating procedures for pre-booking of seats, Covid-19 hygiene while serving food and beverages, seating arrangements within restaurant premises, table etiquette, hospitality norms, entry-exit and washroom hygiene, norms for regular ventilation of premises and disinfection routines, digital or disposable paper menus, and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour for staffers.The guidelines also directed restaurants to take down detailed information of every visitor, including contact details (with the customer’s consent), in case there is a need to contact-trace any visitors later. Such logs will be maintained for 30 days. No buffets and live entertainment are allowed.Here are the guidelines to be followed:1. As per the guidelines, customers should be screened at the entry point for Covid-19 symptoms such as high temperature, cough and cold.2. Hotels, food courts and restaurants can operate at 50% of their seating capacity.3. Only asymptomatic customers will be allowed to enter the restaurants and eateries. Also, putting on face masks will be mandatory, except while eating.4. Customers must follow social distancing while waiting for service. Plexiglass screens or similar barriers must be erected at counters where interactions with customers occur frequently.5. Hand sanitizers must be made available and payment through digital mode should be encouraged while precautions should be taken during cash transactions. Rest rooms and hand-wash areas must be cleaned regularly.6. The guidelines added that there should be separate entry and exit points and CCTV cameras on the premises must be fully functional and only cooked food should be included in the menu and raw or cold food like salads should be avoided.7. All restaurants, bars, and cafes will have to conduct regular Covid-19 screening and testing of all employees, ensure use of N95 or equivalent masks and disinfection of premises twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restaurants-in-maharashtra-reopening-from-tomorrow-here-are-the-guidelines/story-HOygaqaOZV53xxr19JqlyM.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Only smaller Durga idols in UP this year due to late nod to celebrations||Idols of goddess Durga on display at Durga Puja pandals in Uttar Pradesh this year will not be of more than six feet height, and in many cases it will be even smaller, as idol makers are left with very little time after the state government’s late nod for holding Durga puja celebrations.Celebrations this year will also be without the distribution of khichdi bhog and prasad because of Covid-19 pandemic. There will be no fancy pandals or elaborate lighting arrangements either. Only simple Durga puja rituals will be carried out in the most solemn manner. Neeloy Kumar Mitra, a prominent idol maker at Talkatora said, “We are making smaller-size Durga idols as in this limited time frame, one cannot make the bigger ones. Many of the puja committees placed orders for smaller size idols of around 5-6 feet because they are keeping Durga puja a low key affair.”Mitra, a pass out of Arts College, Lucknow said, “We have received orders from 17-18 puja committees like Sahara State, Anand Nagar, Vikas Nagar. All of them said they don’t want an idol of more than 6 feet in height as it will cause inconvenience during immersion in Covid times.”Also Read: Hathras case: 5 Samajwadi Party members allowed to enter villageSujit Pal, an idol maker at Rabindra Palli said that due to availability of fewer workers in Covid times, they are making smaller idols.“Bengali Club has placed an order for a six feet high idol. Other puja committees expressed a similar desire as there’s very little time left now,” said Pal, who also graduated from Arts College. RDSO Durga Puja will be organized at a new site this year with a much smaller Durga idol. Instead of Rajdhani Hall, this year’s Durga puja will be held at Milani, RDSO, Lucknow campus.Also Read: Dussehra Dreams: Effigy makers in a fix after no-show on Ramlilas“It will remain open for members only as per state government’s Covid guidelines. The volunteers will have to go through thermal screening. There will be no distribution of bhog prasad, or a cultural programme. Only Puja rituals will be held,” said Tirtho Sengupta, general secretary of the puja committee. Sudip Sanyal of La Touche Road Durga puja committee said they too have ordered for a small size idol as the state government’s nod for Durga puja came quite late. “There will be no Anand mela, cultural programme, etc. We will follow government guidelines and all SOPs, etc,” said Arun Banerjee, the president of Bengali club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/only-smaller-durga-idols-in-up-this-year-due-to-late-nod-to-celebrations/story-AnMPpWqbboXdhjyDiddAZJ.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Dussehra Dreams: Effigy makers in a fix after no-show on Ramlilas||Come October, and the winds in Delhi ring of festivities. Right from the run up to Durga Puja to the gatherings at the many Ram Leela grounds for Dussehra, every day is magic. But this year, Covid-19 has put a dampener to these festivities as mass gatherings are restricted. This in turn has affected the businesses of effigy makers. The otherwise thriving businesses have taken a big blow as there is hardly any demand for effigies. Mounting expenses, MCD permits and a drastic decrease in demand have them in a fix. “Pehle itna toh kamaa lete the ki poore saal ka kharcha nikal jaaye, lekin iss baar toh bada ya chhota, koi order nahi aa raha,” rues Naresh of New India Ravan Wala in Titarpur. He has been making effigies all his life, planning three months in advance for the festive season. “50 saal ho gaye yeh kaam karte par aisi tangi pehle kabhi nahi hui,” he says.Azam Ali, whose great grandfather started making effigies during the rule of Bahadur Shah Zafar in Delhi, has spent over ₹1 lakh in making these effigies so far. “Ek saal se chalti thi taiyyari Ramlila ki; sab kuch banaa ke taiyyar kar liya tha. Tab tak lag raha tha ki sarkar Ramlila ki permission toh degi hi degi,” he says, adding that he will now rent a place to store these effigies for next year. He has not received any payment from the organisers, who would otherwise give them contracts in bulk. The roads running parallel to the Metro line at Tagore Garden through Najafgarh are a hub for effigy makers. Dismantled effigies in various stages of making could be seen here, but now the effigy makers are unable to afford the rent. They would earlier earn anywhere between ₹2-3 lakh, but the demand has gone down by 50% this year. “Grounds that would have the biggest effigies have not got the permission to organise the festival. We have only got few orders, those too from schools and housing societies,” says Bobby of Shankar Ravan Wale.Even the organisers of these elaborate events are refraining from mass gatherings. Anil Garg, general secretary, Shri Ram Dharmik Leela Committee, says that even though the ground has a capacity to host 5,000-7,000 people and government has allowed 50% gathering, the risk is not worth it. “Apni suraksha mein sab ki suraksha hai. We are not burning effigies this year because it will be impossible to control the crowd. Instead, we will set up a smaller stage and play the last few chapters of Ravan dahan,” he says adding that they will broadcast last year’s recorded Ram Leela on a television channel.With effigies lying in a state of abandon, these effigy makers are looking at alternatives for survival. Mahendra of Mahendra and Subhash Ravan Wale, who has been in the business for 45 years, says he drives a taxi now. “Bahut tagdi maar padhi hai iss baar. Koi poochne bhi nahi aa raha. Gaadi chalaa ke paise kamaa raha hoon ab,” he says. Azam Ali has also taken up an alternative. “Shaadiyo mein phool lagaate hain. Apne kaarigaro ko bhi toh payment karni thi. Gareeb hain isliye gareeb ka dard samajhte hain,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dussehra-dreams-effigy-makers-in-a-fix-after-no-show-on-ramlilas/story-uMrpk4hK5623yEUSsZrlyI.html
04-10-2020||Bhopal||6 including BJP worker booked in MP for observing black day on Gandhi jayanti||Six people including a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker were booked on Saturday for allegedly promoting enmity by observing a ‘black day’ on the birth anniversary of Mahatama Gandhi in Bundelkhand region’s Chhatarpur, 344 km northeast of Bhopal, said police. “An FIR was registered under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of IPC (Indian Penal Code) against Rajesh Agrawal, Prashant Mehto, Pankaj Pipapriya and three others, all residents of Chhatarpur, on the complaint of one Abhilekh Khare, a resident of Chhatarpur on Saturday,” said Chhatarpur superintendent of police, Sachin Sharma. He added that no arrest has been made so far.The police officer said that Mehto, Agrawal and Pipariya, with three others, had put up objectionable posters on a rotary in Chhatarpur city on Friday, calling it a black day. “In the posters, they wrote objectionable words and made false statements about Gandhiji,” said Sharma. Also Read: MP cops abused and turned away gang-rape victim, booked for delaying FIRChhatarpur district Congress spokesperson and complainant Abhilekh Khare said, “These people are from BJP and its parental organisation. They are promoting animosity among people by posting objectionable comments. On Friday, they not only put up demeaning posters but also shared it widely on social media and tried to create a rift between people of two religions.”BJP’s Chhatarpur district president Malkhan Singh said the party doesn’t approve of such acts.Also Read: High court’s order may impact campaigning for MP bypolls, details here“Mahatma Gandhi is our idol. We don’t approve of any such act like observing a back day on October 2 and we condemn it, whosoever might have done it. I don’t know about the association of the accused with the BJP, but if they are in the party, then we will take disciplinary action against them.”(With inputs from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/6-including-bjp-worker-booked-in-mp-for-observing-black-day-on-gandhi-jayanti/story-8BYCpphzXmr5u1GYjyV50K.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Schools in Delhi to remain shut till October 31||All schools—both government and private—in the national capital will remain closed for students till October 31, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday.The announcement puts an end to speculation around the partial reopening of schools in Delhi in the wake of fresh guidelines by the centre that have further eased Covid-19 curbs.Also, the previous order of the city administration, issued on September 18, on closure of schools was valid till October 5 (Monday).“The decision to keep schools shut in Delhi will be extended. I have issued directions for closure of all schools in Delhi till October 31. An order on this will be issued soon,” Sisodia told HT.Also Read: School reopening: If students prefer online classes, allow them to do so, says CentreThe move comes after an assessment of the Covid-19 situation in the capital. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the city reported 3,037, 2,920 and 2,258 cases, respectively. overall, Delhi has reported 287,930 cases and 5,472 fatalities. “All schools in Delhi will remain closed till October 31 due to corona. Chief Minister @ArvindKejriwal has said that as a parent, he understands the seriousness of the situation. At this time it will not be appropriate to take any risk regarding the health of children,” Sisodia tweeted in Hindi on Sunday afternoon.दिल्ली में सभी स्कूल कोरोना के कारण अभी 31 अक्तूबर तक बंद रहेंगे. मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal ने कहा है कि एक अभिभावक होने के नाते वे परिस्थिति की गम्भीरता को समझते हैं. इस समय बच्चों के स्वास्थ्य को लेकर कोई ज़ोखिम लिया जाना उचित नहीं होगा.The decision on schools came even as the central government on September 30 issued new guidelines allowing more relaxations of Covid-19 restrictions as part of its plan to resume businesses and activities in the country struck by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/schools-in-delhi-to-remain-shut-till-october-31/story-jEvFWxES4q3nHiJxFcVDpM.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Overnight thunderstorm leads to heavy rain across Mumbai||There were cloud cover, loud claps of thunder, lightning and moderate to heavy showers between Saturday evening and early Sunday morning in the densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The weather bureau had issued a yellow alert for Saturday and predicted thunderstorms during evening and also late at night.On Saturday, a dense cloud cover enveloped at around 5:30 pm onwards over parts of Kalyan, followed by rainfall at isolated places in Navi Mumbai, Thane and suburban Mumbai. South Mumbai also recorded an intense spell of rainfall at isolated places and accompanied by a wind speed up to 35 kilometres per hour (kmph).Also Read: ‘Thundershowers with lightning, gusty winds likely in Mumbai over the weekend’: IMDThe Santacruz weather observatory, which is representative of suburban Mumbai, recorded 55.8 millimetres (mm) of rainfall. While Colaba weather observatory, which is representative of south Mumbai, recorded 15 mm of rainfall. Many areas in the suburbs, south-central Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan received overnight rainfall measuring between 70 mm and 100 mm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the thunderstorms were the signs of the withdrawal of south-west monsoon over the region and were normal during this time of the year. “Severe weather with intense lightning and loud thunder was recorded for two hours on Saturday evening. Isolated areas across the MMR reported moderate to heavy rainfall. This was followed by another round of thunderstorms late at night on Saturday and early Sunday morning,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (DG), western region, IMD. “The thunderstorms were short-lived, but the Konkan coast and interior Maharashtra can expect similar weather on Sunday as well,” he added.A location-wise break-up of heavy rainfall for over 15 hours – between 5:30 pm on Saturday and 8:30 am on Sunday -- showed that maximum rainfall was recorded at Malad at 106.6 mm, followed by Dahisar (103 mm), Goregaon (94.5 mm), Mira Road (84.5 mm), Borivali (76.8 mm), Andheri (72.8 mm), Bhandup (69 mm) and Powai (64 mm). Thundershowers led to cool weather over the city, which had recorded temperature over a degree Celsius (C) above normal since October 1. The overnight rainfall brought the temperature down by a degree Celsius on Sunday morning. The minimum temperature in south Mumbai and the suburbs was 24 and 22.6 degrees C, respectively, on Sunday morning. Mumbai and its suburbs could expect light rainfall accompanied by thundershowers at isolated places on Sunday evening or late at night, the weather bureau said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/overnight-thunderstorm-leads-to-heavy-rain-across-mumbai/story-r0FPPTGV9toIfa6OgApKWJ.html
04-10-2020||Bhopal||MP cops abused and turned away gang-rape victim, booked for delaying FIR||Another cop was booked in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district on Saturday for allegedly refusing to lodge a first information report (FIR) of an alleged gang-rape victim, who died by suicide on Friday, said police. The police also arrested two more accused- one for the gang-rape and the other for abetment to causing death by suicide. However, police officers alleged that the FIR was not lodged since the woman’s complaint on September 28—the day of the incident-- and also on subsequent days, was vague. They also refused to share the details of her post-mortem report on Saturday. On Saturday, Chichli police station in-charge sub inspector Anil Singh was booked under section 166A for non-recording of information under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Earlier on Friday evening, Gotitoriya police outpost in-charge assistant sub-inspector Mishrilal Kodapa was booked and arrested under the same provision of IPC. Both have been suspended, said Ajay Singh, superintendent of police, Narsinghpur. Also Read: Dalit woman dies by suicide in Madhya Pradesh, kin allege police inaction on rape complaintPolice also arrested the third accused in the gang-rape case and the second accused in the abetment to suicide case on Saturday. Earlier, two accused in gang-rape case and one of the two accused in the abetment to suicide case—including a woman-- were arrested on Friday. All the accused are from the victim’s village, said the SP. Also Read: Bhopal newborn found dead with stab wounds, police say grandparents guiltyThe 32-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped on September 28. Her husband said, “We tried to lodge FIR first at Gotitoria police outpost and then at Chichli police station...but the police personnel lodged my elder brother and I in the lock-up and abused my wife.” “Upset with the treatment of police and the rape, my wife ended her life,” he added. The superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Singh said, “Police are interrogating the accused and further investigation is on.” (With inputs from Monika Pandey)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-cops-abused-and-turned-away-gang-rape-victim-booked-for-delaying-fir/story-qY8SeqoWysUZanKWCgxa2J.html
04-10-2020||City||Former Odisha minister Pradeep Maharathy dies of Covid-19||Pradeep Maharathy, a Biju Janata Dal legislator from Pipili, died in a private hospital in Bhubaneswar on Saturday night, 18 days after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Maharathy, 65, tested positive for the viral infection on September 14. He suffered from co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. He became the first sitting MLA in the state to have succumbed to the disease.The seven-time MLA and former minister had been on ventilator support since Friday. He is survived by wife, son and daughter.At least 47 MLAs of the 147-member Odisha assembly, including deputy Speaker Rajanikanta Singh and several ministers, have tested positive for Covid-19.Also Read: Odisha issues SOP for use of antiviral drug Favipiravir by Covid-19 patientsLeaders cutting across party lines paid tributes to Maharathy. Describing him as a close friend, Odisha assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro said Maharathy’s death was a loss for the entire state.Hundreds of people thronged Maharathy’s residence to pay their last respects.Maharathy had a political career spanning three-and-half decades that saw him courting controversies. He started his career with the newly formed Bharatiya Janata Party in 1985 before joining Janata Dal the same year, when he won his first assembly election from Pipili. He joined the BJD in 2000 and was a favourite of Chief minister Naveen Patnaik as well as late chief minister Biju Patnaik.In 2004, he had 27 criminal cases against him for attempt to murder, molestation, rioting, theft, criminal intimidation and dacoity, according to his affidavit filed before Election Commission. His affidavit to the election commission before last year’s assembly elections said he had five cases pending against him relating to unlawful assembly, causing hurt and theft. In rest of the cases, he was either acquitted or the courts did not take cognisance. He would be cremated at Swargadwar crematorium in Puri town later on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-odisha-minister-pradeep-maharathy-dies-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-l1lSTYFlIBeQMuJEbLPpeK.html
04-10-2020||Kolkata||Left, Congress on state-wide protest against Hathras case, incidents of rape in Bengal on Oct 6||The Left and Congress will be organising state-wide protests on October 6 against the alleged gang rape of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, besides incidents of rape and murder in West Bengal.A mega rally will be organised in Kolkata, while similar programmes will also be held in the other districts, according to a statement issued by Left Front Chairman Biman Bose and Leader of Opposition Abdul Mannan of the Congress.The Kolkata rally will begin at Esplanade and go through the Park Street to end near the Lady Brabourne College, it said.“Apart from the ghastly incident at Hathras in UP, we need to raise our voice against the rise in incidents of rape and murder of women in West Bengal,” it said.“The recent instances being the brutal rape and murder of women at Ghatal and Debra in Paschim Medinipur. The TMC government owe an explanation to the women of the state, to the people of the state about the rise in brutalities against women,” it added.Around 1,000 activists of the Left and the Congress on Saturday protested in Kolkata against the alleged gang rape in Hathras that has triggered a nationwide outrage.The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday.She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/left-congress-on-state-wide-protest-against-hathras-case-incidents-of-rape-in-bengal-on-oct-6/story-xb0Jr919UEaHnqzgXxl25K.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University staffer first to donate money for Dhannipur mosque||“It was a small gesture as a true Lakhnavi. We are known for our Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb,” said Lucknow University law faculty employee Rohit Srivastava, who became the first person to donate money for the construction of a mosque that will come up on the 5-acre land in Dhannipur village in Ayodhya district. As proof of his gesture and acknowledging his donation of Rs 21,000, he has been given a receipt bearing the serial number ‘001’.“I donated Rs 21,000 from my salary. I am sure that it will send a strong message among all, especially in times of intolerance and growing communal discord,” the LU employee said. According to Srivastava, he conceived the idea of making a donation after the Supreme Court November 9, 2019 verdict, in which the apex court directed the Uttar Pradesh government to allocate a 5-acre land to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) for the construction of the mosque and cleared the way for the construction of a Ram temple at the 2.77 acre disputed site in Ayodhya.Also Read: ‘Construction of Ram mandir to begin from Navratri’: Temple trust“I am a Lakhnavi. I was born and brought up in a locality near Kasaibada area of Qaiserbagh that has Hindus and Muslim in equal proportion. We have grown up in the same environment. I have partaken in several iftaars and sehris with my Muslim friends and neighbours, and I have seen them (my Muslim friends and neighbours) having gujiyas during Holi.“Hence, it comes from within to contribute something, whatever is in my capacity. I approached the trust that I wished to donate a small amount for the mosque,” said Srivastava, whose father was professor in the faculty of law, Lucknow University.Athar Hussain, spokesperson for the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) – the trust formed by UPSCWB for the construction of the mosque and other structures of public utility on the allocated 5-acre land— said, “Indeed, it’s a nice gesture on his part. Also, he is the first one to contribute towards the construction of the mosque and other establishments including a hospital, Indo-Islamic Cultural Research Centre having a library, museum and publication and a community kitchen. I am sure this will send a strong message of communal harmony and will further strengthen the bond between communities.”Earlier, Kailash Math chief priest and Niranjani Akhada mahamandaleshwar Ahutoshanand Giri, had made an announcement on August 12 to donate a silver brick for the construction of the Dhannipur mosque. Giri had also said that if in case the use of silver to lay the foundation of the mosque is prohibited, he is also ready to give a gold brick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/dhannipur-mosque-lucknow-university-staffer-first-to-donate/story-7u4gnE1t3JMhtkPDeUiygN.html
04-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro resume operations on Sundays from today||The Kolkata Metro Railway resumed its services on Sundays from today. The first service commenced from both Dumdum and Kavi Subhash stations at 10.10 am and the last one will end at 7.30 pm, authorities said.The Kolkata Metro twitter handle stated that senior citizens can travel anytime in Metro by producing age verification documents like Aadhar, PAN card, passport, voter ID and driving license. No e-passes are required for them.The Metro services will run at an interval of 20 minutes. pic.twitter.com/CwIpEs6RdbThe Kolkata Metro restarted it operations from September 14, more than five months after its services were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Special trains were operated on September 13 for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) candidates and guardians only. The services were, however, available only from Monday to Saturday.“Metro Railway is going to resume its services on Sunday from October 4. On Sundays the services would be available from 10:10 am to 7:30 pm,” a Kolkata Metro spokesperson had said.As the Durga puja season nears and the shopping spree has started, metro services would be available only on the north-south section and not on the east-west corridor. The north south section of the Kolkata Metro is considered to be the city’s lifeline. After resuming its services, the north south corridor is carrying around 50,000 passengers every day. With passenger count increasing, the Kolkata Metro had already increased the number of trains from September 28 taking the total number of trains from 110 to 116 that runs every day in the north-south corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-resume-operations-on-sundays-from-today/story-7o4BPTpJAVH42MSoUfqbZO.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Transfer all Tablighi Jamaat cases in UP to three chief judicial magistrates: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court (HC) has directed that all matters related to the members of Tablighi Jamaat in Uttar Pradesh (UP) to be heard by three chief judicial magistrates (CJMs) of Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly.The court also said the CJMs would decide these matters within a stipulated timeframe of eight weeks.The court directed that the cases pending in Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Lucknow zones shall be transferred to CJM, Lucknow.Similarly, cases pending in Agra and Meerut zones are transferred to CJM, Meerut and those pending in Bareilly zone are transferred to CJM, Bareilly. Also Read: Mumbai court discharges 12 Indonesians arrested over Tablighi Jamaat eventA two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Shamim Ahmed, gave the order while disposing of a petition related to the trial of Maulana Ala Hadarmi and other members of the Islamic sect.The court directed the UP chief secretary to transfer the criminal cases pending against the members of Tablighi Jamaat to the three CJMs of Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly.It also directed the registrar-general of Allahabad HC to monitor the progress of all such cases and submit its report to the chief justice within three months.The court passed these directions following a recent Supreme Court (SC) order, which had asked the HC to ensure that trials against the members of the Tablighi Jamaat pending in various district courts of UP be transferred to a maximum two or three courts.An international congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in south Delhi in mid-March had turned out to be a superspreader of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The health hazard had led to the initiation of criminal prosecution against many members of Tablighi Jamaat, including foreigners who had come to attend the congregation, for violating the Covid-19 pandemic guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/transfer-all-tablighi-jamaat-cases-in-up-to-three-chief-judicial-magistrates-allahabad-hc/story-h1SsFkP7LHtPWHk5FDseAK.html
04-10-2020||Bhopal||High court’s order may impact campaigning for MP bypolls, details here||Madhya Pradesh high court has directed the district magistrates in nine districts to register cases against political, government, state, social functionaries and also against congregations under the provisions of Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) if they are found violating restrictions imposed under Covid-19 protocol. Underlining the responsibility of public representatives in the society, the court asked the government and political functionaries in the state to strictly adhere to all restrictions imposed by the Election Commission of India (ECI) to contain the spread of Covid-19 and advised the political parties “not to physically conduct election campaigns (for bypolls) and instead adopt electronic means for the purpose”. The high court’s Gwalior bench’s interim order came on Saturday on a petition, filed by an advocate Ashish Pratap Singh, to bring to the notice of the court, the flouting of Covid-19 safety norms and guidelines in congregations held frequently in and around Gwalior by various political parties due to the by-elections to the state legislative assembly. The petitioner raised apprehensions that such violations will lead to further spread of Covid-19 infection. The court’s interim order assumes significance in view of the November 3 bypolls for 28 assembly seats located in 19 districts of the state, 16 of which fall under the Gwalior-Chambal region. The court’s bench comprising justice Sheel Nagu and justice Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava, said in its order: “In case, any of the prohibitions, restrictions and precautions in Covid-19 protocols issued from time to time by the central government, state government, district magistrates are found to be breached by a congregation which is of political or social nature then the district magistrates of the nine districts falling within the territorial jurisdiction of this bench i.e. Gwalior, Guna, Morena, Bhind, Vidisha, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Shivpuri and Sheopur are directed by writ of mandamus to register offences by invoking penal provisions of Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code not only against the defaulting members of the congregation but also against political/governmental/state or social functionaries in whose name or on whose behest and behalf the said congregation takes place.” Also Read: MP proposes steep hike in water charges, fine for spitting, urinating in publicThe court warned that district magistrates of the concerned nine districts ‘shall be liable for contempt of this court and shall also be exposed to the rigors of penal provisions of relevant laws’ if the order is not complied with. Referring to the reports of amicus curiae, placed on record, on breach of Covid-19 protocol because of various congregations, the court observed, “This court, thus, realised that either the functionaries of the state, in particular the law enforcing personnel are unable to prevent blatant and widespread breach of Covid-19 protocol or are turning a Nelson’s eye towards the said breach to avoid offending their political bosses.” In an important observation the bench said that a leader is supposed to lead by example, which can best be demonstrated by following the rule of law and preventing the breach of law.Also Read: Dalit woman dies by suicide in Madhya Pradesh, kin allege police inaction on rape complaint“The voters look up to their representatives in the political field and more often than not these voters attempt to emulate the conduct, behaviour and deeds of their representatives/leaders. This attitude of following the leader is predominant in our society because of rampant ignorance, illiteracy and poverty. The political functionaries and functionaries of the government and the state are duty bound to set such examples of conduct, behaviour and deeds which can enable their followers/voters/citizens to follow the path of rectitude and obedience of law and lawfully passed orders and instructions,” it observed. The court further observed that the conduct, behaviour and attitude of uprightness towards law by political functionaries is all the more necessary and deserves stringent adherence in the given situation of Covid-19 pandemic.“The slightest of breach of the protocol can lead to disastrous results of further spread of infection leading to more deaths. The political functionaries who are either members of any political party or functionaries of the state/government need not be reminded that not only our nation but the world is facing unprecedented crises of Covid-19 pandemic since the last seven months,” said the court. Reminding politicians and others about the gravity of the situation the court said, “It is a time of international crises where existence of human race is at risk and thus the least that is required of the political functionaries and the functionaries in the government and state, is that they should rise to the occasion and render national service to defend the nation from invisible enemy called Covid-19. The members of the political parties, functionaries of the government and the state can at least set an example for their followers and voters and the members of the general public, by adhering to the Covid-19 protocol issued by the central government, state government and the district magistrates from time to time.” The court has set October 15, 2020 as the date for the next hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/high-court-s-order-may-impact-campaigning-for-mp-bypolls-details-here/story-wJxB0nmIZCxBH29PnpHviL.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Air quality in UP cities turns poor as winter nears||The air quality in different cities of Uttar Pradesh (UP) have again turned poor mostly due to increased human activities and drop in average temperatures, according to the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). UP enjoyed the longest streak of good air quality days in this millennium during the lockdown restrictions that were enforced from the end of March in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. CPCB experts said a recent uptick in stubble burning incidents have contributed to the worsening of the air quality index (AQI). On Saturday, the average AQI of Lucknow was 258, which signifies poor. Lucknow’s Talkatora, which reported an AQI of 296, was the most polluted area of the city. Similarly, in several western UP cities, including Ghaziabad, Noida, Meerut and Moradabad, the average AQI oscillated between poor and very poor. Also Read: Delhi AQI moves closer to ‘poor’ as stubble burning begins in Haryana, PunjabPoor air quality can cause breathing discomfort and damage the respiratory health of a person on long term exposure, CPCB official said. Mahesh Madhavan, a Delhi-based ecologist, said: “The flow of particles in the atmosphere slows down in cold weather. Besides, increased vehicular traffic, construction and farm activities cause air quality to deplete.” The AQI in UP started worsening from September 28 onwards. The air quality in UP is expected to further worsen after winter sets in and there is a rise in stubble burning incidents. The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has initiated the process to rein in stubble burning. The UPPCB authorities have called meetings of district administrations, where incidents of stubble burning are reported frequently, next week. Shahjahanpur, Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad, Bulandshahr, Bijnor and Saharanpur districts are the worst-hit because of stubble burning.These district administrations will be asked to lodge police cases against farmers found burning stubble. Last year, over 14,000 farmers in UP were fined or cases lodged against them for burning stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/air-quality-in-up-cities-turns-poor-as-winter-nears/story-J1YCiD2nAH7Sw4rtoclvDI.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||BJP to train cadre in Uttar Pradesh districts to propagate state policies||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh (UP) has decided to train a team of over 100 speakers in each district who would be entrusted with the responsibility to propagate the policies of the state and the Central governments, party officials said. The move, which is in keeping with the UP assembly polls slated to be held in 2022, is also intended to counter the Opposition that is attempting to gain political mileage by highlighting controversies such as the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) by four upper caste men in Hathras district last week, party leaders said on condition of anonymity. The BJP will organise divisional-level cadre training workshops between October 11 and 31. UP party functionaries have been asked to attend the training workshops and talk about the changes that the country has seen after the Narendra Modi-led government had swept to power 2014 and since re-elected last year.“We have a tradition of training our cadres. It’s due to this training that the BJP today is the world’s biggest political party. In the training workshops we will guide our cadres on how to logically counter the opposition canards and conspiracies,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev told party functionaries. Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Accused were harassing her for months, says mother of 19-year-oldHowever, Dev didn’t specify how to handle political controversies such as the Hathras incident. BJP leaders said that the team of party cadres would undergo training about how to blunt the opposition from hurling accusations at the government. The party feels that this trend is likely to gain momentum as the date for 2022 assembly polls comes closer.The BJP faces a mini electoral test in November when by-polls will be held for the seven of the eight vacant assembly seats.Panchayat, graduate and teachers’ polls are also due to be held, but their schedules are yet to be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-to-train-cadres-in-uttar-pradesh-districts-to-propagate-state-policies/story-RnlJeqUZkuVR4vQoGI356O.html
04-10-2020||Kolkata||Life sentence for eight in Bengal’s Pincon group ponzi scam case||Eight people were sentenced to life imprisonment on Saturday in the first verdict in a ponzi scheme case in West Bengal in recent years. A court at Tamluk in the state’s East Midnapore district gave the order while hearing the Pincon Group case, which was filed in 2017 at Khejuri police station. The court sentenced Manoranjan Roy, the company’s owner who is now in judicial custody, his wife Moushumi Roy, who is one of the directors and presently released on bail, and six other directors of the Pincon Group. Two of the accused had died during the trial. While 10 other accused in the case were acquitted by the court. Also Read: India moving towards a presidential form of govt, says Bengal CM Mamata at protest meetThe company was charged with cheating thousands of investors and raising over Rs 800 crore from the public across several states. The case was probed by the Bengal government’s directorate of economic offences. The court verdict against Pincon Group raised investors’ hopes of getting back their money.The court slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on each of the accused. It also ordered the property owned by Pincon Group be confiscated and auctioned to repay the investors.Roy was absent when the court delivered its verdict because he was reportedly unwell.Roy’s lawyers said they would challenge the order and move a higher court. Although the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are investigating high-profile ponzi scheme cases in Bengal by Saradha Group and Rose Valley, their trials are yet to begin.In a separate development, Calcutta high court’s (HC) Chief Justice T B Radhakrishnan recently constituted a two-judge bench that started hearing exclusively ponzi schemes cases every Friday since September 25. The formation of a separate bench of the Calcutta HC to hear the ponzi scheme cases is being viewed in political circles as a significant development since several prominent leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) figure among the accused in the Saradha case. The CBI is trying to wrap up the probe in the Rs 2,460-crore Saradha case, where 18 lakh unsuspecting depositors from West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh were allegedly duped. Sudipta Sen, who had owned the Saradha group of companies, is in jail since 2013. While TMC’s former Rajya Sabha (RS) member Kunal Ghosh had spent over two years in jail custody in this case. The Rose Valley scam, involving around Rs 17,000 core, is the biggest ponzi scheme case in Bengal.In 2014, the Supreme Court (SC) had asked the CBI to investigate the scams and the role of influential people in money laundering. The ED is also running a parallel probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/life-sentence-for-eight-in-bengal-s-pincon-group-ponzi-scam-case/story-XWTb9u23AZWzVVDxv7uJ2H.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||After last month’s spike, active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai reduce||After a brief spike in the middle of September, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has now dropped to an average of 27,000 this week. A fortnight ago, the number of active cases had peaked at 34,136 on September 18, the highest number of active cases recorded in Mumbai since the beginning of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in March.The recovery rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has shot back up to 82% after it briefly dropped to 77% in mid-September. Active Covid-19 cases are the number of on-bed patients that are receiving treatment at present. As of now, the total number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai is 28,412. The lowest number of active cases recorded since the outbreak is around 17, 000 in mid-August.Civic officials say that one of the significant factors for better recovery of Covid-19 patients is that the treatment protocol nowadays is defined; there was a lot of uncertainty during the initial stages of the outbreak.Also Read: Maharashtra sees 14,348 fresh Covid-19 infections, tally now 1,430,861Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of health, said, “Firstly, people have become much more sensitive in terms of getting admitted quickly after developing Covid-19 symptoms which helps in faster recovery. We are following all protocols stringently and there is less or no uncertainty left with regard to the treatment protocol. This has also been a major factor in better recovery.” As of Saturday, about 173,000 Covid-19 patients had recovered in the city.While there has been a fall in the n umber of active cases, the number of fresh cases in on the rise with more than 2,000 cases being reported in Mumbai on a daily basis since the second week of September. On Saturday, the city recorded 2, 402 fresh Covid-19 cases in a single day, and the total number of cases in Mumbai is now 212,462. There have been 9,060 deaths in Mumbai due to Covid-19 so far. The mortality rate is down to 4.2% from 5.7% in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-come-down-after-a-spike-last-month/story-JLrCGWEK9WgiPgJMpKgATN.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Winter is coming: Delhi’s early morning temperature dips to 18.5 degrees Celsius||Delhi’s early morning temperatures have started dipping amid tell-tale signs of winter being round the corner. On Sunday morning, the national capital’s temperature was 18.5 degrees Celsius (C), which was three degrees below normal.The minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to hover around 19 degrees C for the next two-three days, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC).“We are not expecting any change in the maximum temperature immediately. Skies are clear after the monsoon has withdrawn. Day temperatures will remain high, but the nights will be cooler. The wind direction has changed from easterly during monsoon to north-westerly. As a result, the winds are blowing from the colder regions such as Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and Himachal Pradesh (HP). If there is any rain or snow in those regions due to western disturbances, then Delhi will get colder,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, RWFC, had said on Friday.Also Read: Delhi: Air quality in Wazipur, Jahangirpuri in ‘poor’ categoryA fresh spell of rainfall may delay the withdrawal of monsoon from central India.A low-pressure area is lying over the north-west Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal Odisha, while a cyclonic circulation is lying over central Assam. Under the influence of these weather systems, widespread rainfall is likely over Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal during the next three-four days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Odisha between Sunday and Tuesday and over Chhattisgarh and eastern Madhya Pradesh (MP) from Tuesday to Thursday (October 6 to 8). Widespread rainfall with isolated bursts of showers is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on Sunday and Monday. The withdrawal line of monsoon is passing along Gwalior, Sawai Madhopur and Jawai dam, IMD said in its Sunday morning bulletin. Dry weather is likely to prevail over most parts of north-west India during the next five days, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-early-morning-temp-dips-to-18-5-degrees-celsius/story-1lTp4Et7id4pO1EcYSe4DO.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: Accused were harassing her for months, says mother of 19-year-old||The family of the 19-year old raped and murdered in Hathras said they first heard about her being harassed by local Thakur men about four months ago. Her mother initially thought that they must be joking with her.According to the murdered woman’s mother, two of the four men arrested for the gang rape and killing would follow her daughter and block her path when she would go out for any work.“Sandeep and Luv Kush would sometimes chase her. On other occasions, they would spread out their hands and block her path if she tried to go past them,” she said.Over the past few months, the young woman started refusing to go out alone, she said. “If she needed to buy even a soap, she would take her sister-in-law along with her,” said the mother.On one such occasion, her sister-in-law had allegedly encountered those men harassing the 19-year-old woman.“I took them on and told them I would get them jailed. But it didn’t make much difference,” her sister-in-law said.In her official statement to the magistrate, the victim’s mother has mentioned the past harassment and her daughter’s unwillingness to leave the house.But Rakesh Singh, the grandfather of Sandeep and the uncle to Luv Kush, denied the allegations. “They never protested against any such molestation. They never complained about it. These are all lies,” said Singh.The youngest of five siblings, the victim had studied only till class four. “She couldn’t read or write sentences, but she loved our buffaloes. She was a beautiful girl who never even used any make-up,” said her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-accused-were-harassing-her-for-months-says-mother-of-19-year-old/story-6MwdIIiEG2x7KHN0BUkQDN.html
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farm laws violate federalism, will fight them out legally: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh||A frenzy of protests over a troika of contentious central farm laws and break-up of the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP alliance has dramatically reshaped Punjab’s political landscape. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh lost no time to seize on a potentially game-changing developments to raise his stock, and that of his party, with the Sikh peasantry and arhtiyas, predominantly Hindus, and outwit the opposition - all with an eye firmly on the next assembly elections in early 2022. At 78, the erstwhile Patiala royal’s razor-sharp political instinct is now increasingly on display as he navigates the dual hotspots – of an unrelenting farmers’ fury, and of the coronavirus that has made Punjab one of the seven worst-hit states.  In an hour-long interview with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak on Friday at his sprawling, lush farm house, Mohinder Bagh, named after his mother, in the Shivalik foothills near Chandigarh, the Captain candidly spoke on a range of issues. Edited excerpts:Punjab is the epicentre of protests against three farm laws. What is the main issue? Is it minimum support price (MSP), or loss of market fees/taxes, or federalism? Of course, it is all three. It is a total assault on federalism. They (the Centre) have taken away our taxation, water and agriculture. What is left with the state? The farmer is concerned. Take the case of paddy. Till 1966 when the Green Revolution came to Punjab, nobody grew this crop. Only when farmers saw money in it, did they start rice cultivation. Every farmer in Punjab grows paddy and wheat besides cotton in the south western districts. Now, a farmer won’t know how much he will get for his crop. How is he going to survive? 75% of our farmers are under five acres; half of them under two acres. These poor fellows don’t even know where their livelihood will come from. WATCH | Farmers protest: Punjab CM meets farm unions; ‘rail roko’ enters 6th dayWhat is the way forward to break the logjam? I don’t know. This (the enactment of farm laws) is based on the Shanta Kumar Committee report that said the Food Corporation of India is a waste of money and so is the MSP. How Mr Shanta Kumar reached this conclusion is his business. But once it comes down to the Government of India, they should look into it. What do they have the NITI Aayog for? It is their business to look into this and see whether it is correct or not. You’ve got Madhya Pradesh and other river basin states growing wheat, the Centre is not dependent so much on Punjab. So you are now turning a back on Punjab that fed this country for 60 years. Also Read: ‘Our priority is farmers’ benefit, for earlier govt it was election’: PM Modi at Solang public rallyHas the framework on federalism come under more strain since the Covid-19 outbreak? That’s evident even in the goods and services tax (GST) which is a constitutional guarantee by Parliament that the state will get its dues every quarter. I’ve not had any money since March. It’s the seventh month. How do I run the government? The reason I vouched for reopening liquor vends despite the pandemic was that there was no other source of revenue than excise duty. The Narendra Modi government doesn’t understand the implications. They didn’t think this reaction to farm laws will come from Punjab. The protests are not happening in other states because they happen to be BJP-ruled. But farmers all over are feeling the same way. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union agriculture minister have repeatedly assured that MSP will stay. The Centre has even declared the MSP for Rabi crops earlier than schedule. Why do you doubt them? If they were serious about it, why didn’t they put it in the Act? They could have said that MSP is going to stay and that FCI or whatever agency it is, is going to do the buying. They did not do it. This is only the Prime Minister and the agriculture minister saying so. Tomorrow, if Mr Modi is not the PM or Mr Narendra Singh Tomar is not holding agriculture, will their commitment hold? Also Read: SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal, Harsimrat Kaur briefly detained over farm laws protestHow come the Congress, which when in power in the early ’90s had ushered in the defining reforms, is now opposed to farm sector reforms that the BJP government calls long overdue and transformative? What will they transform? The Modi government says the farm laws will open agriculture to the corporate world. Who says this not already open to corporate sector? In Punjab, we have Pepsi and ITC buying potatoes. All my kinnows from Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur are going to Chennai. The system is already open. So, the Centre’s logic is just a lame excuse. Is the MSP regime not the biggest stumbling block in diversification that Punjab desperately needs? The MSP works only for wheat, paddy and cotton. The Centre declares MSP on many crops but there is no price support agency. The day we discussed the farm bills in the special assembly session last month, the MSP for maize was Rs 1,850 per quintal. But, in Hoshiarpur mandis, it was selling at Rs 600. The ruling BJP says the Congress wants that the MSP be made a legal right which it never did while ruling the country for seven decades? The point is not a legal right. It (MSP) was taken for granted since the 1960s. It has been continuing since and no government, not even the non-Congress ones, ever opposed it. Here, we are not saying that you bring a law. All we are asking for is that make an amendment in the farm laws to ensure that MSP continues the way it has all these years. Also Read: MSP, APMC buzzwords in controversy over billsYou said Pakistan may exploit the unrest among farmers. But, your party is also stoking the farmers’ agitation. Isn’t this contradictory? I don’t have to tell the people to agitate. They are agitating on their own. When somebody doesn’t have food to feed his children, he will be protesting on his own. Look at the drama the Akalis did on Thursday with their protest marches. Because they realised that that’s how people on the ground feel. Before that, they had to make a 180-degree turn in their stance, pull this girl (Harsimrat) out and then withdraw from the National Democratic Alliance. All Punjab parties and farmers are in protest mode. But, the Centre has ruled out any re-think on farm laws. Where will all this lead to? That depends on how long the legal system takes to redress the issue. I don’t see them (the Centre) relenting on this. I can speak for Punjab. Unfortunately, this Centre doesn’t understand agriculture. Something is wrong with the whole system. 65% of India in villages lives on agriculture. The MSP is only in North India. But if prices start crashing in other states, there is going to be a big hue and cry. Some quarters argue why the state can’t stand guarantee for the MSP. After all, agriculture is a state subject? We don’t have the money. They (the Centre) have taken away everything. I’ve got nothing with me. We (the state governments) are really going to be completely just living on central charity. That is what it’s coming to. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has asked chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to find the way out to override the farm laws? Can the state legislature pass a Bill to invalidate the central law? This is subject to Presidential assent. This President is not going to approve it. Take the case of the Act we passed on scrapping the interstate water treaties in 2004. The Punjab governor signed it and then forwarded it to the President, who referred it as Presidential reference to the Supreme Court. But, here (in farm laws) even this governor is not going to sign such a Bill passed by the Punjab assembly. If he doesn’t do that, it will not go to the President. Then, what are the options on your table? As of now, a legal recourse is the only option. We’re going to do this (challenge the farm laws) on grounds of violation of the federal structure. My legal team is on the job. We’re going to fight it out. Once they have changed the law, you have to challenge the law. The Centre can’t tell us what to do and what not to do. Tomorrow, if I opt for crop diversification, am I going to take the Government of India’s approval? It i s my problem. Why should they interfere in our affairs? There is a suggestion that the Punjab assembly can bypass a part of the central laws by declaring the entire state a principal marketing yard. Is that doable? That has to be legally checked. The only issue again is that even if the assembly passes it, the governor won’t pass it. Both the BJP and Akalis insist that the Congress manifestos promised privatisation of mandis on the same lines as the new farm laws. Our 2017 Punjab manifesto said we will increase the mandis by 1,000, which incidentally we had to do in the last paddy season due to Covid-19. We had promised to strengthen the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) without tinkering with the MSP. Our Lok Sabha poll manifesto of 2017 said we will do away with the APMC Act but have farmers’ markets. We never said we will do with the MSP or privatise it. How will the BJP-SAD break-up change Punjab’s political terrain? It will certainly change it. After coming out of the ruling NDA, Akalis are going to lose the ground a great deal. They know that. They felt that they will be totally destroyed if they did not come out of the alliance. But frankly, I don’t trust them. One month before the polls, they may join up again. ‘Ihna da koi itbar tan hain nahin (You can’t trust them).’ The Akalis may escalate their agitation to morcha mode? That is their old tactic. Whenever they are in crisis, they raise an outcry of the Panth in crisis. Today, for them, the Panth means Mr and Mrs Badal. Now that Congress in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat has reached out to your estranged MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu and called him an asset to the party, what role do you see for Sidhu in the government and the party? I don’t have any problem with Sidhu or Mr Rawat brokering peace. I have known Sidhu from the age of two. He is a Patiala boy. I have no problem with him. Putting somebody somewhere in a job is always done on the basis of what job that person is good at doing. He didn’t like my changing his ministry from local bodies to power. He is welcome to come as power minister, not as local bodies. His job is open. Power is important to me as well as Punjab. What if he doesn’t accept this offer? Then, there is nothing I can do about it. I can’t change my ministers. They are all doing a good job. Why should I change them to suit somebody else? How open are you to making him Punjab Congress chief? I’m very happy with my PCC chief (Sunil Jakhar), who is doing a great job. Why should he make way for somebody? One, you need a PCC chief who understands everybody in the state. Mr Jakhar has lived his whole life in the Congress. Why should somebody who joined the party three years ago become the president? I don’t think that is a fair request if he (Sidhu) asked for it. He can ask for other things. Our national party can make use of him. I can make use of him in the ministry on power. What are the chances of burying the hatchet with rebel MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo? I don’t have any problem with either. They have their own (problems). Every fourth day, Bajwa puts out a letter he claims to have written to me that I never receive. He claims that I got his job as PCC chief. If the Congress president brought me and removed Bajwa, she must have had considerations to do it. I didn’t like only one thing about Dullo. When I was leading the party into the 2017 elections, his son stood as the Aam Aadmi Party candidate. And, Dullo, himself a former PCC chief, was helping his son. That is not on. Both have been strident critics of your government. Are they going to say that I’m doing a great job? Obviously not. If you want to demolish somebody, you have to find something to demolish him with. Are you all set to lead the party in the 2022 assembly elections? I think so. Politically, Punjab is in a good shape: There are four Akali Dals, and the BJP is on its own. We are very happy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-laws-violate-federalism-will-fight-them-out-legally-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh/story-1vWmZ36Mnu2w90TfWJGmrL.html
04-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: BJP MLA Surendra Singh says instilling ‘sanskar’ in daughters could help stop rapes||Bharatiya Janata Party’s MLA Surendra Singh, who represents the Bairia constituency in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia, on Saturday said that incidents of rape would cease if parents instill ‘sanskar’ and good values in their daughters while speaking in reference to the horrific rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras. He said even if the government stands with a sword incidents of rape still cannot be stopped. #WATCH Incidents like these can be stopped with help of good values, na shashan se na talwar se. All parents should teach their daughters good values. It's only the combination of govt & good values that can make country beautiful: Surendra Singh, BJP MLA from Ballia. #Hathras pic.twitter.com/47AmnGByA3While interacting with media persons in Ballia’s Chandpur, the BJP lawmaker said, “I am a teacher. Even if the government stands with the sword, such incidents wouldn’t stop. Such incidents will stop when parents give sanskar to their daughters and inculcate (good) values in them.”Hathras: Rahul & Priyanka meet victim’s family; UP CM orders CBI probe in caseHe further added, “The way it is the duty of the government to give protection, likewise, it is the duty of the family and parents to inculcate sanskar in their children. The parents should teach them polite behaviour. The combination of Sanskar and government can make the country beautiful. There is no other way out.”He also said that Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi will not be able to steer the rise of Congress in Uttar Pradesh. Both these Congress leaders had met the family of the Dalit girl on Saturday who was brutally raped and murdered by four men on September 14. Media persons and political leaders were not allowed to meet the victim’s kin late until Saturday as Section 144 was imposed on the village and nearby areas. The Uttar Pradesh government has recommended that the Central Bureau of Investigation should take over the probe after several opposition leaders and activists demanded the resignation of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-bjp-mla-surendra-singh-says-instilling-sanskar-in-daughters-could-help-stop-rapes/story-klGvONQkawmolrSuy3hIPM.html
04-10-2020||City||1 dead, 1 injured after heavy cardboard pieces, overloaded on a truck, fall on car below flyover in Thane||An unidentified man has died, while his co-passenger has suffered grievous injuries after piles of cardboard fell on the victims’ car from a Vasai-bound truck plying on Waghbil flyover at Ghodbunder Road, Thane, on Saturday around 10pm. The car was completely crushed in the mishap. “The heavy material from the truck fell on the car which was plying below the flyover in the same direction. The car was completely crushed under the weight of the heavy materials. There were two male passengers in the car who were rushed to a private hospital,” said a police officer. The passengers inside the car were taken to Hiranandani Hospital where one of the men was declared dead. The injured passenger, 38-year-old Prashant Devarkonda, has been shifted to Noble Hospital in Thane (West). According to Kasarvadavali police, the truck driver lost control of the vehicle on the flyover. The truck driver fled the spot and the police are trying to establish his identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-dead-1-injured-after-heavy-cardboard-pieces-overloaded-on-a-truck-fall-on-car-below-flyover-in-thane/story-iiJJe9wZu06cKZ9jRwTNkI.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Truck overturns in Thane flyover, one among two people driving below dead||One person died and another person suffered serious injuries when their car was crushed by material which fell off an overloaded truck which overturned after colliding off the edge of the Waghbil flyover near Suraj Water Park, Ghodbunder Road on Saturday night.The Kasarvadavli police said that the deceased has not been identified yet and the injured person, Prashant Devarkonda, 38, has suffered serious injuries and has been shifted to Noble Hospital.The truck which was overloaded with cardboard overturned and its material fell on a car which was on the road below the flyover crushing it completely in the process. The two men were first taken to Hiranandani hospital immediately. The Kasarvadavli police are present at the spot of the accident.The incident occurred around 10 pm on Saturday night when an overloaded truck carrying cardboard was moving towards Vasai from Thane City. Kasarvadavali police officials say the truck could not control its balance in the middle of the bridge and collided at one side with the edge of the bridge.Police said, “The driver of the truck immediately jumped off the vehicle and got safe. But the heavy material of his truck fell off, on a Volkswagen car, which was moving from down, towards the same direction. The car is completely crushed under the heavy material.The car is owned by Sanjay Khanna. There were two male passengers in the car. They were taken to the nearby private hospital. We are yet to identify them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/truck-overturns-in-thane-flyover-one-among-two-people-driving-below-dead/story-kZ41Jsmu4cZaqqWKhsNfKJ.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body to demolish extremely dangerous buildings||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation chief Vijay Suryavanshi has directed all the ward officials to take up demolition of extremely dangerous buildings on a priority basis.“A notice was served to the shops and residents to vacate the buildings which are extremely dangerous. Three days ago, some portions of the residential structure located at Ambedkar Road near Krishan Cinema had collapsed. Taking note of this, we initiated the demolition without further delay,” said Bhagaji Bhangre, ward officer, KDMC.As per the dangerous buildings list prepared by the civic body, there are 187 extremely dangerous buildings and 284 dangerous buildings compared to 191 and 282, respectively, last year.Although the civic body has listed the extremely dangerous buildings in its vicinity, there is no proper record on how many of them have been vacated and how many of them are occupied.“We are preparing a list of how many of these extremely dangerous buildings are occupied. We are again going to inspect those buildings that are very unsafe and start taking measures to avoid any incident. As of now, we have all the necessary equipment, machinery and manpower for taking up the demolition work. The only concern is to deal with the residents who are still occupying such structures,” said Sunil Pawar, assistant commissioner, KDMC.The KDMC initiated demolition work on three extremely dangerous structures in the twin cities this week on the backdrop of the Bhiwandi building collapse. This includes a ground-plus-three storey residential building Sai Leela and Sai Prabhat in Dombivli (W) and a ground-plus-three storey structure at Ambedkar road, Shivaji chowk, Kalyan (W).Followed by the Bhiwandi building collapse that claimed 38 lives and injured 25, the Bombay High Court (HC) had taken suo moto (on its own motion) cognisance of the building collapse at Bhiwandi and initiated a public interest litigation (PIL), where all the seven civic bodies in and around Mumbai have been arraigned as respondents.The state government and the seven civic bodies have been asked to respond regarding the steps taken to check illegal constructions and dilapidated buildings in their respective jurisdictions.Out of the ten wards of KDMC, the C ward comprising major part of Kalyan’s west side has the highest number of extremely dangerous buildings. It includes areas like Joshi Baug, Shivaji Chowk, Ahilya Bai Chowk, Gandhi Chowk, Shankar Rao Chowk, Sahajanand Chowk, Lal Chowki, Tilak Chowk, Ambedkar Road, Valipeer Road and Old Kalyan. This particular ward has total 102 extremely dangerous structures and 54 dangerous structures.In Kalyan-Dombivli, one of the major hurdles civic officials face is conflict between tenants and building owners. Due to lack of alternative space to shift, residents opt to live in unsafe buildings.Unsafe buildings: Total structures: 471 Extremely dangerous: 187 Dangerous: 284||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-to-demolish-extremely-dangerous-buildings/story-N3y7MDXzb7YFxhViL5wVrL.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Four ‘extremely dangerous’ buildings vacated in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has vacated four buildings in the last one week and two amongst them have been demolished within Naupada-Kopri ward. There are no more buildings in the C1 category which is considered to be an extremely dangerous category.“Our main focus was the buildings under the extremely dangerous category that have been demolished. Most of the buildings under C2-A category have been vacated. Our survey to check for such structures in dangerous condition continues. Around 80 families have been shifted from these dangerous structures,” said Ashok Burpulle, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.The civic body found it difficult to vacate some of these buildings due to the pandemic, “While most of our available buildings have been converted to quarantine centres, it was getting difficult to make accommodation available for those in dangerous buildings. But we continue to approach those families who reside in some of these dangerous structures and have given them notice to vacate soon,” said a civic officer from Thane civic body.There are a total of 4,300 dangerous buildings in the city, of which 79 are in extremely dangerous category – C1 and 113 are in C2-A category which means dangerous parts of these buildings need to be demolished. Naupada-Kopri ward has a maximum of 37 dangerous buildings, hence the civic body started with this ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-extremely-dangerous-buildings-vacated-in-thane/story-BRU2TM09k1UkrgAEegbhBO.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Concrete road at Taloja in Navi Mumbai ready for use this week||Work of concretisation on one side of the 1.25 km Taloja CETP Road has been completed and is expected to be thrown open to traffic this week. This road will enable smoother access to the Taloja MIDC industrial belt.The work on the ₹13.46 cr project began last year. The road, used by heavy vehicles, was in pathetic state for years. The 1.25-km road connects between Taloja CETP and Foodland factory through Railway Over Bridge.The Taloja Industries Association (TIA) had taken up the issue in October 2018 with local MLA Prashant Thakur, who was then the chairman of CIDCO.Satish Shetty, president of TIA, said, “Following the intervention of Thakur, road asphalting and concretisation work on the road was taken up by Cidco last year. Concretising this road is important for the industries as it is one of the two entry points into Taloja MIDC area, from Roadpali side. We had been constantly following up on the work with CIDCO authorities.”Priya Ratambe, Cidco PRO, said: “Concretisation of the road was taken up by Cidco as mere asphalting of the road wouldn’t help. It cannot stand the constant heavy vehicle traffic. One side of the road will be ready to use in a couple of days. The other side of the road work is expected to be ready by March next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/concrete-road-at-taloja-in-navi-mumbai-ready-for-use-this-week/story-LignmoaTuqkufLQiRNSZUN.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan villagers get lessons to avoid leopards||Following several sighting of leopards in the Malang Gad Hills, a popular shrine near Kalyan, forest officials are now creating awareness among the locals to not venture out at night or climb the hill after sunset unnecessarily.The forest department has also set up banners with Dos and Don’ts across the village. The recent sighting of a leopard was by a villager early this week. Malang Gad, also known as Haji Malang, is a popular shrine of Sufi Saint Haji Baba Abdur Rehman Malang in Kalyan, located 13,000 feet high on the hills.The Hindu community also has an annual Malang Gad procession on these hills. With the shrine closed during the pandemic, there are no devotees and the hills and the villages nearby are frequented by the wild cats.Late at night on September 29, two leopards – a cub and an adult – were sighted by a villager near Haji Bakhtawar Shah Baba Dargah area, which is the first Dargah on the way to the main shrine. The wild cats were caught on the CCTV footage of the area.Nasir Khan, one of the trustees of shrine, said, “On Tuesday night, I received a call from one of the caretakers of the shrine. He also sent me the clip of leopard sightings. I soon informed the forest officials about the same. In the past few months, we have sighted more than two to three leopards here. However, they have not harmed anyone till now. We have adequate lighting on the way, keeping the leopards away from the path to the shrine.”Barking dogs alert villagers of wild catsVinod Patil, a villager from Haji Malang, said the leopard was seen earlier too but it was spotted late in the night or in the wee hours. This time, we saw it late in the evening. He said, “Many villagers go down the hill for work and return late in the evening. So, we informed the forest officials. The footage clearly showed a local passing and within seconds the leopard came walking behind. The barking dogs alerted the locals who noticed the leopard.”The villagers claimed that the forest officials have just put up banners informing how dangerous the animal is. However, no other safety precautions have been taken.“Prior to lockdown, apart from villagers, devotees used to climb up late night during weekends with family and small kids. The authorities should see that people don’t climb up late at night to avoid any incidents of attack,” added Patil.Jamir Shaikh, a Kalyan resident and a frequent visitor to the shrine, claimed three leopards – a female and two kids – were spotted frequently. “The CCTV footage clearly shows a small leopard passing at 9:49pm and then at 9:51pm, the adult followed. The sighting has been frequent after the lockdown. The animals are seen near the bus depot down the hill and in different villages, mostly in search of food. Many of the villagers are scared to go out early morning. Instances of leopards eating hens and stray dogs also have become common,” added Jamir.Repeated sightings of leopards Pramod Thakar, Range Forest Officer, Badlapur confirmed about the repeated sightings of leopards in the forest hills near Malang Gad and had appealed to devotees or revellers to avoid climbing up during night hours.“The complete area is connected with hills, leaving the animals enough space to roam around. Many of the villagers have pets like hens, goats and buffaloes. The leopards have good nose and come in search of such easy preys,” added Thakar.He added that the area being hilly, forest officers cannot use their vehicles to make announcements in the area. A few officials routinely patrol the forest on foot. “We have started awareness programmes and are reaching door-to-door to create awareness and share precautionary measures with villagers and nearby areas where leopards have been sighted in the past few months. We have put up banners and posters. This week we have printed 500 pamphlets to distribute in the tribal villages,” added Thakar.He added, “In many such sightings, the leopards have not harmed anyone but taking precautionary measures is more important. Our officials and local watchmen keep an eye on the area regularly.”Safety Tips by Forest Officials: * While climbing and passing through the forest area, carry a stick.* Don’t allow kids alone near forest area or sighting area.* Don’t go for nature’s call in the forest area.* While climbing on the way or in forest, bend down being alert and looking nearby.* Don’t throw wastes near the house; use proper dustbin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-villagers-get-lessons-to-avoid-leopards/story-9z6s7ZhmtSaTR01THJsiiM.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Gang, including 2 minor students, held for dacoity in Navi Mumbai||Sanpada police have busted a gang of dacoits including three students who were on a robbing spree in Navi Mumbai, targeting unsuspecting drivers. On Wednesday night, the gang committed three robberies in the span of a few hours.The gang, including an auto rickshaw driver, one history-sheeter and three students – two of whom are minors – travelled in an auto rickshaw to target drivers on isolated roads after midnight.On Wednesday, the complainant Nandkumar Date, 25, a fish seller, was heading to Sassoon docks with his friend Ajinkya Padwal in his car. At around 2 am, Date stopped near Sanpada Bridge when the gang arrived in the auto. Three persons got out of the auto and slapped Date.When Padwal tried to rescue his friend, four more persons in the same auto got out and beat them up. They robbed Date of his ₹19,000-worth phone and ₹13,000 cash. Padwal snatched their auto keys to prevent them from escaping but had to return them when the men started pelting him with stones.On the same night, the gang attacked a truck driver in Nerul with a knife and robbed his phone. The driver sustained injury on his arm. They robbed a phone from another driver, who has not stepped forward to complain yet.“We have arrested the gang. We also recovered the auto used in the crime along with phones that the men robbed that night,” said Vikas Ramagude, senior inspector.All the accused are between 16 and 21 years. Based on the partial number plate of their auto, the police traced the men to Nerul and arrested them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gang-including-2-minor-students-held-for-dacoity-in-navi-mumbai/story-HO3VP1EyPMmbCineFLYKCL.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Ambernath man accuses wife of spoiling son, strangles her||A man allegedly murdered his wife in Ambernath on Friday night, accusing her of spoiling their 19-year-old son by fulfilling all his wishes. The husband strangled her and later went to Shivajinagar police station to confess the crime.The accused, Kails Atikire, 45, and his wife Pooja, 44, are residents of Shivajinagar, Ambernath. The couple has a 19-year-old son, who is allegedly a drug addict. The son was in a rehabilitation centre for the last few months and returned home recently. Atikire had constant fights with his wife over showing extra concern towards their son and providing him money even though the couple was cash-strapped.An officer from Shivajinagar police station said, “On Friday night, Atikire came to the police station and narrated that he killed his wife by strangling her as he got angry on her for giving money unnecessarily to their son. We went to the spot, found the wife’s body and arrested the accused under IPC 302.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ambernath-man-accuses-wife-of-spoiling-son-strangles-her/story-TWHiAR3ysBPGrmLvaT88WN.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Won’t tolerate undue delays, says Navi Mumbai civic body chief||Disappointed with the slow pace of work in various fronts, Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar has given directives to all the health department officers and staff that no delay will, henceforth, be tolerated with any health-related work.Most delays relate to buying of medicines, medical equipment and other purchases important to fight the pandemic.Mahendra Konde, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) PRO, said, “The commissioner insisted that the health department has to work in sync with engineering department. When a Covid facility is made ready by engineering department, the health department, too, has to be ready with all the supplies required there and for that a proper coordination is needed.”Bangar said that a very close attention is required to be given to all medical facilities, especially the stock of medicines. He insisted that no comprises should be made for making the purchase of required goods. He also added that anyone found providing medical equipment and other medical goods of low grade quality, should be immediately black listed and, if required, a case be registered. Every purchase should be compared with market value.Bangar added that after he noticed a few delays in work, he took a review meeting with the health department to convey the same.“I noticed a few delays. For instance, after the first tendering call, if we don’t get response, a second call needs to be made. The second call can be made within four working days. But in some cases, two weeks have been taken, which delays the work. I noticed a sense of lack of urgency during the Covid times, which was addressed. The main intention was to give the message that they are being watched and no compromise in any facility or material would be tolerated,” he said.A health officer from NMMC said, “The commissioner was upset due to some backlogs. We are also working under high pressure for many months. Hence, sometimes some work gets delayed. We are trying our best to cope up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/won-t-tolerate-undue-delays-says-navi-mumbai-civic-body-chief/story-J7zOmfJdLNpzIO29YjcuUI.html
04-10-2020||City||Commuters enjoy toll-free travel, courtesy farmers||SANGRUR Farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws on Saturday didn’t let the staff managing at least five toll plazas in Sangrur, Barnala and Patiala districts charge money from commuters. The farmers started the campaign on October 1 in Sangrur and Barnala districts. The protesters forced open the toll plaza barricades at Badbar village on Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway and Mehal Kalan village on Barnala-Ludhiana road in Barnala district on October 1. Then they let the commuters cross the Kalajhar toll barrier on Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway and another one Ladda village on Sangrur-Ludhiana highway in Sangrur district for free. On Saturday, protesting farmers opened the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza in Patiala district. At Badbar toll plaza, ₹85 is charged from car/jeep or van, ₹140 from minibus and ₹295 from bus/truck for a single crossing. “Toll charges are an unnecessary burden on the public. Farmers opened toll plazas for all vehicles and it gave us a great relief. There should be no toll charges across the state,” said Subhash Kumar of Ferozepur, who was travelling to Mohali in his car. Nachhatar Singh, a private institute bus driver, said, “I used to take detours through villages to save toll charges. Nowadays, I am taking the national highway as the journey is toll-free.” Roop Singh, state committee member of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said toll plazas are operated by big companies and farmer unions had been raising voice against them. “People appreciated our step. To make roads is government’s responsibility and you can’t charge from the public,” Singh added. General manager of Badbar toll plaza Rajnikant Sinha said, “We are facing a daily loss of ₹9 lakh. Our company is running two toll plazas on rent in Barnala and Sangrur districts. The government should compensate us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-enjoy-toll-free-travel-courtesy-farmers/story-Yfij9TU3vrImf21rzbR4HI.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 14,348 fresh Covid-19 infections, tally now 1,430,861||Fresh infections in Maharashtra came further down to 14,348 on Saturday, which took the case count to 1,430,861. Active cases also reduced slightly to 258,108, accounting for 18.03% of the total.The toll climbed up to 37,758 after 278 casualties were reported. Of them, 151 deaths were in the past 48 hours, another 64 were from the past week, while the remaining 63 fatalities were from the period before that, health officials said.Fresh infections have not gone up in almost two weeks. However, officials said that they have to wait for more time to draw any conclusions as there are chances that cases are likely to rise in the backdrop of fresh relaxations in the lockdown.Statistics released by the state health department showed that fresh infections were rising till the second week of September, but later they went on a downward trend. In the first week of September, the Covid-19 cases reported were 130,789, second week — 153,972, third week — 148,365 , fourth week — 126,773 and in the past five days (till October 3), it has reported 79,708 infections.“The trend is relieving as it indicates that the situation is coming under control. It also signifies that we are on the right path. However, we will have to wait for some time to reach any conclusion as fresh relaxations will come into effect from October 5, which may result in a surge in cases,” said a senior official from the state health department.The state has declared to allow hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars to operate at 50% of the total capacity from October 5. It has also allowed all industrial and manufacturing units of non-essential units to operate in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Trains originating and ending their journey within the state have been allowed to restart with immediate effect.Dr Subhash Salukhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said that this is a signal of plateauing of cases, however, if people at large did not co-operate, then we will be pushed back to the previous position“After a protracted period of nearly a couple of months, the overall situation seems to be improving. We see this as a signal of plateauing of cases, however, we need peoples’ cooperation. If they follow all the basic precautions and don’t step out of their homes in large numbers during Dussehra and Diwali, unlike in Ganesh festival, then a downward trend by November is possible. If people don’t co-operate, then we may have to face consequences,” Dr Salunkhe said.Despite comparative decline in cases, casualties from the pandemic are yet to reduce. Other states don’t have even half the casualties compared to Maharashtra. Tamil Nadu has reported second-highest number of deaths — 9,586 in the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) is reducing, but that is due to the high daily infection rate. On Saturday, state’s CFR was recorded at 2.64%, making it second after Punjab. The CFR of Punjab was 3.01% (with 3,501 deaths) till Friday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.Mumbai continued to report the highest number of cases across the state as it recorded 2,402 infections on Saturday, pushing its tally to 212,462. Of them, active cases were 29,314. It has also recorded 46 deaths.Pune city contributed second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,077 cases, taking its tally to 158,903, while Pune district became the third-highest contributor with 721 cases, pushing its count to 64,487. The combined tally of Pune goes to 1,798 cases. The state also completed 7 lakh tests with 75,093 tests conducted on Saturday. The tally stood at 7,035,296.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-14-348-fresh-covid-19-infections-tally-now-1-430-861/story-hnabfAuZDgp6KG8HAw0CtJ.html
04-10-2020||Mumbai||Pre-bookings, e-payments to be the norm for eateries in Maharashtra||Pre-bookings, digital payments, compulsory masks and screening of customers will be the new normal in restaurants, bars and cafes across Maharashtra as they reopen at 50% of their seating capacity from Monday, after more than six months of a complete shutdown necessitated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The directorate of tourism of the Maharashtra government on Saturday issued extensive guidelines for restaurant owners and diners, including operating procedures for pre-booking of seats, Covid-19 hygiene while serving food and beverages, seating arrangements within restaurant premises, table etiquette, hospitality norms, entry-exit and washroom hygiene, norms for regular ventilation of premises and disinfection routines, digital or disposable paper menus, and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour for staffers (see box). The state government allowed reopening of bars and restaurants from October 5 onward, via a government order on September 30. The guidelines also directed restaurants to take down detailed information of every visitor, including contact details (with the customer’s consent), in case there is a need to contact-trace any visitors later. Such logs will be maintained for 30 days. No buffets and live entertainment are allowed. The guidelines also mandate that all food and beverages establishments will follow safety and hygiene protocols issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) —Food hygiene and safety guidelines for food businesses during coronavirus disease — for storing, serving and cooking of food and beverages. Moreover, all restaurants, bars, and cafes will have to conduct regular Covid-19 screening and testing of all employees, ensure use of N95 or equivalent masks, disinfection of premises twice a day, and maintaining CCTV records of Covid-19 protocols being followed, wherever necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/plan-to-dine-out-book-a-table-make-e-payments/story-dhe2RddlXUIrECTigfVsGL.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||8 days after woman’s body found in bed box, 1 arrested||Eight days after the decomposed body of a 26-year-old woman was found stuffed in a bed box at a house in Delhi’s Qutub Vihar near Chhawla, police on Saturday said they arrested her friend for allegedly murdering her in a fit of rage. Police said the alleged killer, Satish Kumar, suspected her of cheating on him and killed her in a fit of rage during an altercation over the issue at his rented flat on September 23. Kumar allegedly killed her after two attempts. She fell unconscious after Kumar allegedly throttled her and pressed her mouth. When she regained her consciousness, screamed and tried to escape, Kumar strangled and smothered her again. The murder was discovered two days later, police said. Investigators said Kumar was arrested on Thursday from Dibrugarh in Assam, where he had reached after crossing four states and changing various modes of transport in a week. After allegedly strangling his friend and stuffing her body in the bed box at his rented home in Qutub Vihar, Kumar borrowed his friend’s scooter and rode to Agra and then to Lucknow, covering nearly 600 kilometres, they said. “Kumar parked the scooter at the Alambagh bus stand, boarded a bus and left for Gorakhpur. From Gorakhpur, he went to Muzaffarpur in Bihar and then to Siliguri in West Bengal. He then went to Moran in Assam and from there to Dibrugarh. He was caught in Dibrugarh when he was planning to leave for Shillong in Meghalaya and had booked a taxi for Rs 9,000,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said. The suspect changed his locations frequently to avoid arrest.The couple worked in a multinational company in Gurugram and were in a relationship since 2017, the year Satish Kumar had an arranged marriage with another woman chosen by his family, police said. Originally from Jind in Haryana, Kumar has a daughter but left his family and started living in a rented home in Qutub Vihar for over a year, said a police officer associated with the probe. A few weeks ago, the officer said, Kumar felt that the woman was close to some other person. The couple had arguments whenever Kumar confronted her about it. He was upset and suspected she had been ignoring him. On September 23, the woman, who was living separately at a rented home in Khirki Extension in south Delhi, went to Kumar’s house to collect her laptop. As she was getting frequent calls from someone, Kumar enquired about the caller and asked her to unlock her phone so that he could check the caller’s identity. An altercation ensued between them and during that, Kumar killed her, the DCP said. “He covered the body with a blanket and closed the bed. He picked up his clothes, her cellphone and fled on the scooter. Kumar sold his cellphone for Rs 31,000 at a mobile shop in Dwarka, threw her phone in the bushes near Greater Kailash-1 and fled to Agra on the scooter. He removed the SIM card from his phone to avoid any trail,” the DCP said. Police said the woman, who worked with a multinational company in Gurugram, was from Jharkhand. The murder came to light on September 25 when neighbours noticed a foul smell and reported the matter to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-in-bed-box-man-killed-friend-in-a-fit-of-rage-crossed-4-states-to-avoid-arrest/story-F1Pr9V0kzOF4V14A0z5LSP.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Four ‘terrorists’ arrested near ITO; Delhi Police says terror strike averted||The Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have averted a possible “terror strike” in the national Capital by arresting four men, who are residents of Kashmir, from ITO in central Delhi. Police said they have recovered 120 bullets and four sophisticated pistols from the four men, who had travelled to Delhi from Kashmir in a Baleno car bearing Jammu and Kashmir’s registration number. Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said the “radicalised Kashmiri youths” were camping in Delhi for the past few days on the directions of their handler and the current chief of Ansar Ghazwat-ul Hind. “The group was planning a terror strike, including in Delhi after collecting huge cache of arms and ammunition. The timely arrest of the four men has averted a possible terror strike,” DCP Kushwah said. The police, however, did not specify details of the planned strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-arrest-four-terrorists-claim-to-avert-terror-strike-in-delhi/story-acE3CjiZoMDG99CEO6C40O.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Maps of test centres to be put up outside Metro stations||Ahead of the festive season, the government has drafted plans to ramp up its coronavirus awareness campaign, even as it plans to install maps showing Covid testing centres outside major Metro stations, to encourage more people to get checked for the viral infection.A senior official in the Delhi government’s revenue department said the awareness campaign proposal includes distributing pamphlets in prominent markets, religious places, government offices, and other public spaces, and roping in prominent personalities in Delhi to make short videos on Covid-19 awareness. “By the end of next week, district magistrates have been asked to finalise a shortlist of prominent people who reside in neighbourhoods in their jurisdiction,” the official said. “People go out and gather in large numbers in the festive season. An intensified Covid-19 awareness campaign is much needed to address that. The government will try to make people aware of the importance of wearing masks, social distancing, why it is better to stay home, as well as encourage people to get tested. People’s safety is our priority,” Delhi revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said. On Thursday, the Delhi government had issued a circular asking all departments to formulate their own “action plans” to intensify Covid-19 awareness campaigns ahead of the festive weeks. The Delhi government, on September 28, finalised an electronic map, in which it located 320 government-run Covid-19 test centres in the city – for both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests. “The final map has been shared with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) with a request to put it on display at prominent locations/sites at major metro stations (at entry-exit points and others as found appropriate) for the information of general public,” read the maps-related proposal, which HT has seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maps-of-test-centres-to-be-put-up-outside-metro-stations/story-T2S69ulcYowTjyJ7zShfwI.html
04-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt staffer’s gold chain snatched||Three criminals deliberately picked a fight with a Delhi government employee and snatched his gold chain before fleeing on a bike in outer Delhi’s Rohini Sector 14 on Thursday afternoon, police said. WATCH | Delhi chain snatching: Govt staffer targeted outside Rohini temple The incident was captured on CCTV cameras in the lane outside a temple Shyam Chhabra, the victim, went to offer prayers. The footage shows Chhabra feeding a cow in the lane and then walking back when a man deliberately brushes past him and pretends as if he was hurt. He starts arguing with Chhabra and soon two men appear on the scene on a bike. The first suspect then tries to show the other two how Chhabra allegedly hit him. When Chhabra tries to walk away, the two suspects also starts arguing with him. The first suspect joins the other on the bike and they start riding in circles around Chhabra. The first suspect then gets down and lunges at the government official, pulls the gold chain around his neck and violently pushes him to the ground. The three then flee the spot on the bike. Chhabra runs after them till the end of the lane. DCP (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said, “We have registered a case and are rounding up criminals involved in such crimes. There are certain clues on which we are working.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-employee-s-gold-chain-snatched-by-three-outside-rohini-temple/story-2UhD007iktXXTjCWZnpXLO.html
04-10-2020||Pune||One arrested for illegal possession of firearm||The crime branch sleuths of Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate have arrested a youth on charges of illegally possessing a firearm on Thursday. Besides, seizing the firearm, the sleuths have confiscated his bullets during the raid. The accused has been identified as Siddesh Dayanad Kamble (20), a resident of Chikahli. Farouque Mulla, a police naik attached to the crime branch lodged an FIR in this case. Acting on a tip-off that Kamble would be arriving in the area, a team of crime branch officials laid the trap and nabbed the accused. The pistol has been estimated to be worth ₹50 and a case under arms act has been lodged in connection with the incident. The crime branch has appealed to the citizen to provide them tip-off on such type of criminal elements operating in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-arrested-for-illegal-possession-of-firearm/story-3IZpZEXMSZXr2WvtndNG0J.html
