05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Now, ATM loot bid in Chandigarh’s Sector 39||In yet another attempt to loot an ATM, miscreants struck at a booth in the Sector-39 market in Chandigarh, police said on Monday. The complaint was filed by Charanjeet Grover, manager, Punjab National Bank, Maloya. He said when the ATM caretaker reached the booth in the morning, he found its shutter open and machine damaged. Police have written to the bank to procure the CCTV footage in order to identify the accused. A case under Section 380 (theft) read with 511 (attempt to commit a crime) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Burglars have made at least five such unsuccessful bids to loot ATMs in Chandigarh in the past four months, though on June 18, a masked man was able to flee with ₹7.6 lakh from a Union Bank of India ATM at Kishangarh. The previous bid was at an ATM in Sector 34 on the night of September 18. Around 10:30pm, a group of youths with their faces covered had entered the booth, applied a tape on six CCTV cameras installed on the premises and then started to try and open the ATM. They ended up damaging the kiosk, ripping off its screen and breaking some wires, but could not get an access to the money. Other such attempts have been made in Sector 44, Manimajra and Kishangarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-atm-loot-bid-in-chandigarh-s-sector-39/story-CWT4YLQVajs1HbWEdbCOxN.html
05-10-2020||Lucknow||UP claims tax collections up, earning-expenditure gap remains||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday claimed an increase in its tax collections for the third consecutive month, collecting Rs 890.26 crore more as taxes in September 2020 vis-à-vis the tax earnings in the same month last year. Although this indicates an increase of about 10.5 percent in tax collections for September 2020, a wide gap of about Rs 13,000 crore remains in revenue collections in the first six months of 2020-2021 in comparison to the earnings during the same period in 2019-2020. “We have collected Rs 9,334.17 crore as taxes in September 2020. This is 890.26 crore higher than tax collections of Rs 8,443.91 crore made in the same month in 2019. This is the third consecutive month of increase in earnings,” said state minister for finance Suresh Khanna while speaking to media. The state government’s non-tax revenue also increased to Rs 182.33 crore in September 2020 against Rs 120.89 crore in the same month in 2019. With this, the state government’s total revenue collection in September 2020 has gone up to Rs 9516.50 crore, about 80.2 percent of revenue earning target of Rs 11,873.17 crore for September 2020. Also read: Is YSR Congress joining NDA? CM Jagan flies to Delhi to meet PM amid buzz“We hope for further increase in revenue collections in coming months, including in October 2020,” said additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal. “An increase in revenue is a good sign. It indicates that the state’s economy is on the road to recovery. But the state government will have to make more efforts to mobilise more revenue to provide funds for development and should not hesitate to go for extra borrowings from the market,” said Yashvir Tyagi, retired professor, department of economics, Lucknow University. A close scrutiny of the state government’s performance on the financial front, however, indicates that although its total revenue earnings have increased consistently, they have remained behind targets in the past three months. Moreover, the tax earnings in September 2020 are less than the earnings in July and August 2020. As per the state government’s statistical data, it earned a total revenue of Rs 10,675.42 crore in July 2020 and Rs 9,545.21 crore in August 2020 against Rs 9516.50 crore in September 2020. Moreover, the state government’s major revenue earning departments have failed to achieve their targets during the first six months of 2020-2021 due to the impact of Covid-19.“The state government collected revenue of about Rs 45,890 crore from April 1, 2020, to September 30, 2020, against Rs 58,600 crore earned during the same period in 2019-2020. Lower collections are obviously a result of Covid-19,” said a senior officer. The government’s revenue in the past three months has apparently increased due to hike in excise duty on liquor and the rate of VAT on petrol and diesel, etc. In September 2020, too, the highest increase was witnessed in excise collections. The state government collected excise of Rs 2,140.61 crore, about 95.1 percent of Rs 2,250 crore target for the month. As the government spends Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore every month on payment of salaries and pension to its employees, the total revenue earnings remain insufficient to meet the committed expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-claims-tax-collections-up-earning-expenditure-gap-remains/story-MSw4spoZAmxD3ZfFa1O6rM.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Woman falls into open manhole at Mumbai’s Ghatkopar area, body recovered from Haji Ali; BMC orders probe||A 32-year-old woman died after falling into an open manhole near Global Hospital in Ghatkopar (East) on Saturday evening. Her body was recovered by the locals near Haji Ali in Worli on Monday morning. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set up an inquiry under deputy municipal commissioner (infrastructure) and the report is likely to be concluded within 15 days. According to BMC statement, on Sunday at 12.06pm they were informed about the victim Sheetal Bhanushali falling into an open manhole under Asalfa Metro Bridge, opposite Global Hospital. BMC then deployed fire brigade and stormwater drains personnel at the spot who carried out rescue and search operations. When they could not find Bhanushali until Sunday evening, the operation was called off. Following this, BMC received a call from Mumbai Police on Sunday at 9.55am, about an unidentified body found at Haji Ali. After investigation, the police had concluded the body was of Bhanushali. However, the family claims that name of the deceased is Sheetal Dama.According to Kamlesh Bhanushali, a friend of Dama’s family, Sheetal left her home at around 6pm on Saturday, to buy groceries. Her 12-year-old son accompanied her because he had to buy stationery items. Mid-way, Sheetal sent her son home, as it started raining heavily, and told him that she will return after shopping for groceries. When Sheetal did not return on Saturday night, her family filed a missing person’s complaint. Bhanushali said, “She was carrying two kilos of wheat flour on her way home. The next morning (Sunday morning) we heard that a drain was open near Global Hospital, and there was a bag of wheat flour lying next to it. We identified the bag, and informed the police.” On Monday morning, the family was informed by Tardeo police that the body of a woman with clothes and jewellery matching the description given by the family, in the missing person’s complaint, was found. Kirit Somaiya, former member of Parliament from the Ghatkopar area tweeted on Monday, “I visited & filled complaint with Ghatkopar West Police Station, asking action under IPC section 34, 279, 304, 406, 420... against BMC Officials & Contractor...for death of 32 year Sheetal Dama. Who drawn in Asalfa Ghatkopar Nala & Deadbody found next day near Haji Ali (Sea Side).” Somaiya said, “The fibre manhole covers installed by the BMC are not sturdy, and they easily dislodge, unlike the earlier metal covers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-falls-into-open-manhole-at-ghatkopar-body-discovered-at-haji-ali-bmc-orders-probe/story-5h5x1Y27V3x3O3Vs0uUONM.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Police clearance for visa, 14 Saanjh services through Mohali’s sewa kendras||Fourteen Saanjh services related to the department of home will now also be facilitated through Mohali district’s sewa kendras or service centres, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Monday.Saanjh services as offered through Saanjh Kendras, which are platforms for partnership of the community with the police in planning and implementing locally relevant community oriented projects in Punjab.The services now to be offered in sewa kendras will include acknowledgment of complaints, information of action taken on complaints, copies of first information report or daily diary register; untraced reports of traffic accidents, stolen vehicles and theft cases; no objection certificates (NOC) for loudspeakers, fairs, exhibitions, sports events; NOCs for pre -owned vehicles, police clearance for visa, and verification of character, tenants, employees and domestic help or servants.The Saanjh kendras will continue to offer the services as before, Dayalan added. Five other Saanjh services had been added earlier, including one from the department of local government and four from the department of home, taking the total number of services offered at the Saanjh Kendras to 19.These included report of missing passport, mobile or other articles, cancellation of arms license and registration of street vendors.The move is meant to promote Mission Fateh by decongesting offices during the pandemic and helping people avail of services at their doorsteps through the nearest sewa kendras.It is to be noted that 272 services, including issuing of birth, caste, income or marriage certificates, application for arms license and its renewal etc are already being provided through the sewa kendras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-clearance-for-visa-14-saanjh-services-through-mohali-s-sewa-kendras/story-OqWgvUoX2t7Dl1DMHGrK5L.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for kidnapping and assaulting 22-year-old from Mumbai’s Kandivli area||Kandivli police on Sunday arrested two men for allegedly kidnapping and torturing a man, to find out the whereabouts of their relative who had eloped with a boy from Uttar Pradesh. The incident took place on September 30, when the victim Gulzar Khan, 22, was working at his employer’s shop at Poisar in Kandivli (West). According to Khan, he was on a call with a customer when a van stopped outside the shop around 1pm. “Four men came out and caught hold of me. They pushed me inside the vehicle. I wanted to scream, but they gagged me. There were eight persons in the vehicle,” Khan told Kandivli police. “I was tied to a chair and beaten up by the men for more than two days,” he added. On October 1, Khan’s employer Lukman Khan registered a complaint with the Kandivli police and gave them the number of the vehicle. Ravi Adane, senior inspector of Kandivli police station said that on inquiring about the number plate, they found out that it belonged to a lawyer from Trombay. Further investigations revealed that Khan’s relative Tabassum Khan had eloped with a boy from Mallipur in Uttar Pradesh and that Khan knew of their whereabouts. Tabassum’s uncles had kidnapped Khan to find out where Tabassum and her boyfriend were hiding. Kandivli police then searched the Cheetah Camp area and tracked down Tabassum’s uncles Mobin Khan and Salman Khan. The two then took the police to a room where they had confined Khan. Police rescued Khan and arrested Mobin and Salman for kidnapping and assault. “We are on the lookout for the six other men who had helped to kidnap Khan,” said Adane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-kidnapping-and-assaulting-22-year-old-from-mumbai-s-kandivli-area/story-glVVYqCg9hkJWjW90hH1GI.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU plans to reopen research labs||Panjab University (PU) is planning to reopen its laboratories for its research scholars in accordance with the unlock 5 guidelines of the Union home ministry. A committee set up to examine the move met on Monday at PU and discussed a way out for the 3,000-plus research scholars in the university who had no access to labs which closed down after the Covid-19 outbreak. Although no final decision was taken on Monday, the panel discussed the modalities to be worked out to allow the research scholars to visit the campus.PU’s dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said to allow the students to visit the campus “we have to keep in mind their safety as well.”Many students want to get back to work. Last month, the Panjab University Research Scholars’ Association had submitted a representation to the university requesting that students be allowed to return to labs and hostels.However, it was observed during Monday’s meeting that providing hostel accommodation to scholars could be a problem as four of the hostels had been handed over to the Chandigarh administration as Covid care centres.Guidelines of unlock 5 would be followed strictly, PU’s dean research VR Sinha said.Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has already decided to open its labs for research scholars from October 15. Various student bodies of PU have also demanded that labs and libraries should be reopened.“Research work is suffering due to inaccessibility to labs. University authorities should reopen labs with proper standard operating procedures and they should also make arrangements for their accommodation,” said a researcher in the chemistry department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-plans-to-reopen-research-labs/story-I7ki7uXq8KHF9ic8aNhInN.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Five months after new academic year began, training for Class 12 teachers in Maharashtra to commence||Nearly five months after the new academic year began, the state board is organising a training session for teachers of Class 12. In a circular issued last week, teachers were asked to enrol themselves for the training session by October 8.From the current academic year (2020-21), the state education department revised the syllabus of Class 12 and brought new textbooks. Due to the Covid-19 situation and the resultant lockdown, the textbooks were first released online in May and were then distributed in bookshops before the new academic year began in June.After teachers enrol for the training session, they will be able to attend online sessions which will brief them about the revised syllabus and the marking pattern to be implemented from this year.“With the revised syllabus, teachers need some clarity on the changes that have been introduced in the paper pattern and marking style. Also, with the reduction in the syllabus and the loss of teaching hours, we think there might be some changes in the board pattern. This training should have happened a little earlier, as it has been a long time since we began teaching Class 12 students,” said the principal of a college in the eastern suburbs.This year, the state education department announced a 25% reduction in the syllabus for state board students of Classes 1 to 12. The decision will be applicable for the current academic year 2020-21 and has been taken considering the possible loss of teaching hours as physical schools are yet to reopen due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-months-after-new-academic-year-began-training-for-class-12-teachers-in-maharashtra-to-commence/story-QLGK2jU8gJuFZlTrI0ifwK.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Man held for raping woman in Vasai near Mumbai||A 22-year-old mentally challenged woman from Vasai was allegedly raped by Mukesh Kumar, 22. The accused works in the wood factory near the woman’s residence. He allegedly would take the woman to a secluded spot on several occasions and raped her, the mother stated in her complaint. The matter came to light when the survivor’s mother found out that the woman was two months pregnant after she complained of severe abdominal pain and was examined by a doctor. When questioned, she named Kumar.Based on a complaint, Vasai police registered a case of rape under section 376 against Kumar and arrested him. He was produced before a court on Monday and has been remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-held-for-raping-woman-in-vasai-near-mumbai/story-Nt6jSm9dUrsEZLy7TEz1yH.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Assault at Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad’s bungalow: Three cops arrested||Three police constables, who were on guard duty at Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad’s bungalow, are arrested by Vartak Nagar police on Monday for the assault on civil engineer Anant Karmuse, 40, in April this year. Karmuse was allegedly beaten up by Awhad’s body guards who took him to Awhad’s bungalow after the former made an objectionable comment on the leader on social media. All three of them were released on bail. Of the three arrested constables, one was attached with the Thane Police and two with the Mumbai Police. All three of them were deployed for personal security of Awhad since the past one year. Senior inspector SB Patil of Vartak Nagar police station said, “We have checked CCTV footages of the incident and found these three police constables Sagar More, Suresh Janathe and Vaibhav Kadam with the people who assaulted Karmuse. Hence, we arrested them.” In April, few people visited Karmuse, a city-based civil engineer, and told him that he would have to visit the police station for his post. However, they took him to Awhad’s bungalow where he was beaten up by around 10 to 15 followers of Awhad. Karmuse had posted a morphed picture of the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/assault-at-maharashtra-minister-jitendra-awhad-s-bungalow-three-cops-arrested/story-VbZ2h8GtDtg16aODO3I97K.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Zaid Vilatra withdraws bail petition before HC||Zaid Vilatra, one of the accused arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) while investigating the drug angle into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, on Monday withdrew his bail petition filed before the Bombay high court (HC).The Bandra hotelier had moved HC challenging his detention in custody on the grounds that the offences alleged against him were bailable and therefore, he was entitled to be released on bail. His counsel, advocate Taraq Sayed, however, on Monday sought permission to withdraw the petition. Justice Revati Mohite Dere accepted the request.Vilatra was the third person to be arrested by NCB after drug trail came to the fore during the investigation into Rajput’s death. The 34-year-old actor died of suicide on June 14 at his residence in Mumbai.After receiving information about WhatsApp chats indicating sale and purchase of drugs, NCB started investigation by arresting one Abbas Lakhani on August 28 and purportedly recovered 46 gram marijuana from him. His disclosure led to the arrest of Karnataka Arora, who in turn pointed towards Vilatra.The NCB team on August 29 searched premises of Vilatra and claimed to have seized cash of ₹9.55 lakh and sizable amount of foreign currency — US$2,081, 180 pound (UK) and 15 dirhams (UAE) — from the hotelier.In his statement to NCB, he has purportedly said that the seized amount was sale proceeds of contraband material and purportedly admitted to having supplied marijuana or ganja and bud, a marijuana preparation, to many persons, including Abdel Basit Parihar.Parihar and another accused in the case allegedly supplied the contraband material to Rajput through Showik Chakraborty, brother of Rajput’s actor girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-zaid-vilatra-withdraws-bail-petition-before-hc/story-z0IxsOo3b8NFU4R3YVu53N.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||32 breakthroughs complete for Mumbai Metro-3||The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), on Monday, completed the 32nd tunnel breakthrough along the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) underground corridor. MMRC, which is executing the project, has completed 87% tunnelling works and 60% of the overall civil works, a statement issued by the organisation read. On Monday, the Herrenknech tunnel boring machine (TBM) Krishna-2 completed the 1.10-km-long tunnel from Siddhivinayak north shaft to the underground Dadar Metro station. Ranjit Singh Deol, managing director, MMRC said, “Today’s breakthrough was a challenging task as Dadar Metro station — one of the more prominent stations on the Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ corridor — is located in close proximity of residential buildings and commercial shops.” Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, advocate general of the state who was present at the breakthrough, said, “I appreciate that a monumental task is being completed while causing as little inconvenience to the public as possible. This line will be an important addition to the public transport infrastructure and a boon to Mumbaiites.” According to officials, nine more tunnel breakthroughs can be expected for the 33.5-km corridor that will connect the island city to the western suburbs. On September 21, Tapi-1 TBM completed its downline stretch between Sahar and Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) T1 stations.MMRC has named the 17 TBMs on different rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/32-breakthroughs-complete-for-mumbai-metro-3/story-JXgJzLROB4src1LpOl9tPO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||In a first, NCP sets up LGBT cell||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday formed a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) cell that will push for their rights. With this move, NCP is claimed to be the first political party across the country to have set up a dedicated cell for the community. State NCP president and water resources minister Jayant Patil and party MP Supriya Sule launched the cell at the party headquarters. The party has also declared a 15-member body headed by Priya Patil, a community activist. “NCP was the first party to experiment by setting up Yuvati Congress (young women) cell and now it has established an LGBT cell in an attempt to bring justice to the deprived section,” Patil said at the event, adding that the party declared forming a dedicated cell for the LGBT community in its election manifesto.“Glad to announce that NCP has launched an LGBTQIA+ cell in order to voice the issues of the queer and bring them to the mainstream. Unfortunately, the LGBTQIA community is subjected to bullying and violence due to prejudice,” said Sule in a series of tweets.“We must eliminate the prejudice that we have towards the queer community and be more inclusive towards alternative gender identities and gender expression. Work needs to be done to make a more inclusive society free of prejudice, homophobia and transphobia,” she said.LGBT activist Harish Iyer said every political party should have such cells with adequate representation from the community. “Every party should have a cell for queer people, and even within the queer people there needs to be adequate representation of all the LGBT communities that come from different caste and communities. We need such cells to include diversity within the LGBT community with a focus on not just working on issues but also the intersections of the issues,” Iyer said“It is a much welcome step taken by the NCP but we hope to see a system to map progress of the community in the coming future. The Maharashtra government has established a Transgender Welfare Board as well, but nothing happened later,” said Ashok Row Kavi, LGBT activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-ncp-sets-up-lgbt-cell/story-LyrK4BCZcDFXqOxlGFn3QP.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Shift biomedical waste plant out of Mumbai within a year to reduce air pollution: Aaditya Thackeray||Following air pollution concerns raised by Govandi residents over the past few months, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has directed the city’s only biomedical waste plant to be shifted out within a year. The minister also directed that private waste operator SMS Envoclean Pvt Ltd, which was appointed by the civic body to deal with Mumbai’s Covid-19 waste and associated biomedical waste, needs to expedite the process of identifying an alternative site for their operations within a month.The decisions were taken by Thackeray during a meeting on Monday with private waste operators, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and other state government officials.“There are two sides to this issue. While we must realise that the presence of this plant within a residential area makes it a threat to citizens with regard to unfavourable air quality, at the same time this is the only certified biomedical treatment centre in the city which is also dealing with Covid-19 waste,” said Thackeray. He added, “The plant has been directed to reduce treatment by the permissible limit of its current carrying capacity, and submit a plan within 10 days as to how they intend on shifting out of Mumbai. Once the site is selected, based on permissions issued by various state departments, it would take at least a year to phase the plant out of Mumbai.”Thackeray added that another follow-up meeting will be held within 15 days to examine developments in the matter. Local residents have filed several complaints since the beginning of lockdown against SMS Envoclean for allegedly violating air pollution norms by releasing black smoke through its chimney into residential areas.On September 11, a legal notice to MPCB issued by advocate Saif Alam and signed by 100 residents from Govandi, Mankhurd, Deonar and surrounding areas, alleged that repeated complaints between July and September went unnoticed and that MPCB did not conduct any investigation. The notice further alleged ignorance by the pollution regulator about residential and slum areas in the vicinity of SMS breathing ‘poisonous air’ and ‘having skin ailments’ even as one of the slums had witnessed 8.9% fatality rate due to Covid-19.As a response to the notice, MPCB Mumbai’s regional officer AN Harshwardhan directed SMS Envoclean to divert 50% of the treatment carrying capacity of Covid-19 waste to another unit in Taloja-Mumbai Waste Management Ltd. He further stated that black smoke was emitted after incinerating personal protective equipment (PEE) kits and highlighted that the plant was complying with air quality emission standards.On Sunday, Alam had written to Thackeray requesting action in the matter or he would be forced to move the National Green Tribunal seeking closure of the plant. Reacting to Monday’s decisions taken by Thackeray, Alam said, “A year is too long a time frame for this plant to remain operational as air pollution is increasing on a daily basis. We will await a formal response to our letter to the environment minister since we were not invited for the meeting on Monday. Once the decision on action on this plant is clear, we will take a call whether to move NGT.” Meanwhile, SMS plant operators said they were receiving 30-32 tons of Covid-19 and associated biomedical waste daily from Mumbai against their capacity of 24 tons. “We are already sending a large quantity of waste to Taloja and have reduced incineration significantly. Directions issued by the minister on Monday will be followed and a plan will be ready to shift the plant to a 3-acre area in Khalapur within one year from the time we receive permissions such as consent to establish the unit from MPCB, environment clearance, and construction permission. We will be submitting our plan of action within the next 10 days,” said Amit Nilawar, director, SMS Envoclean.SMS WAS ISSUED CLOSURE NOTICE BUT THEY GOT STAY FROM BOMBAY HCIn 2018, MPCB had issued a closure notice to SMS after it failed to meet safety standards under the air and water pollution Acts. However, the unit managed to get a stay on the order from the Bombay high court. Thereafter, SMS refurbished their air pollution control system in full compliance as per norms, said MPCB. The plant follows a process of secondary combustion across four chambers through scrubbing and water sprinkling to remove hazardous pollutants. However, local residents said they had faced severe difficulty in breathing due to harmful black smoke daily emanating from the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shift-biomedical-waste-plant-out-of-mumbai-within-a-year-to-reduce-air-pollution-aaditya-thackeray/story-Nnbn3oXA47BJ3DF4xIpNHP.html
05-10-2020||City||Navi Mumbai man booked for using casteist slur in video||The Panvel rural police have booked a man for recording and publicising a video allegedly mocking the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The accused is also heard using casteist slurs in the video.The police have registered the case following the complaint by a Panvel-based advocate Amit Katarnaware. Katarnaware received the 90-second video on a messaging application.Katarnaware has submitted to the police that the accused identifies himself as Om Yadav in the video.An officer said, “We booked Yadav under various sections of Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and Protection of Civil Rights along with relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. No arrest has been made so far.”“I will submit the evidence to the police so they can carry on further investigation and trace the man. The man is not known to me. I stepped forward to complain as a responsible citizen,” said Katarnaware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-man-booked-for-using-casteist-slur-in-video/story-hXiV5qOttziIzaqie83A1M.html
05-10-2020||City||PAU expert urges farmers to use Super SMS for straw management||An expert from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has appealed to farmers of the state to desist from paddy straw burning and use PAU Super Straw Management System (SMS) for its management.GS Manes, additional director of research (farm mechanisation and bioenergy), PAU, said: “This technology can chop and spread the straw coming out of the rear of combine harvester evenly in the field for uniform straw-load in the field. This also helps in ease of straw handling, better crop emergence, and establishment. In fact, the use of PAU Super SMS is a requisite for the adoption of specialised machines for wheat sowing like Happy Seeder, Super Seeder, etc.”The use of Super SMS attachment on paddy combine harvesters were made mandatory by Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) in February 2018 and PAU has licensed this technology to about 120 manufacturers, he said.Referring to its benefits, Manes said that the uniform spread of paddy residue helps to retain moisture content in the field and favours better germination of following wheat crop. The chopping of paddy residue enhances the drying rate of residue due to increased surface area.As the paddy residue contains 60%-70% moisture on weight basis, the accelerated evaporation of moisture reduces the effective residue load in the field, he added. As the residue load in the field reduces to about one-third of its initial amount, the working of machines used for in-situ residue management improves.Machines like Happy Seeder, Super Seeder, and paddy straw chopper/mulcher (used for incorporation of paddy straw) benefit from Super SMS technology in terms of their field performance, he said. The Super SMS has the option of switching on or off using a small metal sheet. This enables the combine harvester with Super SMS attachment to be used as a traditional combine harvester without dismantling the SMS attachment (for collection of residues from the field), he added.Manes said, “All traditional combine harvester operators are already categorised as skilled operators. Any operator/person who can operate the combine harvester is skilled enough to operate the Super SMS attached with the combine harvester.”He further explained, “The Super SMS requires about 8-10 hp to operate in the field. The commercially available self-propelled combine harvesters have sufficient power to operate Super SMS attachment in addition to its conventional fieldwork. The fuel consumption for combine harvester with Super SMS attachment is about 25% higher (at about 26 cm height of cut) for combine with Super SMS attachment as compared to the conventional combine harvester.Higher fuel consumption and lower field capacity of combine harvester fitted with Super SMS translate into about ₹375 to ₹400 extra per acre. This is compensated by improved efficiency of the subsequent incorporation/mulching and seeding operations, he added. Emphasizing on balancing the Super SMS, he said, “The Super SMS rotor once properly balanced, works fine for a complete harvesting season until there is a major breakdown of the flails, blades of SMS rotor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-expert-urges-farmers-to-use-super-sms-for-straw-management/story-G0NUPleN8ZbWXEbsqm4nTK.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Pilot plants in three villages in Gurugram show desirable results in treating local sewage: Officials||Of the three nature-based wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) operational in Maujabad, Khentawas and Nawada villages in rural Gurugram, all have shown “desirable results” in treating sewage generated by local households, Gurujal officials said on Monday. Chemical analyses carried out at the Haryana Pollution Control Board’s district laboratory have shown that the treated wastewater conforms to India’s Discharge Standards for Treated Sewage, they added. The first of these three WWTPs (which are part of eight such facilities scheduled to become operational this year) was inaugurated in Farrukh Nagar’s Khentawas village in July. “Our assessment period, which lasts for a month and half since the plant starts operations, has been completed and the results are promising. The quality of the treated wastewater shows that the facility is performing as per expectations. The WWTP’s performance will get better over time as biological treatment systems improve as they adapt to local conditions,” said Sayani Halder, wastewater treatment specialist with Gurujal. There are four main indicators, Halder explained, which reveal whether the WWTP is effective. These include biological and chemical oxygen demand, pH level, colour and odour, and turbidity of the treated water. “On all these fronts, the Khentawas WWTP and pond revival project has been successful. Though we cannot share the reports of the chemical analysis, we can say that the water is safe for both recharge and for secondary uses,” Halder added.This is also the case with two other such plants, in Maujabad and Nawada villages, though these are yet to complete their six week assessment period. Nevertheless, preliminary tests have shown that these, too, are have been effective in treating wastewater from nearby households. “We will continue to test the water on a monthly basis even after the assessment period is complete,” Halder saidOn the basis of these results, Gurujal officials said that these nature-friendly technologies will be scaled up across rural Gurugram, where over 700 water bodies have been earmarked for revival. “We will also implement them in urban areas where suitable. For example, in Wazirpur and Dharampur, such plants are already under construction. We also planning to use a similar solution to revive a water body in Subash Nagar in Gurugram city,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, chairperson, Gurujal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pilot-plants-in-three-villages-in-gurugram-show-desirable-results-in-treating-local-sewage-officials/story-9HnjfII1DHbJR1ylXCf5YI.html
05-10-2020||City||‘Nature-based’ solutions for wastewater treatment in rural Gurugram||Gurugram: The district administration’s Gurujal society has planned to establish at least eight ‘nature-based’ wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) across eight villages in Gurugram for the benefit of rural clusters that do not have proper facilities to treat household sewage. Three are already operational in Maujabad, Khentawas and Nawada villages while the rest are under construction. The purpose of these eco-friendly WWTPs are two-fold, Gurujal officials explained. “They are all part of a larger pond-revival project, where we will use the treated wastewater to recharge underlying groundwater aquifers and to fill up locally available water bodies. The other goal is to provide a sustainable, self-sufficient wastewater solution in villages where household sewage typically collects in some low-lying area outside the village,” Sayani Halder, wastewater consultant, Gurujal, said.Experts explained that these WWTPs differ from traditional sewage treatment plants (STPs) in that they do not rely on chemical treatment of wastewater, and do not use motors and pumps to transport the water within the plant. These plants do not have a high operational cost, do not require a constant supply of electricity (making them suitable for rural clusters), and do not require technically trained staff to manage daily operations. Subhi Kesarwani, chairperson, Gurujal, said Gurugram is the only district in the country implementing these technologies on a large scale. “In other parts of the country, such WWTPs have been built, but at smaller capacities of 25KLD or less. We are building them to treat between 100KLD and 500KLD of wastewater every day. Moreover, each of these will serve as its own pilot project so we can gauge the efficacy of various technological solutions.”The eight villages in rural Gurugram earmarked for such WWTPs are Maujabad, Hariahera, Dhaula, Tajnagar, Khentawas, Nawada, Budera and Kasan. Of these, the first four plants are based on ‘root bed zone systems’, wherein “wastewater passes through a bed of specialised plants, where treatment takes place by filtration through layers of soil,” explains a methodology brief shared by Gurujal. Various microorganisms present in these root systems of these plants are responsible for “cleaning up” the wastewater, which passes through the root beds.“These WWTPs are best suited for rural areas as they require a fair bit of land. These are called nature-based solutions because they use the natural topography of the region to channel wastewater from homes to treatment plants, where the water is filtered through biological systems, like root zones, or more sustainable material like gravel and coconut husks. The water may also be treated through biological enzymes. There is none of the chemical treatment that a traditional, electro-mechanical STP in urban areas would use. For the same reason, and because they rely on naturally available materials, they are much cheaper to build and operate,” said Halder. In Budera village, where the WWTP will operate at a capacity of 500KLD, the plant is based on a technology known as DEWATS (short for decentralised wastewater treatment system). Halder explained, “This technology is different from root zone systems in that there is no biological agent which oxygenates the water. Instead, the water is passed through multiple physical barriers made up of natural materials that filter out any unwanted biological and chemical agents.” These barriers are built in the form of ‘constructed wetlands’ and do not require much day-to-day maintenance, or skilled staff to operate it, Halder added. Variations and combinations of these technologies are being implemented in other villages. In Nawada, for example, biological filtration systems are being combined with the use of biological enzymes, which break down unwanted agents and possible pathogens in sewage. In Kasan, meanwhile, the WWTP will make use of bio-filters, but will also use an ozonation tank to eliminate any bacterial pathogens in treated sewage. Yet another technological solution, which is being implemented in Khentawas village, involves the use of an ‘advanced eco-reactor’ (AER). According to a brief shared by Gurujal, “This is based on the principle of trickling water, where wastewater is sprayed over numerous layers of gravel and coconut husks, which are initiated with bio-enzymes that provide both biological and physical treatment of water.” Kesarwani said each of these plants has been carefully planned after considering the local environmental context. “We have realised that it is not enough to simply have a cut-copy-paste solution. These specific technologies have been chosen after thorough investigation of the local situation. Is it more important to ensure groundwater recharge? Or is it more important to ensure availability of water for non-potable purposes? What is the local hydrogeology and what solution would it serve best? Depending on our findings in a given village, we have a range of solutions which can be used, either alone or in combination, depending on the local conditions.” Advantages of ‘nature-based’ wastewater treatment plants:1) Preventing pollution of drains, water bodies and groundwater2) Treated water can be used locally for secondary, non-pot able purposes like agriculture and washing3) Lower operational and maintenance cost4) Do not technically trained staff to operate5) Do not rely on electricity to work, making them ideal for rural clusters where power cuts are frequent6) Make use of naturally available materials, no chemical treatment of water involved||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nature-based-solutions-for-wastewater-treatment-in-rural-gurugram/story-pPkbK66dXwD707u2NlQS2J.html
05-10-2020||City||BJP MLA writes to Maharashtra chief minister demanding toll waiver, threatens agitation||Manda Mhatre, BJP MLA from Belapur, has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding waiver of toll charges for residents of Navi Mumbai. She has threatened to launch an agitation if the demand was not met.The demand was raised following a hike in the toll charges from ₹35 to ₹40 for single entry with effect from October 1. Navi Mumbai residents have to pay toll at both the Vashi and Airoli toll nakas, the two entry points to Mumbai Mhatre said, “For long, the residents of Navi Mumbai have been paying the charges despite the government norm that those residing within 4 km of the toll plaza will be exempt from the payment. There was also an assurance that if traffic at the toll naka is over 100m, the vehicles should be allowed to pass without any payment.”She claimed that none of these was being followed at the toll nakas in Navi Mumbai. There is no provision for return pass either and hence the residents have been burdened every day.Mhatre added, “I have asked the chief minister to act on the matter. If no decision on the issue was taken soon, I will launch an agitation as the common man is affected by it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-mla-writes-to-maharashtra-chief-minister-demanding-toll-waiver-threatens-agitation/story-f4lUGP705CFOlP1iMISIdN.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||ATMs may be sealed for not paying fees to Municipal Corporation of Gurugram||At least 600 ATMs across the city face the prospect of getting sealed if banks do not pay pending registration fees to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) at the earliest, officials said on Monday. Officials familiar with the matter said the banks had been served notices repeatedly over the last two months but they have not respond yet.“The ATMs of all banks falling within MCG area need to pay a registration fee to the civic body. We have already sent three notices to the banks concerned. The third notice (served around Mid-September) was the final one and we have started the proceedings for initiating the next step as per law,” said Sanjeev Maan, senior town planner, MCG.According to the Haryana government’s Communication and Connectivity Infrastructure Policy 2013, if any communication infrastructure is installed in any commercial building, the owner needs to pay the local municipal corporation a licensing fee for it or remove the structure altogether. As far as ATMs are concerned, a dish antenna is classified as a communication infrastructure for which banks need to pay Rs 5,000 to the MCG as licence fees per ATM, officials said. According to officials privy to the matter, a file in connection with the commencement of sealing operations has been sent to MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh for approval. “As soon as the MCG commissioner gives approval, we will initiate the sealing process. We have sent notices to banks on three separate occasions since August and they haven’t cleared their dues so far. Until we start the sealing process, the banks wouldn’t pay up. It was the same case in 2016 as well,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.MCG commissioner could not be reached for comment.In July 2016, the Haryana accountant general (audit) had directed MCG to shut around 400 ATMs in the city if banks failed to pay the Rs 5,000 licencing fee within 90 days. Following the expiry of the notice, around a dozen ATMs were also sealed at that time and subsequently, banks had started clearing their dues.“A meeting was conducted with MCG officials earlier this year where they had asked us for relevant contact details of all banks in the city for the licensing fee process. They had initially sought the same details from a national telecommunications company that provide dish antennas to all ATMs but hadn’t received any response. On July 29, email addresses of all banks concerned in the city were shared with the MCG’s planning branch for their perusal,” said Prahlad Rai Godara, lead district manager (LDM), Gurugram. The role of the LDM or lead banker is to work as an intermediary between the government and the banks.Godara said that there are 537 bank branches in urban areas of the city that fall within MCG’s jurisdiction and 1,489 ATMs in the entire Gurugram district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/atms-may-be-sealed-for-not-paying-fees-to-municipal-corporation-of-gurugram/story-1vl37SMKZz46NjZa9YDr1K.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||25-year-old woman gang- raped by three in Palwal||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by three men in Palwal area on Sunday morning. The three accused men had been identified but were yet to be arrested, said police on Monday. According to the police, the woman from Palwal, who decorates flower arrangements at weddings, got a call from one Jahir, a Nuh resident, on Saturday. The police said he told her to come for work to Hathin, where a wedding was scheduled on Sunday. The police said when she arrived at the scheduled location, Jahir told her to go to a room in an under-construction building nearby to pick up some garments. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “When she went to the room, two more men, identified as Meenu and Dony, were already present in the room. Jahir followed her into the room and locked it. The three men then took turns to rape her. She suffered some bruises on her face as she tried to resist them. She alleged that the accused men threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the incident and escaped.” The woman then ran from the spot and approached the women’s police station in Palwal, following which her medical examination was conducted and a case was registered under sections 376 D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code. The suspects hail from Nuh, said police, adding that raids were on to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/25-year-old-woman-gang-raped-by-three-in-palwal/story-5r8y2upCMXL2Mu2DPHo0TI.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Residents of DLF Phase-2 raise security concerns after gang-rape incident||A day after a 25-year-old woman was allegedly gang raped by four men, three of whom worked with food delivery aggregators, in a real estate office in DLF Phase-2, residents of the locality raised security concerns, alleging that police patrolling had been lax especially during the night time. They urged the police to increase deployment at key entry points of the locality to check crime. Several residents and representatives of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of DLF-2 met the station house officer (SHO) of Phase-2 police station on Sunday and discussed their concerns. Vivek Rastogi, a resident of J Block, said, “Security needs to be strengthened. There have been several incidents of crime in the past few months and police patrolling is insufficient. There have been cases of eve-teasing and snatching, while anti-social elements often lurk in the internal lanes, creating nuisance. Safety remains a concern especially during the night time. My car was stolen last year and we have now recruited a private guard for security.” The members of the RWA requested the police to have permanent police deployment at two check posts — near Sikanderpur Metro station on MG road and near DLF City Court side — on roads leading towards the locality. The colony, which has over 3,500 plots, is one of the oldest residential areas and serves as a link to MG Road and National Highway 48. Built in 1986, it is spread across 488 acres with more than 20,000 residents staying there. The responsibility of the upkeep of the colony is in the process of being taken over by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) from DLF. Praveen Chandra, another resident, said, “It is a shocking incident. Security needs to be beefed up especially at the entry and exit points. Trespassing is a major concern. The authorities should create a system to ensure that the security guards keep a check on people delivering groceries, food, courier services in the locality and register their details at entry points.” Manish Dhawan, president, DLF-2 RWA, said, “After the incident, the issue has been discussed among residents and we have shared our inputs with the police. On Sunday night, the SHO and some RWA members took a round of the colony and identified certain points, where vigilance needs to be ramped up. Meanwhile, we are also working to get boom barriers installed on all the external entry gates, which would automatically improve the situation of trespassing and access points would be secured.” Dhawan added that there are a total of six external gates to the colony, and at all the six gates, private security from DLF is deputed. Despite repeated attempts, representatives from DLF could not be reached for comment. Meanwhile, the four accused men, who were arrested on Sunday morning, were produced in a district court on Monday and sent to judicial custody. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “At the two check points mentioned by the residents, additional policemen have been deployed. We are looking into the security concerns raised by the people and a security plan shall be prepared accordingly.” (With inputs from Kartik Kumar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-of-dlf-phase-2-raise-security-concerns-after-gang-rape-incident/story-H0bfRyUeMDcPZ2sHvYIqJI.html
05-10-2020||City||Two suspected criminals held after shootout in Vikaspuri||New Delhi: Two suspected criminals were arrested after a brief chase and a gunfight in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri on Sunday night, Delhi Police said on Monday. Both of them took one bullet each in their legs while two policemen were hit in their bulletproof vests but escaped unhurt. A total of eight rounds were fired, including five by the raiding team, police said.“The arrested criminals, Deepak alias Deepu,32, and Surender alias Sheru,40, are members of a gang led by Salman Tyagi and Saddam alias Gauri. Deepak was also wanted in a case registered against him under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), 1999,” said Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (special cell), Delhi PoliceOn Sunday evening, DCP Yadav said, the special cell team received information that the two associates of Saddam would go to Vikaspuri to kill a rival. Acting on the tip-off, the team waited at the Ganda Nala road near Vikaspuri. Around 8 pm, the team members spotted Deepak and Surender on a motorcycle.“The police team ordered Deepak to stop and surrender but he accelerated and tried to flee. The police chased them. The two suspects’ motorcycle skidded off the road following the hot chase by the police. Though the team surrounded the suspects, the duo whipped out their guns and fired at the police,” said DCP Yadav.“Deepak fired two rounds of which one missed a constable, who was trying to apprehend the duo. His other bullet hit the bulletproof vest of a head constable. Surender fired one bullet that hit a sub-inspector (S-I) in his bulletproof vest. Our team members fired five bullets in self-defence. Deepak and Surender took one bullet each in their left and right legs. Both the policemen, who were shot at, are safe,” the DCP said, adding two pistols and five cartridges were recovered from them.The injured men were admitted to an adjoining hospital, where they are undergoing treatment. A case was registered against the duo and they were arrested. The three were wanted in several cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion. They worked for the Salman Tyagi and Saddam Gauri gang.Police said Tyagi is a history sheeter of Hari Nagar police station and was externed from Delhi for two years in 2015 because of his criminal activities. He reorganised his gang and started extorting from illegal betting operators in west Delhi. He was arrested by police in 2016 and since then he has been operating from jail, they said.Saddam aka Gauri is a close aide of jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana. He was arrested by the special cell team in Meerut following a shootout in October, 2019.He was wanted in several criminal cases such as murder, attempts to murder, robberies, dacoities, snatching and for attacking police personnel. He was also booked under MCOCA, 1999, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-suspected-criminals-held-after-shootout-in-vikaspuri/story-P6YtD1pispoj1TVwYLkD0H.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Health department to test staff of Sheetla Mata temple during Navratri celebrations||With Navratri starting from October 17, the district health department has decided to administer Covid-19 tests to the staff members of Sheetla Mata Temple, especially those who are expected to be in direct contact with devotees. Sheetla Mata temple in Sector 6 records high footfall during the Navratri celebrations every year and expects to see more than four lakh devotees this year, officials said. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “A day before Navratri starts, all the staff members of the temple will be tested for Covid-19. Since the temple is expecting over four lakh people over a period of nine days, the health department will conduct a second round of the test for the staff on October 21 or 22 to identify people who might have contracted the virus.” Navratri will last till October 25.According to Yadav, the temple staff, who will be in direct contact with the devotees while distributing prasad and offerings, will be tested twice during the nine-day long period. The decision was taken in a meeting held between health department and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday. Taking further precautionary measure, the MCG team will sanitise the temple premises daily. Ashish Singla, medical officer, MCG, said, “Not only Sheetla Mata but other temples across the city are also being identified where high footfall is expected. The list of these temples is being prepared where sanitisation will be carried out on a regular basis.”Religious places in Gurugram were reopened for public from August 12 after the 68-day nationwide lockdown that was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. An order was issued by the district administration, stating that the temple operators would have to follow prescribed social distancing norms and other precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-to-test-staff-of-sheetla-mata-temple-during-navratri-celebrations/story-ra7GbwgGeC3A9K5M15nuxK.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Plea in HC seeks nod to allow students use of hostels, PGs to appear for exams||The Delhi high court has asked the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to consider the representation of a parents’ body, which had sought directions to allow final-year students of various universities to stay at hostels or paying guest accommodations, for the duration of exams. These facilities have remained shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Jayant Nath said the authorities may treat the writ petition as a representation and deal with the same as per law, while disposing of a petition filed by Juvvadi Sagar Rao, founder of Telangana Parents Foundation.The plea also sought directions to the home ministry, department of higher education and the department of health and family welfare to take measures for conducting final-year exams and entrance exams for without causing trouble to students.The petition, filed through advocates Sravan Kumar and R Balaji, said due to the Covid-19 restrictions, government, private hostels and paying guest accommodations are closed except a few government-university run hostels.“This has been causing immense difficulty to final-year students of various universities who belong to rural areas and who stay in private hostels or PG accommodations,” the plea said.It said Rao has made a representation to the Centre seeking a relaxation in restrictions to allow final-year students to stay in hostels and PG accommodations during their exams and it was transferred to the department of higher education for appropriate action.It sought that in these circumstances, government and private hostels and PG accommodations may be allowed to accommodate final-year students so that they can appear for the exams by taking all precautions against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-hc-seeks-nod-to-allow-students-use-of-hostels-pgs-to-appear-for-exams/story-PY16ydMjicWrv4ShNcltFO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||1,300 wild animals killed by electrocution in India over a decade: Report||Around 1,300 wild animals had been electrocuted across India due to deliberate and accidental electrocution between 2010 and 2020, reveals a data compiled by NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI). The report was shared on Sunday, during an edition of Maharashtra Forest Department’s wildlife week discussions. The numbers included over 500 elephants, 220 flamingos, 150 leopards and 46 tigers among other animals across the country.In Maharashtra, while there haven’t been any cases of elephant electrocution, WPSI members said 18 leopards, 16 tigers and 11 bears were major animals to be electrocuted, over a decade. Other animals included bison, deer, flamingos, monkeys, and wild boar. Overall, 74 wild animals had been killed by electrocution in Maharashtra (2010-2020). States such as Odisha, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand had all witnessed high animal electrocution deaths over the past decade. Maharashtra and Gujarat had witnessed most cases involving leopards and flamingos.“Animal electrocution continues to be a major issue but it has been tackled to some extent in Maharashtra,” said Nitin Desai, director (central India), WPSI adding, “Complete electrification in rural areas turning out to be a bane for wildlife because people are tapping 11 kilovolt overhead lines that are crisscrossing through forests and using those high tension wires to kill wild animals by laying uninsulated wires traps. Any animal coming in contact with those wires, get zapped and die instantly.”Desai explained that the modus operandi for deliberate electrocution or poaching was for cheap meat. “The economic angle is simple. Goat meat is ₹500-600 a kilogram, poultry is tasteless for hardcore meat-eaters. In that background, poachers offering wild animal meat for ₹80-100 a kilo, which also delivers home would easily find a lot of customers, and develop into a lucrative illegal business inside and along the periphery of forest areas,” he said adding, “The other issue is the fear of crop damage. Farmers use illegal power fences and set up uninsulated wire perimeters around their farm, and electrify them using their legal meter connections. Soft footed animals like tigers, bears, and leopards face instant death after coming in contact with them.” In 2017, Maharashtra recorded 21 tiger deaths, highest in a decade and second highest in India. Of the 21, six tigers were electrocuted either purposely or through accidental electrocution, making this a serious concern for the forest department to deal with. Cases had been reported from Chandrapur, Nagpur, Wardha, and Bhramapuri, including the death of iconic tiger Jai’s son Srinivas in Nagbhid range in April. A committee set up by the forest department in July 2017 called the Working Group on Electrocution comprising the Maharashtra chief wildlife warden, regional director of the Maharashtra State Electricity Development Corporation Ltd. (MSEDCL), a scientist from Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun and Desai studied tiger movement and possible solutions to the electrocution issue in the Vidarbha landscape. The group has identified over 1,000 villages where these fences have been set up. Interventions led to the installation of solar fences across 556 villages in Vidarbha and 150 villages across central Maharashtra and Konkan, replacing high-intensity electric fences.“Since 2017, the committee through stakeholders has conducted several workshops wherein the MSEDCL officers and forest field staff have been exposed to issues related to electrocution. Exchange of ideas, contacts and suggestions highlighted the seriousness involved with this whole issue, said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra adding that now a group (including forest and MSEDCL) of officials work specifically with electrocution related issues in Vidarbha where alerts and anonymous tip-offs are immediately responded to on-site. “This has led to better coordination among all groups but one can never be complacent about this issue since it continues to be a looming threat,” said Kakodkar.In October 2016, the Union environment ministry issued guidelines detailing safe practices to avoid animal deaths due to electrocution by power transmission lines directing electricity distribution companies to preferably use air bunching of cables (ABC) - overhead ones or use underground cables as much as possible.Every case of animal electrocution reported is being taken with utmost seriousness by us,” said Avinash Sahare, superintending engineer (Nagpur), MSEDCL. “Along with the forest department, we have jointly surveyed core and peripheral forest areas where locations have been identified where ABC can be implemented. We are working on ways to ensure cables are tied together in such a manner that they cannot be tampered with.”Desai said ABC was a costly proposition but other measures included solar fencing, joint patrolling, and identifying sensitive sections where incidents have taken place repeatedly as hot spots. “There has been a positive decline in cases in Maharashtra from 2018-20 but the risk lingers,” he said.The Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) landscape in Vidarbha alone has witnessed 16 deaths in 2017 and 11 in 2018 due to animals being electrocuted by live wires in farms adjacent to forest patches with the majority of the cases in buffer areas. “As of now, ABC is being implemented in the Tadoba landscape, and based on the feasibility, we will extend to other places,” said Kakodkar.A senior forest official requesting anonymity said, “Since executing ABC is costly, the committee looking into electrocution needs to come up with a strategy to fund expenditure on this technique equally for MSEDCL, forest department and the district bodies for effective and timely implementation.”EFFORTS TAKEN SO FAR TO CURB ELECTRIC FENCING- Removing illegal fences, hooks and power supply lines coming from high tension wires in the vicinity- Joint patrolling with MSEDCL officials during the day and night to check areas prone to electrocution and issue notices, booking villagers who have flouted electricity norms- Awareness drives across villages about how these fences can be fatal for all animals and how it needs to be done only when necessary- With the help of the forest department, WPSI launched a scheme where cash rewards will be presented to villagers who alert the committee about illegal fences and similar violations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-300-wild-animals-killed-by-electrocution-in-india-over-a-decade-report/story-zK5yrodyMJyxhMtNhjmtFI.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||District administration plans to establish a new public library in DLF Phase-1||Having renovated the old district library in Civil Lines in 2019, the district administration is now planning to set up a second public library in DLF Phase-1. From having a collection of more than 50,000 books for general readers, students and the elderly, the library will also have an employment desk and audio classes for the visually impaired.The library is being funded by the Haryana corporate social responsibility (CSR) advisory board, and the district administration plans to inaugurate the library by next year. Officials said they were in the final phase of confirming the plot required for the library. “The project has been approved by the district administration. The team is in the last phase of finalising the land,” said Gaurav Singh, additional chief executive officer and regional head, Haryana CSR advisory board, Gurugram region. The idea to establish a second public library in the district was mooted after noticing the increased footfall in the old district library, officials said. “Before Covid-19, it was noticed that old district library was receiving a positive response from students. After the renovation, the footfall increased from 80 to 230 on a daily basis,” said Singh. “Corporates have expressed their interest in setting up the modern library for the city after visiting the district library in old Gurugram. The new library will give an easy access to people living in the new Gurugram areas,” he said. According to Singh, the plot selected for the library comes under the jurisdiction of child welfare department(CWC), which has agreed to extend support. “For the appointment of the staff at the library, the department of higher education is likely to be roped in,” he said.Several official meetings have taken place for this project, whereby the administration teams visited some of the Delhi-based public libraries and the one at Management Development Institute in Gurugram. “By visiting these libraries, we are trying to incorporate some of their best practices in our plan, such as having books on subjects of foreign languages, study material on higher education, and books on both fiction and non-fiction,” said Singh, adding that the place will also have an employment desk, where students can inquire about the existing vacancies in government or private sectors and public sector undertakings (PSUs). To give it a modern look, the place is likely to have an eating area. Singh said that the plan is to make the library functional round the clock, provided that there is sufficient security facility. “But for the initial three months, it will be operational from 9am to 7pm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-plans-to-establish-a-new-public-library-in-dlf-phase-1/story-HygYMUnuyn10s5o8QtchlN.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Illegal colony in Sector 37D demolished||A demolition drive was carried out by the enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Monday in Sector 37D where an illegal colony was being developed amid large residential townships without any permission from the authorities, said officials.DTCP officials said the team demolished plinths, boundary walls, and other structures built to develop an illegal residential colony on a two-acre plot.“A large house was also demolished completely, while two similar structures under construction were also razed to the ground. A large boundary wall and pillars on the plot were also demolished. We will also write to officials of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) regarding the presence of illegal commercial shops that have come up in the area but are under their jurisdiction,” said RS Bhath, district town planner.A team of Gurugram police comprising around 50 personnel supported the enforcement officials in the exercise, the officials said.Bhath also said the enforcement team also visited the Suncity commercial area in Sector 57 and got all the encroachments removed from its corridors and lanes. “ We had received a number of complaints from the residents, so the team visited the commercial area on Monday and got the encroachments removed. We have also told all the shopkeepers that such violations should not be repeated, else, they would face stringent action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/illegal-colony-in-sector-37d-demolished/story-tTzgFOrY2wa2hEVyejcCMN.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Health department struggles to track people providing office address as ID for Covid-19 tests||The district health department has once again directed the private diagnostic labs administering Covid-19 tests to ask for complete residential address for verification and contact tracing of people who are getting tested in their facilities.Many people have been allegedly providing their office addresses instead of residential ones, as per health department officials, thereby making it difficult for the authorities to reach out to them and trace their contacts.With industrial units resuming operations and multiple offices opening up in the district since Unlock 4, many people coming from the neighbouring cities for work here are getting tested in Gurugram labs, officials said. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that more than 60 such cases are being reported every day. “Of these over 20 cases are transferred to the police department for tracking as the rapid response teams (RRTs) are unable to reach out to them. Even for the police, it takes a day or two to trace such cases,” said Yadav.On Saturday, in a meeting with the representatives of private labs and hospitals conducting Covid-19 tests, the district administration directed them to focus on proper address verification of those seeking Covid-19 tests in order to avoid hassle pertaining to contact tracing of positive cases.“Many people from Delhi, Faridabad, Noida are coming to Gurugram as multiple industrial units and offices are now functional. It has come into our notice that many of these people are getting tested in the labs of Gurugram but are submitting their office address. Though they are spend eight hours or more in the city because of work, their residential address is taken is the only valid proof,” said Yadav.Although contact tracing of cases has remarkably improved from 82% in August to almost 97% in September, there is still a pendency of more than 150 cases every alternate day as numbers keep piling up. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “Besides tracing such cases, enough time is consumed in changing the details on the government portal and further transferring the case to the respective city of the positive patient.”On the other hand, Rishabh Rajput, director of Covid-19 and microbiology division, Modern Diagnostics, said that besides recording the permanent address, which is shown in valid ID proofs such as Aadhaar cards, they also ask people to write down their temporary address. “As per the health department’s directive, these details have to be further verified at the lab’s end,” he said. Gurugram is currently conducting nearly 3,000 tests on an average in both government and private labs taken together. This figure includes both RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-struggles-to-track-people-providing-office-address-as-id-for-covid-19-tests/story-FBaxu7fT9XkGP7iqp9vx4I.html
05-10-2020||City||Two CBSE schools in Ludhiana reopen after 7 months amid precautions||Two private schools affiliated to the Central Board Secondary School (CBSE) re-opened on Monday following the odd-even plan and with all safety precautions in place, seven months after the nationwide lockdown was announced amid the Covid-19 pandemic.At Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, the odd and even roll number students will attend classes from 8am to 11 am and 11.30am to 2.30pm respectively.With all safety measures in place, students of Classes 10 and 12 attended classes according to their roll numbers. Students had to undergo thermal screening at the entry gate and all social distancing norms were followed. The school authorities said that more parents have given consent to send their children to school. With just five months left for board exams, teachers are clearing students’ doubts and trying to complete thesyllabus in time.Principal Harmeet Kaur Waraich said, “We have reopened the school with all safety measures in place. Students of Classes 10 and 12 are coming to school following the odd-even plan and after October 30, if everything goes well, we will allow students of Classes 9 and 11 to visit the school for doubt clearance.”At BCM School, Dugri, students of Classes 10 and 12 will report on alternate days.While, on Monday, Class 12 students of all streams reported in two batches. Students of the science and humanities stream came in the first batch and commerce students reported in the second batch. Over 72 students took guidance from subject teachers and only six students were allowed in a class to maintain social distancing. Principal Vandna Shahi said, “To make the students aware of Covid precautions, we have sent a video explaining the importance of wearing masks, interacting with anyone from a distance, and staying at home if unwell. I have also visited all the classrooms and taken all precautions for the safety of students and staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-cbse-schools-reopen-after-7-months-amid-precautions/story-magOmtHhihKwGV0V4eIOFK.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Four held in Ludhiana for stealing mobile phones from labourers||Four men were arrested in Ludhiana on Monday for allegedly stealing mobile phones from labourers. The police have recovered eight mobile phones from their possession.The accused have been identified as Sulesh Kumar, 21, Anil Rana, 19 – both residents of Hazuri Bagh Colony; Sahil, 19, of Chitti Colony and Sachin, 21, of Bhattiyan. They were arrested during special checking near Daresi Ground.Inspector Satwant Singh, station house officer (SHO) at Division Number 4 Police Station, said that the accused stole mobile phones from labourers after entering their rooms and sold them.He added that the accused are drug addicts and committed the thefts to fund their habits. A case has been registered.The SHO said that more important information is expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-held-in-ludhiana-for-stealing-mobile-phones-from-labourers/story-8JykLYlj7PRQs9ZCRofVGJ.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||CHB to auction 200 properties by December end||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will offer more than 200 properties for sale by the end of December and is likely to lower last year’s reserve prices.Residential and commercial properties, both leasehold and freehold, will be auctioned and the CHB is currently drawing up a list of the units with their reserve prices. “In addition to the properties listed for auction last year, new units will be included too,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.Reserve prices could be cut as the response to the auction last year was not on expected lines, he added. “We will offering the properties for auction by December end,” Garg confirmed.CHB’s committee on reserve prices is deliberating on the revised costs to find what’s attractive for buyers and as soon the revised rates are submitted, the housing board will fix the auction dates, he added. Last auction a damp squibCHB’s last auction in December 2019 turned out to be a damp squib due to lack of buyer response to its 212 properties, the blame for which was pinned on high reserve prices.The offerings included 64 residential units, of which nine were on leasehold and 55 on freehold. Most of these were located in Sector 63. All the 48 commercial properties offered were on leasehold.CHB also faced flak for the high property prices. For instance, the reserve price of a two-bedroom apartment in Sector 51 was Rs 99.92 lakh and that of an economically weaker section apartment was Rs 30 lakh. A one bedroom apartment in Sector 63 had a reserve price of Rs 54.80 lakh. Prices of commercial properties ranged from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 2 crore.The highest reserve price of Rs 1.07 crore was fixed for a freehold 3-BHK (bedroom hall kitchen) apartment in Sector 63. In the leasehold segment, a high income group apartment in Sector 39 had a reserve price of Rs 1.31 crore.Condition of properties a concernThe condition of CHB properties, both residential and commercial, which had remained vacant for years, will also be offered in the auction.Most of the units are located in Manimajra, sectors 45, 41, 47, 39, 38 west, 49 and 51.“The condition of such properties which have remained unused and vacant for a long time is deteriorating and CHB, which is also losing revenues simultaneously, has to spend considerable sums of money on their maintenance,” said a CHB official wishing to remain anonymous.Encroachment too is a concern, so “CHB has formed a team dedicated to periodically check all the vacant properties,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chb-to-auction-200-properties-by-december-end/story-eaaGAt6QxJqyqTERpSRaLO.html
05-10-2020||City||Ambala: 42 arrested for smuggling liquor in September||The police arrested 42 accused in 32 cases of illegal liquor smuggling in the month of September, SP Rajesh Kalia said on Monday.As per official figures, the police seized 29,416 bottles of English liquor and 3,029 bottles of local liquor in these cases.In a statement, Kalia appealed to the citizens to immediately report persons involved in illicit liquor or drug smuggling to the police. He also urged the youth to be aware and not get involved in the cycle of intoxication.In the five cases with maximum recovery of illicit liquor in the month, the police raided three godowns, seized a truck, and found contraband in a drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-42-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-in-september/story-GR5osmNrmdGS6DAv6lSI5K.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor faces criticism from party members over bias||Mayor Balkar Sandhu, who had earlier been targeted by opposition leaders, is now facing criticism from leaders of his own party for not involving councillors of their respective constituencies in committees being formed for different development works. Congress MLA from Ludhiana east, Sanjay Talwar, and in-charge of Atam Nagar constituency, Kamaljit Singh Karwal, have raised objections over the non-inclusion of councillors from their respective constituencies from official tours being organised to study solid waste management and establishment of construction and demolition (C and D) waste plant. While a team of six councillors and MC officials is already on an official tour to Indore to study solid waste management, the mayor and few others councillors along with MC officials are expected to visit Jodhpur to study C and D waste plant on Tuesday. Karwal wrote a letter to the mayor on Monday seeking inclusion of councillors from Atam Nagar constituency in committees. “We cannot work for the development of the city by ignoring an entire constituency. If some changes have to be made in the working or a project has to be implemented, the mayor should involve councillors from every constituency. Only then can councillors learn and implement new policies for the betterment of public,” the letter stated.MLA Talwar said, “There are 14 Congress councillors in the east constituency, but not a single one has been made a part of these committees. Efforts should be made to take up development in the entire city and all constituencies should be considered equally. The mayor represents the entire city and no constituency should be left behind in terms of development.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that no constituency is being ignored and councillors from East and Atam Nagar constituencies will also be involved in the committees. He added that the list of councillors who will be visiting Jodhpur is not final yet and a councillor from Atam nagar constituency is also being included in the list.This is not the first time that MLA Talwar has raised objection on the working of the mayor. Earlier too, they had been at loggerheads over alleged discrimination while taking up developmental works. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mayor-faces-criticism-from-party-members-over-bias/story-tvJmclLdevB0CWyvPVu2vM.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: AAP criticises BJP over imposition of new taxes||With the local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) planning to contest the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections on all seats, its members criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for imposing multiple new taxes in the city during its rule. AAP convener Prem Garg, in a press conference on Monday, said that AAP will not impose any new taxes if it gets a majority in the MC elections. Garg welcomed former senior Congress leader Chander Mukhi Sharma into the party fold and nominated him as the in-charge for the upcoming MC elections. Sharma said, “A lot of grassroots leaders were being ignored in the Congress party because they refused to be sycophants of the Bansal family.” Chitranjan Chanchal, ex-district president, Congress, along with Ashok Kumar Danny, Ashwani Kumar Pandu, Girish Kapoor, and Raj Chadha, also joined the party. Garg said that if AAP comes to power, it will work on making the MC financially strong and profitable without imposing any new taxes. It will rationalise the current taxes without compromising on the quality of services and development of the city by cutting down the wasteful expenditure, controlling the corruption and generation of revenue from unutilised resources of the corporation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-aap-criticises-bjp-over-imposition-of-new-taxes/story-mRjLNkV5LYKj6EDpiVc4vK.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Reopening of schools: Chandigarh education department seeks parents’ views||The UT education department has directed all government schools to hold online parent-teacher meetings to get parents’ viewpoints regarding the central government’s instructions under Unlock 5.0 to allow students of more classes to go for academic consultation to schools from October 15.The district education officer (DEO) mailed all principals and heads of government schools asking them to get parents’ views regarding reopening of schools. At government schools, academic consultations are already going on for classes 9 to 12, and around 1,500 to 2,000 students attend school daily.DEO Ravinder Kaur said, “Schools have been instructed to get proper feedback from parents regarding their expectations from the schools and whether they will consider sending their wards from October 15 onwards. We have asked schools to compile the feedback and send it to us by October 8.”PRIVATE SCHOOLS ASKED TO SHARE ATTENDANCE DATAWhile the government schools have some students attending the classes, private schools have reported almost nil attendance. The education department has sought more attendance related details from all recognized private schools. The DEO has asked if students have been attending school from September 21 onwards and if they have been, then what has been the average attendance. The viewpoints of the school authorities and parents regarding the ministry of home affairs’ (MHA) order have been sought by October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reopening-of-schools-chandigarh-education-department-seeks-parents-views/story-USWEQPx7MRtbJOxq11GjBO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: PU dental college proposes online exams for BDS students||Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and, Hospital has proposed to conduct the exams of all undergraduate (UG) classes online this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After getting a nod from the Dental Council of India (DCI) to conduct exams according to their feasibility, the institute proposed to the varsity that the postgraduate (PG) exams be held offline as the number of students is small. PU has conducted the examinations of all exit UG and PG students but, the exams at its dental college are yet to be taken. An internal meeting of the college was held last month. According to sources, the UG exams have been proposed to begin from mid-October and the PG exams from November 1. Around 400 UG students and 17 PG students will be writing the exams.A faculty member, seeking anonymity, said, “We have already sent our proposal regarding the PG and UG examinations to the varsity. We want the exams to be held soon so that students’ time is not wasted.” Dr Jagat Bhushan, principal of the college, said, “We are waiting for the final notification from the university.” In August, after receiving a request from the dental college for the conduct of exams, a special panel of the university had allowed the college to conduct the UG exams in blended mode, while for postgraduates it has permitted regular exams, subject to DCI permissions. After this, the college had written to the DCI to seek their permission. The DCI, in its advisory of June 30, 2020, had directed all colleges/universities to conduct theory examinations for UG and PG, strictly following the council’s norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-pu-dental-college-proposes-online-exams-for-bds-students/story-Au1w58YsRQOVM1hfLeh1BN.html
05-10-2020||City||Auto agency employee booked for forging dead Ludhiana man’s signature||Police have booked a man for allegedly forging the signature of a dead car owner to procure a duplicate registration certificate (RC) of his vehicle from the Regional Transport Office with the intention of selling it. The accused has been identified as Birbal Talwar, a resident of Ahata Sher Jung. He was booked following a complaint by Seema Rani, of Ahata Faqeer Chand, Samrala Chowk area, mother of the deceased, Raman Arora.Rani told the police that her son owned a Maruti Suzuki Swift car. After he died of dengue in January 2016, his wife fraudulently sold the car to an agency.For this, his wife took Talwar’s help to obtain a duplicate RC using forged signature, and thereon, the agency managed to sell the car to a Barnala resident. Talwar also filed a complaint about missing documents before applying for the duplicate RC.When Rani came to know about it, she filed a police complaint in 2017.However, police kept delaying the matter, forcing them to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court in February this year, her brother, Rajan Katyal said. Following a court order, police finally lodged an FIR, but did not name Raman’s wife in it, he added. Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Division Number 5 police station, said the daughter-in-law’s involvement in the matter could not be ascertained during investigation. However, Talwar had been booked under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-agency-employee-booked-for-forging-dead-ludhiana-man-s-signature/story-WltraifI9U8Mp96bHnVR6K.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Air quality dips in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad as Punjab, Haryana burn stubble||The air quality over the past one week (September 29 to October 5), has deteriorated in the cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida with Punjab and Haryana starting their annual exercise of burning crop stubble to prepare the fields for rabi (winter) crops. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the average air quality index (AQI) for the past on week is inching towards the ‘poor’ category, even though winter is yet to set in. The CPCB data shows that the same period the previous year had much better air quality with the AQI remaining in ‘moderate’ and ‘satisfactory’ categories. The average AQI for Ghaziabad was 199.86, just a few decimals shy of the ‘poor’ category, while it was 97.29 during the same period in 2019. The city had ‘poor’ AQI on five days of the week.On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value above 200 is considered ‘poor’, while a value above 300 is considered ’very poor ’. A value between 100 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’ and below 100, ‘good’.In Greater Noida, the average AQI during the week was 186.29, again inching towards ‘poor’. In comparison, it had an average AQI of 107.29 during the same period last year. The city had ‘poor’ AQI on two days. The average AQI in Noida stood at 172.71 during the week, while it was much better at 97.57 during the same period in 2019. However, unlike Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, the AQI did not reach the ‘poor’ category during the current week in Noida. Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the north-easterly winds currently blowing over the region are responsible for the deterioration in air quality. “The winds are coming from Haryana and Punjab and bringing with them the pollution from stubble burning in the two states. The winds will change direction -- to slower easterlies -- in the next two or three days. This will prevent faster dispersal of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. According to statistics from the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modeling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory , an interdisciplinary research initiative of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, there have been 537 instances of residue burning in Punjab between October 1 and October 4.The number was only 63 during the same period in 2019. In Haryana, the stubble fires during the period are 116, while they were just 49 during the same period in 2019. Likewise, Uttar Pradesh saw 33 farm fires between October 1 and 4, as against only eight during the same period in 2019. Overall, there have been 686 instances of stubble burning during the first four days of October in the three states. This was just 120 during the same period in 2019. The IMD officials also attributed the deterioration in AQI to less rainfall. “The last spell of heavy rain in the region was on September 6, followed by very light spells on September 7 and 8. Thereafter, we have had no rain that could have settled the pollutants. In 2019, September saw several spells of rain, which helped reduce pollutants. The coming week, too, there is no prediction of rain for the region,” Srivastava said. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board in Ghaziabad and Noida said they have started pollution abatement measures. “This September, we had less rain unlike the previous year. We are also keeping a tab on instances of stubble burning in rural areas. The winter action plan has already been drawn up and directions issued to different departments to take pollution abatement measures,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB, Ghaziabad. Officials are also monitoring the two major construction sites -- Delhi-Meerut Expressway and the Regional Rapid Transit System -- to keep dust under check. “The present deterioration in AQI in Ghaziabad is mainly due to the high readings from Loni, where several infrastructure works are in progress. Different agencies and construction sites are also in the process of purchasing anti-smog guns and installing cameras for better monitoring. We are hopeful that the AQI this winter will remain better than it did last year,” he said. Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida, said local contributions to the deterioration in AQI was negligible. “The PM (particulate matter) 10 level has shown an increase during the past couple of days. We have already started pollution abatement measures and the authority has initiated washing of roads at night twice a week to reduce dust pollution. The police have also identified traffic congestion points and these areas are being monitored. We are also ensuring that the directions issued by the UPPCB for construction sites are being complied with,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-dips-in-noida-greater-noida-and-ghaziabad-as-punjab-haryana-burn-stubble/story-UINCUTSgWTcEvqKXy5ctZJ.html
05-10-2020||Noida||₹22.5 crore C&D waste treatment plant begins operations in Noida||A construction and demolition (C&D) waste processing plant, built at a cost of ₹22.5 crore, began operations in Sector 80 on Monday. The authority had conceived the project in 2017 to deal with construction waste, which posed a huge challenge to the city authorities. Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and Gautam Budh Nagar MP Dr Mahesh Sharma were present at the event to mark the launch of the plant.The authority had on September 6, 2018, hired Ramky Reclamation and Recycling Limited to process of C&D waste. According to the contract, the firm set up a plant in Sector 80 with a capacity to process 300 metric tonnes of construction waste daily.Officials said the agency can sell the recycled products and earn revenue. The agency will make bricks, tiles and other material to raise funds out of selling these items.“Companies or other units that generate 20 metric tonnes of construction waste daily or 300 metric tonnes monthly would be considered as bulk waste generators. These bulk waste generators will have to pay Rs495 per tonne to the authority for the treatment of their waste. If they collect and transport their waste to the plant, then they can pay Rs148 per tonne for treatment only,” said SC Mishra senior project engineer of the Noida authority.There are 20 collection points, where the agency will first collect the waste and then transport to the plant.There are at least 400 ongoing housing projects in Noida and hundreds of other infrastructure projects that include road repair, road resurfacing, repair of drains, development of parks and other individual construction sites. Construction or demolition waste generated at these sites used to be thrown on vacant places. Now that the plant is operational, this waste will be treated as per rules.“Our aim is to make the city neat and clean. To make the city clean, it is of utmost importance that we handle the construction and demolition waste properly as per the 2016 waste management rules. This plant will make sure the city’s roads and vacant places are not filed up with he construction or demolition waste,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/22-5-crore-c-d-waste-treatment-plant-begins-operations-in-noida/story-8g1FOmpdKJsmcF6gkDCK7O.html
05-10-2020||Kolkata||Guv Dhankhar stirs another controversy, says ‘Bengal police trying to cover up BJP leader’s murder’||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday stirred up a controversy by accusing the state police of trying to cover up the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla, 39, who was gunned down at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas on Sunday night. Dhankhar even called for “independent expert probe” after meeting Chandramani Shukla, the father of the deceased, and a team of BJP leaders who demanded a CBI probe. “According to delegation it is a targeted political killing as hatched conspiracy and calls for independent expert probe,” the governor tweeted in the evening. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra and other leaders raised the same demand. Trinamool Congress (TMC) described Dhankhar’s statement as “irresponsible” and alleged that Shukla was involved in extortion and murders and was propped up by BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP, Arjun Singh. “The governor should know Shukla’s background before making irresponsible statements. People in the region lived in fear because of him. He started his political career with the CPI(M) before joining the TMC and finally, the BJP,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member from Dum Dum, the constituency located next to Barrackpore. “I know this well because Shukla lived in my constituency,” said Roy. Also read: Is YSR Congress joining NDA? CM Jagan flies to Delhi to meet PM amid buzzAfter Shukla’s body was released by autopsy experts at Kolkata’s NRS hospital, Bengal BJP leaders tried to take it to the Governor House on Monday evening. This led to a high-pitch drama and traffic chaos in the heart of Kolkata. The police stopped the convoy on SN Banerjee Road, saying prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC are permanently enforced around the Raj Bhawan. After a series of heated exchange with police officials, four BJP leaders and Chandramani Shukla were allowed to go to the Raj Bhawan. The rest of the convoy and the hearse left for Titagarh.  Tearful Chandra Mani Shukla father of 39 year ony son Manish pleaded for fair investigation. Slain Munish, an advocate, had multiple bullet injuries in head. According to delegation it is a targeted polical killing as hatched conspiracy and calls for independent expert probe. pic.twitter.com/krtdjeLhcC“My son was a social worker who ran a dozen community kitchens during the Covid-19 lockdown. He used to organize blood donation camps and help school students from poor families by paying their school fees. The governor said he would do everything possible to seek justice for my son. I want a CBI probe,” said Chandramani Shukla after meeting Dhankhar. The West Bengal police said during the day that Shukla, who was an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality, faced several charges of murder and attempted murder. The state police also said that his death could be related to personal enmity. “A person was shot dead last evening in Titagarh area of Barrackpore. Police is investigating the crime and looking into all possible reasons including personal enmity because the victim was accused in some cases of murder and attempt of murder,” tweeted the state police without naming Shukla.  A person was shot dead last evening in Titagarh area of Barrackpore. Police is investigating the crime and looking into all possible reasons including personal enmity because the victim was accused in some cases of murder and attempt of murder.. (1/2)“Please do not jump on conclusion without proper investigation. Irresponsible comments on social media tantamount to interference in the investigation. Please refrain from this,” the state police said in a second tweet. The governor retweeted this, saying, “Criminal Jurisprudence Principles thoroughly sacrificed @WBPolice @MamataOfficial An all out effort to cover up and fishing for alibis. The manner of this dastardly act calls for focus on all angles including terror. West Bengal Police far distanced from fair investigation.” While Titagarh witnessed pitched battle between police and BJP workers who observed bandh in large parts of the Barrackpore, the governor targeted the state government shortly after the state’s new chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay met him and held a discussion on several issues for more than two hours. “Conveyed my concern of the present alarming scenario @MamataOfficial to the new Chief Secretary. Am sure Chief Minister would be indicated all these critical aspects that run down democratic governance and lawlessness. Political violence and targeted killings must stop,” the governor tweeted at 1.35 pmEarlier in the morning, Dhankhar expressed his anguish that the director-general of police and the home secretary did not meet him on the Titagarh incident despite his direction. “Alarming nosediving law and order scenario @MamataOfficial. Targeted political killings in spite of alert by Constitutional Head. Neither ACS Home nor DGP @WBPolice responded. To CM at 10.47 PM. Would like to speak to you urgently ! Only silence that speaks volumes,” the governor tweeted at 10.02 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/guv-dhankhar-stirs-another-controversy-says-bengal-police-trying-to-cover-up-bjp-leader-s-murder/story-AupmrW23pC2jQxUv8BZ5wO.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Three arrested for stalking women in a car on Delhi-Meerut Road||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police late Saturday night arrested three men for allegedly following in their car a 35-year-old woman who was driving from Meerut to Noida, along with her sister and a personal security guard. The incident took place on the Delhi-Meerut Road, the police said, adding that the three suspects, two of them engineers, were arrested on charges of molestation, stalking and beating up the security guard. The woman said in her complaint that on the evening of October 3 she, along with her sister and the guard, were driving on the Delhi-Meerut Road in Ghaziabad when three suspects in their Skoda Rapid car began to follow them. The woman was going to her house in Noida. “Initially, they were driving rash and tried to overtake my car. Then they started to hurl abuses and even made vulgar signs towards us. As they continued their chase, we stopped near a showroom at the Delhi-Meerut Road when we saw a traffic policeman and decided to seek help,” the woman said in her FIR lodged at Sihani Gate police station. “In between the suspects also started clicking pictures of us and preparing videos. My security guard told them not to do so but they continued their acts,” she added. After the complainant sent the security guard to complain to the policeman and when he returned back to the car, the suspects arrived and pulled the guard out of the car and started beating him up, she said. “Upon this, many people gathered and some policemen also came who nabbed the suspects. They also threatened us that they have high contacts and it will be of no use if we lodge a police complaint. However, the police took them to the police station,” the woman added further. Based on the complaint, the police registered an FIR under IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354d (stalking), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). The police identified the suspects as Romil Kumar, who is from Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan, and working as an engineer with a company in Noida, and his friend Rajat Rana of Indirapuram who is also a BTech and working with a company in Noida. The third suspect was identified as Shubham Pandey, a resident of Indirapuram who is also working after completing his course in mass communication. “We arrested the three suspects based on a complaint given by the woman. The three men were chasing her car on Delhi-Meerut Road and also misbehaved. The three suspects were unknown to the complainant. The further investigation is on,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-for-stalking-women-in-a-car-on-delhi-meerut-road/story-OqEtCS7uHXuiVV0sCe7evK.html
05-10-2020||City||Newlywed Ludhiana woman kidnapped by parents, husband beaten up||Police are on the lookout for a couple who allegedly kidnapped their newlywed daughter and snatched Rs 12,000 in cash and a mobile phone from her husband after assaulting him.The accused have been identified as Mohammad Rihan and his wife Samay, residents of New Punjabi Bagh Colony.Their son-in-law, Pawan Kumar, 32, of Chanderlok Colony, complained to the police that he and his wife, Sofia, alias Sonia, had gotten married against the wishes of her family in August, and also filed a writ petition in court for security.However on September 26, Sofia’s mother Samay visited them and invited them for dinner on September 28, while assuring them that they had accepted their marriage.When the couple visit the woman’s paternal home, her parents and two relatives attacked Kumar with an iron rod, and left in a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire with Sofia.Kumar said he had been trying to locate his wife himself since then, but could not find any leads. Therefore, he approached the police on Sunday.ASI Baljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping), 379 (theft), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the woman’s parents and two relatives. Further investigation is underway to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newlywed-ludhiana-woman-kidnapped-by-parents-husband-beaten-up/story-UK4PgNfNXnXvmTmHpN2OHO.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body starts centralised call centre for complaints||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation Monday started their centralised call centre to address complaints of residents related to water supply, sewage, drainage, road repair, and lighting, among others. The municipal officials said the call centre will provide them with a single window for complaints redressal. The call centre is located on the fifth floor of the corporation headquarters at Navyug Market. In case any written or manual complaint is given by a resident, they will also be routed through the call centre.The officials said residents can call up on the toll-free number -- 18001803012 -- for registering complaints centre and they will in turn receive text message, indicating their complaint number as well as of the official who will be taking up the redressal. “Currently, we received about 150 to 200 complaints daily and these are either given to department heads or the official concerned -- some even go to the office of the municipal commissioner. Now, residents can call up on one toll-free number and the call centre has the capacity to attend to six calls at a time. Besides the toll-free number, we have also issued three landline numbers on which complaints can be lodged,” MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner, said. The corporation has staffed the new call centre with 12 employees who attend calls and maintain records, besides routing the complaints to the departments concerned. “The call centre will be operational from 8am to 8pm daily. In the coming days, the call centre will start monitoring the complaints which are posted by residents on social media. For this, we will soon issue one verified handle to which complaints can be tagged. Further, we are also trying to integrate the call centre with the integrated grievance redressal system (IGRS) portal. If any complaint pertaining to civic issues goes to the UP government’s IGRS portal, the same will be routed to our call centre,” Tanwar said. Officials said all protocols of the Citizens’ Charter will be adhered to while registering and attending to complaints. They said although the call centre has started functioning, the month of October will be considered a test run and required changes will be made thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-civic-body-starts-centralised-call-centre-for-complaints/story-qDtKq9R4FMl0Ufp4Q9M2yK.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Noida’s first musical fountain starts dancing in Sector 91||The city’s first musical fountain was opened to the public in Sector 91 by the Noida authority on Monday. The fountain has been developed at a cost of ₹4.4 crore at the medicinal park that is part of the Biodiversity Park near the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, officials said.A music and sound show will be organised in the evening daily, officials said. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the authority will allow entry to only 75 visitors at a time to enjoy the musical fountain. “Visitors can enjoy the musical fountain in medicinal park located in Sector 91. There will be no entry fee for visiting the fountain that will entertain the visitors and also send across meaningful messages via music. The visitors can enjoy the show daily after 7pm without any charges,” said Rajiv Tyagi, general manager, Noida authority.On Monday, some shows on ayurveda were organised as part of the inauguration ceremony. During the laser and sound show, patriotic songs were played for visitors, the officials said.“Every day, we will play patriotic songs and stories about the legendary personalities, who played a crucial role in the field of art, history, health, politics and social service, among others,” said Tyagi.Spread over a 75-acre green area along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, the Biodiversity Park in Sector 91, once it becomes ready, would be the city’s largest park. The authority has planted as many as 4,322 traditional trees, including neem, jamun, banyan and mango, besides 19,625 ornamental trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-first-musical-fountain-starts-dancing-in-sector-91/story-kgrrBkjkDcSA6przH2d8YP.html
05-10-2020||City||Trucks rams into parked truck in Ludhiana; driver killed, two injured||A truck driver was killed and two men injured after the former rammed his vehicle into a parked truck near Dhandari bridge on National Highway 44 on Monday morning.The deceased was identified as Aarif, 32, of Uttar Pradesh. The injured men could not be identified as they left ESIC Hospital after first aid. “The trucks collided around 8.30am. Some onlookers called the ambulance and sent them to the hospital. While Aarif was declared dead, the injured men escaped from the hospital,” said ASI Jagdeep Singh, in-charge at Kanganwal police post.The driver of the parked truck fled the spot after the accident. He had been booked for causing death due to negligence, the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trucks-rams-into-parked-truck-in-ludhiana-driver-killed-two-injured/story-md5RaJugbb5w3ortfNdbqO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Numbers of Covid cases, tests drop in Chandigarh||There has been a significant drop in Covid-19 testing and cases in the two-week interval between September 21 to 28 and in the subsequent week up to October 4, official data shows. Tests have dropped below the 1,000 mark since September 28, recording a low of 766 on Sunday, of which only 85 cases were positive. Cases in double digits were last logged on August 19. Data of the last 15 days shows testing almost halving from 11,271 (conducted between September 21 to September 28) to 5,110 tests last week. This collates with a drop in the number of cases from 1,380 to 767 in the same period. Positivity rate (ratio of persons found positive among those tested), however, increased by three percentage points in these two weeks. Health authorities said fewer people were coming for tests to private and government labs as compared to last month.Many went ahead so far as to say that infection spread appeared to been contained because fewer contacts of infected persons were being tested. “Health education is important and authorities should stress on giving this message that people should come forward for tests even for mild symptoms which in turn can stop infection spread and fatalities,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, department of community medicine and school of public health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). On ease of getting tested, Dr Kumar suggested that mobile testing teams be set up to start community testing in case people were reluctant to go to centres. A trend had been noticed lately of youngsters with mild symptoms unwilling to come in for testing, said a community health expert at PGIMER. “This can be dangerous, otherwise the situation which is seen to be stabilising can spiral out of control again. Infection can spread because the majority of the population is still susceptible to the virus,” said another PGIMER expert wishing to remain anonymous. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the health department to focus on economically weaker sections to prevent infection spread in the densely populated colonies. He also directed the doctors’ committees to review the situation daily and recommend remedial measures accordingly. The Administrator directed all concerned to focus on testing, tracking and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/numbers-of-covid-cases-tests-drop-in-chandigarh/story-mcFs6k1rVPQjNJi4j3dnWI.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Pune-Lonavla local trains to resume operations from October 12||Pune – Lonavla local trains will resume operations from October 12, according to railway officials, who said that the decision was taken after a detailed discussion among stakeholders who sought more time for preparations. It was earlier reported that the train service is likely to start on October 8, according to the letter written by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta to the Pune railway division. However, after subsequent meetings and discussion, the date has been postponed now. The number of passengers per local train will be reduced from 1,200 to 700 to maintain social distancing during the travel as per the instructions. Also a ‘QR code’ based e-pass system has been introduced which will be monitored by the IT cell of the Pune police department. People engaged in essential services will have to get the e-pass with the QR code and identity card in order to travel via the local trains. Since the countrywide lockdown began on March 23, all the train operations in the Pune railway division were stopped. Now almost after six months the local trains are starting back in Pune which is a major transport mode for working people between Pune to Lonavla stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-lonavla-local-trains-to-resume-operations-from-october-12/story-iAMGmUMtqrDl8Ou65BVaoM.html
05-10-2020||City||Pune district crosses 6,000 death toll mark||PUNE On Monday, Pune district crossed the 6,000 mark for deaths reported due to Covid-19. The district, as per the state health department, reported 1,215 fresh cases in 24 hours, which takes the final Covid-19 case count to 3.04 lakh cases. Of these, 2.39 lakh have recovered and the death toll stands at 6,003. The number of active cases stands at 59,000. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 399 new cases taking its final count to 65,753. Six deaths reported on Monday in Pune rural put the death toll at 1,288. Pune city reported 395 fresh cases taking its total count to 1,60,456 as of Monday. Twenty-one Covid-related deaths puts the death toll at 3,632. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 421 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its final count to 78,144. Three Covid-related deaths on Monday put the death toll at 1,082. The state health department reported that 12,982 patients were discharged taking the final count to 11,62,585. The recovery rate in the state is 80%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.64%. Currently, across the state, 22,00,160 people are under home quarantine, with 26,749 in institutional quarantines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-crosses-6-000-death-toll-mark/story-kwntLT7Hs9qR34mfC2oZ8L.html
05-10-2020||City||Heavy vehicles claim lives of bus passenger, cyclist in Ludhiana||Two men were mowed down by a bus and a truck in separate accidents in the city on Sunday.In the first case, a 35-year-old man was killed after a bus that he had just deboarded ran over him on RK Road.The deceased was identified as Mukesh Paswan, a native of Purnia, Bihar. His father, Mithu Kumar Paswan, told the police that his son and other migrant workers had hired a bus through Sameer Travels of Bihar to reach Jalandhar.However, on reaching Ludhiana, the bus driver refused to take them to Jalandhar and dropped them off on RK Road. When the passengers objected to this, he started to accelerate the bus.However, Mukesh tried to board the bus again from the front door. Noticing him, the bus driver swerved the vehicle suddenly, causing Mukesh to fall on the road. Before he could react, the bus ran over him, killing him on the spot. The unidentified bus driver managed to flee with the vehicle.ASI Dhanwant Singh, who is investigating the case, said the driver had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. A manhunt has been launched to arrest him.In another incident, a cyclist was run over by a truck near Oswal Chowk on Sunday. The deceased, Baijnath, 50, was a resident of Gian Chand Nagar.The truck driver, Suresh Kumar of Lopon, Moga, was nabbed by onlookers and handed over to the police.He was booked following a statement by Baijnath’s son Santosh Kumar, who stated that his father was returning home from work on Sunday night. When he reached near Oswal Chowk, the truck hit his cycle and crushed him to death as he fell on the road. A case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-vehicles-claim-lives-of-bus-passenger-cyclist-in-ludhiana/story-eNZqtDzu5h4qjzuUxaxYgJ.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Uttar Pradesh redefines Covid rules, containment radius around active cases reduced||As various social and commercial activities re-open, the Uttar Pradesh government has redefined parameters of containment zones for coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, shortening the radius around positive cases. According to the district administration, with the smaller area under the redefined containment zone, the concept of neighbourhood watch will be all the more important.In his directions for urban areas, Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari said that micro containment zones will be those wherein one house has one or more than one Covid-19 case. In addition to the house where the infected person lives, adjacent houses on either side will be included under the micro containment zone. He said all people living under such micro containment zones will be tested for Sars-Cov-2, the strain of coronavirus which has caused the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier, as per directions issued on July 24, a radius of 100 metre of a mohalla, whichever was less, was declared a containment zone if one case was found. If more than one case was found, the radius was 200 metre. An additional buffer zone also had to be created on the basis of local assessment by officials. “Since the government has now defined micro containment zones, lesser manpower resources will be required for their management. In such a case, the earlier concept of neighbourhood watch, which we had introduced during the start of home isolation, will play an important role. The neighbours will be asked to keep track of Covid-19 patients and inform the district administration accordingly,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. “However, regular monitoring and surveillance by the respective incident commanders (executive magistrates) will continue for better monitoring,” he added.The new directions have also specified cluster containment zones. The order said that in case multiple houses get positive cases, the containment area will be extended up to one house adjacent to the last affected house. This will be considered as a cluster containment zone, where strict perimeter controls will be undertaken based upon assessment by local administration. All people in these houses will be tested as per protocol. The Indian Council for Medical Research in its advisory on September 4 has advised for 100% testing in containment zones. The directions have, however, remained almost similar but with minor changes to the existing directions for sealing in high-rises and multi-storeyed buildings as part of containment zones. For the group housing as well as the multi-storeyed buildings, the state government’s directions say that if one floor has active Covid-19 cases, the entire floor will be sealed. in case floors have cases then only those floors which have Covid-19 cases will be sealed. According to previous norms, if several floors in a tower have active cases, the entire tower was to be sealed.The new directions also said that if Covid-19 cases are detected in more than one tower of a high-rise society, the respective towers along with common areas such as parks, gyms, swimming pools and community centre etc., should be sealed.The directions also clarified that in case a house has multiple cases, it will be considered to be having one instance, and it will be considered as one containment zone. “The parameters of containment zones have been redefined but no fixed radius has been directed for in the new directions given by the government. However, this will help other residents whose movements were earlier restricted as part of the containment zones. The revised guidelines will also be helpful to us in taking up 100% testing in containment zones. Earlier, the zones were bigger and required a huge workforce for testing and surveillance,” said an officer from the district health department, who wished not to be named.According to official records of the district administration, there were 231 containment zones till October 4 in Ghaziabad. On the other hand, Gautam Budh Nagar had 295 containment zones till October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uttar-pradesh-redefines-covid-rules-containment-radius-around-active-cases-reduced/story-8Q72HsR6uq97d2aFZw45RI.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad’s positivity rate declines after seven weeks||Even as fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases continue to be reported in Ghaziabad, the test positivity rate (TPR) has seen a decline after a long gap of seven weeks in the district. According to district health department officials, a minor decline was seen in the previous week in the average number of cases being reported daily, when figures of the last eight weeks were analysed. According to official records of the Ghaziabad health department, the week from September 28 to October 4 saw a TPR of 3.69%, with 37,126 tests resulting in 1,370 positives in the district. Before this, in the last eight weeks, the TPR was lowest in the week between August 3 and August 9 at 2.64%, the figures show. During this time, the weekly TPR fluctuated between 3.72% and 6.49%, district records show.“The decline in positivity rate is due to effective surveillance as well as better monitoring of surveillance teams, which go out for testing in containment zones. Apart from containment zones, we have been monitoring non-containment zones as well. The declining positivity rate is the result of all measures we have taken for effective management of Covid-19,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.The figures also indicate that the number of new cases has dropped even with higher testing. For instance, during the week from September 7 to September 13, the district conducted 24,949 tests, which resulted in 1,619 cases, with a positivity rate of 6.49%. “Nowadays, our average daily testing is between 5,500 and 6,000 tests. Despite this, however, the number of cases has reduced over the past three weeks. We are closely monitoring the daily cases with effective surveillance and higher daily testing. At present, we can say that the positivity rate is on a decline. However, we will observe trends for another two-three weeks before we can say for sure that the TPR is down,” said an officer from the district health department, who wished not to be named. According to official figures, since March, the district till October 4 had conducted a total of 3,35,610 tests, which resulted in 15,087 positive cases, with an overall positivity rate of 4.49%.“The trend indicates that we are now moving in a state of plateau. It is likely that this will continue for another one or two months and hopefully, we will be able to see a decline thereafter. The present peak of the pandemic has taken a lot of time to reach and might have been worse had it not been for the lockdown and other measures. However, there should be no complacency and all health protocols must be strictly observed,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad. According to the state control room records of October 5, the district had a total of 15,141 cases with the last 1,000 cases being reported in just six days. The district had touched the 10,000-cases mark on September 10. After this, however, the district saw about 1,000 fresh coronavirus cases being added every four-five days.Amit Mohan Prasad, Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (health), said on Monday that the overall positivity rate in the state has also seen a decline and that the number of active cases has also reduced.“The week between September 7 and 13 saw a TPR of 4.8% in the state, which has now reduced to 2.6% in the week between September 28 and October 4. The number of active cases is also on a decline. We had 68,235 active cases on September 17, which have now reduced to 45,025 (on October 5, as per state control room records). The overall recovery rate has now reached 87.75%,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-s-positivity-rate-declines-after-seven-weeks/story-8Z6wDJRrXZKbgFPKk77EEL.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Child’s body in steel trunk: Two sisters held for the murder of nephew||Two sisters, in their early twenties, were arrested Monday by the Surajpur police on charges of murdering their three-year-old nephew in Bhanota village of Greater Noida. The boy’s body was recovered from steel trunk at his maternal uncle’s home on September 29.The arrested women were identified as sisters Pinki (24) and Rinki (22) and they are the wives of his maternal uncles. According to the police, they killed the child as his mother was “interfering too much into their marriages”.According to the police, the boy, Bhavyansh, whose parents live in Sirsa village, had gone missing on the afternoon of September 29 while visiting his maternal uncles along with his mother. His maternal grandfather had filed a missing person complaint with the Surajpur police the same day after the family failed to find him even after a frantic search. A kidnapping case was initially registered which was later changed to one of murder after the boy’s body was discovered in a steel trunk around 9.30pm on September 29.The autopsy had revealed that the boy was suffocated to death. Police suspected the involvement of a family member in the child’s murder and pursued their investigation along those lines. On Monday, they arrested Bhavyansh’s aunts for his murder. “According to the two women, they were fed up with the boy’s mother (their sister-in-law) allegedly taunting them over various issues and for her alleged unnecessary interference into their marriages. The women resented their sister-in-law and decided to take out their frustration and anger on her child. So killed him,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander said.Police said Pinki lured the boy to them as he was familiar with her. “The two women then used a pillow to smother him. After Bhavyansh passed out, they stuffed him in the steel trunk, which they covered with a blanket. He was found over six hours later and by the time his parents rushed him to a hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. During their interrogation, the women admitted to the murder,” the DCP said.The women were produced in front of a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/child-s-body-in-steel-trunk-two-sisters-held-for-the-murder-of-nephew/story-TkQLZFBw4X7xmaUHhr60NP.html
05-10-2020||City||Dumping of untreated waste in sewer lines: Joint teams of MC, PPCB to conduct checks at dyeing units||With rising complaints against dumping of untreated waste in the municipal corporation (MC) sewer lines by dyeing owners, MLA Sanjay Talwar conducted a meeting with the officials of the civic body and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday. MC Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana also attended the meeting. Joint teams of MC and PPCB have been formed to conduct checks at dyeing and washing units and snap the additional disposal points of the dyeing industry apart from the one allowed by the authorities.Talwar directed the officials to take action against the dyeing units and snap their sewer connections if caught dumping untreated waste in the lines. He also raised the issue of overflowing sewer lines in different parts of his constituency due to excessive dumping of waste by dyeing and washing unit owners.Talwar said, “The residents of his constituency are facing a lot of problems due to dumping of untreated and excessive waste by owners of dyeing and washing units. In many areas, the sewer lines are overflowing but owners of dyeing units continue to dump untreated waste. This is also adding to the pollution in the Buddha Nullah.”“I have asked the officials to first inspect the scattered dyeing units in the city. The PPCB officials have assured that the two CETPs for Tajpur road and Focal Point dyeing industry would be ready by December 31, following which no one would be allowed to dump the effluents in MC sewer lines,” said Talwar adding that the officials have been told to give it in writing that no dyeing industry at Bahadurke road is dumping the waste in MC lines as the CETP for that industry has already been established.MC joint commissioner, Swati Tiwana said that PPCB will conduct sampling of the dyeing units to keep a check on the dumping of untreated waste and joint teams would conduct raids for snapping the illegal additional disposal points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dumping-of-untreated-waste-in-sewer-lines-joint-teams-of-mc-ppcb-to-conduct-checks-at-dyeing-units/story-Sge3b6AZRhWjFWGiiunoNL.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Man dies after roof of rented house collapse in Greater Noida||A 25-year-old man died when the roof of his rented accommodation collapsed in Surajpur, while a 30-year-old man lost his life in a road accident on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway on Monday.The first incident was reported around 5.30am. The victim, who was from West Bengal, was identified as Shankar Sarkar. According to police officers, he worked at a private company.“He was asleep at the time of the incident. It is an old house. In the morning, a portion of the roof collapsed, trapping Shankar under the debris. He was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said senior sub-inspector of Surajpur police station, Ram Chander.He said that another tenant sustained minor injuries in the collapse. “The body was sent for an autopsy. His family has been informed. So far, they have not filed any complaint. We will take necessary action once a formal complaint is registered,” said Chander.In the second incident, the 30-year-old man, who died in the road accident, was identified as Sachin, a Delhi resident who was travelling with his two friends – Sundar and Kamal – in a Swift Dzire car.“They were going from Delhi to Pari chowk. The accident took place around 12.30am. Their car crashed into another vehicle plying in front of them. The three were injured and following a call to the police helpline, they were rushed to the district hospital, where Sachin died. The others were referred to a higher centre in Delhi,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.The victim’s body was sent for an autopsy. Police officers said that the cause of the accident is unclear at the moment. The survivors have not been able to provide any details yet, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-dies-after-roof-of-rented-house-collapse-in-greater-noida/story-niuj01NSbmKj5UrfLx02RI.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Three-year-old girl charred to death after shanties catch fire near Delhi-Meerut Road||Ghaziabad: A three-year-old girl was charred to death after dozens of shanties caught fire at Sihani village near the Delhi-Meerut Road in Ghaziabad on Monday evening. The police said there were about 150-200 shanties belonging to ragpickers on a patch of land at Sihani village. “The girl was not able to move out. Her parents were outside the house. The fire flared up and her parents or their neighbours could not rescue the girl.The fire department doused the fire completely. We will launch a search operation to find any missing person,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2). Fire department officials said they received information about the incident at about 3.44pm and fire tenders were pressed into service. “In all, we had to call 12 fire tenders that came from Kotwali, Sahibabad, Vaishali and Modinagar fire stations. The shanties had loads of plastic material, besides wood and LPG cylinders. Many LPG cylinders also exploded. About half-a-dozen people escaped with minor injuries,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. The cause of fire could not be ascertained immediately but it is suspected it could have started from a kitchen. “It took us about one-and-a-half hours to douse the fire. The operation continued for another half an hour to check if any small fire still raged on at the site. The body of the girl was recovered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-year-old-girl-charred-to-death-after-shanties-catch-fire-near-delhi-meerut-road/story-g3QsnEBAy3PEjckx1mGDwK.html
05-10-2020||City||26-year-old Ludhiana man shot at by duo on bike, critical||A 26-year-old man is battling for life after two motorcycle-borne man shot him from close range outside his house in Thapar Colony on Monday evening. Police said the victim, Saurav Sharma, 26, and his friend, Prashant Tiwari, had just returned from the gym, when the bikers struck.As per preliminary investigation, police suspect the attack to be a fallout of personal enmity and have not ruled out involvement of contract killers.Sharma is under treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. Tiwari told the police that after returning from the gym, they were having a chat outside Sharma’s house. Meanwhile, two men on a motorcycle arrived there and asked Sharma to accompany them.When he refused, one of the bikers flashed a gun and shot him from close range before speeding away. The bullet hit Sharma in the stomach, causing him to collapse, even as Tiwari raised the alarmed and took him to the hospital with the help of locals.“A case of attempt to murder has been lodged against the unidentified accused. We are scanning CCTV cameras in the area to obtain footage of the crime and identify the accused,” said inspector Jaskanwaljit Singh, SHO, police station Haibowal.He added that Tiwari does not know the accused, so they were waiting to record Sharma’s statement to ascertain their identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-ludhiana-man-shot-at-by-duo-on-bike-critical/story-8MFETkZb1Prk2YbCnRJ18O.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Local shop owners not hopeful of much business this festive season, say e-commerce eating away at their clientele||The ongoing pandemic and the increased dependence on e-commerce have hit the local shop owners hard this festive season.A survey conducted in 10 cities in the country by community social media website LocalCircles, suggested that the number of consumers using e-commerce during the festive season has gone up from 27% in 2019 to 51% in 2020. In Noida, 5,192 responses were received of which 41% people said they will use e-commerce while 29% said they will prefer home deliveries from local stores and only 16% were willing to visit malls and markets for shopping.“Between the Covid crisis and competition from e-commerce sites, the markets are already working at only 30-40% profit margins. Once shopping malls become fully operational, that figure will go further down. In order to stay afloat, we have been appealing to all local vendors to take their businesses online. That is the only way we will have a fighting chance to survive,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association.He said during the pandemic, the dependency on e-commerce sites has gone up ever more and nearly 17.5 crore businesses, according to industry experts, across the country have shut because of the current market situation.“But we are still hopeful that we will make some profit during the festive season if only issues of parking and public transport are addressed,” said Jain.The survey further said nearly 45% of shoppers feel that shopping online is not only more convenient but also safer and 75% people are willing to make their purchases from small vendors if they are available online. Home renovation items such as furniture or sanitaryware, grocery and food supplies are some of the things on which Noida residents were most willing to spend, as compared to electronics, fashion wear or appliances, said the survey.“If the pandemic has shown anything, it is the importance of essentials. Unlike previous years, I will not spend money on frivolous items. And I will buy those things that are available for purchase from the comfort of my home,” said Ritika Singh, a resident of Sector 75.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/local-shop-owners-not-hopeful-of-much-business-this-festive-season-say-e-commerce-eating-away-at-their-clientele/story-uQvPrc4k9s48tboehINHxO.html
05-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: RJD, Cong finalise constituency-wise seat allocations, name candidates||After protracted and patience-testing negotiations, the Grand Alliance (GA) on Monday evening made the constituency-wise allocation of seats among its constituents - Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and the Left parties - ahead of the first phase of elections on October 28. A formal declaration of seats by the RJD and the Congress is likely on Tuesday. However, most of the selected candidates of both the parties have been asked to kick off electioneering in their respective constituencies forthwith. The RJD is said to have offered symbols to the shortlisted candidates confidentially to avoid protest by the candidates and their supporters due to denial of tickets. The Congress too finalised the list of 41 candidates out of 70 after hours of deliberations in New Delhi on Monday evening. Candidates for the remaining seats will be selected on Tuesday. Senior leaders of both the parties said that the list of constituency-wise candidates going to the poll in the first phase would be announced on Tuesday. As many as 71 out of 243 constituencies would go to polls in the first phase on October 28, the nomination for which would end on October 8. Also read: Is YSR Congress joining NDA? CM Jagan flies to Delhi to meet PM amid buzzThe RJD is slated to contest 39 seats, while the Congress has identified 23 seats to field its candidates during the elections in the first phase. The Left parties, including the Community Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation (CPI(ML)), the Community Party of India (CPI) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPM) have announced their candidates for all 29 seats they have been allocated. As per the seat-sharing deal formalised on October 3, the RJD has been offered 144 seats, in which Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) would be accommodated, the Congress has been offered 70 seats, 19 for the CPI (ML), six for the CPI and four for the CPM. The allocation of seats turned out to be upsetting for many leaders, as a few sitting legislators had to give in in the wake of seat-adjustments among the allies. The residence of former CM and RJD leader Rabri Devi witnessed vociferous protests by supporters of party leaders who were denied tickets. A controversial Congress leader Lalan Yadav and former BPCC secretary Neetu Devi have been named to contest from Sultanganj (Bhagalpur) and Hisua (Nawada) constituencies as Congress nominees. Former minister Shyam Rajak, who recently joined the RJD, and sitting MLA of Karakat Sanjay Yadav are learnt to have been denied the tickets by the party. Children of senior RJD leaders like Sudhakar Singh (son of state RJD chief Jagadanand Singh), Rahul Tiwari (son of Shivanand Tiwari), Rishi Singh (son of former Union minister Kanti Singh) and Divya Kirti (daughter of former Union minister Jai Prakash Narain Yadav) have been given the party tickets. The first phase of polling is scheduled to be held in parts or whole of Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Sheikhpura, Patna, Bhojpur, Buxar, Kaimur, Rohtas, Arwal, Jehanabad, Aurangabad, Gaya, Nawada and Jamui districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-rjd-congress-finalise-constituency-wise-seat-allocations-name-candidates/story-Gv4IoKndiYKy14S1Bh6CsK.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K witnesses dip in daily Covid count in October||For the past five days, daily Covid-19 cases are constantly decreasing in Jammu and Kashmir with 632 fresh cases being recorded on Monday, lowest in more than a month, taking the tally of positive cases in the UT to 79,738.Ten deaths on Monday took the death toll to 1,252, officials said. They said that 286 people tested positive in Kashmir and 346 in Jammu.October is witnessing a decrease in number of daily cases. From 1,093 cases on October 1, the numbers fell to 1,090 on October 2, 975 on October 3, 878 on October 4 and 632 on Monday.The slump comes after September recording the highest 37,372 cases at a daily average of 1,245.As many as 1,386 people recovered from the virus on Monday and were discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 63,790 which account for a recovery rate of 79.9%, the highest so far.Since September 21, the recovery rate has improved. From September 21 to 30, as many as 15,132 patients have been discharged against 11,080 fresh infections. Similarly in October so far, 6,918 patients have been cured as against 4,668 fresh infections.A government spokesperson said 936 people were discharged in Jammu division and 450 in Kashmir on Monday. Of total, 40,433 people have recovered in Kashmir and 23,357 in Jammu so far. At present, there are 14,696 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT so far have reached 17.23 lakh.Meanwhile, officials said 10 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT — five each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. With this, the number of total deaths has reached 1,252 — 865 in Kashmir and 387 in Jammu.In comparison to August which reported 326 deaths, there was a 64% increase in the number of deaths in the UT in September, taking the month’s tally to 478.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 173, followed by 35 in Rajouri.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 119 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 39.Srinagar tops the case tally with 15,652 cases and 303 deaths. Jammu is at number two with 14,687 cases and 203 deaths.Till date, 5.95 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 23,880 in home quarantine, 14,696 in isolation, and 47,263 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.08 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-witnesses-dip-in-daily-covid-count-in-october/story-8tenEVQtUBMR4Y8WAHkGfJ.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM goes into isolation after coming in contact with Covid positive legislator||Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur will self-isolate for three days as he came in contact with BJP’s Banjar legislator Surender Shaurie who has tested positive for the novel coronavirus.The CM had come in contact with Shaurie at Manali during the inauguration of the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang on October 3.The CM will continue to work from his official residence. This is the second time that the chief minister has had to observe self-isolation as a precautionary measure after coming in contact with a coronavirus patient. Former BJP MLA Ravinder Singh Ravi has also tested positive for the virus. Four deaths, 184 new infections Himachal recorded 184 fresh Covid-19 infections on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 16,035. The death toll mounted to 216 with four more people succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, 39 were reported in Kangra, 36 in Shimla, 23 in Chamba, 20 each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, 16 in Bilaspur, 14 in Mandi, 11 in Una, 3 in Solan and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu. Two fatalities were recorded in Solan and one each in Mandi, Shimla, Una, Bilaspur and Chamba As many as 12,633 people have recovered and 292 have been discharged. There are now 3,156 active cases. Solan remains the worst-hit district with 3,150 cases, followed by Kangra (2,447), Sirmaur (1,892), Mandi (1,862), Shimla (1,436), Una (1,359), Hamirpur (977), Chamba (915), Bilaspur (905), Kullu (720), Kinnaur (197) and Lahaul-Spiti (175).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-goes-into-isolation-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-positive-legislator/story-yCVmp9RLu5jGiQ9XV4PbAN.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court to check attendance of juvenile who gave fake certificate for PEC admission||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court has asked for the attendance report of a juvenile awarded community service for a year for taking admission in PEC University of Technology on the basis fake Nepalese citizen certificates in 2010.The court issued the notice to the district child welfare officer, Panchkula, to submit the attendance report even as records of five other juveniles have already been submitted.“The district child welfare officer is directed to submit the attendance report of (the juvenile) on or before October 12,” the court order reads, referring to the youngster who joined community service from March 3 to September 30.The special CBI court had in January provided relief to six juveniles by cutting short their three-year reformation to one year of community service.The case was registered against 11 persons, including the six juveniles and five others whose trial is pending before the special judicial magistrate. The juveniles, citizens of India, procured fake certificates to prove they were Nepalese citizens to get seats in PEC through the direct admission of student abroad scheme.They had spent a year at the institute before the matter came to light.The Juvenile Justice Board on November 14, 2018, had awarded them three years of reformation with a fine of Rs 600. Later, in a statement in the CBI court, the youths admitted their guilt and pleaded for leniency.The CBI court Later converted their three-year reformation to one year of community service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-court-to-check-attendance-of-juvenile-who-gave-fake-certificate-for-pec-admission/story-Ef5flm6yelKE0itxJPIgWM.html
05-10-2020||City||Warnings on cleaning agents should be prominent enough||In July this year, a 34-year-old woman in Surrey, United Kingdom, died from the toxic fumes that she inhaled while cleaning her bathroom. Unaware of the danger of mixing two cleaning products, Celia Seymour had used a bleach and a toilet cleaner together, with disastrous consequences. In November last year, 32-year-old Ryan Baldera suffered a similar fate in Burlington, Massachusetts, USA. He tried to remove a floor-cleaning agent spilt on the floor with another cleaner, without realising that in the process, he was mixing sodium hypochlorite, the active ingredient in one cleaner, with some acids present in the other, leading to the release of chlorine gas. Inhalation of the poisonous gas proved fatal.Last week, a friend from Bengaluru forwarded a WhatsApp message from someone who had a narrow escape. To clean her bathroom surface, the consumer first used a toilet cleaner and on finding the quantity to be insufficient, had poured out a bathroom cleaner –two different products of the same brand, meant for the washroom. As she scrubbed, she inhaled strong chlorine fumes emanating from the mixture, without realising its toxicity. Fortunately, she recovered from a serious bout of coughing and acute breathlessness that she suffered for hours. Unfortunately, as with many such forwards, the name of the person who wrote it was missing, so also the date of the first send. Yet, the message is highly relevant. In fact a Google search shows several people from different parts of the country sharing such experiences. One of them, who used a bleach and a toilet cleaner, thinking that it would be effective in cleaning the tough stains on the bathroom tiles, suffered such deleterious effects from the poisonous gas released that he had to be put on a ventilator for several hours.When a cleaning product containing sodium hypochlorite (or chlorine bleach), for example, gets mixed with a solution containing one of two acids as an active ingredient, it releases toxic chlorine gas. Depending on the concentration of the gas and the length of exposure, inhalation of the gas could be life-threatening. The symptoms range from eye, nose and throat irritation, incessant coughing, breathlessness, chest pain, wheezing to acute lung damage or acute respiratory distress syndrome.Similarly, when sodium hypochlorite is mixed with ammonia, chloramines are produced . Exposure to these vapours also produce similar symptoms. When you mix rubbing alcohol or a hand sanitiser that contains ethanol or isopropyl alcohol with sodium hypochlorite, the resultant gas is chloroform, a powerful anaesthetic.So whether you are unclogging your drains or cleaning your kitchen surfaces, sanitising your bathrooms or disinfecting your living room floors, remember these are all chemicals and they should never be mixed -even if they are products of the same company. If you see the containers of cleaning solutions, besides a general caution against mixing with other cleaners or household chemicals, they all specifically tell you not to mix with bleach or acids, depending on their active ingredient. Some of them also tell you that such mixing could release chlorine.But that is not adequate. The warning should be far more prominent and on the front of the pack, so that it catches the attention of the consumer. And it should be in English as well as the local language. Manufacturers also need to take up consumer awareness campaigns on the risk of mixing cleaning or disinfecting agents. In fact the apex consumer court has held in several cases that failure to issue adequate warning about the usage of a product constitutes negligence. But more important, the new consumer protection law, the Consumer Protection Act , 2019, has a separate chapter on product liability and under that, the manufacturer will be held liable for any harm caused to the consumer , if “the product fails to contain adequate instructions of correct usage to prevent any harm or any warning regarding improper or incorrect usage”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/warnings-on-cleaning-agents-should-be-prominent-enough/story-zuxHKRMtSi02FJfHIFFojO.html
05-10-2020||City||PAU vegetable varieties identified for cultivation at national level||Four varieties of vegetables developed by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) have been identified for cultivation at the national-level during the 38th annual group meeting of All India Coordinated Research Project (vegetable crops), held online.Varieties include PBL-234 of brinjal for zone 4 (Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand) and zone 6 (Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Gujarat); Punjab Sona Cherry of tomato for zone 3 (Sikkim, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands), zone 4 and zone 6; Punjab Barkat of bottle gourd for zone 5 (Chhattisgarh, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh), zone 7 (Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Goa) and zone 8 (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Pondicherry); and PP 225 of pumpkin for zone 6. Variety PBL-234 is an early maturing long fruited variety of brinjal which is suitable for planting throughout the year and gives an average yield of 216 quintals/acre. Punjab Sona Cherry is a yellow-coloured indeterminate variety of cherry segments of tomato which is suitable for protected cultivation with an average yield of 425 quintals/acre.Punjab Barkat is a long fruited tendered skin variety of bottle gourd, having an average yield of 226 quintals/acre. PP-225 is big sized (5-6 kg), thick golden-yellow fleshed variety of pumpkin with an average yield of 182 q/acre.PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon and NS Bains, director of research, PAU congratulated AS Dhatt, additional director research (horticulture and food science)-cum-head, department of vegetable science and his team for bringing glory to the university at the national level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-vegetable-varieties-identified-for-cultivation-at-national-level/story-EvLCI00eKzamIgKBV7LxFK.html
05-10-2020||City||Garbage piles up in Dugri as static waste compactor develops snag||Garbage is being dumped in the open by waste collectors as the only static waste compactor of the municipal corporation (MC) near Dugri Canal Bridge has developed a snag.With the waste compactor lying defunct for over two weeks, garbage being dumped at roadside continue to be a nuisance in various parts of the city as foul smell emanating from it irks commuters.At times, garbage is dumped on the roadside due to the low capacity of the shed leading to unsanitary conditions. As per officials, the compactor had developed a snag and now the parts required to make the machinery operational are not available in the market.One of the residents of Dugri area, Dilpreet Singh said, “The static compactor site is situated near the traffic lights near the Dugri canal bridge. The stink from heaps of garbage is polluting the area and residents are irked due to the dumping of garbage in the open. They have been demanding the installation of compactors at different points however, the MC is not being able to maintain the existing infrastructure.”Meanwhile, the authorities said that they are working to arrange the required parts and the efforts are also being made to upgrade the compactor site for the collection of segregated waste.Member of A2Z company, Vishant Chaudhary said, “The compactor had developed a snag and it has been repaired. But a display that is required to make the compactor operational is not available in the market. We are looking for the display and the compactor site would be made operational in a few days.”MC Secretary Neeraj Jain said, “As the civic body is working towards waste segregation, it is also working to upgrade the compactor site so that dry and wet waste could be dumped separately.”Since 2016, when the first static compactor site was established in the Dugri area, the MC and the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) have been working on the projects to install static compactors to avoid open dumping of garbage in the city. While the MC’s project to install compactors at 22 sites under the Smart City Mission is still on papers, the LIT has established six static compactors sites out of a total eight, but those have also not been made operational due to the absence of required vehicles to lift the waste from the compactor sites. The LIT had commenced the construction at the sites in May last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/garbage-piles-up-in-dugri-as-static-waste-compactor-develops-snag/story-4vsVWiVhkZ255WXC7YBu5J.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Transformer fire causes blackout in Ludhiana MC office||A complete blackout was witnessed at the municipal corporation’s (MC) Zone D office in Sarabha Nagar after the transformer installed inside the office caught fire due to a short circuit on Monday morning.The underground main supply line of the office got damaged due to which the power supply got snapped. The office work got affected and the venue of official meetings was also shifted from Zone D to MC headquarters (Zone A).Residents who visited the Suvidha Kendra to submit the taxes and get the TS-1 (NOC) certificate had to return empty-handed. Also, most of the officials were not available in the office.One of the officials on the condition of anonymity said that most officials left office in the afternoon as there was no power supply.Sub-divisional officer (SDO), Gurpreet Singh said, “The underwriting of the office got damaged and we are working to restore the power supply by installing a new line on a temporary basis. The underground wiring would be laid in the coming days.” Sub-fire officer, Maninder Singh said, “Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot after we had received an alert at around 11 am. The firefighters had doused the fire in around 10 minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/transformer-fire-causes-blackout-in-ludhiana-mc-office/story-AjAXKH06yoGvaXEJAALJdO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Power sector employees protest, block road in Mohali||Demanding reinstatement of dismissed workers and better compensation for families of workers killed on duty, power sector employees under the Powercom and Transco Contract Employees’ Union of Punjab on Monday staged a protest outside Labour Bhawan in Phase 10 here.Shouting slogans against Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and the Powercom management for not implementing their demands, the protesters also blocked the main road outside the complex, causing inconvenience to commuters. Many of the protesters were seen camping on the road late at night, with some of them saying they would remain there till Tuesday morning.Releasing a statement to the press, state president of the union Balihar Singh, general secretary Virender Singh, and vice president Ajay Kumar said their protests would continue as no agreements had been finalised at a meeting organised by the principal secretary on Monday. “The authorities agreed to our demands on September 30, including reinstatement of dismissed workers, cancellation of retrenchment of contract employees and compensation to families of accident victims,” the union members said. Nothing was done about it. Other demands included permanent jobs for contract employees and better compensation for family members of power workers killed on duty.Addressing the protesters, union vice-presidents Rakesh Kumar and Gurwinder Singh said contract employees working with complaints and maintenance had not been given salaries for the last seven months, and when they asked for the same, Powercom started firing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/power-sector-employees-protest-block-road-in-mohali/story-G4tDLpDc2STFDQTexEn8xJ.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Over 80k fake accounts created to discredit Mumbai police probe||Over 80,000 fake accounts were created on various social media platforms on June 14 to discredit Mumbai police and Maharashtra government over the ongoing investigation into the death of 34-year-old Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Mumbai police commissioner has asked the cyber cell to investigate and register cases under the Information Technology Act. Mumbai police’s cyber unit has made a report where it has been found that posts were uploaded on social media platforms from different countries like Italy, Japan, Poland, Slovenia, Indonesia, Turkey, Thailand, Romania and France. “We identified the posts in foreign languages because of the hashtags used like #justiceforsushant #sushantsinghrajput and #SSR. We’re in the process of verifying more accounts,” said a senior IPS officer. Also read: SSR death probe - What home ministry and AIIMS are saying“The campaign was run against Mumbai police just to demoralise us at a time when 84 policemen had died due to the pandemic and over 6,000 men were infected with the virus. This was a motivated campaign with vested interest just to malign the image of Mumbai police and derail our line of investigation. Multiple fake accounts on social media were created to target Mumbai police with abusive tones. Our cyber cell is conducting a thorough investigation into this matter and all those found violating the law will be prosecuted under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act,” said Param Bir Singh, Mumbai police commissioner. Reacting to reports of AIIMS having ruled out the possibility of murder, Singh said, “We had investigated this case very professionally. The CBI had created a panel of AIIMS doctors who have justified our investigation and the findings of Cooper hospital and forensic laboratory. Except for a few people, nobody else was aware of our investigation still many have criticized the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-over-80k-fake-accounts-created-to-discredit-mumbai-police-probe/story-qjpqRUsgC95wBwshReLiyI.html
05-10-2020||City||Land acquisition, auto stand on agenda of Pune airport committee meet||Pune: Pune’s Lohegaon Airport Advisory Committee is scheduled to meet today (Tuesday), wherein several issues are likely to be addressed, including land acquisition for extension of the airport; permission for road connectivity to Vimannagar; an increase in the number of slots for civil aircraft operations; additional land for cargo parking; and a signal-free corridor from the airport to Shivajinagar. The meeting will be held under the chairmanship of Pune MP Girish Bapat of the BJP, and Sunil Tingre, NCP MLA from the area. An earlier meeting was held on January 2, where multilevel car parking and a price revision for land requirements were discussed. The meeting will be attended by representatives from Pune Maha-Metro, apart from civic engineers, and representatives from the tourism and travel industries. Kuldeep Singh, airport director, said, “The obstacles to airport work will be discussed at the meeting to ensure smooth functioning of the airport. Members selected by the MP will also be there, including representatives of local industries.” MLA Sunil Tingre said, “We will raise the issue of the autorickshaw stand at the airport which is crucial for connectivity and employment generation and should be re-established again. Tenders regarding the airport extension will also come up.” The meeting comes in light of airport operations to be shut during the night from October 26, as Indian Air Force re-carpets the runway. Pune-Bengaluru and Pune-Kolkata are among the flights that are expected to be rescheduled. The pointers from the agenda include land acquisition for residential campus, parallel road development, construction of road from airport to Puru Society and from car park number 2 to Vimannagar, road development at Kalwad intersection at Lohegaon road new bottleneck, underpass or bridge at 509 chowk and Vishrantwadi chowk and at back side of existing parking of VIP road, adequate water supply at Pune airport and working permission for alternate road connectivity to Vimannagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-acquisition-auto-stand-on-agenda-of-pune-airport-committee-meet/story-quzJdd4pPCYtnOqlh79jdM.html
05-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s new sports policy proposes cess on liquor to develop facilities||Uttarakhand government will put additional 0.5 percent cess on liquor to collect revenue to develop sports facilities and infrastructure in the state, said minister for sports and youth affairs Arvind Pandey on Monday. Pandey shared the information with media while revealing details of the draft of the state’s new sports policy in Dehradun. “There has always been issues with funds needed to provide adequate facilities to the sportspersons of the state. Hence we have decided to put 0.5 percent cess on the excise duty to collect revenue which will be used to develop sports facilities and infrastructure,” said Pandey, adding that the move has been approved in principle by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. Pandey said that the new sports policy would be the “best in the country” and will have various provisions to develop sports facilities and promote sports activities in the state. Also read: ‘CM Yogi playing ‘riots game’ to divert public attention’ - Samajwadi Party leader“To promote the sportspersons in the state, we would also offer 5 percent quota in admissions in state’s universities, colleges and even for vocational courses. There would also be sports quota in government jobs for medal-winning sportspersons - 10 percent in non-enforcement departments and 15 percent in enforcement departments,” he said. “Apart from this, outstanding sportspersons will also be given a pay hike and promotion.”The minister also informed that under the new sports policy, the government would open a sports science centre in the state to develop sports with related science. “We would also provide scholarship to young sportspersons ageing 8 to 14 years. The amount is yet to be decided. A single window system would also be introduced where a sportsperson or anybody related to sports activities would state their problems instead of going from pillar to post,” said Pandey. He also said that the policy will have special provisions for girls and women under which “they would be given sports training which will also help them in self-defence.”Under the new sports policy, the government will also provide travelling facilities, including free travel in Uttarakhand transport corporation buses, to sportspersons participating in national level competitions. “The government will also promote private entities interested in developing sports facilities by offering assistance of 20 percent of the total cost of the project. The whole idea of the new sports policy is to attract people towards the fields from the virtual world of phones and computers,” he said. Pandey, however, added that all the aforementioned provisions have been given in-principle approval by the CM. “The sports policy will be discussed in the next state cabinet meeting on October 14 before being approved.”Pandey, who is also the school education minister of Uttarakhand, stated that the government will soon start the work of opening Atal Utkrishta Schools in the state under which children from rural areas will be able to study in English medium on the lines of CBSE-affiliated schools. “The work for opening 190 such schools will soon be started in the state,” he said.The Opposition Congress, meanwhile, reacted to the new sports policy and said they welcome it if it’s for the benefit of the state’s sportspersons, the party, however, raised a doubt on its implementation. “It is good if they are coming up with a new sports policy to promote sports in the state. But the major question is of its proper implementation,” said Pritam Singh, Congress state president. The Congress slammed the state government for coming up with the policy when the next assembly election is due in 2022. Singh said, “It is ridiculous that the policy has come up after three and a half years of their rule. Wonder if they were sleeping all this while. This will take a long time before being implemented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-s-new-sports-policy-proposes-cess-on-liquor-to-develop-facilities/story-GTmWMwXxgFDkyr0Ztw5HVL.html
05-10-2020||Lucknow||‘CM Yogi playing ‘riots game’ to divert public attention’: Samajwadi Party leader||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary on Monday said, “The Samajwadis are ready to sacrifice to prevent riots that chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team are trying to incite.” Chaudhary cautioned people to guard against riots and stay calm. The SP leader was reacting to CM Yogi’s statement on Sunday that “those who don’t like the state’s development are trying to trigger caste and communal riots.”In a statement, Chaudhary added, “All that people want is to make their voice reach him (chief minister). Instead of listening to their voice, he is suppressing them. And now, to divert public attention, the chief minister has started playing ‘riots’ game. People should give a befitting reply to him by staying cautious and calm.”He further added, “People only want restoration of law and order and safety of women. Not only Opposition parties but several sensitive and wise leaders in his (BJP) party were supporting the people’s voice.”Also read: Is YSR Congress joining NDA? CM Jagan flies to Delhi to meet PM amid buzzChaudhary further said, “After regular kidnappings, murders, dacoities and rapes, and converting Uttar Pradesh into a ‘beemar (ailing)’ state, the chief minister has returned to his old ways.”Chaudhary, who has been at the forefront of protests over the Hathras gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman, said, “People should remember the old record of Yogi Adityanath. Had some cases against him not been withdrawn during his chief ministership, he would have been in the grip of law. Instead of establishing the rule of law, the chief minister is destroying it. Over this, not only the Opposition but some ruling party leaders also need to be cautious,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cm-yogi-playing-riots-game-to-divert-public-attention-samajwadi-party-leader/story-GpDljg6wvhVpxNd1H4W32I.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ninth edition of the Dharamshala International Film Festival to commence from October 29||The ninth edition of the Dharamshala International Film Festival (DIFF) will be held online from October 29 to November 4. The DIFF has announced an initial lineup of 10 films, six feature documentaries and four narrative features. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the ninth edition of the DIFF will be held online from October 29 to November 4. DIFF is the first major film festival in India to launch a digital edition,” said the organisers - Dharamshala- based film makers Ritu Sarin and Tenzin Sonam - the organisers of the festival. The documentaries to be screened include 76 Days, Pearl of the Desert, A Rifle and a Bag, The Kingmaker, Softie, and Welcome to Chechnya. The four features narratives in the lineup are Corpus Christie, Identifying Features, Air Conditioner and Shell and Joint.The DIIF panel will include film writer and critic Namrata Joshi in conversation with writers Varun Grover and screenwriter Juhi Chaturvedi about screenwriting in the Indian independent film space.Award-winning producer and director Shrihari Sathe will talk to south Asian filmmakers — Mostafa Sarwar Farooki (Bangladesh), Deepak Rauniyar (Nepal), Geethu Mohandas (India), Afia Nathaniel (Pakistan) and Tashi Gyeltshen (Bhutan) about their personal journeys and the common challenges that filmmakers from the subcontinent face and what it takes to find audiences worldwide even after making successful first films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ninth-edition-of-the-dharamshala-international-film-festival-to-commence-from-october-29/story-ycobSpnwJo04Az6Do5uyaM.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar’s Ujjwal Mehta secures AIR 68 in JEE advanced exam||Jalandhar’s Ujjwal Mehta has secured an All India Rank (AIR) of 68 in the JEE (advanced) exams, the results of which were declared by The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday.He had scored a 99.99 percentile in both exams conducted by the NTA in January and September.Ujjwal’s father Naveen Kumar Mehta is a financial manager in a private company, while his mother, Seema, is a homemaker. He had been taking coaching from a private institute in Patiala since he was in Class 9. “It is a great moment for my family and me. I am looking forward to joining either Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi or Mumbai and want to pursue computer science and engineering,” Mehta said.“I would study for eight hours a day. I’m not internet-savvy and stay away from social media. I like to read books and spend time with my family,” Ujjwal said.His mother Seema said she was proud of Ujjwal as his hard work had borne fruit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-s-ujjwal-mehta-tops-jee-advanced-in-punjab-chandigarh/story-yOn8fiGk8DGu8rmDvxUPgN.html
05-10-2020||City||Political parties stage protests in Pune||PUNE: Even as the city is in the grip of rising Covid-19 cases and the administration is taking steps to ensure that social distancing norms are followed, main political parties on Monday hit the streets by holding protests on various issues. The Congress staged agitation at Balgandharva chowk demanding the resignation of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and justice for the 19-year old Dalit woman of Hathras (UP), who died after being allegedly gang-raped.Congress’ city unit president Ramesh Bagwe, minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam, party secretary Mohan Joshi, former city Congress president Abhay Chhajed, leaders Sanjay Balgude and Gopal Tiwari took part in the protest.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) carried out an agitation at Food and Drug Administration (FDA) office located at Guruwar peth against the hoarding and black marketing of life-saving Remdesivir injection for Covid-19 patients. BJP’s youth wing president Raghvendra Mankar led the protest.The BJP demanded that the Food and Drug Administration office should monitor the supply and prices for this injection as four companies who are manufacturing the injection are citing different rates.The party alleges that instead of keeping adequate stock of the injection for Pune city, the government is shifting the supply to other districts.The BJP also carried out a morcha at Swargate water station office. BJP’s former MLA Yogesh Tilekar led the protest citing that residents of Katraj and surrounding areas are not getting adequate water supply.Maratha leader and MLA Vinayak Mete has also threatened to stage protest in the city demanding reservation for Maratha community in public employment and education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-parties-stage-protests-in-pune/story-YwWVaced934kCNP3oQttRO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Daughters of small holder farmers, 19 others in Rewari’s Super-100 course clear JEE-A||Two daughters of small holder farmers from villages in Rohtak and Fatehabad were among 21 out of 48 students enrolled in the Haryana government’s Super-100 Programme at Rewari, many from rural areas and government schools, who cracked the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) advanced for admission to engineering colleges across the country.The results were declared on Monday.Simran of Hasangarh village in Rohtak and Kajal of Indachoi village in Fatehabad, both daughters of farmers with small land holdings, secured 1,392 and 293 all-India ranks, respectively. Kajal topped the Super-100 programme.For Simran’s father this moment was extra special as he had remained paralysed for years after an accident, but had not hesitated to encourage his child to excel in studies.No impact of Covid-19 on students’ performanceNaveen Mishra, head teacher of the programme at Rewari, who is assisted by five other Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) graduates to run the classes, said 37 students wrote the exam and 21 cleared it.“Out of 48 students, 46 cleared the first level JEE mains exam and 37 wrote the prestigious advanced exam, with 21 passing. The Covid-19 outbreak did not affect our students’ performance and they brought laurels to the entire state of Haryana,” he said.Their performances proved that children from rural areas too could touch the sky, Mishra added.The teacher urged the Haryana government to enrol more students under this programme, adding, “We assure them that we will deliver good results. Our students proved that JEE advance exam is not rocket science and by making sincere efforts everything can be achieved.” Meritorious and deserving students in the state are given free coaching in the programme.Did not know about IITs, says topper’s fatherShubhcharan Malik, Kajal’s father, thanked the staff handling the programme and the Haryana government for arranging free education to students from poor families, admitting that he had not heard about IITs earlier.“ I had not heard about IITs and never once dreamt of sending my daughter to such institutions where children of rich families study. I studied up to Class 12 and Kajal’s mother Saroj Devi studied up to Class 8. I urge the state government to open such centres at each block level so that students from poor families can achieve success,” he added.Simran said she was glad to see her performance in the exam bring smiles to her parents’ faces.“My father owns less than two acres and had been involved in an accident a few years ago. He remained paralysed for some time but still ensured that my siblings and I had access to quality education. I owe my success to Naveen sir, my parents and other teachers. I had studied at a government school in our village till Class 10 and secured over 90% but I had not heard about the JEE exam till I enrolled at the Rewari centre. I want to pursue engineering in computer science and fulfil my father’s dream,” she added.Attributing the reasons for her success to her father’s motivation “in these tough times,” she said the hardships he went through made her more determined to achieve her targets. Kajal said she would consult her teachers about her choice of IITs for counselling.Adding that she wanted to do her bit for society, Kajal said, “After graduating from IIT, I will give free coaching to underprivileged children. Our teachers guided us very well and they set small targets for us throughout our journey. Our teachers deserve more appreciation than us in achieving this target ,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/daughters-of-small-holder-farmers-21-others-in-rewari-s-super-100-course-clear-jee-a/story-mIDsOlAzE3ZZjsJvRKQKjM.html
05-10-2020||City||JEE Advanced 2020: Ludhiana’s Gurpreet secures AIR 23, next stop IIT Bombay||Gurpreet Singh Wadhwa, 19, a resident of Ludhiana’s Rishi Nagar, has secured All India Rank (AIR) 23 in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), results of which were declared on Monday. He scored 310 out of 398 marks in the examination held on September 27.His eyes set on becoming a computer engineer, he now wants to pursue BTech from IIT Bombay. The 19-year-old had earlier scored AIR 126 in JEE Main with 99.992 percentile marks.“Coaching, along with self-study and the daily guidance of my teachers helped me achieve this score,” said Gurpreet.Besides taking coaching from a Chandigarh-based institute for the past two years, he put in seven to eight hours a day to self-study, starting at 8am. “I practiced tests till 11am and then devoted three to four hours to self-study. In the evening, I attended discussion classes with my teachers to clear my doubts,” he said on his efforts to secure admission in an IIT.For focus to achieve his goal, he said, he refrained from using social media and even stayed away from his smartphone to avoid distraction and waste of time. “Yet, this rank was not possible without the support of my parents and teachers,” said Gurpreet, an alumnus of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, who had scored 97.8% in CBSE Class 12 board examinations.His parents are Gurmeet Singh, who runs a garment export company, and Gurveen Kaur, a chemistry teacher at Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines.“We are proud of our son, who has fulfilled our dreams by giving his best with the blessings of his grandparents and teachers. We are extremely thankful to his teachers, who continued to work hard during the pandemic,” said the ecstatic father.Gurpreet also has National Talent Search Exam and Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana scholarships to his credit. He had also qualified for the Indian National Physics Olympiad and the Indian National Chemistry Olympiad. Besides, he was the only student to clear the Regional Mathematical Olympiad in Class 10 from Ludhiana in 2018. He was one of the two students selected from Punjab for the Dhruv Tara Award conferred by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. The award had taken him to the ISRO headquarters for a two-week programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-advanced-2020-ludhiana-s-gurpreet-secures-air-23-next-stop-iit-bombay/story-mxLbvYJMfRMHuUNMUwr3BJ.html
05-10-2020||City||3 farmers booked as BSF jawan gets injured from illegal electric fence||AMRITSAR Police have booked three farmers after a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan suffered an electric shock when he was patrolling across the barbed fence along the zero line on India-Pakistan border near Khayala village. The jawan is in hospital and the doctors have advised him two weeks’ rest, the BSF said. Police said jawan Shubam (28) came in contact with an electric wire that was installed by the accused farmers on the fringe of their farmland to save the crop from stray animals, on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Ajit Singh, Gopal Singh (both brothers) and Mehal Singh, all of Khayala Kalan village. The case has been registered under sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bhindi Saida police station that falls under the Ajnala sub-division. Assistant commandant of the BSF’s 22-batallion Ravi Kumar Godhra told the police that the accused own farmland across the fence. “The accused had installed a live electric wire using an illegal power connection from a nearby transformer to keep away the stray animals. On Sunday, our jawan was patrolling in the area when he got entangled with the wire. The other personnel deployed at the border somehow managed to save the jawan using sticks and butts of the guns. The jawan is in hospital and the doctors have advised him two weeks’ rest.” Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Karnail Singh said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-farmers-booked-as-bsf-jawan-gets-injured-from-illegal-electric-fence/story-E94ZOmgtRfCXFtRWAvdilN.html
05-10-2020||Bhopal||Ramdev’s Patanjali institute to conduct clinical trial on Covid-19 patients’ immunity||Swami Ramdev’s Haridwar-based Patanjali Research Foundation Trust has been given a nod by Madhya Pradesh government to conduct a clinical trial through its institute on Covid-19 patients but with certain categorical riders. Trial will only be conducted at a Covid Care Centre and its medicines effect will be studied on the immunity of patients, government officials said. The permission granted to the Trust in June this year came to light on Monday through an order dated October 3, 2020, issued by the directorate of health to chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Indore, Dr Praveen Jadia to allot a Covid Care Centre in Indore for the trial, as per the order. A Covid Care Centre has very mild, mild and pre-symptomatic cases while moderate cases, that require oxygen therapy, are admitted to dedicated Covid health centres. Severe cases are treated at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, as per officials. Also read: Covid-19 disrupting mental health services in most countries - WHO surveyThe order dated October 3, 2020 states, “In response to Patanjali Research Foundation Trust’s application, permission was granted with several conditions under the guidelines of the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India and Department of AYUSH, MP government through a permission letter dated June 18, 2020. In reference to the permission, the applicant organisation is permitted to conduct the research by giving immunity booster medicines to Covid-19 patients at a Covid care centre.” As per an affidavit submitted by the Trust to the government, the organisation will have to ensure that the positive results of the trial will be used for common people and not for earning money. “Without prior permission, it will not be used in any way for any commercial gain,” the affidavit states. A health directorate official, who wished not be named, said, “The trust or its research institute can’t make any claim that it has treated any Covid-19 patient with its medicines. The best it can do, subject to results of the trial, is say that its medicines helped patients enhance their immunity level in fighting against the Covid. Also, since the trial will be limited to very mild, mild or pre-symptomatic cases, there can’t be a claim that the medicines work on moderate or serious Covid patients.” Also read: Europe tightens curbs as leaders gird for long Covid-19 fightHowever, vice-president of Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, which comes under Patanjali Research Foundation Trust, Dr Anurag Varshney said, “We are satisfied with the riders as underlined by the Madhya Pradesh government in its order in conducting the clinical trial. Once the trial is over, we will share the results with the media.” MP government’s Department of AYUSH’s deputy director Dr PC Sharma said, “The trial is limited to the study of Ayurvedic medicines’ impact on human immunity. We are also conducting a trial but despite the good results of the Ayurvedic medicines in boosting the patients’ immunity, we are avoiding making any claim in this regard given the fact the world of science across the world is still not completely sure about the nature of the virus.” Dr Sharma said, “Patanjali Research Institute will be the first institute from the private sector to conduct the trial in Madhya Pradesh on Covid patients, though mild or pre-symptomatic patients.” Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Indore, Dr Praveen Jadia said, “I have just received the letter from the directorate regarding the allotment of a Covid Care Centre to Patanjali Research Institute. I will decide on the same after going through it.” “Earlier in May, reports of permission to Patanjali Research Institute by the district collector, Indore, to conduct a clinical trial on Covid-19 patients at a Covid-19 hospital triggered off a controversy and protest from the Opposition Congress and public health experts as a collector is not empowered to grant such a permission. Later, the order was withdrawn and the state government decided to go slow on the issue”, said an official of the directorate of health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ramdev-s-patanjali-institute-to-conduct-clinical-trial-on-covid-19-patients-immunity/story-Kdqcnio9iPth8dlm5RNoGN.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||It’s a battle for survival for Delhi’s budget schools||New Delhi: Sanjay Aggarwal’s office desk is piled with notebooks, school diaries, uncollected report cards, and registers, one of which has a record of students who have paid September’s fee. “Our school has 573 students and only four non- EWS students paid last month,” says Aggarwal, manager of New SD Public, a middle school in Hastsal in Uttam Nagar, going through his fee register. EWS is short for economically weaker section. “We are a budget school and our fee ranges from Rs 700 to Rs 1,300, depending on the class, but almost all parents of our students say they cannot afford to pay. Our school is fighting for survival,” Aggarwal says. Aggarwal’s school is not the only one. Hastsal, a census town in west Delhi, which has over 100 low-cost schools in a 6 sq km geographical area, represents a microcosm of the larger education crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the threat it poses to the survival of over 3,000 budget schools across the capital, which are mostly located in working class neighbourhoods and rural areas such as Karawal Nagar, Sangam Vihar and Narela. With the pandemic and the lockdown hitting low- income groups hardest, their fee collection, the schools say, has gone down by as much as 90%. And as many as 30% of their children are “missing,” thousands of teachers have either lost their jobs, or have gone without pay since April. Many budget schools in Delhi (their average fee is Rs 800 for nursery and Rs 2,800 a month for class 12) which started coming up across the country after liberalisation in the 1990s have already shut down. A recent report State of the Sector — Private Schools in India, by Central Square Foundation (CSF), a think tank, says in just 20 years, the share of India’s children going to government schools has dropped from 71% to 52%. Nearly half of school students in India attend private schools, with 70% of them paying monthly fees of less than Rs 1,000, while 45% pay less than Rs 500/month. “ In the immediate aftermath of Covid -19, some of these children may shift to government schools. The lowest-fee schools may close and a large number of students may see their learning affected,” says the report. ‘No option’ At Vedpal Memorial Public School, another school in Hastsal, DP Sharma, the principal, sits in his room, painted pink, a collage of pictures of the school’s annual programmes adorning the wall behind him. These days, Sharma and his four teachers (14 others had to be furloughed) spend a lot of time calling up students for fees and for participating in online classes. The middle school charges Rs 800 for Class 8 and Rs 400 for nursery, and only 25 out of 400 children, Sharma says, paid the fee for September. “We have no contact with about half of our students, most of whom seem to have returned to their native places. Their parents are poor, working as vendors and daily wagers, and unable to pay even our meagre fee. I cannot blame them,” says Sharma, who used to be a math teacher at one of the private senior secondary schools in the area before he ventured out on his own about 15 years back. In the teachers’ room, Seema Majumdar, a science teacher, is checking answer sheets sent on WhatsApp. “Only about 50 children are able to take online classes; I hope the pandemic is soon over and these children are able to return to school; neither we nor our students have the means for any meaningful online education.” Many of these schools, which market themselves as model, modern, convent , public , perhaps appealing to the lower middle class parents’ desire for private English medium schooling for their children, came up in the past two decades, and are now shutting down. Among them is Hastsal’s AR Kiddz Way, a nursery school. “ I was dependent on the school for livelihood, and with no parents ready to pay fee I was left with no option,” says Mukesh Gupta, who started the school in 2014 and shut it in July this year. He has now rented out a portion of the school building in Hastsal to a garments shop, whose signboard has replaced that of the school at the front. Not just junior schools, the area’s secondary and senior secondary schools too are in crisis. Ravinder Yadav, chairman of RP Memorial Senior Secondary Public School, which had 1,800 students before the pandemic, says that his school is seeing a massive exodus with over 200 students from various classes having already taken their school leaving certificates. The school, he adds, has no information about another 250 students. “Many parents of children leaving the school say they do not want their children to study anywhere this year and will resume studies next year,” says Yadav. Bearing the brunt Outside, at the school’s fee counter , there is a long queue of parents accompanied by their children to apply for school leaving certificates. One of them is Sharda Devi, whose son has passed 10th class exams this year. “ My husband has lost his job and we are going back to our native place in Bihar,” she says. Another parent, Rajiv Kumar, wishes to shift his children to a government school. Things are no different in east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar , which has over 70 budget schools. Rakesh Bansal, chairman, Jeewan Jyoti Senior Secondary School, Karawal Nagar, says that only 25 percent of school’s 1000 students paid fee for September and only as many are able to attend online classes. “ Most people in this area belong to lower-income groups, which have born the maximum burnt of the pandemic. In fact , most of our children cannot take online classes as they do not have devices or space at home to do so. The school’s finances are under great stress.” Budget school associations say regulations that require all schools to meet certain standards in terms of infrastructure, facilities, student-teacher ratio, teachers’ training and the Seventh Pay Commission, have made their survival more difficult during the pandemic. “ The government should categorise schools either on the basis of the fee or the area where they located. A budget school in Karawal Nagar can not be compared to an expensive school in south Delhi, whose fee is 10 times more than us, ” says Ashwani Sharma, who runs City Modern Public School, a middle school in Sadatpur in northeast Delhi. His school, he says, has no trace of 40% of the 600 students it had in March. Many schools argue that if industries can be categories as micro, medium, small and are getting government support based on this categorization, the same can be done for schools. “ Unlike workers in industries, who will not work without pay, our teachers have no choice. How long can we go on like this? ” asks Hari Parkash Sharma, manager, New Happy Public School Narela and general secretary, Unaided Recognised Schools Welfare Association (URSWA),a body of budget schools in Delhi’s rural areas. Chandrakant Singh, general secretary, Private Land Public Schools Trust, says the government, which spends roughly about Rs 6,000 a month on a child in its school, should provide education vouchers to children studying in budget schools, whose number is about 2,400 in Delhi. “It can directly transfer the money in the account of the parents at least till the time this crisis lasts, so that we can pay our teachers, ” says Singh. “I have been able to provide only ration support to my teachers,” says Singh, also a manager at Ideal Radiant Public School in Hastsal. The education voucher system, says a senior official at deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office, has been proposed by advocacy groups before. “But it won’t be a viable option in the present circumstances as the economy has been badly affected and the revenue collections are low. Though it varies from area to area, we have added enough classrooms over the years to accommodate all students coming to government schools,” added the official. Parth Shah, president, Centre for Civil Society ( CCS), a Delhi-based think tank, which works in the area of education and livelihood, says budget schools have played a big role in raising literacy rates over the years. “The prevailing mindset within the government is that it is responsible for only government schools. But the fact is half of the children go to private schools and the government has an obligation towards them too, especially those studying in low-cost schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/it-s-a-battle-for-survival-for-delhi-s-budget-schools/story-4BXJ1hjntiagxKEROBPNsJ.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers lay siege to corporate-owned fuel stations, stores in Sangrur, Barnala||Farmers in Sangrur and Barnala districts on Sunday laid siege to the fuel stations and stores owned by the corporate houses in protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws on the fourth consecutive day as part of their indefinite ‘rail roko’ agitation. Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Ekta-Ugrahan), including women, staged protests outside nearly 10 fuel stations of the Reliance Petroleum and four of Essar Group at Kheri, Malerkotla, Lehra, Bhawanigarh, Sunam, Benra, Toor Banjara and Katron villages of Sangrur and Bhotna, Dhaula, Mana Pindi and Sanghera villages of Barnala. The protesters also staged a sit-in outside the MBR Silo at Chhajli of Sangrur and a D-Mart store in Barnala. “We have been holding protests against the corporate houses whose owners are friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The big companies want to snatch our land. When these people will face losses, they will complain with Modi who will know about our protests,” said Roop Singh, a state committee member the BKU (Ugrahan). Saroop Chand, also a leader of the outfit, said, “The government wants to give away our land to the corporate sector. The protests will continue till the anti-farmer laws are repealed.”Senior officials of Reliance Petroleum said they were facing losses but refused to comment on the protests.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said the demonstrations are being held in a peaceful manner.Railway tracks blocked, singers extend supportHundreds of farmers blocked railway tracks in Sangrur, Sunam and Barnala towns to oppose the agriculture laws. Punjabi singers Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema participated in the protest in Sunam.“We don’t need to fight under separate banners. But the need of the hour is to fight under the guidance of the farmer unions. I appeal to the youth to join hands with our elders,” said Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-lay-siege-to-corporate-owned-fuel-stations-stores-in-sangrur-barnala/story-gtxKuB3kF7jICKr9KYnBvL.html
05-10-2020||City||Businessman robs 2 banks in Odisha after watching YouTube video; arrested||Taking his cue from a YouTube video, a 25-year-old readymade clothes seller, who wanted to recoup losses suffered during lockdown, robbed two banks of Rs 12 lakh in Bhubaneswar, said police. The man, who used toy guns to rob the banks, has been arrested.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi said Soumyaranjan Jena, alias Tulu, from a Tangibanta village on the city outskirts robbed Indian Overseas Bank and Bank of India last month.“He had looted nearly Rs 12 lakh from the Indian Overseas Bank, near Infocity area on September 7, and the Bank of India’s Barimunda branch in Mancheswar area on September 28. He got the idea watching YouTube videos and used a toy gun to rob the two banks. Police recovered cash amounting to over Rs 10 lakh and seized the vehicle and the toy gun used in the robbery,” said the police commissioner.Jena had allegedly barged into the bank wearing a helmet when few staff members were present and asked them to handover the cash. He had used a scooty to come to the bank to loot. “After looting the first bank with a toy gun, he had bought a pistol and bullets. His use of Scooty and other evidence in the bank gave us clues that helped us reach him,” said Sarangi.The accused has accounts in both the banks and had taken a loan of nearly Rs 19 lakh. The youth began his business by taking loans. Though he was doing a brisk business with a turnover of Rs 9 to 10 lakh, it was hit badly during the lockdown. After looting, he had come to the bank to repay some of the loan amount.There has been a spate of robberies in banks and ATMs in Odisha during the lockdown. Last month, a trader in Keonjhar town was robbed of Rs 2 lakh while going to deposit the money in a bank. In May, a 14-year-old boy of Bhubaneswar studying in class 9 was arrested while trying to break into an ATM in the city after getting the idea from YouTube. Similarly, in April, robbers unsuccessfully tried to break upon the cash box of an ATM of Tata Indicash under Jajpur police station. In August, police in Angul district had arrested 7 persons from Haryana who had robbed Rs 27.5 lakh from an SBI ATM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/businessman-robs-2-banks-in-odisha-after-watching-youtube-video-arrested/story-QnscXAHISAq5MdJ1KFHDcL.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||HP police keen to tap Aadhaar database to identify dead bodies||Keen to give a “dignified exit” to than a 100 unidentified bodies recovered every year in Himachal Pradesh (HP) and offer bereaved families a sense of closure, the state police plans to tap the Aadhaar biometric database (which stores personal information of more than a billion Indians) to trace their identities. To this end, director general of police Sanjay Kundu has written to the home department to see if limited access can be granted to the Aadhaar database through the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), which administers the system. On the 100-plus unidentified bodies recovered every year in different parts of the state, Kundu said, “there were no documents or identifiable articles found with them.” Access to the database would allow biometrics of the bodies to be scanned and processed at the Aadhaar portal to trace pre-existing biometric details. This would help the police “hand over the dead body to the family/relatives so that a respectable and dignified exit could be made possible by performing last rites. It would obviously also provide great relief to the family and friends of the deceased,” Kundu added. According to the State Crime Records Bureau’s criminal investigation department, in the last five and a half years till July 15, 2020, 590 unidentified bodies were found in HP, roughly averaging 107 bodies a year. With no mechanism in place to identify them, nearly all of these cases end up under the ‘undetected’ category after years of investigation. Police personnel dealing with such cases also do not have access to a comprehensive database of unknown or unidentified bodies and missing persons.Maximum number of bodies recovered in Shimla As many as 111 such bodies were recovered in HP in 2015; 113 in 2016; 94 in 2017; 102 in 2018; 115 in 2019 and; 55 till the second week of July 2020. Shimla topped the charts among districts with the maximum bodies (119) recovered, followed by Kullu (95) and Kangra (64). In Mandi 64 were recovered while Solan was in the fifth spot with 53 bodies. Among the dead, 95% are male and 5% were female.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-police-keen-to-tap-aadhaar-database-to-identify-dead-bodies/story-8ndy5jJZODwtqa2kpMCvGN.html
05-10-2020||Lucknow||Poet’s daughter alleges house arrest; UP police say ‘not aware’||Activist Sumaiyya Rana on Monday alleged she has been put under house arrest for launching a poster campaign against the state government following a spate of crimes against women in Uttar Pradesh. “I am being asked not to move out of my house. Since yesterday [Sunday], there is heavy deployment of [police] force at my residence and I am being asked to stay indoors. It is purely an attempt to stop me from launching my poster campaign against the Uttar Pradesh government for its failure in keeping a check on crimes against women,” said Sumaiyya Rana, who is Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter. She blamed the government for gagging her.Also read: Rahul Gandhi’s Facebook page sees 40% more engagement than Narendra Modi’sSumaiyya Rana said the government should now release posters of the rapists of the 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras, who succumbed to her injuries this week, as it did in case of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protestors earlier this year.“My campaign aimed at putting up banners and posters demanding the early arrest of the rapists in the Hathras and other incidents, and to ask the government to release the posters of the culprits the same way they did with anti-CAA protestors.”Sumaiyya Rana, who also led anti CAA- protests, said other women who would launch the campaign in their respective regions.She was also allegedly put under house arrest in September after she gave a call for a protest outside chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s residence over unemployment.PK Srivastava, an assistant police commissioner, said he was unaware of the matter since he was at a training programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/poet-s-daughter-alleges-house-arrest-up-police-say-not-aware/story-P4LJkDw9qdp6lXm7iuQAvK.html
05-10-2020||Kolkata||BJP leader murder: Clashes break out between police and BJP supporters in Kolkata||Clashes broke out between West Bengal Police and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district, around 20 kilometres (km) from Kolkata, on Monday, where a local BJP leader Manish Shukla was shot dead by motorcycle-borne masked assailants on the previous day. The BJP had called a 12-hour bandh in Barrackpore and its adjoining areas on Monday. BJP supporters staged protests in the area since Monday morning. They blocked the Barrackpore Trunk (BT) Road at multiple points and burnt tyres demanding immediate arrest of the killers and a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Also Read: Protests, blockades in Barrackpore in BJP’s 12-hour bandh after leader’s murderWhen police went to disperse the crowd, clashes broke out and the area turned into a battlefield. BJP supporters allegedly attacked the police with bricks and glass bottles. A few crude bombs were also allegedly hurled at the police personnel, an official said. “Police had to fire tear gas shells and resort to lathi charge to disperse the mob,” he said. Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP national general secretary and election observer for West Bengal, has demanded a CBI probe into the incident. A large police contingent, including Rapid Action Force (RAF) and combat force personnel, had to be deployed to maintain law and order in the area. Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had summoned state home secretary HK Dwivedi and director-general of police (DGP) Virendra at Raj Bhavan on Monday morning. When neither turned up, Dhankhar tweeted that he would like to speak to chief minister Mamata Banerjee “urgently”. Later, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who took charge as the new chief secretary last week, met the governor. “Conveyed my concern about the present alarming scenario @MamataOfficial to the new chief secretary. Am sure the chief minister would take note of the lawlessness. Political violence and targeted killings must stop,” Dhankhar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-leader-murder-clashes-break-out-between-police-and-bjp-supporters-in-kolkata/story-VRUQiC8IqJSXzAlPQzOncO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: HC tells Maharashtra to compensate kin of those who died due to negligence||The Bombay high court (HC) has observed that the Maharashtra government has an overriding responsibility and should compensate the families of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victims in instances of alleged culpable negligence by the state authorities and hospitals run by civic bodies in disposal of their bodies. The court made the observation while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Ashish Shelar, a Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) member of the Maharashtra legislative assembly (MLA).Shelar pointed out 11 instances of alleged negligence in the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims by hospital authorities. The HC also asked the Maharashtra government to adopt the guidelines issued in March by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) and the additional directives given by the Calcutta HC in its September 16 order. Also read: India exceeds WHO’s Covid-19 tests advisory by 6 times, says govtThe HC is not clear which guidelines are being followed by the Maharashtra government for the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims. The state has also been directed to file an affidavit by November 4 elaborating the steps taken in the 11 instances of alleged negligence in the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims by hospital authorities. Shelar has also been permitted to give suggestions for additional guidelines for the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims before or after November 4. A two-member HC division bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice NJ Jamadar, heard the submission of senior advocate Rajendra Pai, who stated that the PIL sought accountability and deterrence regarding management of bodies of Covid-19 by hospitals that are run by civic authorities. The plea was filed following a viral video grab of Covid-19 victims, who were lying in a civic body-run hospital, where patients suffering from the viral infection were also undergoing treatment.Pai submitted that there was lack of clarity about the guidelines adopted by the Maharashtra government regarding the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims in hospitals run by civic bodies. The plea prayed before the court that the state government should be asked to clarify about the lacunae and also compensate the families of Covid-19 victims, who suffered due to alleged negligence of the hospital authorities. State pleader Kedar Dighe cited that the Aurangabad bench of Bombay HC is hearing a case regarding the payment of compensation to the next of kin of a woman (82), who had gone missing from a Covid-19 ward of Jalgaon Civil Hospital on June 2 and was found dead eight days later in one of the toilets of the healthcare facility. Dighe submitted that the civic authorities in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra were liable for negligence. The HC responded to Dighe’s contention and said: “The state has an overriding responsibility. If the instances are true, it would suggest culpable negligence on the part of the hospitals and the victim’s family will be entitled for compensation. We are just awakening the state to its responsibility and it should devise some mechanism to compensate the families of the victims.”The bench said that the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims was a larger issue, which is pending before the Supreme Court (SC) and it would await the top court’s decision on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-hc-tells-maharashtra-to-compensate-kin-of-those-who-died-due-to-negligence/story-TM0zbKHjXPx52zif4j5XOI.html
05-10-2020||Kolkata||BJP leader murder: Bengal Guv Jagdeep Dhankhar wants to speak to Mamata ‘urgently’||Expressing concern over “targeted political killings” in West Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted on Monday that he would like to urgently speak to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Dhankhar summoned the state home secretary and director general of police (DGP) to the Raj Bhawan at 10 am on Monday after a Bharatiya Janata Party leader was shot dead by bike-borne masked assailants near a police station in North 24 Parganas on Sunday. The home secretary and DGP, however, didn’t turn up prompting Dhankhar to tweet that he wants to speak to Banerjee urgently. “Alarming nose-diving law and order scenario @MamataOfficial. Targeted political killings in spite of alert by Constitutional Head. Neither ACS Home nor DGP @WBPolice responded. To CM at 10.47 AM “Would like to speak to you urgently !” Only silence that speaks volumes,” Dhankhar tweeted. Alarming nosediving law and order scenario @MamataOfficial Targeted political killings in spite of alert by Constitutional Head. Neither ACS Home nor DGP @WBPolice responded. To CM at 10.47 PM "Would like to speak to you urgently !" Only silence that speaks volumesNeither the home secretary nor the DGP were available for comments. On September 26, Banerjee, in a nine-page letter, had warned Dhankhar of legal consequences for his statements and had accused him of trying to destabilise an elected government. “You have passed judgments on the current state of affairs of our state in the following words ‘safe haven to terror, crime, flourishing illegal bomb-making, corruption’ etc. Such unsubstantiated statements without evidence or mere imputations are absolutely false and baseless and may cause unnecessary panic among common people and cause loss of life, for which law will hold you responsible,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-leader-murder-bengal-guv-jagdeep-dhankhar-wants-to-speak-to-mamata-urgently/story-XQvCepEvlJfNz8OeemomEP.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi zoo generated ecosystem services worth Rs 422.76 crore in 2019-20: Study||Ecosystem services provided by New Delhi’s National Zoological Park are estimated to have generated Rs 422.76 crore in 2019-20, a first such study has found. The value of the one-time cost of services and land provided by the zoo is estimated to be Rs 55,209.45 crore.The Central Zoo Authority commissioned the study to the Energy and Resources Institute to evaluate the services provided by the zoo.Also read: 680 projects in protected areas given wildlife clearance in 5 yearsThe study found that almost 77% of the contribution comes from the recreational and cultural services of the zoo. Education and research, the next most important services, contributed only 9% to the total economic value.“Irrespective of the contributions, every service is important as it contributes towards the improvement of the local environment. The benefits of the zoo are not only restricted to its visitors but also reach Delhi’s citizens. Hence, it is necessary to ensure the proper maintenance of the zoo to improve its services,” the study released on Monday said.The zoo houses 73 Indian species. They include 26 exotic species of mammals, birds, and reptiles. The zoo also plans to add species of amphibians, fish, and insects. In 2017-18, Rs 40 crore was spent on the management of these animals.The number of tourists visiting the zoo has also grown consistently over the years, according to the study. In 2018-19, 19,568 foreign tourists and 2,692,730 domestic tourists visited the zoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-generated-ecological-services-worth-rs-422-76-crore-in-2019-20-study/story-Vb5yVLeFZSj2tUkt5OVHTP.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 50% of accidental firing deaths of cops in country: NCRB||In an indication that handling of weapons in Punjab Police needs to improve, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report for 2019 shows that of the 14 personnel killed on duty due to accidental firing from their own weapon in the country, seven were from Punjab. This is a share of 50%.The trend has been persisting. In 2018, 16 cops were killed in accidental firing in the country, of which nine were from Punjab; in 2017, of 13 such deaths in the country, six were from the state. The report adds that Punjab Police lost 45 personnel in 2019, of which 37 died in accidents, one was killed by criminals and seven died in accidental firing.Punjab also reported the second-highest number of cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS) Act at 11,536 cases, the report states. Maharashtra registered 14,158 cases and had the dubious distinction of topping the country.In Punjab, 5,927 cases were registered for possession of drugs for trafficking, which is the highest in the country. In 5,609 cases, possession of drugs for personal use or consumption was found.In cases of people escaping from police custody in 2019, Punjab was the third highest in the country at 84, with 104 and 102 people escaping police custody in Maharashtra and Rajasthan, respectively. The state police have re-arrested 60 of 84 who fled.The state has also registered the highest number of cases where the Official Secrets Act was invoked, with the NCRB report putting it at seven. Forty such cases were registered across the country with Maharashtra following the state with six cases.Additional director general of police (ADGP) and director of Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, Anita Punj said weapon training was an integral part of police training in basic and pre-promotion courses. She, however, refused to comment on the reason for accidental fires by cops, but added she would need to study individual cases to explain the cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-sees-50-of-accidental-firing-deaths-of-cops-in-country-ncrb/story-mLqqq4dvPltGfH3fqzv1sJ.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Citing AIIMS report, Shiv Sena slams critics of Mumbai police||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Monday cited a report of a team of forensic experts from New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) ruling out murder in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and slammed those who targeted the Mumbai Police over its investigations in the case. It also sought an apology for those who “maligned” Maharashtra over the death. The Sena asked the Maharashtra government to file a defamation suit against those who “deliberately defamed” the state government as part of a “conspiracy” against the ruling alliance.In its conclusive medico-legal opinion to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the team dismissed the claims of “poisoning and strangling” made in the case of Rajput’s death.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation: Congress, BJP trade barbs“The truth ultimately comes out and this is what exactly happened when Dr Sudhir Gupta, who heads the Forensic Department [of AIIMS], declared it as a suicide. Dr Gupta does not belong to the Shiv Sena’s medical wing neither is he connected to Mumbai. In fact, AIIMS enjoys such a good reputation that even [Union] home minister Amit Shah regularly visits it,” said Sena’s mouthpiece, Saamna, in an editorial. It said this confirmed the Mumbai Police were a doing a professional job and was subject to unjust ridicule.The editorial said Rajput’s family was used by some vested interests for their narrow political agenda. It added for this former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, who has since quit to join the ruling Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), was seen running his agenda. “The Bihar elections did not have any issue and hence [chief minister] Nitish Kumar and other politicians latched on this issue. Gupteshwar Pandey also played along and finally joined Nitish Kumar’s party. He has in fact defamed the uniform. It is surprising now he has not uttered a single work condemning the Hathras rape incident,” said the editorial.The Sena said the experts’ opinion proves the late actor used to consume drugs and that was the reason why his partner, Rhea Chakraborty, is now in prison. “Had the law allowed, then even the deceased Sushant Singh would have been tried for the consumption of drugs.”The Mumbai Police were criticised for the mishandling the investigations. The Bihar Police also took up the case before the Supreme Court handed it over the case to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-citing-aiims-report-shiv-sena-slams-critics-of-mumbai-police/story-TuR1psKl29pMFV2VBwNciK.html
05-10-2020||Patna||Bihar polls: LJP finally walks out of NDA, but says will back BJP||After keeping the NDA on tenterhooks, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Sunday decided to go it alone in the Bihar assembly elections citing ideological differences with the JD-U, but with a clear objective of ensuring a BJP-led government in Bihar. At the parliamentary board meeting chaired by LJP president Chirag Paswan, the party went on the much speculated lines resolving not to contest under the leadership of chief minister Kumar. However, to reiterate its stance for the BJP, the parliamentary board adopted a resolution that called for all LJP legislators to strengthen PM Modi. “The LJP wants that on the lines of the Centre, Bihar should also have a BJP-led government. After election results, all the LJP MLAs will work to strengthen the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said a statement issued by LJP principal general secretary Abdul Khalik. The LJP is likely to contest on nearly 125 seats, most of which will be fought by JD (U) also. How this would pan out will be interesting to watch in a state where it was hitherto considered a direct National Democratic Alliance (NDA) vs Grand Alliance (GA) fight, though Bihar has had a history of ‘friendly contests’ to alter the course of election. THE IDEOLOGICAL BATTLELJP has also made it clear at the outset that its decision could lead to ideological battle with the JD-U over seats especially with LJP president Chirag Paswan being openly critical of Bihar chief minister and JDU chief Nitish Kumar, accusing him of failing to meet poll promises of ushering in development in the state. This could create a piquant situation for the JD-U as also the BJP, as in case of small margins of victory split of votes will matter a lot. By maintaining that it wanted to continue with the arrangement that existed for the Lok Sabha election and focus on its ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision document for the state’s development, it has put the onus of decision on the JD-U, while maintaining that there was no love lost with the BJP. DRAWING PARALLELS WITH DIFFERENT TARGETThe LJP decision takes one back to 2005 when LJP fought alone with the sole objective of ending the 15-year rule of the RJD. Though it could not win many seats, its ability to split crucial votes made it a bit easier for the NDA to form government. After 15 years, it is doing the same with a different target – this time chief minister Nitish Kumar. In the two elections in 2005 February and October, LJP had contested on its own, contesting 178 and 203 seats respectively. However, it won just 10 seats in the October polls compared to 29 in February, but enough to make it easier for the Nitish-led NDA to end the 15-year-old RJD rule. Though LJP bagged six seats each in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections with nearly 100% strike rate in the company of NDA, it struggled badly in the Assembly elections of 2010 and 2015, bagging just two and three seats respectively in the 243-member assembly. In 2010, it had contested 75 seats, while in 2015 it fought on 40 seats. UNDERDOGS OR KINGMAKERSThough LJP has never been a big player in Bihar politics, it has often played deft politics to end up on the right side since its inception in 2000, when Ram Vilas Paswan set up his own outfit after splitting from the Janata Dal on the issue of joining the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Two decades later, LJP has undergone generational shift, with Chirag Paswan as the national president and his cousin and former MP Ramchandra Paswan’s son Prince Raj the state president. This has resulted in rising ambition of the party to expand its footprints, with Chirag being projected as CM candidate even at the cost of antagonizing Nitish Kumar. The 2020 election will be a big test for the LJP, as it would be the first election under the new and young leadership without patron union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who is ailing. FRIENDLY CONTESTEarlier, the party earlier had hinted at following the Manipur model in Bihar, where the party contested the 2017 assembly elections alone and later its only MLA joined the BJP government. In Manipur, the LJP had announced candidates for 11 constituencies, but won a single seat. In 2014, during the assembly election in Jammu and Kashmir and the 2019 assembly election in Jharkhand on its own, even as it was part of the NDA at the centre. Persons aware of the details said, the party will opt to have a friendly contest against the NDA partners, though the LJP leadership had qualified earlier that they will put up contestants against the JDU and not the BJP. The LJP leadership had announced last month that the party will contest 143 of the 243 seats, if it fails to reach an agreement with the BJP on seat sharing. In another development, Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party patron Ram Vilas Paswan has undergone a heart surgery, his son Chirag said on Sunday.Paswan ,74, who has been in active politics for more than five decades and is one of the country’s most noted Dalit leaders, has been hospitalised for the last few weeks.He was operated upon at a private hospital in the national capital. He has long suffered from a heart condition and family sources expressed confidence that he will soonrecover.In a tweet, Chirag said his father underwent a heart surgery due to sudden developments on Saturday evening, which forced him to cancel a party meeting and rush to his father’s side.If needed, the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution will undergo another operation in a few weeks, he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-polls-ljp-finally-walks-out-of-nda-but-says-will-back-bjp/story-0flBkWPEPA1bP3HkfiwEBO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Infection rate in people aged 31-40 increased after unlocking: Maharashtra government||At 21.34%, the 31-40 age group accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases, data from Maharashtra government’s Medical Education and Drugs Department shows. The percentage of cases from the category was 20.54% on June 4, which increased to 20.74% a month later and then to 21.14%, the same day the following month, after the lockdown measures were eased. Maharashtra reported 1,443,409 Covid-19 cases and 38,084 fatalities until Sunday evening. The 31-40 age group is followed by 41-50 (17.9% cases), 21-30 (16.98% cases), and 51-60 (15.95%). “Major activities, including inter-district movement, a rise in office workforce and reopening of commercial activities from the first week of September, have led to a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 patients from the age group of 31 to 40 years over the past couple of months. The common perception is that youngsters can be allowed to step out, while senior citizens must stay at home,” said an official from the health department. Also Read: India exceeds WHO’s Covid-19 tests advisory by 6 times: GovtThe percentage of cases among the 41-50 and 51-60 age groups has declined gradually. The 41-50 age group contributed to 18.03% cases on June 4, which dropped to 17.9% four months later. Similarly, for the 51-60 age group, the percentage of patients came down to 15.95% from 16.69%. The 21-30 age category, too, has seen a drop – 19.55% on June 4 to 16.98% four months later. State health officials attributed the dip in the infection rate to closure of schools, colleges and high awareness among youngsters. Also Read: With 74,442 new Covid-19 cases and 903 deaths, India’s tally goes past 6.6 mnHowever, the spread among 61-70 and 71-80 age groups has increased during the corresponding period – June 4 to October 4 – from 9.72% to 10.63% and from 4.19% to 5.02%, respectively. “The rise in the percentage of cases in the 31-40 age group is because of their mobility after lockdown restrictions were gradually eased. The positive aspect of this age group is that they have a higher recovery rate. It also helps to develop herd immunity and increase the percentage of people with positive antibodies. Besides, the mortality rate is low,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital, said carelessness among people in the age group is the major reason. “Most of them are without any comorbidity and it brings the feeling of surety that they would not get infected. If due precautions are taken, like by those in the 40-60 age group, the number of cases can drop further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/infection-rate-in-people-aged-31-40-increased-after-unlocking-maharashtra-government/story-PWUsNukhtcOhxH1bEEiLRJ.html
05-10-2020||Lucknow||UP govt to start doorstep delivery of food stock to ration dealers||To check pilferage in the long supply chain, the Uttar Pradesh government is introducing a new system of doorstep delivery of food stocks directly to ration dealers under the public distribution system (PDS) from Monday.The government has identified one block in each district for the implementation of the new scheme after the positive results of a pilot project launched in a few blocks in three districts.Also read: Odisha sarpanch alleges PDS corruption, fined Rs 1 lakh for organising protest“We tried the pilot project in two blocks each in Prayagraj, Moradabad, and Banda. Now, after the success of the project, the government has decided to implement the scheme in one block of each district from Monday,” said AK Singh, additional commissioner, food and civil supplies.“Later, the government may decide to replicate the model for all the blocks across the state.”Currently, the food grains are delivered in two stages — from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns to the block godowns and from block godowns to the ration dealers.Under, the new system, the food grains will travel directly from FCI godowns to the ration dealers.In most cases, ration dealers have to travel to block godowns to get the monthly quota while in some cases, the stock is delivered to them by the block godowns. In either case, the government used to pay the cost at the rate of Rs 15-18 per quintal, depending on the distance between a dealer’s shop and block godown.The new system, according to officials, may be helpful for the government in saving these expenses apart from curbing leakages in the long supply chain.The department of food and civil supplies has also prepared software to run and monitor the new system to ensure transparent transactions.“Soon after a delivery van starts from an FCI godown, the ration dealer concerned will get a message on his registered mobile number informing him about the same including exact quantity loaded and to be delivered. The delivery man will deliver the rations to the dealer, only after he feeds the OTP sent on his cell phone,” said Singh.The delivery vehicles, he said, have been fitted with GPS devices, through which they would be under constant vigil from the control room. “We have also mapped the routes that the delivery vehicles are supposed to take to reach ration dealers. Any route diversion for them will get detected immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-to-start-doorstep-delivery-of-food-stock-to-ration-dealers/story-9Bwzyhl0GkfBSUpdcQpFNJ.html
05-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro introduces extra trains from today||To expand its services during the festive season, the Kolkata Metro’s North South Corridor, considered to be the city’s lifeline, has introduced extra trains and stretched operation timings from Monday. Instead of 116 trains, Kolkata Metro will now run 122 trains. The services will start from 8 am and continue till 9 pm from Friday to Saturday. Each train carries around 400 passengers. While Metro services resumed operation from September 14 more than five months after they were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was only from October 4 that the services were available on Sundays too. Also Read: Bengal BJP calls for 12-hr bandh in Barrackpore over party councillor’s murderInitially, the services were available from to 8 am to 7 pm. Later, from the last week of September, services were extended till 7:30 pm. Sunday services, which are available from 10:10 am and 7:30 pm, however, remain unchanged. Timing of East West Corridor also remains unchanged. The North South Metro has been receiving more than 50,000 passengers on weekdays. On Sundays, more than 14,000 passengers take the Metro. Compared to this, the East West corridor receives less than 200 passengers per day. Authorities said that with the Phoolbagan Metro Station, which was inaugurated by railway minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday, becoming operational from Monday, the passenger count in East West Metro is expected to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-introduces-extra-trains-from-today/story-5zabUkQKopCGkvq3dRyUrK.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||With fewer hospitalisations, over 10,000 Covid beds lie vacant in Delhi||With the number of cases and hospitalisations due to Covid-19 going down over the last 10 days, over 10,000 beds reserved for the treatment of the disease across hospitals in the New Delhi remain vacant.There were 10,028 vacant beds as of Monday morning, according to the Delhi Corona App. The data shows that only 36.6% of the total beds are occupied. However, the occupancy is higher when it comes to the intensive care unit (ICU) beds.Also read: With 74,442 new Covid-19 cases and 903 deaths, India’s tally goes past 6.6 millionThere are 2,914 ICU beds – both with and without ventilators -- reserved for the treatment of Covid-19, of which 63.7% are occupied. To ensure the availability of ICU beds during the surge in cases in September, the Delhi government asked its hospitals to increase ICU beds. The government had also ordered 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for Covid-19 treatment. The matter has been challenged in the high court.Of the total ICU beds, 1,184, or just over 40%, are in the government hospitals. The occupancy of these beds was 53.8% as of Monday morning, according to data from the app. The occupancy of ICU beds in the private sector hospitals, however, was at 70.3%. This is higher at 12 big private hospitals at 82%, the data shows.The number of hospitalisations has reduced from the highest – just over 7,000 during the third week of September – to 5,896 as of Sunday. The government had reserved about 14,000 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 following the surge in cases in June and July. However, fewer ICU beds were increased during the September surge.“The availability of beds – especially ICU beds – has improved in the city over the last seven to eight days with the number of hospitalisations reducing by around 1,000. The situation is much better right now,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-with-fewer-hospitalisations-over-10-000-beds-lie-vacant-in-delhi/story-X0zZ3YfWhLIHEcN16lCLXO.html
05-10-2020||City||Indefinite strike by Assam transport body from today||Passengers across Assam have been affected due to an indefinite strike called by a major transport body since Monday morning demanding hike in fares among other demands. Passenger vehicles across the state are off roads from 6 am on Monday due to the strike called by All Assam Motor Transport Association (AAMTA), who is seeking relief measures from the state government to offset massive losses suffered due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions.In Guwahati, besides city buses and buses running on long routes, taxis, tempos and other passenger vehicles are also off roads in support of the demands raised by the AAMTA. The list of demands by the association include a waiver in road tax for a year, doing away with quarterly tax on vehicles, an increase in bus fares and financial relief to transporters due to the restrictions imposed because of Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: One Assam Rifles personnel killed in militant ambush in Arunachal Pradesh“The government has been giving relief to almost all sectors due to losses suffered because of the Covid-19 pandemic. But transporters have been denied such measures, forcing us to resort to a strike,” Pradip Das, general secretary, AAMTA, told media persons on Sunday. “At present, we are operating buses with 50% of passengers’ capacity, but with the same fares as earlier. It has become impossible to continue, as petrol prices have also gone up by leaps and bounds,” he added. The government had requested the AAMTA to refrain from resorting to strike as it would pose inconvenience for passengers. “We had requested them to postpone or call off the strike, as a meeting with the transport minister is scheduled on Tuesday to redress their demands,” said a transport department official. In a bid to ensure passengers are not stranded because of the strike, the Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) has decided to operate 650 buses across the state, including 250 in Guwahati alone, from 6 am to 10 pm, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indefinite-strike-by-assam-transport-body-from-today/story-1TDnm1qUHkIVFmIOf3H98H.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two suspected criminals held in Vikaspuri shootout||Two suspected criminals were arrested after a brief chase and a gunfight in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri on Sunday night. Both of them took one bullet each in their legs while two policemen were hit in their bulletproof vests following firing by the arrested men. The two policemen escaped unhurt, Delhi Police said on Monday. “The arrested criminals, Deepak alias Deepu and Surender alias Sheru, are members of Saddam alias Gauri’s gang. Deepak was also wanted in a case registered against him under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), 1999,” said Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (special cell), Delhi Police. Also read: Delhi police’s Operation Eagle Eye reveals how auto lifters supplied snatchers with vehiclesOn Sunday evening, DCP Yadav said, the special cell team received an information that the two associates of Saddam would come to Vikaspuri to kill their rival. Acting on the tip-off, the team laid a trap on the Ganda Nala road near Vikaspuri. Around 8 pm, the team members spotted Deepak and Surebder on a motorcycle. “The police team ordered Deepak to stop and surrender but he accelerated the motorcycle and tried to flee. The police chased them. The two suspects’ motorcycle skidded off the road following the hot chase by the police. Though the team surrounded the suspects, the duo whipped out their guns and fired at the police personnel,” said DCP Yadav. “Deepak fired two rounds of which one missed a constable, who was trying to apprehend the duo. His other bullet hit the bulletproof vest of a head constable. Surender fired one bullet that hit a sub-inspector (S-I) in his bulletproof vest. Our team members fired five bullets in self-defence. Deepak and Surender took one bullet each in their left and right leg. Both the policemen, who were shot at, are safe,” the DCP added. The injured men were admitted to an adjoining hospital, where they are undergoing treatment. A case was registered against the duo and they were arrested. Saddam aka Gauri is a close aide of jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana. He was arrested by the special cell team in Meerut following a shootout in October, 2019. He was wanted in several criminal cases such as murder, attempts to murder, robberies, dacoities, snatching and also for attacking police personnel. He was also booked under MCOCA, 1999, Delhi Police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-suspected-criminals-held-in-vikaspuri-shootout/story-d1qdR7ELKkATkrQugXQCBN.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai restaurants, bars to open today after months of lockdown||Restaurants, bars and cafes to reopen in Mumbai from Monday after over six months of lockdown restrictions because of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The dine-in facility will be reopened at 50% capacity and will adhere to several restrictions by following guidelines of the Maharashtra government that were issued last week. However, because of an acute crunch in staff several restaurant owners have asked their workers to return to Mumbai at the earliest and many are booking their flights in a bid to ensure employees could resume their duties at the earliest, said All India hotel and restaurant Association (AHAR). AHAR said that out of the total 15,000 restaurants in Mumbai, not more than 4,000 would be able to reopen their dine-in option from Monday because of an acute shortage of workforce, as the employees had returned to their native places due to the lockdown restrictions that were enforced from the end of March in a bid to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: Schools, temples, restaurants -- What is opening where from October 5On Saturday, the directorate of tourism department in Maharashtra allowed the reopening of restaurants, bars and cafes from Monday. The extensive guidelines for restaurant owners and diners include operating procedures for pre-booking of seats, Covid-19 hygiene while serving food and beverages, seating arrangements within restaurant premises, table etiquette, hospitality norms, entry-exit and washroom hygiene, norms for regular ventillation of premises and disinfection routines, digital or disposable paper menus, and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour for employees.Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR, an umbrella body of restaurants and hotels in Mumbai, said, “We represent around 15,000 restaurants in Mumbai, and starting on Monday around 4,000 restaurants will reopen their dine-in facilities. Many restaurant owners are booking flight tickets for their workers to resume their work immediately. The workforce had gone back to their native places in Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP) because of the lockdown restrictions.” Restaurateurs are also planning to conduct training workshops, getting their staff undergo Covid-19 tests, conducting santisation drive of the premises and also preparing a revised menu.The guidelines have also directed restaurants to keep a tab on detailed information of every customer, including contact details after they give their consent, in a bid to ramp up contract tracing in an aggressive manner. These logs will be maintained for the next 30 days. No buffet service and live entertainment will be allowed in restaurants, bars and cafes .The guidelines added that customers should be screened at the entry point of a restaurant and an eatery for Covid-19 symptoms such as high temperature, cough and cold.Asymptomatic customers will be allowed to enter restaurants and eateries. The use of face masks in restaurants is mandatory, except for during eating, and along with a strict compliance with social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-restaurants-bars-to-open-today-after-months-of-lockdown/story-plbnPVN41CuSzgIVojhzXL.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hold high-level meeting to control air pollution||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a high-level meeting on Monday to finalise the city’s action plan to control air pollution in the coming winter months. “They (officials) will present their action plans. After that, the Delhi government, under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, will launch a mega campaign against pollution,” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said on Thursday addressing a press conference.Also Read: Mercury drops, Delhi’s air begins to worsenOfficials of the environment department, development department, Public Works Department, all the three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council, transport department, traffic police, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi State Industrial and infrastructure Development Corporation and Delhi Jal Board will be present at the meeting. According to the Delhi government, last year, massive stubble burning took place in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Western Uttar Pradesh, which contributed to 45% of Delhi’s air quality deterioration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-hold-high-level-meeting-to-control-air-pollution/story-jEItxKHDSjgYDmOXyYP7SN.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Modi weakening govt procurement system to benefit businessmen friends, Rahul Gandhi tells Punjab farmers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of weakening the procurement system for foodgrains and snatching the economic freedom of farmers with the new farm laws. Gandhi was addressing farmers on the second day of the party’s Kheti Bachao Yatra at Bhawanigarh, 13km from Sangrur, which has highest per hectare production of wheat in India and also remains the epicentre of protests of farmers. Targeting the Modi government, Gandhi said the Centre makes policies to benefit few businessmen who are Modi’s friends. “Modi is paving the way for (industrialists) Ambani and Adani in the farm sector by enacting the new agriculture laws,” he said. He said that the illogical policies of the government had already created unemployment in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). He reiterated how demonetisation, the goods and services tax (GST) and unplanned Covid-19 lockdown had hit the common man, while the ventures of top businessmen grew. “The new laws will steal the economic freedom of farmers as a few businessmen will control the sale and purchase of foodgrains. The Congress is for strengthening the government procurement of foodgrains. But the government is bent upon destroying the nation’s food security. Otherwise, what was the hurry to bring in these laws?” he said. The Congress leader said that the government anticipated farmers won’t come out on the streets due to the Covid-19 restrictions. “The Congress will join the fight of the farmers till the illogical, black laws are scrapped,” he said. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder termed the new laws unjust for farmers. He said that the non-commitment on the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) regime will create problems for farmers. He said that acting on the Shanta Kumar committee’s report, Modi is trying to scrap the Food Corporation of India, which purchases foodgrains from Punjab for public distribution across the country. “Instead of watching the interest of farmers, the government is promoting business interests,” Capt Amarinder Singh said. He said that the Akalis had failed to protect the interest of farmers while being a partner of Modi’s National Democratic Alliance. He asked farmers not to believe the PM’s assurance on MSP, as the NDA government is yet to fulfil its constitutional commitment to pay monthly GST to states. He said that the Congress will fight for farmers on the legal and political fronts. It will approach the Supreme Court besides calling a special session of the Punjab assembly on this issue. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar termed the agrarian laws as “death warrants” for farmers. He said that the Modi government is helping big businessmen but ignoring farmers, who are the backbone of the economy. Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, who attended Sunday’s rally, skipped the event. Haryana Congress leader Deepender Hooda was present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/modi-weakening-govt-procurement-system-to-benefit-businessmen-friends-rahul-gandhi-tells-punjab-farmers/story-o8s5dnwkpHE1ELXYCu54dP.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A beautiful doorway, still living||It is arrayed out in six panels. The planks that link them are studded with cap-like decorations, like little black nails. Four gigantic latches are fitted at different corners, their metal chains as hefty as the ones used to imprison the courtesan Anarkali, in the movie Mughal-e-Azam.This wooden door, with an arched taak at the top, transports the viewer to an earlier era. The only contemporary giveaway is of a white electric door bell at the top-right.The door frames the entrance of a house in Old Delhi’s Galli Chooriwallan street. It is very close to the house with a beautiful doorway that was recently razed down to make way for a multi-storey building—the demise of that doorway was mourned on these pages a few days ago.As is true of most of the city, Delhi’s historic Mughal-era quarter is undergoing rapid transformation. Old is being replaced by new. But the Walled City continues to host souvenirs of its architectural past, here and there — though such treasures can be hard to find. This doorway is exactly one such place, snuggled at the end of a cramped alley. In fact this entire passageway is like a museum of doors, with scores of similar doorways lurking around, each an element of utmost elegance. Despite being hefty and grand, these doors are so rooted to this address that they look ordinary in a most surreal way, as if they were celebrities lounging in ordinary clothes in the privacy of their home, far removed from the vulgarities of fandom and self-importance.Each door is flanked by stone columns, which have patterns of flowers and leaves inscribed on them. The door sills show age and venerability, the weathered wood looks creased and has clearly seen the shift of many seasons. The lane has a series of small printing establishments. This morning a labourer enters from the main street outside, his back weighed down with a great stack of printing sheets. He hobbles on, without a glance at the beautiful doorways.The most attractive of these doors, the one described in the beginning, belongs to a private residence. A lady answers the doorbell. “Yes, our house is very old,” she says, and closes the door again||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-beautiful-doorway-still-living/story-kGAGOYnPL2MB4tmwhZtVPN.html
05-10-2020||City||New farm laws attack on federal structure: Sidhu||Former Punjab cabinet minister and Amritsar East legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday attended a tractor rally led by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi here to protest the Centre’s new farm laws. Sidhu’s participation in the rally came three days after All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat met him at his residence in Amritsar. Sidhu, who had been at loggerheads with chief minister Amarinder Singh, had stayed away from all Congress activities ever since he resigned as cabinet minister last year. Wearing a black turban as a symbol of protest against BJP government’s anti-farmer laws, Sidhu, took 15-minutes to complete his trademark address comprising poetry, satire and sharp political comments that invited repeated applause by the audience. Sidhu strongly opposed farm laws as an “attack on the federal structure” and also said these black laws would ruin the farming community and others associated in the agrarian economy. “They (BJP government) are robbing us of our rights,” he said, adding the Centre had imposed a “system which had failed in Europe and the US”. These new legislations would adversely affect five lakh labourers and 30,000 commissioned agents, Sidhu claimed. The outspoken leader also asked the cash-strapped Punjab government to take the onus of assuring minimum support price (MSP) and storage to farmers by amending state legislations.“Governments are not expected to turn its back on the key issues. Farmers need MSP and if the central government intends to dilute it, then the Punjab government needs to step in to ensure profitability on their crops. A special assembly session should be called on farmers’ issues,” Sidhu said while referring to his political bête noire Punjab CM.When Punjab cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on the stage asked Sidhu to cut short his speech, he replied, “ Bhaji aaj na rok... pehlan vee bithaye rakhya see (Brother, do not stop me today).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-farm-laws-attack-on-federal-structure-sidhu/story-rcr20MhQyUYfYVFhdJpCnI.html
05-10-2020||City||Rahul Gandhi vows to scrap contentious farm laws once Congress returns to power at Centre||Sharpening his attack on the BJP-led NDA government over the new agriculture laws, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said they will scrap these contentious legislations once the Congress returns to power at the Centre. Launching the three-day ‘kheti bachao yatra’ along with Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and a battery of senior Congress leaders at Moga district’s Badhni Kalan village, the Gandhi scion vowed to fight till end against the legislations passed during Parliament’s monsoon session and extended his party’s “firm support” to the agrarian community. “Some chosen corporate houses are dictating the Central government’s policy decisions. Land of farmers in the states like Punjab and Haryana is now facing the threat of acquisition by the powerful business houses,” he said while addressing the gathering in Moga. Expressing solidarity with the farmers against the farm laws, the Congress’s state unit tried to put a united face. Sulking Amritsar (East) MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, a bete noire of the Amarinder, also attended the march after staying away from party events for several months. The cricketer-turned-politician was invited over cabinet ministers to address the gathering. Rahul also released a `kisan-mazdoor ekta’ (farm labourer unity) flag. VILLAGERS THRONG RALLY VENUE AT MOGA VILLAGE Earlier, the rally venue at the Badhni Kalan grain market was well attended by people, including women. Villagers also came to the rally in private buses from adjoining Bathinda, Barnala and Ferozepur districts. Covid-19 guidelines of maintaining social distancing and wearing masks were flouted by people. Amarinder urged Gandhi to bring under one roof the farmers from across India for an organised protest against the Centre. “The Akalis sold off the farmers’ interests as part of the Central government, with Bathinda MP Harsimrat Badal being party to the decision as a minister. The Centre might pay MSP for a couple of crops, but eventually it would scrap the system completely,” said the CM. Later in the evening, the tractor march led by Gandhi and Amarinder received a rousing welcome by thousands of waiting farmers at Lamme Jattpura village in Raikot of Ludhiana district. Gandhi and Amarinder were handed over resolutions against the laws by the panchayats in Raikot sub-division. Addressing the gathering, Gandhi said the Modi-led government has been attacking the poor. Earlier, travelling on tractors through Chakkar, Lakha and Manoke, Rahul and Amarinder met the farmers and assured them of full support in their fight against the new laws. At Chakkar village, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu handed over soil to Gandhi and urged him to save Punjab and its farmers from the new laws. Gandhi said the government at the Centre is not run by Modi or BJP but by the Adanis and the Ambanis. “The Adanis and Ambanis help Modi and they get help in return. It is a symbiotic relationship between them,” he said. JAKHAR DRIVES TRACTOR CARRYING GANDHI, CAPT State Congress president Sunil Jakhar drove the tractor carrying the Gandhi scion and Amarinder from Badhni Kalan to the Lamme Jattpur village in adjoining Ludhiana district. Gandhi was honoured by villagers with shawls at a couple of places. Due to the movement of security vehicles, several tractors could not join the march. Navjot Sidhu was aboard a tractor driven by Congress’ Rohtak MP Deepender Singh Hooda.A special engineering team was hired to modify the tractors used by the Congress leaders to make them comfortable and increase their seating capacity. The tractors also went through special security check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rahul-gandhi-vows-to-scrap-contentious-farm-laws-once-congress-returns-to-power-at-centre/story-MTfR2y7ZKKGJTbLLkr5MOJ.html
05-10-2020||City||Minor girls most vulnerable to abduction in Ludhiana||Minor girls are more vulnerable to being kidnapped or abducted on the pretext of marriage in the city, a report recently released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has revealed. The report shows that out of 195 cases of kidnapping and abduction registered in the city in 2019, the victims in 175 cases were minor girls. Overall crimes against women down In a positive development, the overall count of crimes against women in the city came down as compared to the previous year. In 2019, a total of 595 cases were reported in which women were the victims. This is much lower than the 662 such cases reported in 2018 and 535 reported in 2017. Unsafe city Gender-based crimes accounted for 8% of the total 7, 369 FIRs registered in Ludhiana in 2019. These include 12 dowry deaths, 143 cases of dowry harassment, one acid attack and one acid attack bid among others. In the acid attack case, it was found that another woman was behind the crime. She had attacked the victim, suspecting that the latter was in a relationship with her live-in partner. Rapes rampant in migrant concentrated areas As many as 62 rape cases and 11 cases of attempt to rape were reported last year, in which seven victims were minors. Most of the cases were reported in areas where the migrant population is more. This mostly comprise of the labour quarters (vehras) near industrial areas, where up to 70 families are found inhabiting one building. In most cases, both parents of the minor victims were at work when the sexual assaults took place. Furthermore, in most cases, the victim knew the predator. As many as 72 cases of assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty were also reported, in which the victims were minors in 11 cases. Six cases for word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman were also lodged. Apart from this, two cases of cyber crimes against women, and 76 cases of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act were also lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-girls-most-vulnerable-to-abduction-in-ludhiana/story-HWDjkBgniPqChw1mzGbHOK.html
05-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: 10 more lose battle to Covid, 161 test positive||After witnessing a steady decline, the district has once again started seeing a surge in Covid-19 fatalities with as many as 10 patients losing their battle to the virus on Sunday. Apart from this, 161 more patients tested positive for the virus, taking the cumulative count of cases to 18, 333. With the death toll at 770 and recoveries at 16, 872, the number of active cases in the district now is 849. Among the dead are a 47-year-old male from Samrala, a 73-year-old-male from Jassian Road, a 62-year-old female form New Sabzi Mandi, a 53-year-old female from Lohara, a 32-year-old male from SBS Nagar, a 67-year-old male from Gobind Pura, a 57-year-old-female from Prem Vihar Colony, a 78-year-old male from male from Vikas Nagar, a 62-year-old male from Pratap Nagar and a 64-year-old female from South City. The positive cases reported on Sunday include 63 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 49 referred by the out-patient departments and 16 contacts of positive patients. Among them is one health care worker, a domestic traveler and a pregnant woman. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said efforts are on to keep people safe from Covid-19. He said that a total of 190 infections have been discovered in the last 24 hours, of which 161 are from Ludhiana while 29 are from other states/districts. He further said that till date, a total of 2, 94, 230 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 2, 92, 276 samples have been received. As many as 2, 71, 437 reports came back negative reports of 1, 954 samples are still pending. COVID tracker: Tracker Death: 770 Active: 849Recovered: 16,872Total: 18,491||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-more-lose-battle-to-covid-in-ludhiana-161-test-positive/story-FdXVZFDlrcxuNVdA2dETjK.html
05-10-2020||City||Day after Ludhiana factory fire, police recovers charred body of worker||A day after fire broke out at a cloth factory on Rahon road, police recovered the charred body of a 25-year-old employee from the building. The deceased has been identified as Mukarram. He had been missing since the blaze started, even as all other employees managed to escape on time.High drama was witnessed in the morning as the labourers’ union gathered outside the factory and demanded a search operation to find their missing colleague. Following this, a fire officer and the Jodhewal Basti police team, led by station house officer Arshpreet Kaur, reached the spot to carry out the search.Cops said the search could not be carried out on Saturday as firemen had been focusing on dousing the flames. Ibrahim, the victim’s brother-in-law, said he had been stating since Saturday that Mukarram was inside the building but no one paid heed to him. “No one was willing to listen. We were being pushed and shoved away from the spot where the fire incident had taken place. Even the factory owner kept telling me that Mukarram did not turn up for work and had joined some other unit. He was lying. Had he told the truth, my relative could have been saved,” said Ibrahim. SHO Asrhpreet Kaur said, “We are recording the statement of the family members of the deceased and appropriate action will be taken in the matter.” Mukarram, a native of Bihar, is survived by his wife and two children. The fire had erupted around 3pm on Saturday. Initially, some workers inside the factory had tried to douse the flames, but on realising that their efforts were proving futile, they informed the fire brigade and rushed out of the factory. The reason behind the incident remains uncertain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-ludhiana-factory-fire-police-recovers-charred-body-of-worker/story-bEhX3PSQgXG8F62b17D3CM.html
05-10-2020||City||Labourer arrested for raping teen in Ludhiana||A labourer was arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl living in his neighbourhood. The accused has been identified as Som Raj, 30. As per the victim’s mother, who is the complainant in the case, the incident took place on Thursday, however, the girl narrated the ordeal to her only on Saturday. In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother said she lives in a rented accommodation with her four children while her husband lives separately. On Thursday, when her daughter was going to the terrace to dry some clothes, the accused pulled her into his room and raped her. He also threatened her against revealing the incident to anyone.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Narang Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-arrested-for-raping-teen-in-ludhiana/story-dpj5MTX2tDBWzyfxshyHgO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||NCRB’s 2019 crime statistics: Homicides down, rape on the rise in Himachal||Himachal recorded a 1.5% decrease in violent crimes and 29% decline in murder cases in 2019, as per the 2019 edition of the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB’s) ‘Crime in India’ statistics.As many as 1,833 violent crimes were reported in the state in 2019 as compared to the 1,861 cases reported in 2018.The NCRB’s violent crime category subsumes murder, attempted murder, culpable homicide, attempted culpable homicide, dowry deaths, infanticide, foeticide, grievous hurt, kidnapping and abduction, rape, attempt to rape, rioting, robbery, dacoity, and arson.The hill-state reported 70 murder cases and 54 attempted murder cases in 2019 against 99 murder and 58 attempted murder cases lodged in 2018. There was an increase in cases of culpable homicide (not amounting to murder) with 19 cases registered in 2019 against seven cases lodged the previous year. Four instances of dowry death were reported in both 2018 and 2019. There was a 20.5% increase in FIRs for grievous hurt with 345 and 416 cases reported in 2018 and 2019, respectively. However, there was a 4.5% decrease in kidnapping and abduction cases and a 13% decline in rioting, robbery, dacoity and arson cases.No let-up in crime against women Rape cases increased by 4.5% in the state with 359 incidents involving 361 victims reported in 2019. In 2018, 344 rape cases had been reported in the state.Thirteen cases of rape and murder were reported against the seven recorded in 2018. The overall crimes against women increased by 0.1% with the state recording 1,636 cases. In 2018, 1,633 crimes against women were registered.The data is a grim indictment of how Himachal, which is dubbed a peaceful state, is becoming unsafe for women.The statistics found that 55% of the rape victims were minor. In 2018, 56% of the rape victims had been minor.As per the NCRB data, eight victims were below six years of age; 25 between 6 and 12 years old; 79 between 12-16 years old and 86 above between 16 to 18 years.Similarly, 118 victims were between 18 to 30 years old; 43 between 30 and 45 and six between 45 and 60 years old.In 97.8% of cases the offenders were known to the victims. Of the 359 cases, in 34 cases the perpetrators were family members, in 105 cases family friends, neighbours, employers or other acquaintances and in 212 cases they were friends, had met online, live-in partners or separated husbands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ncrb-s-2019-crime-statistics-homicides-down-rape-on-the-rise-in-himachal/story-vu0UbRMaxVVwn7WqraqfLN.html
05-10-2020||City||Man, woman found dead in Samrala village, suicide pact suspected||A Class-4 employee of the health department and a woman were found dead in his house in Balion village of Samrala on Saturday evening. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide pact.The lifeless bodies of the duo were discovered by the man’s mother when she returned home.While the man’s body was found hanging on one room, the woman’s body was found lying on the floor in another room. It is suspected that the woman ended her life first following which the man killed himself with the same piece of rope. As per the police, the man, aged 40, had got married 12 years ago but did not have a child. The woman, 32, was also married and has a two-year-old son. They had met at the hospital, where the man was deputed, and developed a relationship.The man’s brother, who used to live with him, however, denied any knowledge about the duo’s relationship. Samrala station house officer, inspector Kuljit Singh said that so far, no suicide note has been recovered. The SHO added that inquest proceedings have been initiated and the bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination. The woman’s family members too have arrived to claim the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-woman-found-dead-in-samrala-village-suicide-pact-suspected/story-v8aG8qALtYfmEcInA2j6SM.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||At Amphalla jail in J&K, musical concert lifts spirits of infected inmates||In a novel way to pep up the spirits of Covid-19 infected prisoners, the Amphalla district jail here organised a musical concert with trained inmates performing live for their fellow mates.The 40-minute programme on Saturday saw a group of trained prisoners, including two women, performing live amid adequate preventive measures to check the spread of the infection.“Music is a great healer and we have started the concert on humanitarian grounds to uplift the morale of the inmates who were recently tested positive for the viral disease and isolated in separate blocks,” said district jail superintendent Mirza Saleem Ahmad Beig.More such concerts will be organised for the infected prisoners to lift their spirits, officials said.While one of the inmates with co-morbidities at the jail was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after testing positive for coronavirus last week, rest of the 79 prisoners are asymptomatic and have been kept in isolation in their blocks to prevent the spread of the disease, they said.Besides the prisoners, three jail staffers have tested positive for the virus and their condition is stable.This is the highest number of prisoners testing positive for Covid-19 in any jail in the Jammu region though such cases have also surfaced in central jail Kot Bhalwal, district jail Kathua and district jail Bhaderwah in the recent past, prompting the jail authorities to plan separate facilities near the jail for the infected inmates, they said. “The objective of the concert was to de-stress the Covid-19 positive prisoners. All the six singers and two musicians who performed voluntarily were trained in the jail over the past one year,” the jail superintendent said.He said the programme was introduced shortly after testing of all 644 inmates and staff of the jail.Beig emphasised that all Covid-19 safety rules were followed while conducting the event. A distance of at least 15 feet was maintained for the safety of the performers, the official said.Another highlight of the programme was a poem written by the inmates on their resolve to fight back the infectious disease and emerge victorious by following the SOPs religiously, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-amphalla-jail-in-j-k-musical-concert-lifts-spirits-of-infected-inmates/story-CO5Irms2p8NE91l8fRapbI.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Back-to-village event: J&K L-G asks people to contribute towards peace||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday appealed to the people to make efforts for peace and exuded hope that soon there shall be no backward village in the UT.Sinha, while speaking at a back-to-village function in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, said violence at every level should be condemned.“I appeal to all to contribute for peace. There is no dearth of opportunities for development, employment and overall growth of Jammu Kashmir,” Sinha said.“Violence, killings of innocents should be condemned, whether it’s the killings of common people or security forces. We can’t be selective in condemning violence,” he said.‘Back to village’ is a programme wherein officers of the administration reach out to the public to listen to their demands, proposals, suggestions and address their grievances. This is the third phase of the programme which has been launched in J&K as the region has remained without an elected government for the past more than two years.The L-G said innovative financing, convergence of schemes, enabling infrastructure, effective and efficient implementation will be key to improve growth prospects of J&K.“With hard work, dedication and better execution on ground, every individual in our villages will attain social empowerment,” he said.Sinha said the UT has been provided with funds to an excess of ₹1,951 crore this year for the development of villages and the people.“Similarly, agriculture and horticulture sectors have been provided ₹1,872 crore, to an excess of ₹680 crore with respect to last year,” he said.The LG said that the government was working on four key points for development of J&K like accelerating growth, providing benefits of social security and social welfare schemes to all, eliminating regional disparities and effective execution of works. “In the recently sanctioned economic package and the upcoming mega Industrial Package, focus will be on industry, business and services; agriculture and allied sectors; village industries; technology and innovation; infrastructure; financial inclusion and social security,” he said.The LG said under the new economic package announced recently, the farmer-mandi link is to be strengthened so that the producers get more options and better prices for their crop.“Similarly, the number of satellite markets is to be increased from 17 to 22…Means and resources abound, with people’s participation, soon there shall be no backward village in entire J&K,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/back-to-village-event-j-k-l-g-asks-people-to-contribute-towards-peace/story-QhBZV9gWc9ubUH9lyN61yK.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||16-year-old raped in Gurugram’s Sector 45||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in Sector 45 in the early hours of Sunday morning. The police said the accused man, who lives near the victim’s house, is yet to be arrested. According to the police, the girl stated in the complaint that around 4.45am, she had gone to the washroom when the accused man crept up from behind, grabbed her and forcefully took her to his room, where he sexually assaulted her. The police said the girl tried to yell, but he threatened to kill her. Further, she could not identify him at that time. Her father, a labourer, said, “He put a hand on her face and took her to his room and raped her. Around 5.30am, I went out looking for her and saw her returning from the accused man’s room, which is near our shanty. She was crying and seemed frightened. She shared her ordeal with me. I told some people in the area and went to Sector 40 police station to report the incident.” The victim’s father, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, alleged that the police had initially tried to dissuade the family from filing an FIR. “The police told us to settle the matter and that if we proceed with the case, the girl’s future would be ruined and she would face difficulty in finding a match. They said that we would be caught up in expensive legal proceedings. So, under duress, I signed before the legal aid, saying that we do not want to pursue the matter. However later, I took help from others and went again to file the case,” he said. The police said in the morning, they had received a call from police control room (number 100) regarding an alleged sexual assault case. However, at the time, the victim and her family did not mention sexual assault in the statement recorded before legal aid, said the police. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sadar, said, “In the initial statement before the legal aid, there was no mention of assault and the family had said that the girl was talking to someone in the neighbourhood and a third party called the police. Later, the family changed their statement and said that the minor had been sexually assaulted and that they had recorded the initial statement under duress.” ACP said that after the complaint of sexual assault was received, the family was contacted again and an FIR was immediately registered in the case. “The accused is yet to be arrested. The medical examination of the victim has been conducted and the report is awaited, We shall verify all the facts pertaining to the case,” he said. A case was registered against the accused man under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Sector 40 police station on Sunday evening, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-16-year-old-raped-in-sector-45/story-olV1TKZAANmMbQONxv1JMN.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hathras rape-murder: Women hold protest in Srinagar, demand justice||A group of women staged a protest here on Sunday against the alleged rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh.Raising slogans against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, around a dozen women activists of the Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) condemned the “blatant denial of justice to the Hathras rape victim and her family”.The women were carrying placards which read ‘Hang the culprits’ and ‘Break the silence and protest against rape culture’.“We are protesting in Srinagar against the rape and murder of the girl in Hathras. We are not going to accept the sad state of affairs regarding the safety of women,” said a protestor.“I want to ask the government as to why women are not safe. Do we have to come out of our homes or not?” she said.The protestors demanded stringent punishment to the culprits. “If the killers are not brought to book, we will come out on roads,” the protestors warned.The young woman was allegedly gang-raped on September 14 and she succumbed to her injuries in Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi on September 29. She was cremated by the authorities.The UP government has recommended a CBI probe in the incident while the family has demanded a judicial probe through the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hathras-rape-murder-women-hold-protest-in-srinagar-demand-justice/story-I3IK7bGoFWA32L2edqQHUO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shopian fake encounter: Kin of slain Rajouri youths demand justice||Destitute yet full of dreams, 21-year-old Imtiyaz Ahmad wanted to become a schoolmaster, Mohammad Ibrar, 18, aspired the life of a soldier, while Abrar Ahmad, 26, wished to join the police force someday.Bodies of these three young men, who were killed in an alleged fake encounter by the army in south Kashmir’s Shopian district in July, were exhumed and later laid to rest in their ancestral graveyards in Rajouri district by the family members on Friday.The youths had come to Shopian in search of work so they could return home with enough money to pursue their dreams. But they were killed in a staged gunfight and passed off as terrorists on July 18, a day before they went missing from their rented accommodation in Amshipora.The army had initially termed the three as “terrorists”. Later, it said that an inquiry had brought out evidence indicating that during the operation in which the three were killed, “powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA)-1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Supreme Court have been contravened”. The army added that the “competent disciplinary authority has directed initiation of disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable”.The Jammu and Kashmir police last week said the DNA samples of the three had matched with their family members in Rajouri.Imtiyaz’s father Sabir Hussain, 45, said “My son and two nephews have been buried in our ancestral graveyards. Imtiyaz had gone to Shopian to work as a labourer and collect enough money to pay his admission fee for college. He wanted to be the first graduate from the family.”Hussain said that three young lives were snuffed out in a staged encounter. “Neither has any justice been done nor compensation given to us yet. They were murdered in cold blood for awards and rewards. We are very poor nomads and who cares for a poor man. It was nothing but sheer barbarism upon our innocent boys,” he said.He demanded that whoever tipped off the army branding three innocent boys as “terrorists” should also be taken to the task as per the law.“They all should meet the same fate and truth be made public,” he said.Hussain said his sister Shifat Jaan’s son Mohammad Ibrar was passionate to join the army, oblivious of the fact that one day he will be killed in a staged encounter.“We want justice. No money can compensate for the loss of human life and we have lost three young men. They had dreams to join the army, police, or become a schoolmaster. They all wanted to do well in their life despite penury,” he said.“Abrar has left behind his wife and a 15-month-old son, whose eyes keep looking for his father,” he lamented.Shamim Akhter, 40, Imtiyaz’s mother said, “The barbarians did not allow them to have food and picked them up from their rented room before killing them.”Two men believed to be informers of the security forces were arrested in connection with the staged gunfight on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shopian-fake-encounter-kin-of-slain-rajouri-youths-demand-justice/story-01OF4ZElj1VlDrqCpaHt2O.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Last week’s tally of Covid-19 cases lowest in over a month||Gurugram recorded 287 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally of reported infections to 21,732 cases. The past week (September 28-October 4) saw 1,557 new cases -- the lowest seven-day aggregate in at least five weeks. The district over the past week also tested 19,200 new samples, resulting in a weekly test positivity rate (TPR, number of positive tests per 100 tests) of 8%-- also the lowest in at least five weeks. Health department officials cited the downward trend in these numbers as evidence that transmission of the coronavirus disease had decelerated in the district.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We have been testing at least 2,500 samples per day, and the TPR has now gone down to below 10%, which indicates that the virus has slowed in terms of transmission. If there was anything missing in our testing strategy, we would have found new clusters emerging, and this has not happened. This is the biggest sign that transmission of the virus itself has been curbed. Why this is happening despite more and more public movement opening up is still a matter of debate, but with fewer cases coming in each day, we are in a position to treat the most severe cases better and reduce mortality, which we have been successful in doing,” said Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer.From a fatality rate of 1% in early September, Gururgram’s case fatality ratio (CFR) has been on a steady decline, dipping to 0.82 percent on October 4. Bed occupancy in Gurugram’s hospitals is also the lowest it has been in at least four weeks. On September 7, ICU and ventilator bed occupancy was at 60 percent, whereas only 30 percent of ICU beds and ventilators are occupied at the moment. “So in terms of availability of resources, we are adequately equipped to deal with a rise in symptomatic infections if it happens,” Sharma said.The district at present has 2,408 active cases of Covid-19 (less than 2510 cases a week ago, and less than 2811 cases recorded a fortnight ago). Of these, 184 are presently hospitalised (down from 228 a week ago), while 2199 patients are under home isolation (down from 2257 patients a week ago). Another 25 patients (down from 38 a week ago) are under observation at district covid care centres. The daily growth rate of cases, from being well over 2 percent in mid-September, currently stands at 1.3 percent. This has resulted in an expansion of the doubling-rate of cases. From a doubling-rate of just 40 days in mid-September, Gurugram’s total tally would take 81 days to double at the current daily growth rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-last-week-s-tally-of-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-a-month/story-Np0phMIEldlLRMxRUlTV9L.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||25-year-old woman gang-raped, brutally assaulted by 4 in Gurugram||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted by four men in a real estate dealer’s office in DLF Phase 2 area early Sunday morning. The woman suffered serious head injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, where her condition is ‘stable’, according to the police.Four suspects, three of whom work with a food delivery service company, were arrested on Sunday morning, said police.Police said the incident took place around 1.30am when the woman, who lives in Delhi, was standing near Sikanderpur Metro station. Quoting her statement, the police said that she met a man and after a brief conversation, she agreed to accompany him on his motorcycle to an office in DLF phase 2, where he worked as a helper and cleaner.According to the police, when she reached there, three friends of the helper were already present. Police said, quoting the victim’s statement, that seeing so many men she felt uncomfortable and tried to leave but the accused forced themselves upon her and assaulted her. She alleged that the four men raped her and when she resisted, they thrashed her. As per her statement to the police, she was punched and kicked multiple times and her head was smashed against the wall and the floor.Police said after sexually assaulting her, the four accused left her stranded on the road, locked the office and escaped on motorcycles. Some private security guards called the police after they noticed the victim while she was profusely bleeding from the head and in a disoriented state. A police team reached the spot and rushed her to a private hospital in DLF phase 2. After preliminary treatment, she was referred to the civil hospital.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), DLF, said, “She suffered head injuries mainly and was bleeding. Since no neurosurgeon was available at the time at the civil hospital, she was taken to a private hospital in Sector 38 for treatment. Her condition is stable. She is conscious and has recorded her statement. She has alleged that she was raped by four men, who beat her up when she tried to resist. We have contacted her family and a team has gone to Delhi to inform them.”Goel said based on the information given by the victim, the police arrested all suspects on Sunday morning.The police identified the suspects as Ranjan Yadav, 23, Pawan, 24, Pankaj Kumar, 26 and Govind Yadav, 20, were arrested on Sunday morning. Police said all of them live in Chakkarpur village. Ranjan works as a helper and cleaner at the real estate office in DLF phase 2, where the incident took place while the other three work as delivery persons for food aggregators.A case was registered against the accused persons under Sections 376 D (gang rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at DLF phase 2 police station on Sunday, said police. According to National Crime Records Bureau’s ‘Crime in India’ report, 159 gang rape cases were registered in Haryana in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-25-year-old-woman-gang-raped-brutally-assaulted-by-four-in-dlf-phase-2/story-nkdafVvPb28Z25pbklKwBO.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K records 11 deaths, 878 infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded eleven deaths and 878 coronavirus infections. As many as 422 people tested positive in Kashmir and 456 in Jammu, taking the tally of positive cases in the UT to 79,106. The deadly disease claimed six patients in Jammu and five in Kashmir, taking the total fatalities in J&K to 1,242 – 860 in Kashmir and 382 in Jammu.A total of 1,053 people recovered from the virus and were discharged from different hospitals, taking the overall recoveries to 62,404, which account for a recovery rate of 78.8%, the highest so far.On September 2, the recovery rate had reached 77.3%, after which it constantly declined till it dropped to 64% on September 20. Since September 21, the recovery rate has been improving. From September 21 to 30, 15,132 patients were discharged against 11,080 fresh infections.A government spokesperson said 525 people were discharged in Jammu and 528 in Kashmir on Sunday. Of the total, 39,983 people have recovered in Kashmir and 22,421 in Jammu. The death toll had crossed 500-mark on August 13 and 1000-mark on September 20. In comparison to August which reported 326 deaths, there was a 64% increase in the number of deaths in September, taking the month’s tally to 478.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases were recorded in Jammu (252) followed by 49 in Kishtwar. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 156 more people tested positive, followed by Bandipora at 54.Srinagar tops the tally with 15,533 cases and 301 deaths. Jammu district is at number two with 14,514 cases and 203 deaths. The active cases in Jammu are 3,534, while there are 1,908 active Covid patients in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-records-11-deaths-878-infections/story-XSYi9AW4T3b7g9dmv4T3FP.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG sweeps clean Khandsa Road||As part of the 15-day cleanliness drive, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Sunday cleaned the entire stretch (about 7km) of Khandsa Road. Termed as the ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’, the drive was launched on October 2 across Haryana by the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) that will run through October 17. On the opening day, MCG had cleaned several areas in Chakkarpur village, and on Saturday the drive was conducted in the Sector 4 area.In the drive, MCG uses super suction machines and jetting machines to first unclog drains and then suction out all the sediments and debris. Further, garbage found lying in the open is picked up from the entire stretch and dumped in a tractor trolley. In the last step, the entire stretch is then swept by sanitation workers. During the Khandsa Road cleaning drive on Sunday, mayor Madhu Azad, along with several municipal officials, cleaned part of the stretch.“Gurugram will become a beautiful and healthy city only through cleanliness. For this, public representatives and citizens will also have to unite with the government. Every person is conscious of the cleanliness of his or her house, if they also become aware of the cleanliness of the surrounding area, it will not take long for Gurugram to become a clean city,” said Azad, stressing that residents need to consider cleanliness as their moral responsibility.Besides masks, gloves and face shields have been provided to sanitation workers for this task, said MCG officials. Further, all workers have been directed to not enter sewer lines on their own and strictly use machines to clear out the muck.“All efforts are being undertaken by MCG to make the city cleaner, and operations are underway to cover as many areas as possible in the 15-day drive,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer, MCG.Among cities with 1-10 lakh population, Gurugram finished with a rank of 62 out of 382 nationally in the 2020 Swachh Survekshan. For 2021, MCG has set a target of breaking into the list of cleanest 50 cities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-sweeps-clean-khandsa-road/story-9xg5WfLwU3wuxqVk1o5rjL.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Apartment owners to challenge de-licensing of project land in court||A section of homebuyers has decided to challenge the recently amended Haryana land law that allowed retrospective rescinding of land permits for projects.The federation of apartment owners association (FAOA) said the amendment allowed developers to change their projects, and the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to act arbitrarily.The Punjab and Haryana high court had, in July, quashed DTCP orders to de-license land for constructing a residential complex and allowing a commercial complex to come up instead. De-licensing here meant that a part of the land for which a residential licence was issued was taken out of the purview of the residential licence. The CBI, on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court, registered a case in this matter and found 54 similar cases of de-licensing.On August 26, the Haryana government passed a bill amending the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act and retrospectively validating and allowing DTCP to de-license.“This amendment will allow for correcting illegalities in the past and prior to this there was no allowance for delicensing the project. This is a way to pardon all wrongs committed by developers. The project plans have specifications but these are violated everywhere. We need to stop this illegality. The politicians and bureaucrats are not interested in helping buyers,” said Lt Gen (retd) SK Bahri, who the chairperson of the federation, adding it would jeopardise the interest of home buyers.The federation said that they have approached buyers’ associations, RWA in Gurugram, NCR and across the country to pool resources and generate funds so that this law could be challenged in court.Sanjay Lal, vice president of Ambience Lagoon RWA, said that the amended clause would give developers to act in whatever manner they please as there would be no representation regarding the proposed layout in case of apartment and no guiding factor to adjudge the completion of promised development works. “We will challenge this amendment in court and for that matter we have launched the drive to collect funds as we have no option but to approach higher courts,” he said.Praveen Jain, chairman, National Real Estate Development Council said that interests of buyers would not be affected as only those projects can be delicensed where property has not been sold. “How will the buyers get affected when third party right are not created,” said Jain. A senior DTCP official, when asked about the matter said that amendment does not impact the interests of the buyers but they had every right to approach the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-apartment-owners-to-challenge-de-licensing-of-project-land-in-court/story-ddcMc3s4PYvk5nSYpqAsRO.html
05-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG plants over 100K saplings in 3-month-long drive||Nearly 1.06 lakh saplings were planted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) across the city this monsoon season — the highest in the city so far. MCG started its three-month-long plantation drive on June 27 in collaboration with the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of the city to plant saplings on all weekends during the months of July, August, and September.As part of this process, MCG asked RWAs to send them details of the type and quantity of saplings they wanted to plant. Accordingly, the civic body distributed the same from their own nurseries free of cost. Last year, the civic body developed four of its own nurseries across the city in four different locations — Kadipur village, Sector 15 Part 1, biodiversity park near Nathupur, and Sector 46.Overall, 269 RWAs took part in this year’s drive and a total of 1, 05,910 saplings were planted, as per the data shared by the civic body.MCG had launched this drive to curb the diminishing green cover of the city and increase it over time. According to a 2019 Forest Survey of India (FSI) report, only 9.2% of Gurugram’s total geographical area is under forest cover, where as in 2017, it was 9.3%.“We realise the importance of green cover in the city, especially in regards to checking air pollution. Hence, we coordinated with RWAs for our plantation drive this year not only to ensure that various parts of the city get covered but also to make sure that there is an additional body looking after the saplings apart from the MCG. Our objective is not only to plant saplings but to look after them properly,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Prior to 2020, MCG officials said that the highest number of saplings planted in the city in a single season was less than 10,000. “Due to the drive’s success this year, we will try to replicate similar measures in the next monsoon season as well and aim at increasing the existing green cover in the city even further,” said Singh.During the drive, MCG planted saplings of fruits, such as papaya, pomegranate and guava, and trees, such as babool, peepal, gulmohar and kachnar, apart from other ornamental plants, shrubs, medicinal plants, and native varieties.MCG officials said that this year, the audit of the planted saplings has been conducted to ensure they can be periodically maintained and assessed. They further said that the audit will also help the civic body to understand which plants, shrubs, and trees are best suited for Gurugram’s climatic and soil conditions so that they can plant only such saplings in the future drives.“Due to multiple construction projects, more than a thousand trees had to be axed in our area over the last decade, which led the a significant decrease in the green cover. Since there are a large number of vacant plots in both DLF Phase-1 and Phase-2, which were lying unutilised, we reached out to the MCG to provide us with saplings so that we can plant the same in both the colonies. After the drive, residents within the colony were allocated the responsibility of looking after the saplings,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of DLF Qutub Enclave RWA, which looks after DLF phases 1 and 2. Bansal said that there are still a large number of vacant plots in both the colonies and the RWA would again be submitting a request to the MCG for more saplings next year. He said that more than 20,000 saplings were planted in the two colonies during the three-month period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-plants-over-100k-saplings-in-3-month-long-drive/story-3Yb82709S381hGyRfcKzQM.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Two drug peddlers nabbed after encounter, 120 kg marijuana seized||The police on Sunday afternoon nabbed two suspects and seized 120 kilograms of marijuana worth nearly ₹12 lakh that was allegedly being smuggled from Orissa for distribution in the National Capital Region (NCR).The recovery was made following an encounter between the Sector 20 police and the two suspects in which the latter were injured.According to police officers, they had received a tip-off, after which the suspects were intercepted on Sunday afternoon near a drain in Sector 29. They were travelling in a Tata Zest car and when they were asked to stop, they allegedly tried to flee and fired at the police team chasing them. In the retaliatory firing, the two suspects were injured, said the police. They were taken to the district hospital for treatment. The vehicle was seized and police found 120 kg marijuana along with two countrymade pistols and live cartridges.The suspects were identified as Ravi Singh and Chandan Kumar, both residents of Noida’s JJ colony.“They were bringing the drugs from Odisha for distribution in NCR,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.Police said that Ravi has at least 11 cases registered against him at the Sector 20 police station of robbery, attempt to murder, Arms Act and Gangster Act, along with the NDPS Act, and Chandan has served time in prison in connected to a drug smuggling case from Odisha. Police said Chandan’s criminal history is being verified.A police officer, asking not to be named, added that the vehicle which was recovered was registered in the name of a woman named Hema, an alleged drug smuggler who had gone to prison in 2019 from the Sector 20 police station for allegedly running a large and sophisticated narcotics operation in Noida.“Ravi is her brother and he had also gone to prison when the gang was busted,” said the officer quoted above.The suspects were booked under the Arms and NDPS acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-drug-peddlers-nabbed-after-encounter-120-kg-marijuana-seized/story-7q2ycGbvNPwsKTXQXazaUK.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Three men assault manager for shutting down liquor store||A 45-year-old manager of a liquor store was allegedly assaulted by three men who were forcing him to keep the shop open after closing hours on Saturday night in Sector 71, the police said.The victim, Bhopal Singh, a local Parthla resident, was closing the store around 9pm when the incident took place. “One of the men, who is a local resident, came up to me with his two friends and said that the store will not close until they say so or else, they will beat me up. I tried to explain the rules to them, but they refused to listen to me and started threatening me and the workers at the store. The suspects then used barbed wire to assault me. They also took money from me and few goods that were kept outside the shop and fled,” said Singh in his police complaint.Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt using a dangerous weapon) of the Indian Penal Code on Saturday against the three unidentified suspects at the Phase 3 police station while a medical examination was ordered for the victim.“Based on the medical report, we will add more sections in the FIR, namely section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide). One of the suspects has been detained and a search is on for the other responsible people,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station said on Sunday evening.According to the latest rules, revised in light of the pandemic, liquor shops in the district can remain open only from 10am to 9pm.In a separate incident, a security guard at a high-rise in Sector 119 was also assaulted allegedly by three men on Friday night after he had asked them to park their vehicle in a parking lot outside the society.“The alleged incident took place at the Amrapali Platinum society’s entry gate. The guard had stopped two visitors from going inside and had asked them to park the vehicle outside. Meanwhile, the resident whom the men were coming to meet also came to the spot. The three men then assaulted the security guard,” said SHO Dikshit.The police have not received a formal complaint in the incident so far. “Someone had called the police helpline regarding the incident. The entire incident was captured on CCTV cameras, and the three men— Pradeep, Praveen, and Manoj— were detained under section 151 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-three-men-assault-manager-for-shutting-down-liquor-store/story-fWBHfYjyVcfVwIbfScObWM.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Registration of 79,000 old vehicles cancelled for not adhering to NGT norms||Ghaziabad: The regional transport department has cancelled the registration of about 79,000 vehicles in Ghaziabad, in compliance with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2015 which had banned plying of petrol vehicles older than 15 years and diesel vehicles older than 10 years in the national capital region (NCR), officials said Sunday.The department, in September last year, had suspended registrations of at least 81,773 vehicles in compliance with NGT’s directions. These included 75,293 petrol vehicles and 6,480 diesel vehicles. “After suspension of the registrations, we had given the owners of such vehicles six months’ time to take no objection certificates (NOCs) and get their vehicles registered out of the NCR region. They were also given an option to register such vehicles in 34 districts identified in Uttar Pradesh,” said Vishwajeet Pratap Singh, additional regional transport officer.“Initially, it was a public notice which we issued after suspension. After the end of the six month period, we have cancelled registrations of about 79,000 such vehicles which include petrol vehicles older than 15 years and diesel vehicles older than 10 years. The rest of the vehicle owners had applied and obtained the NOCs, hence their registrations were not cancelled,” he added. The officer, while adding that such vehicles, if caught plying on roads, will be seized, said that the department has further identified about 25,000 more vehicles which have since come under the ambit of the NGT order, and that the process for the cancellation of their registrations will be initiated soon.At present, there are 9.84 lakh vehicles registered in Ghaziabad district, which also include diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years. “The decision will certainly help in compliance of the tribunal’s orders and will also help in reducing air pollution levels, which generally run high during the winter season. Apart from cancellation of registration, the department should initiate regular drives to seize such vehicles if found plying on roads. Likewise, special drives should also be initiated to check if owners of valid vehicles have proper pollution under control (PUC) certificates,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.Residents meanwhile said that for past several years, more and more residents are using their own vehicles.“The situation has come as there is no proper government-run city-bus service or intra-city transport mode which people can use on a daily basis. As a result, people prefer to use their own vehicles and this is why the number of registered vehicles has risen. However, this has also given rise to air pollution due to emission from vehicles,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of the apartment owners’ federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-registration-of-79-000-old-vehicles-cancelled-for-not-adhering-to-ngt-norms/story-1tcBVOqdCgKdWlFpSfEpDI.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad MP to take up financial issues of proposed government hospital in trans-Hindon area with CM Adityanath||Ghaziabad MP Gen (retd) VK Singh on Sunday said that he will talk to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to expedite the proposed government hospital in trans-Hindon area. Under the proposal sent to the state health department earlier in August, the district health department had selected two chunks of land in Vasundhara for the hospital. Singh had initiated deliberations for the hospital in 2018 as there was no government healthcare facility for the trans-Hindon area, estimated to have a population of about 1 million. Two land chunks belonging to UP Avas Vikas Parishad, were identified -- one in sector-6 (7,492 square metres) and the other in sector-3 (5232 square metres) -- for the project. The major issue is of funds -- estimated at ₹140 crore for both. In their proposal, the district health department requested the land on concessional rate. But there has been no development since.“I will be holding discussions with the chief minister to resolve the financial aspects and it is possible that the funds can be paid through book transfer between the government departments. I assure residents that the process will be initiated soon and all pending issues will be resolved,” Gen Singh said on Sunday during his visit to Ghaziabad. The trans-Hindon areas comprise localities like Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Kaushambi and Sahibabad, among others. “The land in sector 6 is proposed to be the hospital, while the one at sector-3, 1.5 km away, will have residential complex for doctors and health care staff,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. An official of the UP Avas Vikas Parishad said that existing government orders allowed them to give land for free only to fire station and police station. “The average rate of the two land chunks is about ₹1.10 lakh per square metres. We have government order that free of cost land is given only in case of fire station and police station,” said the official. “The UP Avas Vikas Parishad has powers to give land at concessional rate.” In absence of any government hospital, the residents of trans-Hindon are dependent on paid treatment at private hospitals and many even go to Delhi. “A government hospital has been a long pending demand of residents of trans-Hindon. The need is felt more in present times of the pandemic as patients have to foot huge bills for treatment in private sector while many also go to Delhi for treatment. If the proposal goes through and project gets a sanction, it will be a huge relief for common man here,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of association of apartment owners. The two nearest government hospitals of MMG District Hospital and the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital are located at a distance of about 10-12km from trans-Hindon areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-mp-to-take-up-financial-issues-of-proposed-government-hospital-in-trans-hindon-area-with-cm-adityanath/story-1veQEdXuAi0NO2ABpOnCxJ.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Unidentified woman’s body found near canal in Loni||Ghaziabad police on Sunday morning recovered the body of an unidentified woman, aged about 25 years, from the bushes on the banks of the Behta canal in Loni. Police said the autopsy could not ascertain the cause of death. People in the area spotted the body and informed the police. “We have alerted other police stations and nearby districts as well regarding the body. There were no visible injuries or any strangulation marks. The viscera has been preserved for further analysis,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer (Loni). “There are no indications of any sexual assault either. We are investigating the case and teams are trying to establish her identity. We have registered an FIR for murder at Loni Border police station and waiting for viscera examination results.”The viscera examination helps in detection of poison. According to sources in the health department, the nail scrapings, DNA, swabs and viscera has been preserved for further analysis. The sources added that there were no signs of any injuries or any marks which could suggest murder. “The identity of the deceased woman is yet to be established. However, our teams are trying to get clues and have informed the crime records bureau, other districts and different police stations in order to get clues to her identity,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city).The body will be kept in the mortuary for 72 hours before being disposed of as per law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unidentified-woman-s-body-found-near-canal-in-loni/story-RRNY9xDyaHFCHj2bCIKLeK.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Over 500 Congress workers booked for protest on DND Flyway||Noida Police has registered a case against 502 Congress party workers for protesting on the DND Flyway on Saturday during the Covid-19 pandemic. The party workers had gathered to support Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and her brother former party chief Rahul Gandhi who were going to meet the family of the Hathras gangrape victim. RK Singh, station house officer of Sector 20 police station, said a case has been registered against two named – Congress Gautam Budh Nagar district president Manoj Chaudhury and Noida Congress presidentShahabuddin, and 500 unnamed Congress party workers under Indian penal codes sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), among others and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Chaudhury, however, said he was not at the DND Flyway as police had had him under house arrest on Saturday. Shahabuddin said that he had attended the protest on Saturday. “We had gathered to demand justice for the gang-rape victim. The government is scared of the Congress party and hence they have filed an FIR against us,” he said.Police said they are investigating Chaudhary’s claim of being under house arrest.In the FIR, SHO RK Singh, who is also the complainant, said that around 500 Congress party workers had gathered at the DND Flyway without informing the police and protested against the Uttar Pradesh government. “The protesters were informed by police that visiting Hathras in large numbers will affect law and order situation, but they did not agree to leave. The party workers did not follow Covid–19 guidelines, and a large number of them were without masks. They also flouted social distancing norms. Section 144 (prohibitory orders) of CrPc was in force in the district at the time and was violated,” he said. Singh added that to ensure peace and enforcement of law and order situation, the police did not arrest any Congress leader/worker on Saturday.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi had reached the DND Flyway with a number of party workers at 3pm. After much negotiation, five persons -- including the Gandhi siblings were allowed police to cross DND Flyway and meet the kin of victim who was gang-raped and murdered. This was their second attempt to meet the victim’s family. On Thursday, Noida Police had detained as they were walking to Hathras after their vehicles were stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-over-500-congress-workers-booked-for-protest-on-dnd-flyway/story-xTol9UA1kT8diQayRDnq8J.html
05-10-2020||City||Cop from Maharashtra faces inquiry for asking ‘objectionable questions’ to mother of suicide victim||Assistant inspector Deepak Girkar from Tulinj police station is facing inquiry after the mother of a 19-year-old suicide victim from Nallasopara (East) alleged that he asked her “objectionable questions” while probing her daughter’s rape case. The teen allegedly ended her life on Friday night. The police filed an accidental death report (ADR) and began probe. “The victim, who stayed at Ansari Nagar, was in love with a mineral water company employee named Sunil Mane, 28. As the girl’s parents opposed their relationship, the couple eloped from their homes in August. The girl’s mother then registered a missing complaint with Tulinj police,” said Vijaykant Sagar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) police commissionerate. A month later, after knowing about the couple’s whereabouts, the girl’s parents agreed to get them married. “But Mane would give excuses and kept delaying the marriage. The victim’s mother then registered a case of rape against Mane on September 29 at Tulinj police station. He was arrested and sent to judicial custody,” said Sagar. After the incident came to light, the victim and her mother were subjected to humiliation by people in their vicinity. The victim’s mother approached Girkar to file a complaint against the people who mocked her and her daughter. “During questioning, Girkar allegedly asked inappropriate questions to the mother, following which she approached me to complain against Girkar and demanded his immediate suspension as she believed he was siding with the people in her vicinity,” said Sagar. On Friday night, unable to bear the humiliation, the teen allegedly ended her life, said Sagar. On Saturday morning, her mother refused to take her body from a civic hospital after post-mortem and demanded action against Girkar. “After I convinced her that an inquiry has already been initiated under Ashwini Patil, deputy superintendent of police, Vasai, the body was taken for cremation late on Saturday night,” said Sagar. Meanwhile, Chitra Kishor Wagh, vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Maharashtra, met Sagar on Sunday to discuss the issue. “I demanded that action be taken against Girkar and also against the people who made the victim and her mother go through humiliation. As the new MBVV commissionerate has come into force on October 1, I have demanded the recruitment of more women police officers. In one month alone, 100 rape and 200 molestation cases have been registered in Vasai-Virar region and hence more women officers are needed for such cases,” said Wagh. She also said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray must control crimes against women in the state. “Recently, after the Hathras incident of Uttar Pradesh (UP) came to light, he said crimes against women will not be tolerated in Maharashtra. Vasai-Virar has reported an increase in crimes against women. So he should not play the ‘Maharashtra versus UP’ card,” said Wagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-from-maharashtra-faces-inquiry-for-asking-objectionable-questions-to-mother-of-suicide-victim/story-OW0rct4smpuWNFmXw5isQK.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Passenger asks cabbie to buy cigarette; flees with his car||A man allegedly stole a taxi on Saturday evening in Greater Noida after tricking the driver into buying cigarettes for him.Noida Sector 49 resident Pralok Chand Bharadwaj was the owner of a Maruti Swift Dzire and employed a person named Raju to drive it as a taxi. At Chi V sector that evening, a person with an injured leg approached Raju for a ride.“The man told Raju that his mobile phone was out of charge and so he couldn’t book a cab over an app. He asked to be dropped at Dankaur railway station around 15 km away,” said Bharadwaj. The driver struck a deal for ₹300. “The man sat next to the driver. On the way, he asked him to stop the car near a kiosk and buy him some cigarettes. Noticing that the man had an injury to the leg, Raju agreed. The car stopped near the Sirsa roundabout and Raju got out to buy the cigarettes. They were going to move again when the man said he preferred another brand. Raju again went out to the kiosk but this time had not taken the key with him,” he said. In the police complaint, Raju said that when he went to exchange the cigarettes, “the man swiftly jumped to the driver’s seat and fled with the car.” The driver had two mobile phones in the taxi which were also stolen. The victim informed the police with the help of some passerby informed police. A police team launched a search, but could not find the car. Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Sector Beta II police station, said a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 379 (theft) of IPC. “We have launched a search to arrest the suspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-passenger-asks-cabbie-to-buy-cigarette-flees-with-his-car/story-pJfOtBs8vSJZjjYSE7w3xL.html
05-10-2020||City||Rape case registered against Bhiwandi AIMIM leader||Bhiwandi City police have registered a case of rape against AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen) leader of Bhiwandi, Khalid GuRddu, 47. The charges were based on a complaint by a 26-year-old woman who claimed that Guddu raped her for over a year on the pretext of helping her husband get released from police custody. The AIMIM leader was arrested by the Thane crime branch in an extortion case last week. “The woman was raped by Guddu for a year on the pretext of helping her husband who had been arrested in some case in 2016. She asked Guddu for help to get him bail. The accused allegedly took advantage of the situation, and raped her on multiple occasions, till her husband was released. We have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” said a Bhiwandi police officer.Guddu was recently arrested for allegedly abducting and extorting a businessman at gunpoint for ₹1.25 lakh. Police laid a trap and nabbed the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-case-registered-against-bhiwandi-aimim-leader/story-aSv9BDIaMnnXBqHmEZNYTK.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Second wildlife census in Chandigarh’s Sukhna sanctuary deferred to 2021||Last carried out a decade ago, the wildlife census in the city’s Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary will have to wait another year.The UT department of forest and wildlife was to carry out the second census in April this year, but the pandemic struck and the plan had to be abandoned. Consequent to the outbreak, a lockdown was imposed and the ideal season to perform a census elapsed. Confirming the development, Debendra Dalai, UT chief conservator of forest and chief wildlife warden, said it was tougher to spot animals in winter. “The census is season specific. We now plan to undertake the census next year, probably in March,” said Dalai.The first census exercise at the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, spread over an area of 26 square kilometre in the catchment area of the Sukhna Lake, was conducted in 2010 over three days. Experts from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, leading environmentalists, students from Panjab University’s biology and zoology department, and representatives from NGOs had participated. This year too, the department was to rope in WII.Findings of 2010 censusBy using direct evidence, including the animals and birds spotted in the area, and indirect evidence like foot-prints and animal faeces, nine species of mammals and 65 species of birds were accounted for.Sambar, spotted deer (chital), pangolin (anteater), wild boar, jackal, small Indian civet, jungle cat, porcupine, Hanuman langur, rhesus monkey, Indian hare, common mongoose and three- striped palm squirrel are some of the main animals in the sanctuary.As per the first census report prepared by WII, the estimated sambar population in the sanctuary was between 1,000 to 1,200, with an average group size between 3.39 to 10.07; peafowl population was between 900 to 1,100. Leopards were not spotted directly, though their foot marks were identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/second-wildlife-census-in-chandigarh-s-sukhna-sanctuary-deferred-to-2021/story-bU9pz195xJfzzIctgdB8uN.html
05-10-2020||Noida||Rapid antigen testing crosses 200,000, helps Ghaziabad reduce test positivity||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad completed 200,000 tests through the rapid Covid-19 antigen kits on October 4, accounting for nearly 60% of overall testing in the district. The tests are, however, not accurate, but unlike the “gold standard” RT-PCR testing, it offers speedier results -- 30 minutes instead of days. These tests were first introduced on June 26, following which testing leapfrogged in the district. According to the official figures of the district health department, of the total 335,610 tests, rapid antigen kits share was 201,153. From March 5, when the first positive case was detected, till June 25, the district conducted 18,005 tests and recorded 1168 cases giving a test positivity rate (TPR, number of positives per 100 cases) of 6.48%. TPR has reduced rapidly since the antigen tests were introduced. On October 4, it was at 4.49%, well below the government’s target of 5%. “The use of rapid antigen kits has helped us in speedy detection of cases and this has helped us in early referral of patients for treatment at Covid facilities. As directed by the government, we are trying to conduct more of RT-PCR tests which should be about one-third of total daily testing,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “The delay in RT-PCR test results is because we have to send samples outside the district for testing due to capacity constraints, which is at at 200-250 tests per day while we are conducting more than 1500 RT-PCR tests per day with overall daily testing of 6000 samples,” said a district health officer who did not wish to be named.Experts, however, faulted the extensive use of antigen kits. “The ideal use of rapid antigen kits is in containment zones where guidelines have been issued for 100% testing. Since the rapid antigen kits are less specific than the RT-PCR test, the correct results may not be obtained. Otherwise, it helps in reducing the TRP and scale up testing figures. It is now a general trend of use of more rapid antigen kit.This way, the focus is more on quantity than quality of test,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The extensive use of rapid antigen kits has also helped the district in increasing other numbers -- its number of tests per million per day has increased from 86.65 in July to 885.17 in September. The World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) recommendation is of 140 tests per million residents a day. Although the district has scaled its testing figures, it is still identified among the 16 districts in UP which have daily average of over 100 Covid-19 positive cases in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rapid-antigen-testing-crosses-200-000-helps-ghaziabad-reduce-test-positivity/story-SepWzIU7Ovlm3PhP8ztBAP.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Mercury drops, Delhi’s air begins to worsen||The Capital is inching towards an air pollution spike, with winds slowing down and the mornings getting colder. On Sunday morning for instance, winds in the city were calm and the minimum temperature was 18.5°C, three degrees below normal.The wind speed picked up to 12kmph only by noon, according to the regional weather forecasting centre. Air quality in the national capital begins to dip from October onwards every year, when temperatures begin to dip, winds slow down, and farmers in neighbouring states begin to burn crop stubble, smoke from which travels towards the city.According to the air quality early warning system under the Union ministry of earth sciences, air quality is likely to be ‘moderate’ (when the AQI is between 101 and 200) on October 5 and 6. However, it also noted that stubble fire points have been observed over Punjab, adjoining Pakistan, Haryana, as well as Uttar Pradesh, and are increasing over time — conditions that may adversely impact Delhi and the National Capital Region’s air quality. Winds in this region travel mainly from the northwest at this time.Also Read: EPCA asks agencies to jointly patrol industrial areas to check pollutionCurrently, the northwesterly winds travel at speeds of up to 14kmph and skies are mainly clear.“Nights and early mornings are getting colder, and wind speeds are reducing in the evening and early morning. We are expecting minimum temperature to hover around 18 to 19°C, but maximum temperatures will be moderate, around 35 to 36°C. Pollutants do not disperse easily when winds slow down,” explained Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre. He last week told HT that “there are clear skies now after the monsoon has withdrawn so day temperatures are high, but the heat is radiated back, so nights are cooler. The wind direction has changed from easterly during monsoon to north-westerly so the winds are blowing from the colder regions such as Jammu and Kashmir; Himachal Pradesh etc. If there is any rain or snow there due to western disturbance, it will get colder.”The air quality index (AQI) on Sunday was 184 in the “moderate” category. The ventilation index was approximately 12,500m2/s on Sunday. The ventilation index is a product of average wind speed and mixing height, and a value on the scale lower than 6,000m2/s, with average wind speeds lower than 10kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A large number of crop stubble fires were seen in satellite images over northwestern India on October 3 and 4.“As soon as we have a recommendation from the member secretary of the CPCB, the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) will kick in. We will immediately issue orders,” said Bhure Lal, Chairman of Environment Pollution Control Authority (Epca).Also Read: Centre convenes meeting to review anti-pollution steps“State governments will have to take action on crop stubble burning. There are both in-situ and ex-situ options available to manage straw. The Centre has given funds to subsidise stubble management machinery. Subsidy of 50% is being offered to individuals who buy the machine and 80% to cooperative societies or panchayats. We have suggested that the small and marginal farmers get the machinery at concessional rates — almost free,” he added.Grap, drawn up in 2017, defines specific measures to tackle different levels of air pollution. The Supreme Court-mandated Epca is in charge of enforcing the Grap measures.When air quality hits ‘poor’ levels, under Grap, garbage burning is monitored and fines are levied on those caught burning garbage, apart from measures to control dust, increased focus on polluting industries, and others.Meanwhile Citizens for Clean Air, a group of citizens, environmentalists, waste management experts wrote to EPCA appealing that it issue advisories or orders prohibiting the sale and use of firecrackers during the pandemic as it could aggravate public health issues, including Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-drops-delhi-s-air-begins-to-worsen/story-FNgrGPRkeTM1PrkMKYWdeO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai witnesses weekend thundershowers, records decade’s second-highest 24-hour October rain||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) witnessed cloud cover, loud claps of thunder, lightning and two spells of moderate to heavy showers between Saturday evening and early Sunday morning. The city and suburbs could expect cloudy conditions with the possibility of light rain on Monday, the weather bureau said. On October 13, 2011, Mumbai had received 71mm rainfall, while 140.8mm rain was recorded on October 4, 1988, which is the all-time high 24-hour monthly rain. The weather bureau had issued a yellow alert for Saturday and as per its prediction, the city witnessed thunderstorms during evening and late night. On Saturday, dense cloud cover from 5.30 pm onwards over parts of Kalyan followed by rain moved over parts of Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mumbai suburbs and finally to south Mumbai, with intense rain spells across isolated areas and wind speed ranging between 30-35 kilometres per hour (kmph). The Santacruz weather observatory – representative of the city and the suburbs – recorded 55.8mm rain over 24 hours, ending 8.30am Sunday, which is the second highest 24-hour October rain in a decade and highest since 2011. The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 15mm rain between 8.30am Saturday and 8.30am Sunday. Many areas in the suburbs, south-central Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan received overnight rainfall between 70mm and 100mm. However, no rain was recorded between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm on Sunday. Location-wise, maximum rainfall over 15 hours (5.30pm Saturday and 8.30am Sunday) was recorded at Malad (106.6mm), Dahisar (103mm), Ram Mandir-Goregaon (94.5mm), Mira Road (84.5mm), Borivli (76.8mm), Andheri (72.8mm), Bhandup (69mm) and Powai (64mm). All these locations received ‘heavy rainfall’. “Mumbai witnessed two distinct events of thunderstorms, with lightning associated with intense spells of rains. One was from 5pm to 8pm on Saturday and the other early in the morning between 3.30am and 5am on Sunday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD). IMD said the thunderstorms were characteristics of southwest monsoon withdrawal and were common during this time of the year. “The thundershowers were short-lived, but were witnessed across the Konkan coast and isolated areas of interior Maharashtra. However, there are chances of very light to light rain through the week,” said Hosalikar. Meanwhile, thundershowers brought cool weather over the city, which had been experiencing temperatures over a degree Celsius above normal since the beginning of the month. The maximum temperature dropped to 29.5 degrees Celsius in the suburbs and 28.4 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai – both 3 degrees Celsius below normal. The minimum temperature in the suburbs was 22.6 degrees Celsius while south Mumbai was 24 degrees Celsius, which is 2 degrees Celsius below normal. Highest October rainfall over 24-hours October 4, 2020 – 55.8mm (second highest in 10 years) October 20, 2019 – 18.2mm October 19, 2018 – 3.8mm October 17, 2017 – 31.6mm October 5, 2016 – 41.9mm October 4, 2015 – 14.6mm October 1, 2014 – 18.4mm October 16, 2013 – 20.3mm October 4, 2012 – 48mm October 13, 2011 – 71mm (highest in 10 years) October 20, 2010 – 21.9mm October 4, 1988 – 140.8mm (all-time high) (Source: IMD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-witnesses-weekend-thundershowers-records-decade-s-second-highest-24-hour-october-rain/story-WqSkZ8O053dJHWLHVGTUFI.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Children get involved in govt’s anti-dengue drive||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday encouraged children to participate in the Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign as the government’s ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ campaign entered into its fifth week.Kejriwal on Sunday asked children to inspect their houses for 10 minutes at 10am every Sunday and replace any stagnant water which they find with clean water. He also asked them to urge their friends to be a part of the initiative.“Delhi’’s campaign against dengue continues. Today, on the fifth Sunday of the campaign, I replaced the water at home and eliminated the possibility of breeding of dengue mosquitoes. I urge everyone to be a part of this campaign every Sunday. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute ‘Har Ravivaar, Dengue Par Vaar’,” Kejriwal said on Twitter in Hindi.In a statement issued on Sunday, the Delhi government said the anti-dengue. campaign is witnessing “huge participation” from children.“In this campaign against dengue, the children of Delhi are doing their homework well. Other students, along with Yuvraj, who studies in class 8, also checked their houses and replaced the stagnant water. I pray to God that our children remain safe from dengue, stay healthy, and do good in life,” the CM said in another post. The fourth week of the Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign saw Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) getting involved in the drive. The initiative was launched on September 6 with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inspecting his residence for stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. A special helpline has also been launched by the Delhi government for the general public if they require assistance with dengue. People can call on 011-22300012 and WhatsApp on 8595920530.Last year the same campaign was launched for the first time in September, which led to only 2,036 reported cases and two deaths due to dengue, when compared to 2015 when there were 15,867 cases and at least 60 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/children-get-involved-in-govt-s-anti-dengue-drive/story-QXKAFlkpCOAPnaSDHMTHLP.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP holds protest over poor condition of roads in Diva near Mumbai||More than 200 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers of Diva and Thane, including Thane BJP president Niranjan Davkhare, took to the streets on Sunday to protest the poor condition of roads in Diva.The protest started at 10am in different areas of Diva and headed towards Diva turning point. Protesters were carrying sign boards and shouting slogans against the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and the Shiv Sena, which is n power in TMC, for the bad condition of roads.Rohidas Munde, a BJP member, said, “The Shiv Sena gave us assurance that there would be development in Diva, but nothing that happened so far. Diva has always been treated like a step-child. We are a range of issues, from water problem to lack of basic road facilities. TMC has sanctioned certain amount for road repair works in Diva, but it’s still on the paper.”TMC deputy commissioner Sandip Malvi said, “Our team has been busy in dealing with the pandemic situation. We are looking into the road issues of Diva.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-holds-protest-over-poor-condition-of-roads-in-diva/story-x3kImBKxAJc4BelJ4rinCL.html
05-10-2020||City||Gurugram: Woman gang-raped, 4 suspects arrested||Gurugram: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted by four men in a real estate dealer’s office in DLF phase 2 area early Sunday morning. The woman suffered serious head injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, where her condition is ‘stable’, according to the police. Four suspects, three of whom work with a food delivery service company, were arrested on Sunday morning, said police. Police said the incident took place around 1.30am when the woman, who lives in Delhi, was standing near Sikanderpur Metro station. Quoting her statement, the police said that she met a man and after a brief conversation, she agreed to accompany him on his motorcycle to an office in DLF phase 2, where he worked as a helper and cleaner. According to the police, when she reached there, three friends of the helper were already present. Police said, quoting the victim’s statement, that seeing so many men she felt uncomfortable and tried to leave but the accused forced themselves upon her and assaulted her. She alleged that the four men raped her and when she resisted, they thrashed her. As per her statement to the police, she was punched and kicked multiple times and her head was smashed against the wall and the floor. Police said after sexually assaulting her, the four accused left her stranded on the road, locked the office and escaped on motorcycles. Some private security guards called the police after they noticed the victim while she was profusely bleeding from the head and in a disoriented state. A police team reached the spot and rushed her to a private hospital in DLF phase 2. After preliminary treatment, she was referred to the civil hospital. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), DLF, said, “She suffered head injuries mainly and was bleeding. Since no neurosurgeon was available at the time at the civil hospital, she was taken to a private hospital in Sector 38 for treatment. Her condition is stable. She is conscious and has recorded her statement. She has alleged that she was raped by four men, who beat her up when she tried to resist. We have contacted her family and a team has gone to Delhi to inform them.” Goel said based on the information given by the victim, the police arrested all suspects on Sunday morning. The police identified the suspects as Ranjan Yadav, 23, Pawan, 24, Pankaj Kumar, 26 and Govind Yadav, 20, were arrested on Sunday morning. Police said all of them live in Chakkarpur village. Ranjan works as a helper and cleaner at the real estate office in DLF phase 2, where the incident took place while the other three work as delivery persons for food aggregators. Police said it was yet to be ascertained if the suspects were drunk or not. A case was registered against the accused persons under Sections 376 D (gang rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at DLF phase 2 police station on Sunday, said police. According to National Crime Records Bureau’s ‘Crime in India’ report, 159 gang rape cases were registered in Haryana in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-woman-gang-raped-4-suspects-arrested/story-aQg6HVoRqunO36JDV3Yz7L.html
05-10-2020||City||17-year-old dead after bike rams into pole near Barvi dam in Thane||A birthday celebration turned tragic for a group of college students after one of their friends died in a mishap at Murbad in Thane on Saturday evening. The Kalyan taluka police said that the victim, 17-year-old Aditya Bhoir, along with seven other college students, had gathered for their friend’s birthday celebrations near Barvi dam. After the celebrations ended, the group was returning home. “Around 8pm, the victim – Aditya Bhoir, 17 – lost control over his bike and the two-wheeler rammed into a pole. Bhoir’s bike skidded and he fell into a nearby nullah. We received a call from the villagers who were trying to help the boys get out Bhoir. We immediately reached the spot and took him out of the nullah and rushed him to Central Hospital at Ulhasnagar, where he died during treatment,” said a police officer. The police have registered a case against Bhoir for reckless driving. Bhoir was a Bhiwandi resident and a Class 12 student of Balak Vidya Mandir College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-dead-after-bike-rams-into-pole-near-barvi-dam-in-thane/story-YrwV89ZOH3fnZ5chmnfjcM.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Woman inflicts burn injuries on seven-year-old for buying chocolate, arrested in Mumbai||Malvani police arrested a 40-year-old woman on Sunday for allegedly attempting to kill her seven-year-old niece. The woman allegedly tied the minor’s hands and burned her private parts with a hot spoon. According to police, the incident took place on September 29 around 10am when the accused asked the minor to buy chicken. The girl bought the chicken and handed it over to the accused along with the remaining money. An officer from Malvani police station said, “While counting the cash, the accused found ₹10 was missing and asked the minor about it. The girl told her that she purchased a chocolate for herself. Upon hearing this, the woman got angry and started thrashing the minor.” “The accused allegedly tied her hands and put a piece of cloth in her mouth to muffle her voice and gave burned her private parts using a hot spoon,” said an officer. The minor’s mother filed a complaint with the police on Saturday, following which a case was registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.Police will produce the accused before Dindoshi sessions court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-inflicts-burn-injuries-on-seven-year-old-for-buying-chocolate-arrested/story-7y1V1CmamkrCnLdKwKo1fJ.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||As complaints mount, Delhi govt ropes in SIAM to streamline HSRP process||After being flooded with complaints of a shortage of high-security registration plates (HSRPs) with automobile dealers despite vehicle owners being given appointments for its collection, the Delhi government on Sunday said it will fix accountability and streamline the process by roping in Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), a national body representing vehicle manufacturers.“We have received a lot of negative feedback from vehicle owners who claim they were given appointments but not given the high-security number plates by dealers when they landed up at their outlets. Clearly, there seems to be some lack of coordination between the OEMs [original equipment manufacturers] and dealers, which is resulting in the mismanagement,” Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.To resolve these issues, Gahlot said he has convened a high-level meeting on Tuesday, which is to be attended by automobile OEMs and HSRP manufacturers.“Members of SIAM will also attend the meeting, as the plan is to hand over the task of coordination between the OEMs and the dealers to the organisation. A system will be worked on where dealers will have to inform the vehicle owner through a text message or phone call in case the HSRP is not ready at the time the appointment has been fixed,” the minister said.Over the past one week, scores of vehicle owners in Delhi have faced a harrowing time in getting HSRPs affixed in their two-wheelers and cars. The problem persisted on Sunday as well with people complaining that even after a wait of over one hour at the dealer’s outlet, they had to return without the new number plates.Dilkhush Nandi, an IT professional living in Kalindi Kunj, blamed HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited for the mismanagement.“Rosmerta is making a fool of people. They are giving out appointment slots, but not handing over the number plates to the dealers. Even their helpline doesn’t work. Accountability should be fixed and the defaulting company should be penalised,” he said. Another vehicle owner said the website for HSRP bookings was not accepting his car’s registration number.Mahesh Malhotra, a senior official with Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited, however, denied these allegations. “There were some teething issues that people faced when the process started five days after the transport department issued the public notice on September 22. But it has been streamlined now. If there are any more complaints, we will look into them, but the problem should mostly be at the dealers’ end,” he said.“My car has a high security number plate installed since I purchased it in 2017. So, I tried to book the sticker only option from the website using my current HSRP number plate. The website said these numbers did not exist, forcing me to book for a new plate again. This has been faced by other users as well. Either Rosmerta, or the transport authorities have not linked them to earn Rs 500 more per driver or the HSRPs issued previously were all fake,” said a car owner who did not wish to be named.Another vehicle owner, S Kapur, said those who own Chevrolet or Hindustan Motors (HM) vehicles have been left in the lurch, because there are no dealers to offer HSRPs to them, since the companies have wound up operations.“Chevrolet-make cars have been completely kept out of this system. Even the website does not give an option for these brands on the home page. Rosmerta’s helpline does not work and no dealer is willing to give me a HSRP,” Kapur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-complaints-mount-delhi-govt-ropes-in-siam-to-streamline-hsrp-process/story-8xAs0A6DzwlmDkhqX285OO.html
05-10-2020||City||2 bookies held for online betting during IPL in Bhayandar||In one of the first few cases registered on the first day of Mira Bhayandar-Vasai Virar Commissionerate (MVCC), police arrested two bookies — Vijay Tiwari and Rakesh Sharma — for alleged involvement in an online betting racket. “Acting on a tip-off, we raided a shop in Sai Baba Nagar area in Bhayandar (East) and found that the accused had been accepting bets for the cricket match in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL),” said inspector Sampatrao Patil of Navghar police.The two accused had been accepting and placing bets on applications and websites. “We have seized four smartphones and scores of SIM cards from them. The duo has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1985 and Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act, 1987,” said Patil. Police are on the lookout for other accused and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-bookies-held-for-online-betting-during-ipl-in-bhayandar/story-R9rKUhNTv22TrrSdGykCVJ.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Woman arrested with ₹11-lakh cocaine in Mumbai||As part of its crackdown on drug peddlers in the city, officers of unit 7 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested a 24-year-old woman with 109 gram cocaine worth ₹11 lakh on Saturday. The arrested accused Manjusha Singh came to Mumbai a year ago and lived in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi. She worked in a beauty parlour in the same area. However, she came in contact with a wanted drug peddler when she was in need of money, and the peddler convinced her to work for him, the officer said. She delivered drugs twice on the directions of the drug peddler and got ₹10,000 per consignment. She, however, was not aware about the person to whom she delivered the narcotics to, said an officer. Inspector Manish Shridhankar got information and laid a trap and arrested Singh on Friday evening. She was brought to the unit office where she confessed to being active in the racket for three to four months, said Shridhankar. She was produced before a court and has been remanded in police custody till Monday. The suspect who gave the cocaine to Singh is still wanted and a police team has been looking for him, added Shridhankar. The crime branch has arrested around a dozen peddlers in the past one week. A crime branch officer said that as smuggling of cocaine, heroin and hashish has reduced during lockdown, consumption of synthetic drugs has increased in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-arrested-with-11-lakh-cocaine-in-mumbai/story-9TJzdpM8Vl3p44N1wv0wtM.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Three arrested with two pistols, live cartridges in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch intercepted a vehicle on the Eastern Express Highway and arrested three people and recovered two pistols and four live cartridges from them. During inquiry, police learnt that they came from Solapur district of Maharashtra to sell the firearms to a person in the city.The arrested accused have been identified as Abhijit Bhausaheb More, 20; Uday Gorakh Jadhav, 21; and Mahesh Balasaheb Padval, 20. More and Jadhav lives are Solapur residents while Padwal is a resident of Pune. Following a tip-off, officers of crime branch unit 7 laid a trap and arrested them on Saturday around 2:30pm when they were heading towards Bhandup in a vehicle.The arrested accused have confessed that they came to Mumbai to deliver the weapon. However, they have not revealed the name of the buyer. Inspector Manish Shridhankar of unit 7 said they are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-arrested-with-two-pistols-live-cartridges-in-mumbai/story-f2mFl3G1vCWscTYb3MtrgL.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University constitutes internal complaints committee for one year||Panjab University has constituted an internal complaints committee, which will be operational from October 1, 2020, to September 30, 2021.The committee has been constituted as per Section 4(2) of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, in anticipation of approval of the syndicate and senate.The term of the last committee constituted in 2017 ended on September 30 this year. The new panel is headed by professor Promila Pathak of the department of botany.The other members of the seven-member panel include professor Ashok Kumar of Hindi department, Dr Gaurav Gaur, assistant professor at PU’s Centre for Social Work, Poonam Chopra, deputy registrar at University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-constitutes-internal-complaints-committee-for-one-year/story-f2ONBscLgfZSESAlfMR3ZL.html
05-10-2020||City||First DU cut-off likely on October 10||New Delhi: The Delhi University will announce its first cut-off on October 10, two days ahead of the commencement of the admission process on October 12, university officials said Sunday.In the admission schedule for the 2020-21 academic session released last month, the university had said that admissions under first cut-off would be conducted from October 12, and the first cut-off would be announced on October 11. The admission process in DU has been delayed by over three months this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the first cut-off list was announced on June 28.Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai on Sunday said that though admissions will start on October 12, the varsity is keen on releasing cut-offs by October 10, due to the change in admission process this time.“Since the admissions are being conducted completely online for the first time, applicants should get enough time to think and discuss about the colleges or the courses they want to opt for. We will request principals to give us the cut-offs well in time so that we can release the lists earlier. We are trying to release the first list on October 10 to give applicants enough time,” she said.The admissions under the first cut-off list will be conducted between October 12 and 14. The second cut-off is scheduled to be released on October 19. There will be a three-day admission window for each cut-off. The third, fourth and fifth cut-offs are scheduled to be released on October 26, November 2 and November 9, respectively.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the university had shifted the entire admission process online eliminating the need for students to visit the campus. Earlier, students had to visit colleges to get their documents verified and complete the admission formalities. This time, the initial verification will be done online and the final check would be done by college staff, whenever campuses reopen and in-person classes commence. The university had also done away with the option of selecting courses and allowed students to be considered for all courses if they cleared the cut-offs.Former academic council member Pankaj Garg said the possibility of early cut-offs would help students. “If students get to know about the cut-off lists well in advance, it will help them to some extent while shortlisting colleges. This year, for the first time, students have not applied for specific courses so they have to choose both the college and the course. Since there is no scope for on campus counselling, students will get time to speak to more people before they make their decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-du-cut-off-likely-on-october-10/story-O6m1XwG4XAazsfELPiNYHO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||After steady dip, Maharashtra braces for a surge in Covid cases as eateries reopen today||For an eighth consecutive day, Maharashtra on Sunday reported less than 20,000 Covid-19 infections, with 13,702 new cases taking the tally to 1,443,409.However, despite the dip after the surge in the first three weeks of September, state officials said they were wary about a possible rise in cases over the next couple of weeks. “After inter-district movement was allowed from September 2, there was a sudden spike in the first two weeks. A similar spike is projected over the next couple of weeks after restaurants resume operations from today and running of more local trains [for essential services workers]. However, it would not be as high as last month,” an official said, on the condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, during a press conference in Mumbai, said that they have not received a proposal from the state government to start local trains for all. There is a rising demand from political parties and various other sectors for the operation of local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “It is a decision to be taken by the state government. Resuming local trains is under consideration, but it may take a few more weeks,” said a state official. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, in an earlier interview to HT, had said local trains could resume from mid-October.The state on Sunday also reported 326 fatalities, taking the toll to 38,084. Mumbai clocked 2,109 fresh cases and reported 48 deaths on Sunday, taking the tally to 213,652 and toll to 9,108. Of the 326 deaths, 214 were from the past two days, 55 from the past week and 57 from the period before it, the state health department has said.Pune district remained the highest contributor at 2,343 new infections, including 1,033 in city, 814 in rural parts and 496 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The district also reported 41 fatalities, which included 25 in the city. Nashik district reported 1,034 cases and eight deaths, Nagpur 917 cases and 26 deaths, Ahmednagar 639 cases and 7 deaths, Sangli 472 cases and 14 fatalities. At 4,332 infections, nine cities in MMR and rural parts of Thane and Raigad saw a rise in its contribution to the state tally at 38.92%, up from 23-25% till last week. The state has reported a steady decline in cases over the past two weeks. The decline has been attributed to concentrated efforts in the districts where cases were high. Apart from Mumbai; Pune, Kolhapur, Nagpur, Nashik, Solapur and Jalgaon were top contributors to cases in the state. Barring Mumbai, other districts have been able to bring down the daily infection considerably. In Pune, the daily caseload dropped to 2,396 on October 3, from 4,664 four weeks ago on September 5, while Nagpur saw a drop to 631 cases, from 787 during this period. Kolhapur, Solapur and Sangli reported a decline in four weeks to 315, 338 and 205 cases from 714, 703 and 888 cases respectively. “We continuously focused on these districts with high cases over the past few weeks by closely monitoring with officials at district level. We expect the ‘My Family, My Responsibility drive’, which emphasises on behavioural communication, to help us further in early detection and early treatment, resulting in keeping mortality in check. We have also increased the daily testing to 90,000 a day, from 61,000 a few weeks ago. In Pune, our per million test rate has reached 96,000, which is even more than Mumbai’s. All these factors have helped us in bringing the growth rate down,” said state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate.Dr Awate said that they expect daily infections to drop to the level of 6,000 cases by December-end. “Despite the unlocking rolled out this month, we expect cases to see gradual decline over the next few days after the peak reported in the past few weeks. Herd immunity, antibodies immunities developed and awareness among people are the contributing factors resulting in the decline. We have reached the juncture where the daily addition of cases is manageable,” he said.The growth rate as well as doubling rate of cases in most of the districts has improved over the past few weeks. Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation leads the chart of doubling rate with 85.47 days, while it’s fastest in Chandrapur district at 19.91 days, according to the daily report prepared by a group headed by Mumbai University economist Neeraj Hatekar.State’s recovery rate improved to 79.64%, after 15,048 new recoveries. After the recovery of 11,49603 patients, the number of active patients dropped to 255, 281. Maharashtra has 2,209,696 people under home quarantine and 27,939 institutionally quarantined. 75,908 tests were conducted in last 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 18.05%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-steady-dip-maharashtra-braces-for-a-surge-in-covid-cases-as-eateries-reopen-today/story-g97n6e2MI3lgUjV0043FfK.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CET for Physics, Chemistry, Maths to start on October 12; notice causes confusion||The state common entrance test (CET) cell, which conducts admissions to all professional and technical courses, announced the dates for Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics (PCM) group on Sunday. Multiple sessions of MH-CET will be held on October 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19 and 20 for PCM group of candidates, said the CET cell in a notice. The students who can now download their admit cards. The notice, however, has led to confusion among aspirants. “Our CET exams are already underway. Now according to the new notice, new dates have been announced for PCM exams,” said an aspirant. Another aspirant said, “Schedules for all exams have been revised keeping in mind the university exams. It is becoming difficult to keep track of all the changes.” CET cell commissioner Pankaj Kumar clarified that PCM dates have not been revised. “The notice issued on Sunday merely announces the dates for PCM exams while referring to an earlier notice of the CET cell about revising exam dates,” said Kumar. CET cell had, on September 9, announced that the dates for several MH-CET exams would be revised as they were overlapping with university exams. Around to 5.32 lakh aspirants have registered for the exam across the state this year. In 2019, 4.13 lakh aspirants had registered for the exam. Official records shared by the cell show that the figure stands at 5.32 lakh this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-for-physics-chemistry-maths-to-start-on-october-12-notice-causes-confusion/story-xzi8KwTL9y8afIZkgLwxFJ.html
05-10-2020||City||Former MP tweets photo of burns on hand after being stamped at Delhi airport||New Delhi: Former Member of Parliament and national spokesperson for Congress Madhu Goud Yaskhi on Sunday said he has sustained skin burns and infection from the indelible ink used for stamping international passengers on arrival at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport.Yaskhi was stamped when he arrived at the airport from New York, on Saturday, to catch a connecting flight to Hyderabad.Currently, all the international passengers arriving at the Delhi airport who are approved for home quarantine are stamped by the officials of their respective states. All those who are to be quarantined in Delhi are stamped by Delhi government’s health department.An official from the airport said it is being looked into if Yaskhi was stamped by Delhi government health department officials or by his Telangana state health department officials.At present, all international passengers arriving Delhi need to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine. However, passengers can apply for an exemption from institutional quarantine by uploading their recent COVID-19 negative report on Delhi airports portal Air Suvidha ahead of their flight. Once approved, the passengers will only require home quarantine. Passengers can also get themselves tested for COVID-19 upon their arrival at the Delhi airport and if found negative may head straight for home quarantine. Yaskhi, who had arrived at the IGI airport around 12pm on Saturday had to board a connecting flight to Hyderabad. Before he headed for his flight, he was stamped on his left arm and was to undergo home quarantine in Hyderabad.“The moment I was stamped I started feeling itchy. I thought it was normal. By 4.15pm when my flight took off, the irritation grew and I felt a burning sensation. Gradually, it turned black and it became intolerable,” he said.After reaching Hyderabad, Yaskhi said he immediately contacted one of his dermatologist friends for medical advice. “My doctor told me that gradually my skin will peel off and that complete recovery may take more than a month,” he said.Yakshi, a former MP from Nizamabad constituency in Telangana, tweeted on a picture of his hand on Sunday, tagging Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri and asking him to look into the matter.Yaskhi tweeted, “Dear @HardeepSPuri Ji, can you please look into the chemical being used at Delhi airport for stamping on passengers coming from abroad? Yesterday I was stamped at @DelhiAirport and this is how my hands look now.”Responding to his tweet, Puri wrote, “Thank you for drawing my attention to this. A have spoken to CMD AAI.”Yaskhi said he tweeted the picture to bring this to everyone’s attention and to ensure that no other passenger goes through the same experience.DIAL, the Delhi airport operator, also responded to Yakshi’s tweet. “We deeply regret the inconvenience caused. The ink used for stamping is a standard indelible ink. We’ve reported the issue to the Delhi State Authorities. Currently, this batch of ink is being kept aside for testing by the supplier and further desired action. Thank you for highlighting this issue.”Officials from the Union health ministry did not respond to calls, texts or emails. When contacted, Delhi government also did not comment on the matter.Somesh Gupta, a dermatologist at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) said such it could be a case of dermatitis. “If you apply any dye, it may react with skin. Stamping in this way is not a good practise. They must find a substitute like in AIIMS they put a paper band on the wrists for identification,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-mp-tweets-photo-of-burns-on-hand-after-being-stamped-at-delhi-airport/story-kRch5wD4JQuSpQWW8FOtiM.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||BJP leaders start outreach programmes on new farm bills||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit on Sunday organised an outreach programme to tell farmers about the new laws passed by the Parliament—three farm bills.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, some MPs, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and other party leaders held public meetings in villages to highlight the benefits of the decision taken by the Narendra Modi government.While addressing a meeting in Pooth Khurd in Bawana, Gupta hit out at the ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi for opposing the bill and said that they have not done anything for the farmers of Delhi.“You had promised that farmers in Delhi will get the status of farmers so that they can avail the benefits like all other farmers in the county. But Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal failed to deliver on his promise. Farmers don’t have the permission to dig borewell for irrigation. They don’t get any subsidy on the equipment used in farming, just like other farmers in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. This is what Delhi government has done for them,” said Gupta. BJP MLA and LOP Bidhuri said that the opposition parties are trying to misguide the farmers. “The system of minimum support price (MSP) will continue and government procurement of food grains from farmers will be done in the mandis as before. Not only this, the government has also ensured that the price of the crop of the farmer should be paid in just three days,” he said at the meeting organised in his constituency.BJP MPs Ramesh Bidhuri, Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma, Meenakshi Lekhi, Gautam Gambhir and Manoj Tiwari, former Delhi BJP chief, held meetings in their respective constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-leaders-start-outreach-programmes-on-new-farm-bills/story-6E4lBinPEk5kMDmbaJVCZI.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||Covid positive prisoner who fled police custody arrested again||A month after a 33-year-old man escaped from Delhi police’s custody while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a city hospital, police on Friday claimed that the man had been tracked and rearrested. The man, investigators said, is involved in multiple cases of murders, attempts to murder, robbery, dacoity and kidnappings. The suspect is even said to have opened fire at the police party that had gone to arrest him on Friday, senior officers said.The arrested man was identified as Soni alias Mehtab, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Police have recovered a semi-automatic pistol from his possession.According to the police, Mehtab had escaped from custody on September 18 from LNJP hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Police said, after fleeing, Mehtab had been living in a rented house in Sonia Vihar.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said since his escape, police had been conducting raids at all of Mehtab’s possible hideouts. “On Thursday, we received information that he will come to Khajuri Khas to meet his associate. A raid was conducted at 7.30 am and he was asked to surrender. but he took out a pistol and opened fire at the police. He was later overpowered and arrested. No one was injured in the firing,” Kushwah said.Police said Mentab had on September 14 been arrested in case of theft at Rajiv Chowk Metro police station and was sent to Tihar, where he tested positive for Covid-19. He was then admitted to LNJP hospital in police custody from where he escaped on the pretext of going to the toilet. He jumped out of a window into the shaft and fled, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-ve-prisoner-who-fled-police-custody-arrested-again/story-uAz6F0AurHrHDGGtTmB4fN.html
05-10-2020||Delhi||DDA works on plan to give Dwarka a facelift||Dwarka, one of the three sub-cities developed three decades ago, is in for a revamp with the Delhi Development Authority working on a plan to resolve issues of traffic congestion, lack of commercial spaces and poor last mile connectivity. DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said the authority will integrate various infrastructure projects being taken up in the sub city that in different stages of planning and implementation for better coordination and “holistic development”.Dwarka, which has a population of over 1.2 million, was planned in the late 80s to “accommodate Delhi’s changing requirements”. It was projected as the “sub-city for the 21st century”. Narela and Rohini were also developed with the same promise. Even though Dwarka has emerged as a residential hub, lack of adequate transport and civic infrastructure are major problems that residents face.  Jain said DDA is working on a strategy to revamp Dwarka. “A comprehensive strategic plan is being prepared for Dwarka to make it sustainable, pedestrian and cycle friendly, and improve the quality of life of people residing here. The aim is to have a unified vision for holistic development of the sub-city. We are in the process of finalising the details of various projects,” he said.To address the problem of traffic congestion, one of the most pressing concerns of the residents, the land-owning agency has roped in the School of Planning and Architecture, which is expected to provide short-term and long-term solutions.Despite Metro connectivity, last mile connectivity is poor and there are fewer local transport options. With most residents depending on private vehicles, traffic congestion is a big problem here. The three main entry points — Dwarka Road (from National Highway-8 side), Sector 21-Dwarka Link road (Urban Extension Road-II) and Dabri Mor — get choked during peak hours. The Sector 21-Dwarka link road, used by Gurugram-bound traffic from north Delhi, Najafgarh and West Delhi is jam-packed during the morning hours. At Dabri Mor, encroachment on the main road slows traffic.Jain said, “One of the most important projects is to improve the connectivity of the sub-city with the rest of the city. Measures are being taken to decongest the township by improving road intersections, traffic and parking management. The School of Planning and Architecture is preparing a comprehensive mobilty plan for Dwarka. Short and long-term measures for improvement of inter and intra-city connectivity are being envisaged.”The DDA plans to redevelop the area around two of its important trunk drains-- TD 2 and TD5—as greenways and theme parks. A senior DDA official, aware of the development, said that there is a plan to develop walkways, cycle tracks, cafes and waterfront along TD-2. “The plan is in a nascent stage, but the idea is to develop a recreational zone for people. The work on Bharat Vandana park is already going on,” said the official. In its effort to improve the last mile connectivity, Jain said that the DDA plans to develop “70-km cycle tracks”. The work on developing the tracks is going on in Sector 11-14.Anuj Malhotra, knowledge partner to the high-powered committee under the ministry of home affairs, said there is a demand for cycling in the sub-city. “Dwarka has a great grid system of roads which is conducive to cycling. In 9-10min one can cover a distance of 3 kilometres. In our Dwarka survey, done five years back, we found that a majority of trips were educational and for work and that they were within 5-km distance. They can be covered within 20 minutes. The unused bus lane on Dwarka roads can be demarcated by tactile urbanism method (placing bollards), overnight, to make about 30km of cycle lanes in a matter of 2-3 days,” he said.Residents say that infrastructure development is the need of the hour, but they want DDA to develop the plan in consultation with the people. Rejimon CK, founder of Dwarka Forum, said, “There is a huge gap in DDA’s planning and execution. The DDA came up with the street design guidelines in 2011, but the roads developed by it do not conform to the guidelines. There is a huge mismatch in planning and execution. Before finalising the plan, they should consult people.”Former DDA planning commission AK Jain, who was involved in the planning of the sub-city in the 80s, said, “It is a good thing that DDA is integrating all the development projects. But with changing time, they should use the new standards of planning and execution. There is an urgent need to have an intra-subcity transport system. People currently are dependent on their personal vehicles for even short trips,”Another issue DDA is trying to address is the lack of economic development in the area. While housing came up in a big way in the sub-city, commercial sectors didn’t despite provision for planned areas. Jain said, “There was a linear commercial complex planned along the Metro corridor. The DDA needs to relook at its auction policy for commercial spaces to promote commercial activity. Currently, a majority of people travel from Dwarka to other parts of the city for work.”A senior DDA official said that there is a plan to dispose of commercial plots and develop a socio culture centre in Sector 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dwarka-set-for-a-revamp/story-m8BnC9EADwj5ZCymIKh5mO.html
05-10-2020||Mumbai||3-way fight between Sena, Congress-NCP and BJP for Mumbai civic committee polls||The elections for the chairpersonship of several committees of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expected to witness a three-way fight between the Shiv Sena, the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The elections to the chairpersons’ post will begin from Monday for the standing committee which has financial powers; the improvements’ committee that deals with land leases and other city properties; the education committee which handles primary and secondary education in Mumbai; and the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) committee. The members of the committees (except for BEST) are elected from among the elected corporators, who then elect the chairpersons. In the case of BEST, non-elected persons can also be nominated by the parties. Currently, all these committees are dominated by the Sena and the party is likely to retain hold in the elections, as it has majority of members in the panels. The Congress-NCP was expecting control of at least one committee each in return for their support to the Sena in the state government. The Sena, Congress and NCP have formed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance to govern the state and have been discussing possibility of contesting the Mumbai civic polls together in 2022. However, the three parties are far from reaching any similar consensus for the BMC, which is the governing body for the megalopolis. The Shiv Sena does not have a clear majority in the civic body, but it is not willing to share power with the Congress-NCP, which are in the Opposition. The Sena has 97 elected representatives in the civic house of 227, and is short of 17 representatives for securing a simple majority of 114. However, it has managed to remain in power as the Opposition is divided. The Congress has 29 representatives, while the NCP has eight. The Shiv Sena does not wish to dilute its hold over one of the richest civic bodies in the country and has decided to field its candidates for all the committees. With 83 seats in the corporation, the BJP is the second largest party and is also in the Opposition. The party has maintained that it will field candidates for all committees and is considering all its options. Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and member of the standing committee, said, “We are fielding candidates for all the committees as we are the second largest party and the Opposition in true nature.” The Congress has also announced to contest for all committees. It has claimed the support of the NCP and the Samajwadi Party (SP), which has six elected representatives. Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who is the leader of Opposition in the BMC, said, “We are in the Opposition and we will field our candidates for all the committees. We have support of the NCP and the SP, and we are not seeking support of any other party.” The other smaller parties include All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) with two representatives and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) with one corporator. The representation for each party to these committees is given based on the strength of the party’s elected corporators. The members have a two-year tenure, while the chairpersons will have a tenure of one year. Meanwhile last week, Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who is also the sitting chairman of BMC’s standing committee from the past two years, filed his nomination for a third term. Sandhya Doshi, Sena’s corporator from Gorai, has filed her nomination for the education committee chairperson’s post. BJP has fielded Colaba corporator Makrand Narvekar for the standing committee chairperson’s post, while Kandivli corporator Surekha Patil is pitted against Doshi. From the Congress, Bandra corporator Asif Zakaria will contest for the standing committee, while Chembur corporator Sangita Handore is the party candidate for education committee chairperson’s post. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said, “It is highly unlikely that there will be any cross-voting, wherein Congress will get votes from the BJP. However, despite not having majority, the Congress may be fielding its candidate to stay relevant politically. The BJP is fielding candidates because it has to be active, being the second largest party in the BMC.” Jondhale added, “Whether the MVA parties will fight the 2022 BMC elections together or not will also depend on how sustainable their alliance is in the state. If they don’t fight together, it may also mean that Shiv Sena does not want to share power with anyone when it comes to BMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-way-fight-between-sena-congress-ncp-and-bjp-for-mumbai-civic-corporation-committee-polls/story-KKrfjBN5BMrnHpVUJfOIGK.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Katraj-Kondhwa road project faces land acquisition issues||The Katraj-Kondhwa road project is facing delays due to the resistance from residents of Sundarban and few other societies to not give up land. According to Vijay Kulkarni, chief engineer, road department Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), a portion of the land is still to be acquired. “70 per cent land is acquired while 30 per cent is still remaining. It will be completed soon. The pandemic was also one of the reasons for the delay,” Kulkarni said. The 3.5 kms Katraj-Kondhwa road is to be constructed between Rajas society chowk and Khadi machine chowk by the civic body to address traffic congestion in the area. The PMC has planned three grade separators and two vehicle underpasses on the stretch. The project cost is ₹225 crore. The stone laying ceremony of the project was held on November 2, 2018 in the presence of Devendra Fadnavis, former Maharashtra chief minister, but the project has hit a snail’s pace since then. “The work from Kondhwa is going at a good speed while we are facing hurdles in Katraj from societies like Sundarban and a few more. Where the land has been acquired, the work has started,” said Rajabhau Kadam, husband of corporator Manisha Kadam. From the beginning, the Katraj-Kondhwa road project has faced many hurdles as the PMC scrapped the tendering process four times because it felt the bids received were inflated. “The residents are asking for land in place of land, or too much cash for land. The PMC is ready to provide them flats but they are not ready to budge,” said Kadam. “We have no idea whether this road will be broadened or not. It is not only my shop but many shops which fall under the same lane, I don’t think the project will continue,” said the owner of Balaji Grocery shop. A group of youngsters were spotted playing cricket on the concrete slab laid for road work on the Katraj-Kondhwa stretch. “We have been playing cricket here since the last two months and work is going on at a very slow speed ahead in the same lane,” said Sudhakar Shinde, who was playing cricket with his friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/future-of-katraj-kondhwa-road-uncertain-as-acquisition-issues-plague-project/story-fm2TgUsSwX2bHZk2BM087H.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Homeless garbage picker found bludgeoned to death in Chakan||A homeless man was found bludgeoned to death near a vegetable market in Chakan area on Saturday morning. The deceased man was identified as Ramdas Rajaram Dhumbare (48), a native of Pathardi, Ahmednagar who earned a livelihood by picking garbage. “He may possibly have been drunk. We found a blood-stained rock next to the cement block he was found on. We are yet to find any suspects in the case,” said police sub-inspector Vishal Dandage of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. The man was found bludgeoned to death in a tin shade located along Pune-Nashik highway. The body was splayed on a cement block inside the tin shed, according to police.The murder is suspected to have happened on Friday night as the passers-by found the body on Saturday morning, according to police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station against unidentified suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/homeless-garbage-picker-found-bludgeoned-to-death-in-chakan/story-5dz138XAcqv44Hjwiz05bO.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Pune parents unite to seek school-fee legislation; hold protest||The Pune Parents United, a working group of parents whose children are studying in private schools in the city, held a protest at the Balgandharva Rangmandir chowk on Sunday, calling for an ordinance to regulate school fees in the state. Around 200 parents participated in Sunday’s protest. The demands of the protesting parents were officially sent in a demand letter on August 10 by the parents’ group. “Schools are ignoring parents’ demands and are forcing them to pay fees on the pretext of online education. Considering the given Covid situation, the schools are not giving us any attention. Parents are forced to come onto the streets in protest. Parents from various schools participated in this protest. Our demand is an immediate ordinance regarding fee regulation,” said Mukund Kirday, coordinator, Pune Parents United. “The demand to cut down fees is totally reasonable as expenses on gymnasiums, labs, school lunches, transport, examinations and repairs are saved. Why should parents pay for these? Barring the expenses related to salaries of teachers and non-teaching staff, other expenses have not incurred. In some schools these expenses (apart from salaries) constitute almost 50 per cent to 60 per cent of the total expenses,” he claimed. “During this Covid pandemic everyone is hit hard financially. In such circumstances private schools can’t be thinking of maximising profit. All private schools, like Ryan in our case, shall only charge for online classes. As all other facilities are not being used, these charges should be skipped. School-management says there are no-clear guidelines from government about reducing fees hence they won’t reduce fees. We as parents fail to understand why the government can’t make a decision on this topic,” said Aarti Mahajan, a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-parents-unite-to-seeks-school-fee-legislation-protest-held-in-city/story-dD5b5vEx5UHGB6dS77Rv2M.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Maratkar murder case: Four more in Pune police net||The Pune police, on Sunday, made four more arrests and called in two more persons for questioning in the case of the murder of Shiv Sena youth wing leader Deepak Maratkar (36), who was stabbed to death in Budhwar peth on Friday. While the four arrests on Sunday were made by the Faraskhana police station, the two others have been detained by the Pune police crime branch unit 1, for questioning. The four arrested have been identified as Rohit Kshirsagar, Sunny Kamble, Rohit Kamble and Rahul Ragir; while the identity of the two others detained by the crime branch officials has been kept under wraps. “The four we have arrested are prime suspects in the role of assailants who did the stabbing. They will be presented in court on Monday for custody. The role of the two brought in by the crime branch is yet to be ascertained,” said senior inspector Jahgannath Kalaskar of the Faraskhana police station. Maratkar was stabbed by five bike-borne assailants on Friday morning in Budhwar peth. He was found to have been stabbed 47 times as per information shared by the police after a post-mortem was conducted. The three people in police custody till October 6 were identified as Ashwini Kamble, Sunny Kolte and Mahendra Saraf, according to the police. Kamble and the deceased had been in a feud since the 2017 local elections when they were pitted against each other from their own parties. Both lost the election that year. Maratkar and Kamble had been at loggerheads ever since, according to the police. Saraf, who is a former Shiv Sena member, has had his own qualms with Maratkar since 1998, according to the police. Maratkar is the son of Vijay Maratkar, a two-time former corporator who recently died while being tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-arrests-in-maratkar-murder-case/story-PQJuZ7F6G22lznc6qEWvYK.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Pune’s industrial belt gets 75-bed hospital||Pune’s industrial belt has now another hospital with 75-beds. The hospital facility with all oxygen beds has come up at Mhalunge village in the Chakan industrial estate area.As on Saturday, Pune’s rural parts have reported 15,626 active cases with fatality rate dropped to 2.5 per cent from 3.2 per cent last week.The doubling rate of Pune’s rural parts has also improved from 20 days in the first week of September to 27 days during the last week of the month.The hospital set up by Mahindra’s Chakan plant along with the Partners Habitat for Humanity was inaugurated by Dr Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, Pune in the presence of Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, Pune earlier this week.“The hospital will cater to patients from the industrial belt,” said Deshmukh.According to Deshmukh, this will be a first-line care centre to avail free of cost treatment for Covidd-19 patients, in the industrial belt of Khed and Haveli talukas, which is considered a hotspot.“The facility offers special medical care to infected as well as suspected cases, which have been identified through contact tracing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-industrial-belt-gets-75-bed-hospital/story-B1A1i9LdkIEi4izeWMDc2J.html
05-10-2020||City||Digital shows offer hope to performing artistes of Rambo circus||Life came to a standstill for Biju Pushkaran ( 51), the head clown of Rambo Circus, along with other artistes of the circus as the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown left them with no source of income.“Our lives were shattered by Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown as it led to the closure of our shows and it affected more than 100 artistes. But now as the shows have started streaming online I feel optimistic and we will revive soon,” said Pushkaran.The shows have started streaming online from September 25. The crew members who were otherwise feeling dejected during the lockdown after the tents were folded believe that the virtual screening of pre-recorded videos has revived their hopes of surviving in the circus industry.The online circus fund-raising show was christened as ‘’Life Is A Circus’’ and it was organised in association with LaQshya Live Experiences and Production Crew Entertainment. The circus administration is contemplating to conduct more live shows on the Internet aimed at wider dissemination of the message of the circus and generate public interest in their contributions to society.”We are missing the real-life fun of meeting children, taking selfies with them and also shaking hands as part of goodwill gesture. All these have become memories and we get nostalgic about the recent past,” said one of the circus clowns.Pushkaran said, “Initially we thought that the lockdown would get over soon, but the restrictions are still in place. Many of our artistes are also in different parts of the state and are even facing a financial crisis. But things have just started to be better with each day,” he explained.Pushkaran thanked local politicians and social groups for lending a helping hand in providing the artistes with necessities during the tough times.“My wife and children who are in Kerala faced a tough time during the lockdown and I almost used up all my savings. The pandemic has affected people across all sectors,” he said.“Initially I was disappointed and lost hope, but things have started improving,” he said.Pushkaran explained that the circus management was approached by a production crew for online shows after which shooting for the virtual shows started and it generated a good response from the audience.On the first day of the shooting, Pushakaran was caught with fright before the camera. “ We are used to the physical experience of touch during live shows and digital medium is completely new for us, ” he says.Pushkaran who has worked as a circus clown for 21 years said that he was delighted to see small kids holding placards like ‘’We Love Rambo Circus’’.The online show has a feature called ‘’Meet & Greet’’ session wherein the clowns and circus artistes interact with children virtually.“During our online interaction, the children ask about our well being and our families. We were touched by this gesture,” he explained.Sujit Dilip, owner, Rambo Circus, said that online shows are garnered good response. “The circus business has taken a hit last time due to rains and this time due to the pandemic.““We had planned to introduce some changes in the circus format with the help of a Russian circus. I had gone to Germany and found that holographic animals are used instead of real animals in the circus. However, due to the current pandemic situation, all the plans are on hold,” he said.“This digital shows has given a new lease of life for all the circus crew. It is a 60-minute- pre-recorded show where all the acts were shot in the circus tent,” he said.Saurabh Khurana of LaQshya Live Experiences said, “They were working on the project with field experts and professionals for more than two months.”The show traces the journey of Rambo Circus and ends with an act dedicated to the Covid warriors for their role in mitigating the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/digital-shows-offer-hope-to-performing-artistes-of-rambo-circus/story-bMT2xW8Kui76GHt9zalV1H.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Hospital bed availability under control, says Pune civic body||With the increase in the number of Covid-19 recoveries and more people opting for home isolation, the additional pressure on the health infrastructure has gone down. More beds are now lying vacant and complaints regarding bed shortage have also gone down, say civic officials.According to the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) the city has a recovery rate of 86.40 per cent as out of the 1.46 lakh Covid-19 cases that were reported as of October 1, 1.26 lakh patients had recovered from the infection and 3,528 or 2.41 per cent were declared dead.Out of the 16, 369 active cases, about 56.38 per cent of the Covid positive patients are now under home isolation, 5,101 or 31.16 per cent are hospitalised in government or private hospitals and remaining 2042 or 12.47 per cent are in Covid care centres.More than half of those found positive have now opted for home isolation mainly because they are asymptomatic or do not want to be isolated at a government facility, say officials.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The recovery rate of the city has been going up for some time now which is good news. More than 4,300 patients have been cured and discharged from civic-run Dr Naidu Hospital alone. Almost 2,400 were checked and home isolated and 25,000 patients visited OPD at the hospital.”Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said, “It is true that the recovery rate is going up and also the OPD cases are going down. The pressure on private hospitals is going down now.”“It is also a fact that most people are now opting for home isolation and also people do not want to be quarantined at government facilities and cannot afford private hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospital-bed-availability-under-control-pmc/story-9PSPaPQDECTVvIXOZUrY4H.html
05-10-2020||Pune||Local trains in Pune to operate from October 8 for essential services’ staff||Since the countrywide lockdown began on March 23, all the train operations in the Pune railway division had stopped operations. Now, almost after six months the local trains are resuming service on October 8 in Pune, which is a major transport mode for working people between Pune and Lonavla.An ‘action plan’ letter was sent by Pune police commissioner and the nodal officer to coordinate train operations in the region, Amitabh Gupta, to the Pune railway division. The number of passengers per local train will be reduced from 1,200 to 700 in order to maintain social distancing during travel, as per the instructions. Also a ‘QR code’ based e-pass system has been introduced for passengers which will be monitored by the IT cell of the Pune police department. People engaged in essential services will have to get the e-pass with the QR code and identity card in order to travel in the local trains. In the letter sent by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta to Pune railway division on October 3, he has said, “Kindly find enclosed herein a detailed SOP for starting local trains in Pune Metropolitan Region prepared by us in consultation with local railway authorities based in Pune. I hereby request you to issue directions to the local railway authorities in Pune to start above stated railway service with effect from October 8.” “As per the instructions given by the Pune police commissioner we have started preparations to start the local train operations on the Pune-Lonavla route from October 8. Initially there will be a few daily trips in the morning and evening only for people engaged in essential services. We appeal to residents to not gather at the railway stations to board the local trains, if they are not part of the essential services’ workforce. Apart from that all the safety measures to maintain social distancing and avoid the spread of virus will be taken by the railway authorities,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. In the ‘QR Code’ based e-pass system, the e-pass will contain all the personal details required for travelling to and from the place of work. The IT cell of the Pune police department will coordinate the work and the team comprising railway and Pune police officials will be associated with the Pune Municipal Corporation to form it. All the essential services marked must approach the portal for the e-pass. All the agencies will provide passenger list with details like employee code, name, designation, office station, residence station, mobile number, among other details, as required. The QR code will be scanned at entry points to verify the genuineness of the traveller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/local-trains-to-operate-from-oct-8-for-essential-services-staff/story-Vd5aqHuznrFyoCWZZ1xxyI.html
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation of Citco hotels put on back burner||The proposed privatisation of the hotels run by Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (Citco) has been put on the back burner till “more appropriate” time. UT administration officials say that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, economic situation is not conducive for privatisation process to go through. Last year, UT had written to the Centre expressing its intent to ‘monetise’ hotels Mountview in Sector 10, Shivalikview in Sector 17 and Parkview in Sector 24. The letter was in response to the Union government recommending monetisation of UT’s assets with four stadiums first taken up for this purpose. But the administration considered that the Citco hotels should be privatised or their management and working outsourced. Stating that administration is keen, but current economic environment is not favourable, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “It is the proposal with the administration and we have informed the Niti Aayog about it too. The final decision is yet to be taken as it is not economically most opportune time to auction the hotels. We will wait till the economic activity becomes more favourable.” Management of Hotel Mountview and Hotel Parkview (then Chandigarh Yatri Niwas) was transferred to Citco in 1982. Initially, Mountview was run by a private group and after the company’s lease ended, the administration decided to take over the hotel. In 1988, Hotel Shivalikview (then Janta Hotel) was transferred to Citco and put in commercial use on January 1, 1990. Earlier, fund-starved Citco had made attempts to lease out its outlets with Baithak at Kalagram, Drop In at Sector 34 and Stop-N-Stare at Sector 10, but the last year was the first time when it actively considered privatisation of three major hotels. The administration had planned the process to start from Hotel Shivalikview. Monetisation in this case could mean privatisation of either the whole property or outsourcing of its management and functioning to raise revenue. The working of Citco has long been under scanner and experts in the hospitality industry have criticised it for not being run on commercial lines. Lack of operational flexibility, bureaucratic way of working, and large workforce has been touted as the reasons for sluggish performance of the public corporation. Citco has over 1,000 employees, with around 700 permanent and the remaining ones on contract. Nearly 52% of the revenue goes into paying the salary of these employees. Citco’s relationship with the administration has also been questioned. For instance, the administration is yet to pay Rs 13.43 crore it owes to Citco. Of this amount, Rs 11.71 crore is to be paid for the expenses of Citco’s canteen being run in the UT secretariat at Sector 9 and Rs 1.45 crore for expenses of Delhi guest house and cars bought by Citco for administrative use. Similarly, the money paid by the administration to Citco for certain events remains unaccounted. “After years of financial struggle, these three Citco hotels showed signs of economic gains at the end of last year but, with the Covid-19 pandemic, this recovery has come to a grinding halt,” said a senior UT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/privatisation-of-citco-hotels-put-on-back-burner/story-HYc9hM0UKoH69PbT8ru8iJ.html
