06-10-2020||Gurugram||Cyber City accident: Juvenile driver booked under non-bailable IPC section||More than 40 days after a 48-year-old chief financial officer (CFO) of a private company was killed when a car, allegedly driven by a juvenile, hit his Harley Davidson motorcycle in DLF Cyber City, the police have booked the accused juvenile driver under Section 304 part -2 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Earlier this week, the section, which is non-bailable, was added to the FIR registered at DLF Phase-2 police station after seeking legal opinion in the case, the police said on Tuesday. The juvenile driver is yet to be apprehended, said the police. The family of the victim, Alok Gupta, had been demanding that the police invoke stringent sections against the accused persons. They had also demanded that the police make the parents of the juvenile driver, and the juvenile co-passenger of the car, a party in the case. On September 26, at least 400 people including family members, friends, cyclists, carrying placards and banners, had taken out a solidarity march from DT Mega Mall to the crime spot near DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro station, demanding justice and action against the alleged perpetrators. On Saturday, another silent march was taken out in Sector 50 while a day earlier, similar such protests by family, friends, acquaintances of the victim, took place in Gurugram, Delhi, Noida, Nagpur, Lucknow, Indore and Jaipur. On August 23 around 6am, Gupta was on his way to Noida, when a Ford Eco Sport, in which two juveniles were travelling, had rammed into the divider and hit him across the carriageway. Gupta had succumbed to injuries and at the time, police had registered an FIR against the juvenile driver and owner of car, who is a friend of the driver’s father, under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (death by negligence) of IPC. Subsequently, the police had added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (driving by a drunken person or by a person under the influence of drugs) of the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act against the juvenile driver and section 199 A of the MV Act against the car owner. Both had been arrested and released on bail. Maqsood Ahmed, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, said, “The Section 304- part 2 under IPC against the juvenile driver was added to the FIR after seeking fresh legal opinion in the case. Efforts are being made to apprehend the juvenile driver. Regarding action against the driver’s parents, we have sought legal opinion and accordingly action shall be taken. As per provisions of Motor Vehicle Act, the owner of the vehicle is liable in such incidents.” A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “A police team had gone to apprehend the juvenile driver at two locations over the past two days, but the juvenile could not be found.” Anurag Gupta, brother of the victim, said, “The investigating officer in the case informed us over the phone that Section 304 part-2 of IPC has been added to the FIR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cyber-city-accident-juvenile-driver-booked-under-non-bailable-ipc-section/story-AE2z58RQVJTpRK1ecLYmDO.html
06-10-2020||Gurugram||Renewable energy department faces a delay in acquiring solar pumps under PM-Kusum scheme||The district’s renewable energy department has been facing a delay in acquiring solar water pumps to be installed in agriculture fields under the PM-Kusum (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthan Mahabhiyan) scheme according to officials. The department’s target is to install 340 pumps by March next year. However, the department has been able to install only five pumps till now, despite the fact that 312 farmers have already deposited money to get solar pumps installed.Officials said that due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the production of solar-based water pumps has been affected. It is taking companies almost three months to supply the pump sets. Based on the work order placed by the renewable energy department, companies selected by the central government supply solar pumps to the state. “Industrial operations got affected due to Covid-19. As such, there has been a delay in receiving the pumps. It is taking more than 90 days to receive the supply of pumps for installation,” said Rameshwar Singh, district project officer. HT reached out to two private companies providing solar pumps to the state and the district. However, they remained unavailable for comment. Solar pumps were introduced by the government to replace diesel pumps used in agriculture land for the extraction of water. The district’s renewable energy department has a target of installing 340 solar pumps in agriculture fields. Solar pumps come in two varieties – surface and submersible. These are provided by the government at the subsidy of 75% under the PM-Kusum scheme introduced in 2019. The scheme, however, became functional in the district this year. “The remaining 25% is paid by the farmers. 312 farmers from different blocks of the district have already paid the required amount and are awaiting installation,” said Singh. The Gurugram block has fairly fewer number of agriculture fields. Only 40 farmers have come forward for the installation of solar pumps. In Sohna too, the same number of farmers have come forward. On the other hand, the main agriculture belt of the district falling under Farrukhnagar and Pataudi saw the maximum participation. From Farukkhnagar, 134 farmers, while in Pataudi, 108 farmers have applied for solar pumps. Since Gurugram is designated as a “dark zone” due to its depleting water table, officials said that many farmers are reluctant to opt for solar pumps. This year, the district’s water table has dipped to 36.21 metres. “Farmers have to opt for 5-horsepower(hp) solar pumps as opposed to 7.5- to 10-horsepower solar pumps, which cannot be installed in dark zone districts. A 5hp pump costs nearly ₹57,826-59,491,” said Singh, adding that some farmers have expressed interest in installing a 7.5 hp and 10hp pump for which they are ready to pay anywhere ₹88,052 to ₹109,989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/renewable-energy-department-faces-a-delay-in-acquiring-solar-pumps-under-pm-kusum-scheme/story-Aets7obdOsc1mc3guh9x3N.html
06-10-2020||Gurugram||Third statewide serological survey to be completed before the start of the festive season||The district health department on Tuesday confirmed that a third serological survey is set to be conducted in Gurugram this month, between October 10 and October 17, to asses the prevalence of Covid-19 within the community. This will be the third such exercise in Gurugram since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March this year, and will be completed before the onset of the festive season. The Navratri celebrations, one of the most important festivals of this season, will commence on October 17. This third round of sero-survey will follow the same methodology as was followed by the statewide seroprevalence study conducted in August. A total of 880 samples from each of the state’s 22 districts will be taken, of which 528 samples will be taken from rural areas and 352 from urban areas. “There will be four clusters in the rural category, and four in the urban areas. These will be selected at random by authorities at the state level,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), Gurugram. The urban clusters selected for this third sero-survey in Gurugram include Chauma village in Palam Vihar, Khandsa, Naharpur Roopa, and Rajendra Park. Each cluster itself will be once again divided into four sub-clusters, with 22 samples being taken from as many individual households. For rural areas, samples will be collected in a multistage sampling process from four localities, including Gurugram village, Garhi Harsaru, Bhondsi and Kasan PHC blocks. Samples will taken from both sub-centre (SC) villages, as well as non-SC villages. Among the villages from which samples will be taken are Dundaheri, Choma, Chandu, Budera, Rithoj, Dhani Rithoj, Nanwalki and Manesar.A senior health department official who was part of the team that conducted August’s sero-survey, seeking anonymity, said, “This third seroprevalence study is now being done just before the start of the festive season, and will be followed up with a fourth round of antibody tests after Diwali on November 14.It will give us a sense of how much the spread of Covid-19 increased between August and October, and then whether this spread accelerated during festival season, which is expected.” As per the results of Haryana’s August sero-survey, the seropositivity rate for Gururgam was 10.8 percent, meaning that approximately one in every 10 people surveyed in Gurugram had been exposed to the SARS-Cov-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. This was higher than the state figure, at eight percent. As per the data shared by the district health department, close to 90 percent of samples from Gurugram were found to belong to asymptomatic patients. While he did not give specific numbers, Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, stated that a significant fraction of shopkeepers, migrant labourers and healthcare workers were found to be seropositive. Even earlier, a preliminary sero-survey conducted across five districts in Haryana in May revealed that 36 out of 92 people surveyed had developed antibodies against Covid-19. “However, 50 percent of that survey’s sample included people who had already been confirmed Covid-positive, to gauge the efficacy of the IgL ELISA antibody kit. That exercise wasn’t a good yardstick to measure prevalence of the disease,” explained Dr Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/third-statewide-serological-survey-to-be-completed-before-the-start-of-the-festive-season/story-y108VUTimrjlaNbFC8oKGL.html
06-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG to seek help of multiple stakeholders to bolster its efforts to curb Covid-19||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be using the help of elected representatives, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), religious institutions, non-governmental organisations, self-help groups, traders’ bodies and market associations to expand its outreach and ensure a more stringent supervision of safety protocols pertaining to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city, said officials on Tuesday.This was among the many key decisions taken by MCG’s Covid-19 action plan team during its first meeting at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday.Under the action plan, the MCG will be initiating a “focussed awareness” campaign to combat the pandemic, said officials.On Monday, the Directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) had issued directions to all 88 urban local bodies across Haryana, made of 10 municipal corporations, 21 municipal councils, and 57 municipal committees, to formulate a Covid-19 action plan.In this regard, the MCC formed an action plan team on Tuesday to chalk out the measures that can be adopted to sensitise residents about the problems associated with Covid-19, the necessary safety protocols to be followed, and the penalties to be faced for violations.“Adhering to the directions of the ULB, an action plan against the pandemic has been formulated. In today’s meeting, various steps to counter Covid19 — such as creating awareness about the pandemic, following rules of social distancing, use of face masks, and other hygiene measures — were decided. We have chalked out a strategic plan and directions have been issued to the concerned civic officials in this regard,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG, and one of the action plan members.An MCG official privy to the matter said that the civic body is sending letters to all elected representatives, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), religious institution, NGOs, self-help groups, trade and market associations to create awareness regarding the pandemic within their focus areas and also inform the civic body if people are found to be disobeying the safety protocols. “The MCG has been undertaking various measures to prevent and contain the spread of Covid-19 since the last seven months. We realised that involving more citizen groups would further bolster our efforts to spread awareness about the virus as well as to supervise the safety measures. We are working on various strategies to curb the pandemic and ensure the maximum number of people stay safe,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Singh has appointed Surender Kumar, additional commissioner, MCG as the nodal officer for the Covid-19 action plan. Kumar would be responsible for the implementation of all safety measures, said officials.“We will be assisting the MCG and creating awareness about Covid-19 measures within our areas. Teams would be formed for both spreading the messages as well as keeping a check on residents if there are any lapses regarding safety protocols,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of Gurgaon Citizen Council, an umbrella body of RWAs in the city. Officials further decided that around 250 vehicles of EcoGreen — MCG’s waste concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste — would be used to deliver Covid-19 related messages.“Ecogreen vehicles would be ideal in relaying messages on a mass level as they travel to practically all neighbourhoods in the city. We will be taping some pre-recorded messages and attaching them to the vehicles’ loudspeakers to spread more awareness about Covid-19,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.Further, the MCG would also install around 50 hoardings in public places such as government buildings, transport offices, public toilets, and markets bearing Covid-related messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-seek-help-of-multiple-stakeholders-to-bolster-its-efforts-to-curb-covid-19/story-kqiIVLSFsiDm0ONdr2uHiI.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Four women from Malegaon arrested for stealing gold from Mumbai jeweller||Byculla police arrested four women from Malegaon at Mulund toll naka on Sunday for allegedly robbing gold worth ₹2.5 lakh from a Mumbai jeweller a month ago.According to Byculla police, the jeweller Nilesh Jain approached them after four burqa-clad women visited his shop on September 5. While one of them kept Jain busy, the other three robbed jewellery weighing 24.450 grams. The four women walked out of the shop without raising any suspicion. Only after the women had fled in a car, did Jain realise that he had been robbed.Dinesh Kadam, senior inspector, Byculla police station, began an investigation by acquiring the mobile number of one of the women by tracing the cell tower usage at the time of the crime.“We learnt that the women were from Malegaon and had left for their hometown after committing the crime,” said Kadam.The officers left for Malegaon but on reaching they discovered that the women had returned for Mumbai. “We then laid a trap at Mulund toll naka, intercepted their car and arrested them,” said Kadam.The arrested accused have been identified as Annu Ansari alias Sajada, 30; Naziya Shaikh, 30; Nasrin Shaikh, 50, and Yasmin Khan, 35.“We have arrested the four and learnt that they have eight other cases registered against them in Nashik, Buldhana, Mumbra, Bhandup, Kurla and Hyderabad. The women confessed to committing five similar crimes in Mumbai after they were released in a previous case,” added Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-women-from-malegaon-arrested-for-stealing-gold-from-mumbai-jeweller/story-BLa20ofPRM1FXXls4onNwI.html
06-10-2020||City||4 Thane excise officials attacked at for intercepting car with countrymade liquor||An excise officer and three of his team members were allegedly attacked by local goons after they intercepted a car with illegal country-made liquor. The Kolshewadi police have arrested three people and are in search of others who attacked the officials with bamboo sticks and iron rods.Police said Sunil Kanse, flying squad in-charge of Thane excise department, received information on Monday night about a few people passing through Chinchapada area in a four-wheeler carrying country-made liquor illegally. Kanse and his team members laid a trap in the area.“Accordingly, a car reached the spot and was stopped by the officials, who searched and found country-made liquor in it. Car driver, Deepak Pagare, was detained and taken to excise office in Kalyan (E). In front of the Kalyan office gate, the car was stopped by goons who claimed that they were being made a soft target by the department. About eight to ten people started attacking Kanse and the three officials with him using bamboo sticks and iron rods,” said a police official from Kolshewadi police station.In the attack, Kanse and his team members were injured. The goons also escaped with Pagare while three of them were caught and handed to over to the Kolshewadi police.The Kolshewadi police have arrested Naresh Bhoir, Santosh Cholekar and Lahu Mhatre while Rajesh Cholekar and others are absconding.S. Salve, senior police inspector at Kolshewadi police station, confirmed that a case has been registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-thane-excise-officials-attacked-at-for-intercepting-car-with-countrymade-liquor/story-r2FQlKoM8k57Rth9F2b0KM.html
06-10-2020||City||Delhi’s largest graveyard allocates more space to accommodate Covid victims||New Delhi: An additional two acres of land has been allocated in the oldest graveyard in Delhi for burying victims of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the toll from the viral infection is growing.Till Wednesday, 5,581 people have died of Covid-19 in Delhi, according to the government’s daily bulletin. In April, as the Covid-19 toll began to rise in the capital, Jadid Qabristan Ahle Islam, Delhi’s oldest and largest Islamic graveyard near Delhi Gate, had allocated six acres of land -- clearing about 150 metres away from the main cemetery -- for the burial of victims.With over 700 graves that space filled up this month and the cemetery committee, which administers the graveyard, has allocated another two acres of land in the graveyard. On Tuesday, a JCB machine worked for hours to clear the overgrown land for another 400 graves. “We never thought the six acres would not be enough. If the Covid-19 crisis lasts another two months, our graveyard does not have any more space for burying Covid-19 victims,” said Haji Faiyazuddin, the secretary of the managing committee at Jadid Qabristan Ahle Islam.Mohammad Shamim, the 38- year-old supervisor at the graveyard, who has overseen all the burials in the past seven months, said when the first body arrived in April, he never thought that Covid-19 would claim so many lives. “These days, we receive about 4-5 bodies on an average every day; May was the worst when we received about 10 to 15 bodies every day,” said Shamim.Shamim points out that one of the reasons why they have been fast running out of space is the fact that the graves of Covid-19 victims take up more space than others. “The grave which is dug by a JCB machine is bigger and deeper than normal hand-dug graves. We have to follow complicated space-consuming protocols for the burial of the Covid-19 victims,” says Shamim.Haji Faiyazuddin said that a lot of people who are dying in Delhi hospitals from the coronavirus disease are from the neighbouring states. “Their relatives do not want to take the dead bodies to their native places, a reason why we are receiving so many bodies here,” he said. “But no one has bothered to talk to us about how we are managing.”Dr Ashok Rawat, medical health officer (MHO), North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is the nodal agency for burial grounds in Delhi, said, “We have a plan for creating additional space for burials. A 4,000 square metres land in Rohini Sector-26 is being developed into a burial ground. We will also try to carve out a cemetery from it for Christians. The land has been allotted and the boundary wall has been made. Land filling has to start to level the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-largest-graveyard-allocates-more-space-to-accommodate-covid-victims/story-mkfzYayeLlR6ZHRxUOT3aM.html
06-10-2020||City||Woman held for kidnapping boy, reunited with family in Palghar||A 45-year-old woman has been arrested by the Palghar police for allegedly kidnapping a two-and-a-half-year-old boy, Ayansh, from his house on Monday afternoon. An alert vegetable vendor alerted the boy’s father and the accused was subsequently arrested.Ayansh was riding his cycle near a hotel where his father Neeraj Verma worked as a waiter. On Monday afternoon, the accused Poornima More allegedly kidnapped him and took the boy to a building in Palghar.“The minor was spotted by the vendor who then called Verma,” said Suresh Bhoir, assistant sub-inspector, Palghar police station. “Verma informed us and we reached the spot where we found More with Ayansh,” he added.When questioned, More confessed to kidnapping Ayansh. “We arrested her under section 363(kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). She was produced before a Palghar court on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody,” said Bhoir. On Monday evening, the boy was reunited with his parents at the police station after due verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-held-for-kidnapping-boy-reunited-with-family-in-palghar/story-zivj352kD20u4AddGM9F9N.html
06-10-2020||City||Kalyan man held 5 months after molesting minor girl||A man was arrested for molesting a 12-year-old girl after offering her a lift on his two-wheeler five months ago. The accused made a phone call from the minor’s phone to a relative. Based on this phone call, police managed to trace down and nab the accused on Monday night. He has been booked under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) and Sec. 354 of the IPC for outraging a woman’s modesty.The accused, 32-year-old Afsar Sheikh of Kalyan, offered lift to a minor on May 14. “On the pretext of dropping the girl home, he molested her. When she stopped him, he physically abused her. The girl started crying and Sheikh took her phone and called his relative before fleeing the spot. The girl had accepted the lift as there was no other mode of transport due to lockdown,” said an officer from the Khadakpada police station.The girl, scared, approached Khadakpada police station and narrated the incident. She gave a complete description about the man as well. “We first traced the phone number from which the accused had called. It was an Osmanabad-based contact number. The victim identified the profile picture to that of the accused. Police started tracing the man through the details provided to the mobile company. It was found that he lived on rent at Kolsewadi. The Kolsewadi police then nabbed the accused,” said V Pansare, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-man-held-5-months-after-molesting-minor-girl/story-9rf8eq2f2J6inR9IT1sgWL.html
06-10-2020||City||Circular sent to Thane school following parents’ complaints; school denies receiving notice||The Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) education department has sent a circular to Saraswati English Vidyalaya, Rabodi, on Tuesday after parents complained that a few students who did not pay fees were not allowed to attend online exams.Irked by the constant messages to pay fees and not allowing students to attend classes, a few parents had also gathered outside the school in protest last week.As per the Right to Education rules, fee concession be given to parents and no compulsion can be made to pay fees. And, students cannot be stopped from attending classes or examinations for non-payment of fees during the pandemic.“After receiving complaints from parents regarding messages sent by the school for not paying fees, we sent a circular to the school on Tuesday. We gave them a warning that if any student is not allowed to appear for the exams citing non-payment of fees to be the reason, a strict enquiry will be undertaken against the school,” said Rajesh Kankal, Education Officer, education department, TMC. However, the school claimed that it has not received any such circular and that all students are appearing for the exams and classes are being conducted online.Anita Pinto, principal, Saraswati English Vidyalaya, Rabodi, said, “We have not received any circular from the civic body yet. Although a few parents approached the school gates and were protesting, we have not discouraged anyone from attending classes or examinations online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/circular-sent-to-thane-school-following-parents-complaints-school-denies-receiving-notice/story-xjSEftFf2X2CLHKTPS924J.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Uber provides pooling option for Mumbai commuters to common workplace||Mobile application-based cab service Uber introduced two new commuting options for working professionals in the city on Tuesday.The commuting options that can be selected by the passengers include employee group rides that will enable employees working in the same company to book rides to work.The employees working in the same company will have to make a work-from-home account with Uber and register with it. They will then be able to access and travel with other employees residing nearby.In the second option, a company will be able to reserve a dedicated fleet of vehicles for the company employees and customers.“By leveraging technology and adapting our platform to meet the evolving needs of businesses, we want to support millions of Indians returning to their workplaces. As our cities begin to open, our new commute services will equip corporations to offer their employees and customers convenient and cost-efficient solutions.’’ said Arjun Nohwar, director, Uber for Business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uber-provides-pooling-option-for-mumbai-commuters-to-common-workplace/story-j6RwRHJVRsxriKgMVCibLO.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bids for Feroze Gandhi Market parking contract open till Oct 22||:With no contractor coming forward to take up the parking contracts of Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar Block-I, the municipal corporation (MC) has extended the last date to submit bids to October 22.The MC had earlier floated tenders to allot the two contracts and last date to submit the bid was October 5. The technical bids for the same were opened on Monday evening, but no contractor came forward. Meanwhile, the MC is managing both parking lots.After the previous contracts of parking lots expired in August, the MC has already extended the period of four other parking lots till October 30, after one of the contractors moved the high court seeking extension in the previous contract to compensate for the loss incurred during lockdown period.The four parking lots include multi-storey parking near MC Zone A office, Bhadaur House, Model Town Extension and BRS Nagar (near Orient Cinema).MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “No contractor submitted a bid to take the Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar bock-I parking lot. The last date to submit bids for all parking lots is now October 22 and new parking lots will be allotted from November onwards.”Following an e-auction, the Finance and Contracts Committee (F and CC) of the MC on June 9 had approved the resolution to allot Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar Block-I market lots for Rs 1.10 crore and Rs 4.5 lakh respectively to the same contractor.In September, the MC had terminated the previous contracts of Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar block-I parking lots after the contractor failed to take possession of the lots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-bids-for-feroze-gandhi-market-parking-contract-open-till-oct-22/story-yOr63RrkPyXh0GKLxSnYuO.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Three attack shopkeeper with chopper at Mumbai’s Bhandup area||Three persons attacked a 35-year-old man with a chopper on Tuesday around 1:30am at Bhandup when the victim was returning home from his shop. The shopkeeper has sustained a grievous injury on his nape and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mulund. According to the police, the accused have a criminal background and had tried to extort money from the shopkeeper. They attacked him because he refused to pay the money.“The victim, Mohammad Rafique Qureshi, runs a mutton shop at Tilak Nagar. When he was returning home at night, one of the accused – Farooq Shaikh alias Kalya Guddu – along with his two associates, stopped Qureshi and demanded ₹5,000,” said senior inspector Sham Shinde from Bhandup police station.When Qureshi refused to give them any money, the accused attacked him with a chopper on his nape. “Qureshi was immediately rushed to a general hospital in Mulund. He is out of danger. We have registered a case of attempt to murder and extortion against the accused. The trio are Bhandup locals and Shaikh has several cases of assault registered against him. Police teams have been formed and the accused will be nabbed soon,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-attack-shopkeeper-with-chopper-at-mumbai-s-bhandup-area/story-iLNdxzL0f9Iyzyutf7Y9pJ.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray assures no implementation of farm laws until concerns resolved||Maharashtra government has started a dialogue with farmer leaders over the implementation of controversial laws that aims to bring reforms in the agriculture marketing sector. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday assured them the state will not be implementing these legislations until their concerns are taken care of. Farmer leaders have expressed concerns over cheating and exploitation of the agrarian community in the absence of a guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for trading outside Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). They have also demanded a dedicated court on the lines of industrial and labour courts for farmers to get justice.On Tuesday, Thackeray had called a meeting with several farmer leaders to discuss the critical issue of reforms in the agriculture marketing sector, that has turned controversial as farmer organisations and many political parties including ruling allies — Congress and NCP —had opposed implementation of three legislation enacted by the Central government that aim to bring reforms in the sector.A presentation made by Anoop Kumar, principal secretary, state marketing department in relation to the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 also pointed out lacunae. It stated that the legislation said there will be no regulation for trading outside APMC jurisdiction, which is like leaving farmers at the will of private traders who can exploit them by determining the lesser price of the produce. It further stated that there will be no control to ensure farmers are paid their remuneration against the produce in time. “There is also a possibility that small and medium farmers can be exploited by middlemen and farm produce aggregators. This is because they are financially powerful and small and medium farmers may not be able to bargain while fixing prices of the produce. As a result, the model price system can be destroyed and prices will start falling,” stated the presentation.Under this law, the farmer can sell his finished produce to any merchant anywhere in the country. There will be no compulsion to sell them at the APMC.Ajit Nawale, general secretary, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) demanded MSP protection for the farmers. “We pressed that the farmers should get MSP if they are trading outside APMC. There should also be a protection mechanism in case a trader doesn’t pay their remuneration and makes an attempt at cheating,” Nawale said. “We have also demanded formation of agriculture or farmer courts so that they can be approached by the community if cheated or exploited by any means,” he added.Vijay Jawandhia, agriculture expert from Vidarbha demanded a guarantee for MSP for the farmers. “The Central government wants to do away with the MSP system as prices of farm produce are too low and no market in the country is in a position to provide MSP to farmers for their produce. Consequently, the Centre has to increase its procurement of farm produce beyond capacity,” he said.Following opposition by farmer organisations as well as ruling allies, the state government last week had stayed a notification issued in August for implementation of the ordinances, now converted into legislation by the Centre, and had declared to form a cabinet sub-committee to look into concerns and objections raised so far.“As per the provisions in the ordinances, the farmers are free to market their produce at field, factory, warehouse or cold storage without any hindrance and any market fee applicable under the APMC Act. Any other fee or charges applicable under the APMC Act cannot be charged now as per the provisions made in the ordinances. The law and judiciary department has vetted the ordinances and validated its applicability. Though the existence of the APMC has not been affected by the promulgation of the ordinance, the farmers will have a parallel mechanism to get fair prices for their produce. The market committees are expected to implement the provisions in the ordinances effectively,” states the notification issued on August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-assures-no-implementation-of-farm-laws-until-concerns-resolved/story-BRLVkaxS9LHZAcVSuhIFPJ.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government has no authority to put additional restrictions on fee collection: Schools to Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC), while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by private educational institutions, was informed that the May 8, 2020 government resolution (GR) which restrained them from collecting fees for the academic year 2020-21 was not valid as the state was acting beyond its authority and the restriction put by the GR had no statutory authority or backing. The schools argued that as the Fee Regulation Act, 2011 had sufficient restrictions to deter private schools from overcharging students and parents, the government was trying to put additional restrictions through the GR which violated their constitutional rights, and hence, the GR should be set aside. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing four petitions filed by private educational institutions, was informed by senior counsel Dr Milind Sathe who represented an institution along with advocates Prateek Seksaria and Saket Mone, that they had been aggrieved by the May 8 GR and hence they had approached the HC. While making submissions, Dr Sathe submitted that the state had approached the Supreme Court (SC) after the HC had stayed the implementation of the GR, but the Apex court had directed the matter to be heard again by the HC. Dr Sathe added that private schools were regulated by a law which put reasonable restrictions on them from overcharging students as well as laid down the procedure for increasing fees which the schools had been following. However, in light of the lockdown and the pandemic situation, the state had issued the GR by invoking the Fee Regulation Act, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Dr Sathe submitted that as the private schools were already governed by the Fee Regulation Act, the state could not supersede it through a GR which had no statutory authority or backing. “The Act has already put reasonable restrictions on private schools and any additional restrictions through a GR would violate the constitutional rights of the schools to carry out their vocation,” said Dr Sathe. After hearing the submissions, the court wanted clarity from Dr Sathe regarding the sections of the Disaster Management Act invoked by the state in the GR. The court sought to know what was the meaning of ‘disaster’ as mentioned in section 38 of the Act read with section 2 (E) of the Act and why the state could not invoke the same in the pandemic situation. The court asked Dr Sathe to respond by Thursday and said that it would complete hearing on the petitions. The GR had restrained private school from charging fees or increasing fees for the academic year 2020-21 and had also restrained the schools from forcing students and parents to pay fees for services which were not provided. The schools had petitioned the HC challenging the GR. After the HC had stayed the implementation of the GR, the state approached the SC, but the top court reverted the petition to HC. Pursuant to the SC directions, the HC has taken up the petitions for final hearing. Senior counsels advocate P Samdani and Harish Salve will also be forwarding arguments for other schools on Thursday. Senior advocate Anil Anturkar will then respond for the state justifying the restrictions in the GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-has-no-authority-to-put-additional-restrictions-on-fee-collection-schools-to-bombay-hc/story-XQRvSa1SwyElbThhhRT4MO.html
06-10-2020||City||After leopard attack on dog in Thane, abandoned pups provided shelter by MSEDCL staff||Seven week-old puppies, abandoned by their mother following an attack by a leopard, have been adopted in Thane.A few Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) employees and animal lovers in Patlipada area of Ghodbunder Road, Thane, are taking care of these puppies. They have also built a cage to protect them from leopards and snakes as the office is near the forest.The leopard entered the MSEDCL office premises in Patlipada at around 1.00 am on Saturday night and took away the dog. The entire incident was witnessed by the watchman of the MSEDCL office. The forest officials paid a visit to the site on Tuesday. Abhilash Ulhas Dawre, 24, an animal lover and a security guard with MSEDCL’s Patlipada office, said, “I was on night duty on Saturday at the MSEB store, which is completely surrounded by forest. At around 11:30 pm, I heard the barking of stray dogs and thought a snake would have tried to attack the puppies that were delivered just a week ago. I took my snake stick and went in search of a reptile. However, I could not see any.”Dawre returned to his office. Again, he heard loud barking at 1.00 am. “I again came out and saw a leopard taking the stay dog away. It happened so fast that I could barely save the dog. There are also pugmarks where the leopard was spotted.”Dawre kept the puppies aside, safe from the wild animal. “It was not the first time such an attack on a stray dog took place. Earlier, too such instances have taken place in the area,” added Dawre.After the news of the attack spread in the adjoining MSEDCL colony, several youngsters, Nishanth Nair, Aniket Korde, Vishal Gawhale, Sushanth Rathod, Chetan Joshi and Rohit Korde, all in their 20s, came to help out Daware.“Together, we built a house for the pups so that they do not fall prey to the leopard again. We feed them from time to time using syringes as they are still young. We also installed a light in the area at night to prevent more such attacks,” he said.The youngsters have also informed the forest officials and a few NGOs to put the puppies up for adoption. However, adoption is possible only when the puppies are at least a month old.Sandeep More, Range Forest Officer, Thane, confirmed about the leopard attack on stray and said, “Since lockdown, the leopard has been frequently sighted along areas like Srinagar and Haware City. This is the same adult leopard that visits all these areas and attacks stray dogs. We have created awareness among the societies where he has been sighted. On Tuesday, we visited the MSEDCL office where there was a sighting on Saturday. The puppies are safe though the locals informed that the female dog was snatched by the leopard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-leopard-attack-on-dog-in-thane-abandoned-pups-provided-shelter-by-msedcl-staff/story-lxWz4VBIWQMbvZm46H7UFL.html
06-10-2020||City||Delhi govt urges L-G to allow cinema halls to open||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Tuesday sent a proposal to lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, urging him to allow theatres, cinema halls and multiplexes in the Capital to open from October 15 as per the central government’s guidelines, a senior government official said.The matter, the official said, was briefly discussed in Tuesday’s Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting without any conclusion.The need for a revised Covid-19 management strategy and modalities of an intensive awareness campaign in the light of the festive season ahead was also discussed in detail in Tuesday’s meeting.The DDMA is chaired by Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.“These discussions will continue in the authority’s next meeting likely to happen in another week,” the senior DDMA official quoted above said.The next DDMA meeting, the official said, is likely to see detailed discussions on Ramlila celebrations, Durga Puja and further relaxations of lockdown norms, especially regarding cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes.The government’s proposal came after the Centre on Tuesday issued guidelines on cinema halls and multiplexes that have been allowed to open under the fresh reopening guidelines from October 15, after remaining shut for more than six months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The proposal on cinema halls was only briefly discussed in the meeting of the DDMA but there was no decision. The Delhi government has already sent a proposal to the L-G, urging him to allow cinema halls to open as per rules laid down by the Centre. The same proposal includes a demand to allow all weekly markets to open in every zone,” said the government official, who did not wish to be identified.Last month, the government had sent a proposal to open all weekly markets but the L-G allowed only a small relaxation by allowing two weekly markets per day per zone instead of the one at present.On September 18, Baijal had directed the government to draft a fresh strategy for containment zones, which is yet to be finalised, several senior officials confirmed. The present strategy under discussion requires districts to have area-specific containment plans to suit planned localities, unauthorised colonies, rural areas, etc., said a senior official in the revenue department without elaborating further.After Tuesday’s meeting, Baijal tweeted: “Discussed the recent trends of Covid-19 situation in Delhi and revised strategy as suggested by experts, including prospective planning for the management of Covid-19 in the coming months.”The meeting was attended by Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, revenue and transport minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and director of the national centre for disease control, Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, said Baijal in another tweet.The chief minister’s office, however, did not comment on the developments.The senior DDMA official who did not wish to be identified said, “The Authority was informed that a total of 173 dedicated multi-organisation mobile teams have been formed in 11 districts for concerted enforcement action. Fines are being levied for violation of national directives for Covid-19 management and enforcement-related performance by each district is being monitored daily. It was decided that considering the gravity of the pandemic situation, focused attention should be on containing transmission, strengthening medical infrastructure, improving recovery of patients and reducing Covid-19 fatalities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-urges-l-g-to-allow-cinema-halls-to-open/story-MzBzxrgEe1tFRW3wnOw2EN.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC team leaves for Jodhpur to study waste, carcass plants||: Mayor Balkar Sandhu along with five councillors and municipal corporation (MC) officials left for Jodhpur, Rajasthan, for a two-day visit on Tuesday with an aim to study the working of the construction and demolition (C and D) waste and carcass plants there.While the project to install a C and D plant in Ludhiana is hanging fire, and its estimated cost has increased, a carcass plant is being established in Noorpur Bet area under Smart City Project.Sandhu decided to inspect the operational plants in Jodhpur so that no mistake is made while executing the project in the city.Apart from the mayor, councillors including Kuldeep Janda, Jai Prakash, Sukhdev Sheera, Rakesh Prashar and Gurdeep Singh Neetu are part of the delegation. MC officials including superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja, SDO Balwinder Singh and veterinary officer Harbans Dhalla are accompanying. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “It is important to study the existing plants so that no mistake is made in executing the projects and public money is not wasted. Also, we need to study how recycled material can be used.” Meanwhile, construction and demolition waste is currently dumped at vacant sites, green belts, plots in residential areas and other locations in various parts of the city, resulting in nuisance for residents. Facing flak from his own party leader for not involving councillors from East and Atam Nagar constituencies in development committees, one councillor from both constituencies have been included the delegation which left for Jodhpur on Tuesday. Earlier, MLA (east) Sanjay Talwar, and in-charge of Atam Nagar constituency, Kamajit Karwal, raised objection for not involving the councillors of their constituencies in the committees.Two SAD and BJP councillors including leader of opposition in MC house, Harbhajan Singh Dang (SAD), and Om Prakash Ratra, cancelled their visit at the last moment. Dang and Ratra said that they had to cancel the visit after their family members got infected with dengue.Now, only Congress councillors have gone to Jodhpur with the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-team-leaves-for-jodhpur-to-study-waste-carcass-plants/story-o7OZkpaokwkXp99oEkimuJ.html
06-10-2020||City||Shiv Sena, BJP at loggerheads over cluster survey at Thane||Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were at loggerheads in an ongoing survey of residents for cluster development scheme in Azad Nagar in Uthalsar, Thane. Few residents with the support of Sena workers staged a protest against the survey and tried to stop it. However, BJP workers reached the spot and restarted it, claiming that merely 20% of residents were opposed to it. Few civic officials reached Uthalsar ward for the biometric survey of residents for the cluster development scheme to be implemented in Thane. The table survey of the ward is completed, though the biometric survey to make a list of beneficiaries is remaining. “We were not taken into confidence while undertaking the survey. The authorities should explain the plan for our area. We should be able to know what areas will be developed under the cluster and what the rehabilitation plan is for residents,” said one resident. Local Sena workers who added that the residents should not be kept in the dark about the scheme. Shankar Patole, assistant municipal commissioner of Uthalsar said, “We had held several meetings with the residents before undertaking the survey. The local representatives were also asked to create awareness regarding the survey. Residents were taken into confidence before the entire process began. Few residents had opposed the survey on Tuesday, however, we resolved their issues and the survey was restarted.” Local BJP corporator Krishna Patil alleged that the Sena was trying to politicise the survey process. “Cluster development scheme is important to resolve the issues of dangerous buildings in Thane. Merely 20% of residents had opposed the survey while the remaining 80% were in favour of it, thus it was re-started.” Amit Jaiswal, Shiv Sena shakha head said, “We are not opposed to cluster redevelopment, but to the way the survey is conducted. People should know how much square feet they will get, how long it will take for the formalities to complete post biometrics and the rehabilitation plans. There was no need to politicise the issue; everyone is for cluster redevelopment in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-bjp-at-loggerheads-over-cluster-survey-at-thane/story-r6jaFBpfNCLH1BCDUz4AQP.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Most Ludhiana schools to resume only for board classes||Most schools have decided to allow only students of board classes to attend till the graph of Covid-19 cases decline in the district. The ministry of home affairs, under the guidelines issued for Unlock 5.0, allowed schools to reopen from October 15.School principals said that initially, only students of board classes can visit schools to get guidance from teachers with consent from parent. Majority of the schools have decided to reopen in phases so that they can observe the situation every week and take decisions accordingly. Harmeet Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, said, “We reopened the school for board classes yesterday. After receiving requests from many parents to run the school in one shift, we have asked students of Classes 10 and 12 to visit school for three hours in morning. Parents are facing problems regarding transportation as school buses are not allowed to operate. To maintain social distancing, students will be accommodated in more classrooms and extra teachers have been deputed.” The authorities of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, have decided to reopen the school for Class 12 from October 12. Taking all necessary safety measures, students will undergo thermal screening, oxygen levels will be checked by oximeters and proper social distancing will be maintained in classrooms. School principal JK Sidhu said, “We have made all arrangements to follow all safety operating procedures. We will be sending a video to parents showing them the arrangements that have been made. We have no plan to allow students of junior or middle sections to attend.”Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines, will reopen for students of board classes from October 13 and students have been asked to report at different timings. Principal Navita Puri said, “Students of Classes 10 and 12 will report on alternate days and we have put all safety precautions in place.” Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, said, “We will reopen the school in different phases and proper guidelines will be sent to students to wear mask, sanitise hands and maintain social distancing.”The syllabus for board classes will be covered by the end of this month and the school authorities of Shamrock Christian Senior Secondary School, Hambran Road, have decided to reopen the school next month. School principal P Singh said, “We have no plans to allow students of junior sections to attend after October 15. Teachers are taking classes online, and by October 30, syllabus of Classes 10 and 12 will be complete. Then, we will allow students to attend after taking parents’ consent.”Several school affiliated to CBSE are yet to decide to re-open schools for board classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/most-ludhiana-schools-to-resume-only-for-board-classes/story-ofeePzNjjUjmFRYYqPuy6L.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||7 isolation centres closed, testing stopped at centres in Ludhiana||Besides shutting down seven government Covid Care Centres in the district, the health department on Tuesday also reduced the number of Covid-19 testing centres.The testing centres located on the premises of Government Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students and Kular College of Nursing in Khanna have been closed.Sharing this, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said the testing centres were closed following orders by higher authorities.Dr Puneet Juneja, in-charge of the Covid Care Centres, said these centres collected an average 100 to 125 samples a day. The isolation facilities that have been closed down include those at the meritorious school; Community Centre in Koom Kalan; Mother and Child Hospital near Vardhman Mill; Civil Hospitals of Jagraon and Khanna; Jawaddi health centre; and Kular College of Nursing, Khanna.Now, the district has only one government isolation centre at the Ludhiana civil hospital.“Currently, there are only 34 patients in the isolation facility of the civil hospital, so it was decided to cut down the number of isolation centres. However, I will urge the deputy commissioner to resume testing services at the meritorious school for the convenience of patients living in Haibowal, Civil Lines and surrounding areas,” Dr Bagga said.He added, “Samples are still being collected at 54 locations in urban Ludhiana. Besides, there are six mobile teams and two mobile labs for testing in rural areas.”PATIENTS LEFT IN THE LURCHMeanwhile, people visiting the centres for testing after having come in contact with a positive patient or having symptoms complained that two centres were closed without any prior information.Soni, a domestic help from Civil Lines, said he visited the centre at the meritorious school on Tuesday morning, only to find it closed. “I was told to either go to the civil hospital or the health centre in Jawaddi for Covid testing. When I reached the Jawaddi centre, I was told to go to the civil hospital,” said Rakesh Kumar, a driver, who also came from Civil Lines.Hari Ram, a migrant, who recently returned from Uttar Pradesh, underwent the same ordeal as Soni and Rakesh.Jawaddi centre’s in-charge Dr Surinder Kaur said samples were collected only between 10.30am and 12.30pm.“Staff can wear PPE kits only for a limited time. The patients may have visited after 12.30pm and therefore, asked to visit the civil hospital,” she added.On the other hand, the civil surgeon said he will look into why the patients visiting the centre were turned away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-isolation-centres-closed-testing-stopped-at-centres-in-ludhiana/story-xNRdFZaZzZeJcVPt8YxZSJ.html
06-10-2020||City||Court quashes Kejriwal’s appeal against in-person appearance in defamation case||New Delhi: A Delhi court has dismissed a plea by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal challenging the order by magistrate for him appear in person in the court in connection with a criminal defamation case filed by BJP leader Karan Singh Tanwar. The court said the CM has been not called for the offence of defamation committed pursuant to a ctriminal conspiracy; but simply defamation.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for a comment on the issue.Additional sessions judge Ajay Kumar Kuhar said that each person arrayed as an accused in the complaint has been summoned for his individual act of defamation.“The procedure which magistrate will follow is in his discretion as per the provisions in the Criminal Procedure Code. It would be premature to make any comment, regarding the procedure which might be followed by the learned ACMM. Therefore, this argument of the learned counsel for the revisionist cannot be taken up appropriately at this stage,” the judge said in his order dated October 3.Tanwar had filed a criminal defamation complaint against Kejriwal, and AAP leaders Amanatullah Khan, Surender Singh and Dilip Pandey.He alleged they had levelled allegations against him in the media that he was involved in the conspiracy to murder MM Khan, an estate officer with the NDMC who was shot dead on May 16 last year. Tanwar alleged that the AAP leaders tried to “malign and ruin (his) image and political career”.It had sought prosecution of the four AAP leaders for the alleged offences of defamation and criminal conspiracy under the IPC. On July 23, 2019, the court had summoned all the accused to appear which was subsequently challenged by Kejriwal, contending that the case was politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-quashes-kejriwal-s-appeal-against-in-person-appearance-in-defamation-case/story-GERscD9KW34huYVDbhWOfK.html
06-10-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru police raid residence of former underworld don Muthappa Rai in drugs probe||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru Police raided the palatial residence of former underworld don Muthappa Rai who died recently and detained his son Rikki for questioning in the ongoing probe related to drugs consumption and peddling in the Kannada movie industry. Rai’s residence at Bidadi on the outskirts of Bengaluru is spread over several acres.Two well-known actresses, Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani alias Mahira, are currently lodged in Parpanna Agrahara jail after being arrested in the same case apart from six others accused.An FIR filed at Cottonpet police station names fifteen people including Aditya Alva, the son of former minister Jeevaraj Alva, in a case of drug supply and dealing. CCB officials led by ACP Venugopal conducted the raid and detained Rikki Rai.Also read: CM Pinarayi Vijayan, medical experts lock horns as Covid-19 cases mount in Kerala“We have taken him into custody for questioning based on definitive information from a peddler. At this stage we will not be able to disclose anything further as it may jeopardize the investigation,” said a senior police officer who did not want to be identified.Meanwhile, former Bengaluru City police commissioner Bhaskar Rao, who is currently ADGP, internal security, while speaking at an event in Dharwad on Tuesday, said that what had emerged so far in the ongoing investigation into the drug racket “was merely the tip of the iceberg”.Rao said that while peddlers and consumers had been arrested, the investigation to identify the key suppliers is ongoing. “We have to find out who are the influential people behind the supply. Especially artificial, chemical drugs are getting pumped into the country. All this needs to be thoroughly investigated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-police-raid-residence-of-former-underworld-don-muthappa-rai-in-drugs-probe/story-42h7RYgHEqNaIlZgT8aiqO.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Woman dies during delivery, quack booked||Noida: The police have booked a woman quack for allegedly running a clinic in Mamura without licence after a 21-year-old pregnant woman died during delivery.The victim was identified as Ruchi, a native of Shahjahanpur. Her husband, Kamlesh, filed a complaint at the Phase 3 police station on Monday.According to him, his wife was in her last month of pregnancy and was complaining of pain on Sunday night. “We took her to a clinic which is near our house only. A female doctor checked her and said that my wife would need to be admitted,” said the husband in his police complaint. Kamlesh, who works at a private company, said that the family waited outside the clinic the whole night as there were some complications during the delivery. When no one came out the next morning also, the family became worried. “When we didn’t get any information for a long time, we decided to go inside. The doctor was missing and my wife was lying dead,” he said.Following this, he immediately approached the police, and a team was rushed to the spot. According to police officials, prima facie it seems that the woman died of complications during the delivery and the baby got stuck and died along with her. Their bodies were handed over to the family after autopsy, the police said.Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the fake doctor under Section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The officials said that the woman did not have a licence to practise medicine.“We have seized the documents found at the clinic. Her credentials appear to be fake and a search is on for her,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-dies-during-delivery-quack-booked/story-j0C00qd59n0XwAC2irPR3N.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Assault on liquor shop owner: Residents protest outside Noida police station||A group of residents from Parthala village protested at the Phase 3 police station on Tuesday morning, demanding justice for a 45-year-old liquor shop owner who was allegedly assaulted by three men on Saturday night.The police on Monday had arrested one of the suspects in the case.On Saturday night, three men came to the Sector 71 shop of the victim, Bhopal Singh, when his staff were closing it around 9pm. The suspects started forcing Singh to keep the shop open even after closing hours. When he refused, the men allegedly started assaulting the staff using a barbed wire and an axe, the police had said, adding that Singh was severely injured in the melee. Later, a case was filed at Phase 3 police station under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon) of the Indian Penal Code.The police said that following the findings of the medical report which said that Singh had a deep bone fracture in his skull, Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) was added to the FIR. The victim is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital.“Some of his relatives and neighbours came to the police station demanding the addition of Section 302 (punishment for murder) to the FIR. We explained to them that this section is used only in cases of death. Once they understood the reason, they left after a while,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.Of the three suspects, a man, identified as Rakesh, was arrested by the police on Monday and sent to jail on Tuesday after being produced in front of a magistrate. The search is on for the other two suspects who are also Parthala residents, said the police.Ramesh Singh, a villager who participated in the protest, said, “We only want that the other two suspects should be arrested and severe action should be taken against all the three for hurting someone who was only doing his job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/assault-on-liquor-shop-owner-residents-protest-outside-noida-police-station/story-B5RqW4bWhANvYU9PvAsLkM.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Covid effect? Sharp fall in road accidents in Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar has recorded a sharp fall in the number of road accidents amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Transport department officials said that the number of accidents has sharply decreased from March to September this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown and other restrictions. According to the data from the district transport department, between March 1 and September 15 this year, the GB Nagar district saw over 50% decline in the road accidents as compared to that of the corresponding period last year. The district witnessed 317 mishaps during the period this year as against 653 last year, the data shows.The fatalities due to road accidents also went down this year, with the district recording 162 deaths during the period, while 278 deaths were reported during the same period last year. Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (enforcement), GB Nagar, said that due to lockdown, the number of accidents has sharply decreased this year. Meanwhile, to bring down accidents in the district, the GB Nagar transport department is observing road safety week from October 5 to 11. During the week, several awareness activities have been planned to ensure safety of commuters, officials said. Tiwari said that as per the state government’s directions, four road safety weeks are mandatory annually in the district. “We had held the first programme in June as it was delayed due to the coronavirus outbreak. We are organising the second road safety week from October 5 to 11. In this week, the transport department has planned a number of awareness activities aimed at bringing down road accidents and fatalities,” he said. On Monday, the transport department held online meetings with vehicle dealers, transporters and toll plaza operators, and sensitized them over road safety rules and the Motor Vehicle Act. “We informed the transporters to properly sanitize their buses and cars before engaging them for duty. The drivers and conductors were told to wear masks and also ask commuters to wear masks. They were told to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and not allow passengers in the vehicles beyond permissible limits,” the transport official said. On Tuesday, the transport department sent its team in rural and urban areas to create awareness among the public. The team informed commuters about benefits of wearing a helmet while riding motorcycles and using a seat belt while driving cars, the officials said. Tiwari said that in the next few days, the department has planned a meeting with the officials of different government and private schools. “Since the schools are closed and online classes are held, we will collaborate with the schools and organise online painting competition, slogan making, rangoli, and similar activities over road safety,” he said. The transport department has also roped in the traffic police for the safety week. Ganesh Saha, DCP (traffic), GB Nagar, said that the traffic police are coordinating with the transport department for the drive. “We are conducting awareness programme and getting feedbacks from the people. We have also started calling citizens on random basis to get their suggestions to improve the traffic situation in the district,” he said.The transport department has also planned to conduct inspection of all the pollution checking centres in the district. The road safety week would also consist of a one-day drive where reflector tapes will be pasted on vehicles as it is very important to improve visibility specially during winter and fog, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-effect-sharp-fall-in-road-accidents-in-noida/story-6VEBzQEerK7VFFJUg5Uz3O.html
06-10-2020||Noida||20-year-old man fakes his kidnapping to raise ₹2 lakh for car from parents||Ghaziabad police on Tuesday arrested a 20-year-old man from Khoda for allegedly faking his own kidnapping in a ploy to buy a car.Police said Pragati Vihar resident Akash Singh planned the drama with his two friends in order to get money from his family. As part of the plan, he allegedly rented a room in a Noida hotel from where he rehearsed the plot and even made the ransom calls.Akash Singh and his mother work at a private factory in Noida. On Monday, Singh allegedly left his home at around 8am telling his mother that his friend had called him and that he would be back soon. “I kept waiting for him but he did not return till late evening and even searched for him, but could not find him. At around 11pm (on Monday) we received a call from unknown person who told my son was with him and demanded ₹2 lakh in ransom. He threatened to kill my son if I revealed the information to anyone,” Kiran Singh, Akash’s mother, said in her police complaint. “The caller also made us hear Akash’s voice over the phone and he was crying.”Akash’s parents, however, went to the police and registered the complaint under Indian penal code (IPC) sections 364a (kidnapping for ransom) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against the unidentified person. After the police initiated investigation, the caller had used the same mobile number and made four calls to the family till Tuesday afternoon. With electronic surveillance, police zeroed in on to the hotel in Noida sector-22 and busted the plot. According to police, Aakash, who had studied up to class 8, along with his friends, Ankit Kumar and Karan Kumar (allbetween 20 and 25), had planned his own kidnapping. “The prime suspect had been putting pressure on his family for a car. Ht got a bike that belonged to his elder brother, but he was not satisfied and planned the plot,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). “From the hotel room, they had rehearsed how to mask their voice while making the ransom calls, the language to use and how to convince the family to pay up.” Both Akash and Ankit were arrested by police and added IPC section 120b (criminal conspiracy) to the ongoing investigation. The cops said that the third suspect is absconding and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/20-year-old-man-fakes-his-kidnapping-to-raise-2-lakh-for-car-from-parents/story-at0t2K4gBact8sR0yeAR4I.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||For the first time in 65 days, Ludhiana records below 100 Covid-19 cases||In a significant breather for district’s health authorities, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana went below 100 for the first time since August 2, when 78 cases had surfaced.A total of 85 Ludhiana residents tested positive for the virus on Tuesday, pushing the patient tally to 18,739. Among these, 680 patients are still infected, while 17,274 have been discharged, a recovery rate of 92.18%. Besides, after 28 deaths in the past three days, the number of fatalities on Tuesday was four, taking the toll to 782.The deceased include a 90-year-old woman from Madhopuri, a 67-year-old man from Khanna, a 53-year-old woman from AC Market and a 42-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan.The positive cases reported on Tuesday include 33 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 23 were referred by the out-patient departments and 12 are contacts of positive patients. These include four healthcare workers.RELIEF IN SIGHT?Since the first case was reported on March 24, cases have steadily multiplied, hitting the 18,000 mark within 191 days on October 1 – 13 days after Ludhiana recorded the single-day highest spike of 464 cases on September 17. The subsequent three days saw 332, 347 and 244 cases, respectively. But thereon, between September 21 and October 5, the daily patient count remained below the 200 mark. October so far has recorded 781 cases, with the steepest daily spike in the month being 161 on the fifth – significantly below the sharpest surge of 464 cases seen on September 17.This also comes after September recorded a whopping surge of 7,522 cases within 30 days, against the 6,783 cases reported in August – a spike of nearly 11%. September also accounts for 42% of all Covid-19 deaths so far.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said till date, a total of 3,02,393 samples had been collected, out of which reports of 3,00,773 samples had been received and 2,79,646 were found negative. Reports of 1,620 samples were pending.PAU V-C stable, 3 officials go into isolationPAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon, who, along with his wife, was found positive for Covid-19 on Monday, is stated to be stable with only mild symptoms. The couple are under home isolation.Meanwhile, as the V-C had attended a meeting on October 2, three officials, including director research NS Bains, director extension education NS Mahal and registrar RS Sidhu have quarantined themselves, along with their families.Besides, some Class-4 and clerical staff have also been asked to remain isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-the-first-time-in-65-days-ludhiana-records-below-100-covid-19-cases/story-XqcQDwOctTKB4zOTiEArEM.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Man booked for objectionable comment against CM Yogi Adityanath||Jewar police has booked a man for allegedly posting objectionable comments against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on social media on Monday. The action followed a complaint from a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker who submitted screenshots of the post to the police and demanded his arrest. The suspect, Jewar resident Yogesh Choudhary, is a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). He allegedly used cuss words against the CM, while commenting against the UP police’s lathi-charge on Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader and former MP Jayant Chowdhary in Hathras earlier this week.The complainant Ashok Sharma, president of the BJP’s wing in Jewar, said the suspect posted derogatory messages on Facebook and also in a WhatsApp group. “He wrote something that was extremely derogatory and obscene against the CM. I filed a complaint to ensure the suspect was brought to book and this is not repeated,” he said. Sharma claimed the post was provocative. “We felt offended and hence approached the police to take action.”Umesh Bahadur, SHO Jewar police station, said they registered an FIR under section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion) and section 504 (criminal Intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We are investigating the matter,” he said. Meanwhile, suspect Choudhary said that the message was unintentionally posted. “I wanted to post a comment after the lathi-charge on the RLD leader. I was typing a message but due to typo error, something else was posted. I have expressed that my intention was not to hurt someone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-booked-for-objectionable-comment-against-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-iZ6oR3uov9hpyvhHhZ9aAK.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Full dress rehearsal at Hindon airbase: Newly inducted Rafale fly alongside front-line fighter jets||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Tuesday conducted a full-dress rehearsal ahead of the 88th IAF day on October 8. Unlike previous years when the force used to have a flypast of different jets with their own squadron, this time it was a mixed display of frontline fighter aircraft, including the newly inducted Rafale jets. “There was a change in the flypast to make it more interesting and to better showcase the new assets and also to show how the IAF has progressed over the years,” said an IAF officer. “This time, it was mixed, with the theme of ‘innovate, integrate and intimidate’. Since we are talking about innovation and integration, all different types of aircraft were there and working in synergy. This is the capability which few air forces in the world have.”The French made Rafale was inducted on September 10, at a time when India was facing off at the Ladakh border with China. The initial batch of five aircraft were inducted into IAF’s Ambala-based number 17 squadron, which is also known as ‘Golden Arrows.’ One of the Rafale jets was also lined up at the Hindon airbase airfield along with other frontline aircraft like Sukhoi-30 MKI, Light Combat Aircraft – Tejas, Mirage-2000, Mig-29 and Jaguar among others. The first part of the rehearsal began with IAF paratroopers jumping down with colourful parachutes, the scintillating parade by the air warriors, and flypast by vintage and transport aircraft. Apart from the frontline fighter jets, IAF’s helicopter fleet having Mi17-V5 choppers, Dhruv - advanced light helicopters, Chinook - heavy lift choppers, Mi-35 and Apache attack helicopters also made their mark during the flypast. The flypast also saw participation by heavy lift C-17 Globemasters, Dornier and Dakota aircraft. It concluded with flying display by Suryakiran aerobatic team and helicopters of the Sarang aerobatic team. The spectators at the ground were left enthralled as Rafale, Tejas and Sukhio-30 MKI jets made low-flying breath-taking manoeuvres and deployed flares to attract their attention. “We came here to witness the Rafale which is highly advanced and people were waiting it to get inducted to the IAF. I clicked selfies and pictures with friends by the side of the Rafale jet displayed at the Hindon airbase ground. The Rafale was indeed a major attraction for spectators present on the occasion and everyone wanted to have a picture with it,” said Vijay Kumar, a college student who stays at Rajendra Nagar. The IAF also released a promo video and said that it was ready to ‘Innovate, Integrate and Intimidate.’ “As we enter our 89th year, I would like to complement all air warriors for a job well done in what has turned out to be an extremely challenging year. The IAF is in midst of transformation and we are changing the way we fight, train and maintain. Our intense focus on integration, both within the service and with our sister services, needs to continue,” the Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, said in his video message. The flying display on Tuesday included Rafale flying along with Sukhoi-30 MKIs and also in formation with other frontline aircraft which took off from their respective airbases to reach above the Hindon airbase on Tuesday morning. The rifle drill sequence which is liked by all, however, was not part of the full dress rehearsal this time. “Since the flying display this time was much more elaborate and given the timeframe, the rifle drill was not there this time,” said an IAF officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/full-dress-rehearsal-at-hindon-airbase-newly-inducted-rafale-fly-alongside-front-line-fighter-jets/story-iyvFncvY9x5HvxakCWLfIK.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Process started to build township for displaced Jewar farmers||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority on Tuesday said it had started the process to hire a developer to build a township to rehabilitate farmers who had been displaced from their homes to pave way for the Noida International Greenfield airport project at Jewar along 165km Yamuna Expressway.“We have started the process to select a developer. We are likely to issue a tender on Wednesday to finalise the agency that will develop the housing facilities to farmers. We will develop housing facilities for farmers in six to eight months, paving way for the shifting of inhabitants of villages coming in the way of the airport,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of the YEIDA.The township is set to have parks, community centre, school, health care facilities and other basic requirements so that the farmers do not face any problem once they shift there.Forty-eight hectares of land identified for the township at Jewar Bangar village have been handed over by the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority.“We acquired 48 hectares for farmers’ use as per rules and gave possession to the Yamuna authority. We will continue to support the authority. The Jewar airport is a very important project and a collective effort,” Suhas LY district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar said. The administration has acquired 1,334 hectares of land for six villages -- Rohi, Parohi, Ranhera, Kishorpur, Banwaribas and Dayanatpur. A total of 8,971 farmers’ families have been affected as they have given their agricultural land and houses for the airport. Of this, 3,627 families will be displaced completely.Concessionaire agreement The signing of the concessionaire agreement for the airport is expected to take place on Wednesday. The agreement will be signed between developer Zurich Airport International AG and the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited and the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), officials said on Tuesday.The signing of the agreement was postponed twice due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Box:Farmer families affected by airport: 8971Families whose houses will be demolished: 3627Township for farmers: 48 hectaresEach farmer to get minimum 50 square metre and maximum 500 square metre for housing facilityEach farmer to get a house 50% of total size of his existing house||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/process-started-to-build-township-for-displaced-jewar-farmers/story-cGaGyTipcIv5Ydi6BaoRON.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Bank robbery in Greater Noida: Three armed men loot ₹3.90 lakh||Three men looted nearly ₹4 lakh from an Indian Bank branch in Sector Pi – 3 of Greater Noida on Tuesday afternoon, while holding the staff at gunpoint, said police.According to police, at around 3pm, two men posed as customers at the bank and surveyed the bank. They were masked, but with Covid-19 health protocols in place, no one found it suspicious. Ten minutes later, their accomplice, entered and quickly held the security guard, Ravindra, at gunpoint. Almost immediately, the earlier two men pulled out guns of their own. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the suspects injured the guard on his head when he tried to resist.The suspects robbed ₹2.15 lakh cash from the drawer of a cashier, and on their way out snatched a cash bag of a customer that had ₹1.75 lakh. They were out of the bank in 10 minutes.Although injured, the guard Ravindra tried to stop the robbers and fired using his service gun, but they managed to escape.The bank branch manager Vipin Kharwal informed the police once he ensured everyone was safe and filed a complaint with the Sector Beta – 2 police station.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said, “The security guard suffered a minor/major? injury and was rushed to hospital for first aid. He is out of danger. The criminals had directed all the bank staff into a room before looting from the cashier’s drawer,” he said. Police said that the suspects did not reach the bank’s safe.Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Sector Beta 2 police station, said that police have registered a case against unknown suspects under Indian penal code (IPC) section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt for committed robbery).“A police team reached the spot after getting the information. The security guard fired at the suspects when they were fleeing, but did not hit them,” he said.A forensic team reached the spot to collect evidence in the case. The police team questioned the bank staffs and took the CCTV footage as evidence. Love Kumar, additional Commissioner of Police, said police have formed teams which are conducting searches to arrest the criminals.Bank manager Kharwal could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bank-robbery-in-greater-noida-three-armed-men-loot-3-90-lakh/story-mFrIcWbKdViZJtqaorHLCJ.html
06-10-2020||City||Road rage: Man rams car into bike after argument in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden||New Delhi: In a road rage incident in east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden early Monday, two friends received multiple injuries after their motorcycle was hit from behind by a car with whose driver they had an argument minutes earlier, police said.The impact of the hit was such that both men riding the Royal Enfield motorcycle were left with multiple fractures. The Swift car itself climbed up a pavement after hitting the bikerss. The car driver has been booked for attempt to commit culpable homicide but is yet to be arrested. “We have details of the suspect and are out to find and arrest him,” said a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified. The crime happened around 12.30 am on Monday when Juber, 23, and his friend, 22-year-old Siraj, were out to have soft drinks at a shop in Dilshad Garden. Juber, who runs a milk shake shop and was riding his Royal Enfield motorcycle, told the police that he and his friend were having soft drinks at a shop when a Swift car taking a turn on the road hit the front tyre of his motorcycle. “The two men hopped on to their motorcycle and chased the car before bringing it to a halt. An argument ensued between them, but other people intervened and separated them,” said the police officer. While the two men began to return to the shop where it had all begun, the Swift car driver allegedly decided to chase them. “We heard continuous honking from behind. We ignored it, but the car hit our motorcycle very hard from behind. Both of us were thrown off the motorcycle. The car climbed a pavement and ended up with a broken bumper,” Juber told the police. When the car driver got off his vehicle to check his broken bumper, Juber said he saw that it was the same man with who they had an argument minutes earlier. “People gathered at the spot and the driver took advantage of the situation to slip away with his car,” Juber told the police. The car’s registration number plate had fallen at the spot, with the help of which the police identified the suspect. The police didn’t reveal his identity, pending his arrest. The two injured men were rushed to a local hospital from where they were referred to Safdarjung Hospital. “They have suffered multiple injuries and are receiving treatment,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-rage-man-rams-car-into-bike-after-argument-in-delhi-s-dilshad-garden/story-w8GB8Spm0pLG3f2rmXxaqN.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three youths hurt, two held in group clash at Chandigarh’s Khuda Lahora||Attacked with sharp-edged weapons, three youths landed in hospital after they objected to some revellers throwing empty liquor bottles down from the first floor in Khuda Lahora in wee hours of Tuesday.Kesh Kamal, who belongs to Fazilka, told police that one Sanju and his friends were celebrating a birthday on the first floor of the residential building on Monday night. After the party, someone threw an empty bottle that crashed on to the ground floor area. When Kamal objected to it, the other group allegedly attacked him and his friends Pardeep and Harjinder after a heated argument.Police got a call about the group clash around 1:15am. The injured were rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police have arrested Sanju and another youth, identified as Ravi, while search is on for the remaining ones. A case has been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-youths-hurt-two-held-in-group-clash-at-chandigarh-s-khuda-lahora/story-5P0Txa0Gg1Dxfn2T8UIYHO.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Semester exams: PEC to call students on campus in batches||For conducting semester examinations, Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to call students to the campus in batches.The decision was taken in a meeting of deans and heads of departments of the deemed university recently. Amid the pandemic, teaching had gone online from July 27.In a communication issued to all heads of departments on Tuesday, detailed guidelines were issued for evaluation process of the ongoing semester and the pending exams of the second semester of the previous academic session that could not be held due to the lockdown. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be issued later.For BTech fifth semester, practical exams will be held from November 2 to 6, end-semester exams from November 7 and pending exams of previous semester from December 11.The practical exams of BTech third semester will be conducted from November 17. Their end semester exams will be held from November 22 and pending exams from December 21. The semester exams of BTech seventh semester are scheduled from December 5 to 9.For MTech third semester, pending exams will be conducted from January 4, and dissertation evaluation from January 11 to 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/semester-exams-pec-to-call-students-on-campus-in-batches/story-NtedMZTAl7PLmtn1RlLJBP.html
06-10-2020||City||PAU scholar bags Prime Minister fellowship for doctoral research||Tejpal Singh Sran, a PhD scholar at the department of vegetable science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has bagged the prestigious “Prime Minister Fellowship for Doctoral Research”. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) of the department of science and technology, Government of India, in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and private partner Arizona Seeds Private Limited (Patiala, Punjab), awards this fellowship for four years to pursue doctoral research.During his PhD, Tejpal will work on “Combined phenotypic and marker based introgression of leaf curl virus disease resistance from hot pepper to heat tolerant bell pepper” under the supervision of SK Jindal, senior vegetable breeder, department of vegetable science, PAU. The proposed research offers availability of LCVD resistant and high-temperature tolerant bell pepper genotype(s), which is not available in the world yet. This will help increase the area and productivity of bell pepper, widen the span of growing season and open a new window for small-scale farmers to adopt this high-value crop without high cost protected structures. Vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon, Postgraduate Studies dean Gurinder Kaur Sangha, director of research Navtej Singh Bains, and Ajmer Singh Dhatt, head of department of vegetable science-cum-additional director of research (horticulture and food science), congratulated Sran and his guide for this achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-scholar-bags-prime-minister-fellowship-for-doctoral-research/story-L8eX90tcZaGJkii6Ij3KBL.html
06-10-2020||City||Fire at electronics shop in Panchkula||It took nearly four hours to douse a fire that broke out in the basement of an electronics shop in Sector 9, Panchkula, on Tuesday. No one was injured, and even the losses were limited as the basement was just stocked with some Diwali lights and plastic material. “We got a call at 9:35am that fire had broken out at Goyal Electronics in Sector 9,” said Birender Singh, in-charge, fire station, Panchkula. “It was quite risky to enter the basement, as the area was engulfed with smoke. By 1pm, we managed to bring the situation under control.”Both the fire department and the shop owner were not sure about the cause of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-electronics-shop-in-panchkula/story-tXpul973xs1GELoFuuFYRM.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali resident arrested with 260gm heroin, pistol||A man was arrested with 260 gram heroin, a 9mm pistol and nine live cartridges from Phase 2 here by the special task force (STF) unit of Mohali police on Tuesday.Dheeraj Sharma alias Sunny’s Bolero was stopped at the police blockade near the T-point of Gurdwara Sahibzada Ajit Singh in Phase 2 where he lives.On checking, sub Inspector Avtar Singh and his team recovered the drugs and the weapon and arrested him.A case was registered under Sections 21A-61-85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the STF police station in Phase 4.Sunny was produced before a local court today which sent him to two-day police remand.During interrogation, Sunny revealed that he bought the drugs from Delhi to sell it for higher prices in Mohali, police said. Investigations were continuing to check where Sunny had bought the weapon.Four cases had been registered against him earlier, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-resident-arrested-with-260gm-heroin-pistol/story-j6DHcHAe9raOHJ3Z8X13OI.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 Mohali farmers pay up stubble burning season’s first fines of Rs 5,000||The season’s first challans (fines) of Rs 5,000 were issued to two farmers in the district for stubble burning as officials from the administration and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Tuesday finally got tough on offenders to prevent air quality from deteriorating.The farmers were caught burning stubble by a PPCB team in Bakharpur village in Dera Bassi and Banur. Stubble burning is banned in the state. A senior official of the administration said both the farmers owned less than two acres of land, so they had been fined Rs 2,500 each. Directions were issued to the revenue department to make red entries in their land records, he said. 15 stubble burning sites detected, two locatedHowever, even as the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre’s data showed 15 sites of stubble burning in the district, only two farmers were found burning the crop residue.Red entry means the farmers will not be eligible for any government facility or loan from any bank or institution.Fines for stubble burning on farmland of less than two acres amounts to Rs 2,500 and for fields of two to five acres it is Rs 5,000. For over five acres, offenders are fined Rs 15,000. Girish Dayalan, Mohali deputy commissioner, said “we have formed rapid response teams and appointed village level nodal officers to monitor areas under their jurisdiction and report stubble burning, if any.”App at workHe said all team members had been trained to use the ATR mobile application which allowed them to take action on the spot.Response time was fixed and it was mandatory for every officer to update action taken within the stipulated period.The area under paddy cultivation in the district is around 25,800 hectares which is expected to result in 1.29 lakh quintals of crop residue. Mohali was the third district in the state last year with the lowest number of stubble burning incidents.In 2019, 82 people were penalised Rs 2.55 lakh and seven FIRs were registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stubble-burning-season-s-first-fines-2-mohali-farmers-pay-up-rs-5-000/story-vWoazH5eoodq5AtIyRXw0K.html
06-10-2020||City||Surprise visit to GMC&H: J&K LG directs senior officers to tend to Covid patients||Taking cognizance of the complaints from the general public regarding various issues including, the shortage of oxygen in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMC&H) Jammu, lieutenant governor(LG) Manoj Sinha on Tuesday paid a surprise visit to the hospital and took stock of the medicare services extended to Covid and other patients. During the visit, Sinha took a round of different medical units and enquired about the availability of necessary equipment and other facilities required for patient care. He directed the concerned officers to rationalise the resources and resolve the prevalent issues. He also said that ‘senior doctors should attend to Covid patients’. He also conducted a meeting with senior officers and was informed that the requisite supply of oxygen was restored, and there was no shortage of oxygen at present. During the visit, Sinha was accompanied by chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam; financial commissioner health Atal Dulloo; principal secretary to L-G Nitishwar Kumar; divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma; IGP Jammu Mukesh Singh; GMC&H principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra; administrator associated hospitals Nagendra Singh Jamwal, and other senior officers. Amid a spike in Covid deaths in Jammu, a three-member team of experts from the union health ministry visited the GMC&H on September 19 to ascertain the triggers and suggest corrective measures reverse the trend. The patient care had been severely hit at the hospital, which had become a battlefield for senior doctors and the incumbent principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra. Peeved over indiscipline and chaos, Dr Digra had recently written a two-page letter to Sinha opting for a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) because of the interference in working of the hospital by ‘extra-institutional officials’. He, however, didn’t name them in the letter. Attendants of Covid patients had recently complained of a shortage of oxygen cylinders and the unavailability of beds at the GMC&H. A video had also gone viral wherein paramedics were seen escaping out of windows, leaving behind patients at the mercy of God at an isolation ward of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/surprise-visit-to-gmc-h-j-k-lg-directs-senior-officers-to-tend-to-covid-patients/story-7CvcZQthbt1oOzISkPsn3I.html
06-10-2020||City||Hathras incident: Candle march taken out in Ludhiana||Members of the Punjab Youth Development Board on Tuesday took out a candle march from Durga Mata Mandir in Sarabha Nagar to Gurdwara Chowk to protest against the gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Hathras.The march was led by Ludhiana (urban) district coordinator Nitin Tandon. Board’s chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra strongly condemned the shameful incident and said that instead of handing over the body of the victim to her family, the police in Hathras had cremated her in the middle of the night. which was completely wrong. He demanded severe punishment for the culprits and said that he has full faith in the law and hoped that the accused would not be spared.Tandon said that the entire country stands with the victim’s family and demanded that the perpetrators of this heinous incident be severely punished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-incident-candle-march-taken-out-in-ludhiana/story-mkjfxiDJ3Xp6deXosJkC5K.html
06-10-2020||Kolkata||‘Bengal recorded over 200 rapes, more than 600 kidnappings in August’: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||Raising serious allegations against the Mamata Banerjee administration, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted on Tuesday that the state recorded more than 200 rapes and over 600 kidnappings in August alone.In a counter tweet, the state home department, refuted the allegations, describing them as “baseless, ill-founded, and misguiding”.“Rapes-223 and Kidnappings-639 @MamataOfficial in August 2020 as per official reports indicate worrisome state of crime against women- a cause of concern. Time to douse fire under feet and put law and order in place @WBPolice @KolkataPolice before attending flames elsewhere,” Dhankhar tweeted. The Governor claimed that the reports were authentic and officially sent to him from each division. The figures, however, didn’t include incidents from Kolkata. “Stunned @MamataOfficial terrible misrepresentation. Must apologetically withdraw and make amends. Statistics of Rapes-223 and Kidnappings-639 in August 2020 emanate from authentic reports officially sent to me from each of Divisions. All figures after due diligence,” he tweeted after the state government rubbished the allegations.Also read: Guv Dhankhar stirs another controversy, says ‘Bengal police trying to cover up BJP leader’s murder’ Stunned @MamataOfficial terrible misrepresentation. Must apologetically withdraw and make amends. Statistics of Rapes-223 and Kidnappings-639 in August 2020 emanate from authentic reports officially sent to me from each of Divisions. All figures after due diligence. https://t.co/I4fN5ynHJe“Rajbhavan dissemination of WB “statistics” on rape and kidnapping is not based on any official report, data, or information. Allegations are baseless, ill-founded, and misguiding: totally incongruous with authentic facts and figures,” the state home department had tweeted after the Governor’s first tweet. Dhankhar, in his tweets, had even provided a break-up of the figures of rapes and kidnappings. While Murshidabad district registered 51 incidents of rape, highest among all districts, the maximum number of kidnappings took place in East Midnapore district. Peeved with the state government’s response, the Governor has warned of “consequences” if they do not withdraw or amend their statements. “Those responsible for such outrageously incorrect assertions to run down a constitutional office will not be without consequences. Such stance in public interest cannot be countenanced. Action will surely ensue. Hope they are as quick with truth as with falsehood and make amends,” Dhankhar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-recorded-over-200-rapes-more-than-600-kidnappings-in-august-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar/story-IYOpidzvF0LDsB1vx29PiP.html
06-10-2020||City||Gulmarg Gondola reopens after six months||Gulmarg Gondola, one of Asia’s largest and highest cable cars ringed by pine forests and Himalayan mountain peaks in ski resort of Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir, was reopened for tourists after remaining closed for six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Officials said that tourists have started trickling in small numbers while following Covid-19 protocols of social distancing and using masks to enjoy the beauty offered by the mountainous meadow.The first phase of the Gondola was reopened for a day on September 27 (World Tourism Day). It resumed daily operations from Saturday taking tourists to Kongdori Mountain at a height of 8,530-ft. “We had decided to operate the Gondola on weekends but then the government decided to reopen the first phase everyday from Saturday,” said assistant manager of the Gulmarg Gondola Project, Fayaz Ahmad.He added that tourists from J&K and other states have started coming in scores. “On an average, around 50 people are riding the ropeway every day. During weekend, the number is at around 150. Around 30% of these visitors are from other states,” he said.The Gondola was closed after government imposed lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 in mid-March. On normal days, the cable car records a daily footfall of 2,000 to 3,000 people, generating a daily revenue of Rs 35-40 lakh. Each ticket costs Rs 740 per person for the first phase and Rs 950 for the second phase which takes the visitor to a height of 12,293-ft.Proper Covid protocol including social distancing and wearing masks is in force. Instead of six in normal days, only three tourists are being allowed to ride in each Gondola car. The cabins are being sanitised before and after boarding and de-boarding of passengers, respectively.The tourism sector nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked, restrictions were imposed on movement of people, and communication was shut for months.Two days before revocation of Article 370, around 20,000 to 25,000 tourists were present in Kashmir. All of them were asked to leave the Valley along with the Amarnath pilgrims. The situation then aggravated due to the Covid-induced lockdown.Ahmad said that the Gondola project was facing a slump since August 5, 2019, and then Covid caused a complete shut down.He said that they are hoping that the number of tourists will increase in the coming days. “Gulmarg and Gondola have become synonymous and people have resumed visiting here despite Covid. Winter is approaching and travel agents have told us that bookings are being made for October-end,” he said.The tourism department has also started campaigns to woo tourists. “Tourism is reopened in Kashmir and gradually moving towards a revival,” said tourism director Nisar Ahmad Wani, during a nature walk at Dachigam National Park on Monday.“The directorate has started publicity campaigns, primarily focused on communicating a message that tourists can come here hassle-free as all Covid related SOPs are in place. The visitors can enjoy hospitality and experience nature in all its beautiful shades and manifestations,” he added.Gulmarg (the meadow of flowers), which is located in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas some 50km from Srinagar, is defined as a cup-shaped valley with virgin peaks, dry curry powder snow and meadows.“Our vast green meadows, enchanting valleys, majestic mountains and pristine streams and lakes are what bring joy to the visitors and fills them with awe,” the tourism director added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gulmarg-gondola-reopens-after-six-months/story-UyQZkjul9EdTL9Glqk5YcI.html
06-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC teams visit markets to conduct awareness drive against plastic bags||As part of the 15-day ‘My waste, my responsibility’ campaign being conducted by the municipal corporation (MC), the teams visited vegetable markets and other retail markets of the city on Tuesday to spread awareness among the residents and shopkeepers to stop using plastic bags. Apart from raising slogans and holding placards, pledge ceremonies were also organised in the markets. Shopkeepers were told to shun the use of plastic bags and encourage their customers to use cloth bags.Shopkeepers were advised to keep two dustbins outside their shops for dumping wet and dry waste separately and vendors were told to stop the use of single-use plastic. Nodal officer, health branch, Ashwani Sahota said that apart from conducting regular cleanliness drives in the city, efforts are also being made to encourage residents to segregate waste at source and home composting. Street vendors were also asked to spread awareness among their customers to shun the use of plastic bags. The civic body officials have also involved religious organisations in their campaign and announcements are being made in religious places wherein residents are being asked to keep the city clean, segregate waste at their home and opt home compositing to dealing with wet waste. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Plastic bags have already been banned by the state government and challans are also issued by the MC regularly to traders and residents. Residents should also understand their duty to keep the city and environment clean.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-teams-visit-markets-to-conduct-awareness-drive-against-plastic-bags/story-28PVH0ZmTm8MCMtcvCw6DK.html
06-10-2020||City||Covid recovery rate crosses 80% mark in J&K||The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed the 80% mark on Tuesday for the first time since the infections had soared in the region.As against 738 fresh infections, as many as 1,706 people recovered from the virus and were discharged on Tuesday. This takes the overall recoveries to 65,496, which account for a recovery rate of 81.3 %, which is the highest so far.Officials said that 16 fatalities took the death toll to 1,268 in J&K while the total Covid-19 cases reached 80,476.They added that 448 people tested positive in Kashmir while 561 recovered from the virus. In Jammu division, 290 fresh infections were reported, while 1,145 people were discharged after recovery.Since September 21, the recovery rate has improved and the number of daily infections has dipped. Between September 21 and 30, as many as 15,132 patients were discharged against 11,080 fresh infections. Similarly in October so far, 8,542 patients have been cured as against 5,406 fresh infections.October is witnessing a decrease in the average number of daily cases after September recorded the highest of 37,372 cases at a daily average of 1,245 cases. Of total cases, 40,994 people have recovered in Kashmir and 24,502 in Jammu, so far. At present, there are 13,712 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT so far have reached 17.41 lakh.Meanwhile, officials said that 16 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT — eight each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. With this, the number of total deaths has reached 1,268 — 873 in Kashmir and 395 in Jammu. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 91, followed by 31 in Kishtwar. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 183 more people tested positive, followed by Pulwama at 55. Srinagar tops the case tally with 15,835 cases and 307 deaths. Jammu is at number two with 14,778 cases and 206 deaths. Till date, 5.98 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 25,624 in home quarantine, 13,712 in isolation, and 47,457 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.10 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-recovery-rate-crosses-80-mark-in-j-k/story-cucnRKh2Si1hrwTSeqKb7O.html
06-10-2020||City||World Bank asks HP govt to honour IDP agreement||After the transfer of two key officials of the integrated project for source sustainability and climate resilient rain-fed agriculture in Himachal Pradesh, the World Bank wrote to the state government requesting them to honour the terms and conditions of the agreement of the project.The World Bank had approved an $80 million loan in February this year for the integrated development project (IDP) that aimed at improving water management practices and increasing agricultural productivity in rural areas.The central government, Himachal government and the World Bank had signed the loan agreement on March 11. The project is to be implemented in 428 panchayats in 10 districts of the state, benefiting over 4 lakh stakeholders.One of the conditions of the agreement was that the tenure of the key staff of the project should be three years or more. However, the state government transferred the chief project director and the executive officer of the project within six months of signing the agreement.“Reference is made to the government orders to transfer both the chief project director (No FFE A(B)6-14/2020-II, dated September 5, 2020) and executive director (No FFE-A(B)6-14/2020-II, dated September 8, 2020) of the integrated project for source sustainability and climate-resilient rain-fed agriculture in HP and to the letter from the additional chief secretary (forests) of the HP government to the department of economic affairs (No FFE-B-F (5)9/2016-Pt-II, dated December 13, 2019) confirming the project’s readiness for negotiations,” reads the letter from Junaid Kamal Ahmad, World Bank’s country director in India, to state chief secretary Anil Khachi.“We note that in the referenced letter, the HP government agreed with the department of economic affairs as part of the readiness criteria of the project, that the ‘tenure of key staff should be, to the extent possible, three years or more’,” states the letter.“We also note that the project is not yet fully operational and is in a critical start-up phase. As such, we are concerned that changes in project leadership at this time may have a considerable adverse impact on the pace and efficiency of project implementation. Given the above, we would like to request that you honor the aforementioned agreement,” it added.When contacted, forest minister Rakesh Pathania said that the condition was not a must and, that the ‘government was forced to change the officers as there had been no progress in the project.’He said that any project is implemented with the consultation of public representatives and public participation but no such steps were taken by those at the helm of the affairs.“I can’t overlook and would not tolerate non-performance in my departments,” he said, adding that the World Bank will be apprised of the circumstances in which the officers were changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-bank-asks-hp-govt-to-honour-idp-agreement/story-Tix8rEqaxtR0tKFkjMQSiP.html
06-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Public dealing in police stations resume with precautions in place||Public dealing in city police stations has resumed after three months, however, people will have to wait for more to meet senior police officials in person, as public dealing in their offices are yet to resume.However, the police have installed tents in the open outside police stations to deal with public complaints and record their statements to avoid their entry inside police stations as a precautionary measure. In July, the police department had ordered to stop public dealing in police stations after many police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19. Complaint boxes were installed outside the police stations for the city residents. The police had also released an e-mail id for the public to send their complaints.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that the police have started public dealing with all safety measures in place. Tents have been installed outside police stations to maintain social distancing,” he said.The police have made proper seating arrangements, said Agrawal adding that public dealing at offices of senior officials has not yet resumed, but they are available to meet anyone on request. Senior police officers are hearing peoples’ grievances online. In emergency cases, they are even meeting residents in person, the police chief said.SHO at Division Number 8 police station Inspector Jarnail Singh said that they are maintaining social distancing while dealing with the public and proper seating arrangements have also been made for them.The police had already suspended the Know Your Case scheme due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-public-dealing-in-police-stations-resume-with-precautions-in-place/story-mEFAfzPcZsgPqBxh2q4lWP.html
06-10-2020||City||HPPTCL transmission lines: Strict action to be taken against persons disrupting work, says DM||The district magistrate issued an order, stating that strict action will be taken against anyone who tries to stop the work of laying of transmission line of the Himachal Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (HPPTCL) from Rehan in Kangra district to Kankari in Hamirpur district. While dealing with a dispute related to the transmission line being laid by the HPPTCL, the court stated that it was not possible to change the alignment of the line as the work of towers for the transmission line had already been completed. The court stated that if a person unnecessarily interrupts the work of the transmission line being laid for the public interest, action may be taken against him/her under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The court has directed the Hamirpur SP to cooperate with the HPPTCL and provide assistance to the police in-charges of Hamirpur and Bhota. The SDMs of Hamirpur and Bhoranj and the concerned executive magistrates have also been ordered to ensure compliance with the decision of the court. The court also ordered the HPPTCL to provide adequate compensation to all the affected people as per rules. It has also asked the affected people to approach the court of the district and sessions judge if they were aggrieved with the compensation amount. The HPPTCL has completed all the formalities and procedures and is ready to compensate the people affected by it. Despite this, villagers of Balu, Dhanarasi, Ghahlian, Rehala, Chowki Kankari, and Chamned had been trying to create hindrance in the completion of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hpptcl-transmission-lines-strict-action-to-be-taken-against-persons-disrupting-work-says-dm/story-1fBFj7qc6rEl30oXCIazSI.html
06-10-2020||City||Atal Tunnel holds strategic significance: Himachal CM||Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said that the Atal Tunnel Rohtang, which was dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3, renders a strategic advantage to the armed forces of the country by providing year-long connectivity to border areas.In a statement, the CM said that Manali-Leh-Ladakh Road has a strategic significance and, the Atal Tunnel would facilitate faster mobilisation of troops and supplies to the borders of the country. Thakur said that the all-weather tunnel would also be a blessing for the people of Lahaul and Spiti district, as it would help them remain connected with the rest of the country throughout the year.“For tourists, the 9.02 km long tunnel would shorten the distance from Manali to Lahaul and Spiti districts by several kilometers,” he added.Jai Ram Thakur said that the tunnel would give a boost to tourism development in the Lahaul valley. The CM said that the reduction in travel time would also help farmers of the valley transport their produce easily to the market. He said that now their precious crops like peas, broccoli, and potatoes would no longer rot in trucks before reaching Kullu and other markets.Essential commodities like petrol and vegetable supplies would also be available throughout the year, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-holds-strategic-significance-himachal-cm/story-nsfp412zMzjEl6jxQurnrN.html
06-10-2020||City||Khanna police bust gang of vehicle lifters, arrest 3||The Khanna police busted a gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of its three members and recovery of two pick-up trucks from their possession.The accused have been identified as Naresh alias Kalu of Bhiwani in Haryana, Neeraj Verma of Rohtak and Lakhbir Singh alias Lakhi of Dhuri in Sangrur. The accused who are yet to be arrested are Amrik Ram of Malaud, his brother Vicky Ram and their employee. Amrik Ram and Vicky Ram are said to be scrap dealers.The accused used to steal pick-up trucks only and sell it for ₹50,000-₹60,000 after dismantling them.The police have sealed the godown where the accused used to park the stolen vehicles.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said that the accused were arrested from near Burkre village following a tip-off. The accused had stolen a vehicle from Ambala on October 4 and were travelling to the city hide it at the godown that belongs to Amrik and Vicky.Following the information provided by the accused, the police conducted a raid at the godown, but the accused managed to flee the spot.The SSP added that the accused have stolen vehicles from Ambala, Hisar, Patiala, Sangrur and Dhuri. A case under Sections 379, 411, and 201 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Malaud police station.The accused are already facing trial in at least 14 cases lodged against them in Haryana and Punjab, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-police-bust-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-arrest-3/story-wHkgNIff3dqHMpMyYUddLJ.html
06-10-2020||City||250 new Covid cases reported in HP||Himachal Pradesh recorded as many as 250 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 16,283. Besides this, the death toll mounted to 224 as five more people succumbed to the virus. Of the new cases, 54 were reported in Kullu, 49 in Shimla, 39 in Solan, 27 in Sirmaur, 20 in Kangra, 18 in Mandi, 17 in Una, 15 in Bilaspur, four each in Chamba and Kullu and two in Hamirpur. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s principal private secretary RN Batta is among those infected. His contact history is being traced, said officials. Two fatalities occurred in Kangra, two in Shimla and one in Bilaspur. There are 3,136 active cases in state, while 12,898 patients have recovered so far. With 3,189 cases, Solan is the worst-hit district, followed by Kangra where 2,465 people have been infected so far. Sirmaur has 1,919 cases, Mandi 1,880, Una 1,776, Shimla 1,485, Hamirpur 979, Bilaspur 920, Chamba 919, Kullu 774, Kinnaur 201 and Lahaul-Spiti 176.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/250-new-covid-cases-reported-in-hp/story-0oJynBzsqhM9XJUOP7d0mO.html
06-10-2020||City||Atal Tunnel: Three accidents in three days, DGP says elaborate arrangements being made||Atal Tunnel, the longest highway tunnel at an altitude of more than 10,000 feet, has witnessed three accidents within three days of its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said BRO chief engineer of Atal Tunnel, Brig KP Purushothaman. He said that the accidents took place due to negligent and reckless driving. He added that few tourists created a ruckus inside the tunnel. Some were clicking selfies while others threw caution and traffic norms to the wind. “This indecent behaviour by the tourists was caught on cameras installed inside the tunnel,” he said. Purushotman added that he had taken up the matter of safety and traffic management inside the tunnel with superintendents of police (SPs) of Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti. The BRO official said that he had requested the state police to prepare an SOP for traffic management. On Sunday, three vehicles had collided inside the tunnel due to speeding, however, no case was registered as the motorists reached a compromise. Meanwhile, Himachal director of general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said that as an interim arrangement, one reserve from the battalion has been allotted to Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti district police for control and management of traffic and law and order in the tunnel. The 9.02km tunnel has been divided into two parts. A 4.5km stretch from south portal side will be manned by the Kullu police while the other half by the Lahaul-Spiti police. He said that the BRO has set up control rooms at both north and south portal of the tunnel and a SI rank officer has been deployed at each control room. Kundu said that police will also setup barriers at Solang and Teling for checking of vehicles before crossing the tunnel. No explosives or petroleum products will be allowed to be transported through the tunnel. “Apart from this, we have drawn a standard operating procedures (SOP) for vehicles crossing the tunnel and managing traffic. A proposal has been sent to the government for setting up police stations at both north and south ends. Police have set up a board of officials that visited Jawahar Tunnel in Banihal and Dr Shayama Prasad Mukherjee tunnel in Chenani-Nashri to study security setup adopted by the police of the two UTs. The panel was headed by inspector general of police (security) Daljit Thakur. Recommendations of the board were submitted to the government, said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-three-accidents-in-three-days-dgp-says-elaborate-arrangements-being-made/story-i5qS0a81WfB1XmjJZx9xPJ.html
06-10-2020||City||Two new labour hostels to come up in Shimla||The Shimla municipal corporation (MC) has decided to build two labour hostels in Dhalli and Boileauganj localities to provide accommodation to migrant labourers at reasonable rates. The MC took the decision on the recommendation of its social justice committee. Deputy mayor Shailendra Chauhan said that these labour hostels will help in developing Shimla as a smart city. He said, “A large number of labourers work in Dhalli as there is a fruit market there. We have decided to build a labour hostel there as the area has no proper accommodation facilities. The construction work will start soon.” “The migrant workers will be provided accommodation at these hostels at minimum rent,” he added. At present, there are as many as six labour hostels in the town and around 400 labourers are staying there. Last year, the MC had hiked the rent of labour hostels to Rs 7,080 per annum that had enraged the workers. However, officials had claimed that the rent had not been hiked since 1986 and that the new rent was reasonable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-new-labour-hostels-to-come-up-in-shimla/story-7eHTKM5PYR0buSTEJLNPoI.html
06-10-2020||City||Fifty per cent of security guards back on duty in Pune||Pune Around fifty per cent of security persons who had left the city during the Covid situation are back on duty and the figure seems to rising each day. Industry experts cite financial crunch faced by security persons as the reason for their resuming work. A large number of private companies, cinema halls and hotels had terminated private security guards as part of layoffs during the lockdown in the city.Experts believe that the sector will take another two years and more to revive as the commercial sector is badly affected. Arun Waghmare, office-bearer, Pune Mahanagar Security Association, said that a large number of security staff still await jobs. “The situation is still not stable and many security guards are unwilling to return. We appeal to the government to declare some sops for the sector,” he said.Manoj Kumar, a security guard posted at a construction site said, “I left for home during lockdown and returned last month. There is no income source at home. I have been accepted by the previous employer at half the salary,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fifty-per-cent-of-security-guards-back-on-duty-in-pune/story-8OEjzoDepDO8CM9yyfDCPJ.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||27 cattle heads packed in truck, 3 booked for animal cruelty in Panchkula||Three men from Uttar Pradesh (UP) were booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,1960, for packing 27 cattle heads – three buffaloes and 24 calves – in a truck.A case was registered under section 11 of the Act at Chandimandir police station on Tuesday and the three persons named in the FIR were Shahnawaaz Aalam, and two brothers, Sultan and Aslam, from Saharanpur.When a police team patrolling on National Highway toll plaza near Jaloli village stopped a speeding truck with a UP number it found “buffaloes and calves packed in the truck,” the FIR mentioned.“For transporting cattle more than the capacity of the vehicle, the three have committed an offence, and hence were booked under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals act,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-cattle-heads-packed-in-truck-3-booked-for-animal-cruelty/story-bu3PyFxDM7pSeGvH5mEm6O.html
06-10-2020||City||Kamla Nehru, Naidu hospitals come under PMC-run medical college project||Pune: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, gave its clearance for the civic body-owned Kamla Nehru Hospital and Naidu Hospital, to be attached to the planned PMC-run medical college.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The state government has given permission to erect the PMC-owned medical college, which will be in the name of the late Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee. A separate trust has been formed to run this hospital. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be undertaken between the PMC and Medical Education Trust.”Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar is empowered to sign the MoU on behalf of the PMC. This proposed medical college will come up on the Naidu Hospital premises, but have the Kamla Nehru Hospital also attached to the college.Rasne said, “The standing committee has approved the Kamla Nehru Hospital being run by the Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College for the next 30 years.”The standing committee also took a decision that the land required for the medical college should be transferred for which it instructed the administration to execute the process.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Almost all the administrative processes for establishing the medical college are complete. Very soon, the civic body will have its own medical college and it will help the PMC to run its hospitals smoothly, as it would have trained manpower for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kamla-nehru-naidu-hospitals-come-under-pmc-run-medical-college-project/story-e7cqSvTIpZpT9XURRVfKdJ.html
06-10-2020||City||Containment zones in Pune down to 59||PUNE: As the positivity rate in Pune begins to drop, 20.6 per cent as of Tuesday, the areas under micro-containment have also reduced. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Monday, evening announced that 59 areas are now micro-containment zones in the city, as against the earlier number of 70. “Most of these are limited to a particular society or a small lane,” Kumar said. Following the state government policy, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has adopted the micro containment zone policy. In the early stages of the pandemic, April, May and June, containments zones are mainly concentrated in slum areas, but over the last few weeks, urban housing societies now find themselves in micro-containment. PMC has further revised its containment zone map and reduced the area under restriction to 3 sq km (2%) from earlier 7%. In the revised map, total 59 micro-clusters are under restrictions with Yewalewadi area having maximum number of containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zones-in-pune-down-to-59/story-qhOBRTaO1TVpw7CkisyclL.html
06-10-2020||Lucknow||Petition filed in Allahabad High Court challenging UP Special Security Force Act||A writ petition, filed in the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Tuesday, challenged the legality of the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF) Act-2020, which was recently passed by the Uttar Pradesh legislature. In his plea, petitioner Pankaj Tewari pointed out that the state does not have the legislative power to make laws for any other force, or constitute any other force, which does not come under the definition of police as provided in the Police Act, 1861. The hearing for admission of the petition is yet to come up. Lawyer Asim K Singh filed the petition on behalf of the petitioner. Also read: CM Nitish Kumar rubbishes Chirag Paswan’s remarks, allays fears of rift“The petition is challenging the validity of the aforesaid Act (Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force Act-2020) on the ground that the state legislature is not competent to confer power of arrest and seizure to an organisation (force) whose members are not police under the roll of the Police Act, 1861,” said the petitioner. This special force will be set up in Uttar Pradesh in the next three months and can search and arrest without a warrant. It will be deployed for the security of strategic and vital installations, high court, district court, state government administrative premises, religious spots, metro rail, airports, banks, industrial undertakings and any other establishment notified by the state government.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi had earlier said the special force is being established in view of an Allahabad High Court order to the state government for security and protection of all court premises in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/petition-filed-in-allahabad-high-court-challenging-up-special-security-force-act/story-uB3O30l7W0WA4TNEuL7nTL.html
06-10-2020||Dehradun||Haridwar gears up for Mahakumbh 2021, paramount focus on cleanliness||The upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh in 2021 will be divided into 23 sectors with all required amenities for the pilgrims and visitors with a focus on maintaining cleanliness by proper disposal of waste, said officials on Tuesday.The aforementioned issues related to the Mahakumbh, which will commence from January next year, were discussed during a review meeting of work related to the mega religious event at the state secretariat by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and other officials.Madan Kaushik, minister of urban development and government spokesperson, while sharing the details of the meeting with media said, “The Mahakumbh will be a glorious one with all its divinity intact. It will conducted on time. There would be no changes in it amid the pandemic but the pilgrims will have to follow the required Covid-19 precautions like social distancing and wearing of masks.”Kaushik said, “During the meeting, the CM directed that all the permanent work associated with the Mahakumbh should be completed by December. He also directed to float the tenders for the temporary works. During the mega event, the government will ensure that cleanliness is maintained with proper disposal of waste.”Also read: ‘Broken all records’ - BJP takes a dig at Lalu Prasad’s 2-year hospital stayThe minister said that the Mahakumbh event will be divided into 26 sectors with all required amenities along with 6-7 sectors on standby.“During the event, no passes will be required for the pilgrims to take the holy bath. However, for the Shahi Snaans or the special baths there will be some arrangements to restrict the number of visitors which will be finalised after discussing the same with the Akhada Parishad and saints,” said Kaushik.He also informed that the government will also make appropriate arrangements considering the pandemic.“As per the assessment, there will be a need of about 500 doctors during Mahakumbh. Apart from this, a significant number of paramedics are also needed for which recruitments are already on,” said Kaushik.“The pending road-related work towards Haridwar will also be completed soon.”The minister said that after two-three days, there would again be a meeting chaired by the CM to discuss other police-related issues for the event.“To ensure that all the work is completed in time and without error, the CM has directed the chief secretary to monitor every week. The Mahakumbh will be grand and glorious, we’ll leave no stone unturned,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/haridwar-gears-up-for-mahakumbh-2021-paramount-focus-on-cleanliness/story-QQOiDEvOneMh3nMjKRDuxN.html
06-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras fallout: Uttar Pradesh leader of Opposition urges Governor to recommend President’s rule||Leader of the Opposition in Uttar Pradesh assembly and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary on Tuesday wrote to the Governor Anandiben Patel and urged her to recommend President’s rule in the state over the “rise in crime against women, murders, kidnappings, breakdown of law and order, distress faced by all sections of society and neglect of Dalits and weaker sections.”Chaudhary, a Covid-19 infection survivor, said he wrote to the Governor instead of calling on her “because of the pandemic.”Chaudhary, in his letter, said that because of the wrong policies of the government, there had been a steady rise in kidnapping, rapes and gang-rapes of women and minor girls. “According to the National Crime Records Bureau data, the state’s rate of rape is one in every 15 minutes,” he said in the letter. Also read: Affidavit copy-paste job in bid to cover-up Hathras gangrape, says CongChaudhary urged her to intervene and get cases of rapes/murders in Hathras, Balarampur, Baghpat, Meerut, Fatehpur, Aligarh, Unnao, Lakhimpur Kheri, Maharajganj, Mathura, Prayagraj, Azamgarh, Bulandshahr and Lucknow probed under sitting judges. Chaudhary also pointed out how the “state government was trying to suppress the Opposition’s voice. “The police lathi-charged SP leaders and workers while they were peacefully protesting against various issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-fallout-uttar-pradesh-leader-of-opposition-urges-governor-to-recommend-president-s-rule/story-iPJIkrYwzD1Gjhrd7InECP.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘We did not wish to bring the virus to Kasauli hills’||This year, the ninth edition of the Khushwant Singh Literary Festival comes without the soothing hill breeze, the pine trees and the elegant ambience of the famous Kasauli Club. While it is disheartening to the regular audience, they hope that it will return to the place where it belongs with time.Brig Naveen Mahajan, station commander of army and the ex-officio president of the Cantonment Board, is said to have offered the co-directors of the festival, Rahul Singh and Niloufer Bilimoria, that the festival could be hosted in Kasauli this year too with appropriate social distancing.“It was most generous of the Commander to make this offer but we thought that in times such as these we would not like to take the virus to the Kasauli hills,” Rahul said.Talking about the three-day streaming of the festival, from October 9 to 11, Niloufer says: “In putting together the first digital edition of the festival, we decided to call it ‘A New Life’. The pandemic times offer us to mull over the sense of where we can go from here, so that we do not just go back to the normal.”The festival has been packaged with thought to shun callous approach to nature and ecology that have caused the pandemic and move towards a green society and green economy.The festival will open with engineer Sudha Murty’s talk on ‘The art of science and giving’ with writer Chetan Bahagat as the interlocutor. Other sessions include Pico Iyer speaking on ‘Staying at home and re-making the world’, Harsh Mander on the plight of migrants in ‘Locking down the poor’, Farid Zakaria will dwell on the 10 lessons to be learnt from the pandemic, Jono Linen on ‘Walking alone in the Himalayas’, Amitav Ghosh on ‘An Uninhibtable Earth’, and Shobha De on ‘Lockdown Des and Nites’.Motorist Kishie Singh, who has been on the organising team of the festival from its first edition, says, “We will miss the festivity but caution is better than bravado and with time, the festival will return to the hill town which was the home for Khushwant Singh’s writings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/we-did-not-wish-to-bring-the-virus-to-kasauli-hills/story-eXwbTg97vDdABEcXBaR04O.html
06-10-2020||Pune||Therapy centres in lockdown cause complications for patients in Pune||Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected all spheres of life, including healthcare for people with medical conditions. Occupational therapy, physiotherapy, speech therapy, psychological counselling and behaviour management, among other methods, are necessary for those diagnosed with cerebral palsy to enhance their lifestyles. However, with the lockdown necessitated due to the pandemic, therapy centres have been closed and many children with cerebral palsy are needing immediate surgeries due to the deteriorating lifestyle, say experts. Shreesh Kulkarni, 15, had been diagnosed with cerebral palsy when he was one-and-a-half years old. “He has been taking occupational therapy, physiotherapy since many years. “Therapy for him is as important as breathing,” says his mother Shreya Kulkarni. Due to the lockdown their visits to the centres are now restricted and hence, they have now opted for recreational therapy at home and have limited their visit to the doctors. “It has been around six months since our last visit to the therapy centre. It has been two weeks since my child started visiting a physiotherapist. It was a challenge for us to keep him active by using therapy techniques at home. We also had to ensure that he does not gain weight. It was not only us, but many parents found it a challenge to keep our children active through different activities and exercises. If we do not keep our children mobile, there are chances of complications,” added Shreya.Experts believe that they are now recording many such cases where urgent surgeries are required to avoid any further complications which were earlier under control due to therapy. Parents, too, have opined that the lockdown has hit them hard as they have not been able to take care of the kids who need special care. Therapy centres provided routine care ensuring that complications are prevented and surgeries are avoided. “For a child with cerebral palsy (CP), parents are always the primary caregiver. When therapy centres were closed, the parents have performed the role of the therapist. Because of the lack of routine care, we are seeing complications in CP children. Parents should learn some basic techniques that allow the muscle to stay elongated, that allow for strength maintenance. Parents should now avail video consultations so that they can learn these techniques,” said Dr Saloni Raje, a paediatric neurodevelopmental therapist at a private hospital However, not all parents could find such a solution for their children and had to face serious consequences. Before the lockdown, five-year-old Aayush Agashe (name changed), could walk on his feet slowly. Doctors were hopeful of his recovery with stretching therapy, Botox injection, and plastering of his feet. But during the lockdown, there was no therapy, and injection was not given. Instead, his increased height during these six months which led to stiffening of the muscle. Now, it is not injection or therapy that is of any use to him and he has to undergo surgery.Dr Sandeep Patwardhan, a paediatric orthopedic specialist at the Sancheti Institute of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, said, “We are soon planning for Aayush’s surgery. It is not just him, but there are many CP kids whose surgeries could have been avoided or complications prevented if they were able to get uninterrupted access to therapy centres. But with therapy centres remaining shut during the lockdown, we have started seeing many cases with severe complications.”World Cerebral Palsy Day is marked on October 6 every year to create more awareness it. The American Centre for Diseases Control (CDC) describes cerebral palsy (CP) as a group of disorders that affect a person’s ability to move and maintain balance and posture. Dr Patwardhan adds, “CP is a lifelong disease. The main treatment for CP is going to be muscle strengthening, loosening of the tight muscle, wearing graces, and making sure that the child does activities. Otherwise, the child may end up with deformities, and then they may require surgery. Because of the lack of access to therapy centres, this continuous treatment has stopped. We need to make sure that CP kids get access to therapy centres. At least some assessment should be done at these centres regularly. Things like video consultation should be used. In chronic illnesses like CP, if left untreated, the complication rate is going up. The need for intervention and surgery will be very high in a few days if people do not visit therapy centres or experts.”Therapists, who provide routine care at these centres are also seeing a rise in complications. Dr Sourabh Sane, physiotherapist at HealYos Physiotherapy, said, “In a seven-year-old kid, the hip joint had moved from its place. Doctors had planned to plaster it. But, there was no therapy given in all these months during the lockdown. Now, the hip has been dislocated and the kid will have to undergo a major operation to fix it. We are seeing many such cases where complications have emerged because of lack of routine care which had been provided by therapy centres. We are seeing cases where tightness of muscle has increased. Though patients have started returning now, it is still difficult for CP children from semi-urban or rural areas to approach such centres.” Though these therapy centres are reopening, many parents still do not feel safe while taking kids to these centres due to the fear of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/therapy-centres-in-lockdown-cause-complications-for-patients/story-nIBdZt5nvU7uMozx9Tpu7L.html
06-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: PEB to conduct recruitment tests after CM announces NRA-linked process||Madhya Pradesh government has reposed its faith in Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB), commonly known by its Hindi acronym Vyapam, within days of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announcing that recruitment for 30,000 vacant government jobs would take place through the common entrance test (CET) of National Recruitment Agency (NRA), officials said. MP government’s general administration department (GAD) wrote to all government departments last week, informing them that only MPPEB is authorised to conduct the recruitment tests for non-gazetted posts. MPPEB has also started preparations and invited several IT companies to set up, operate and maintain online test and training centres at government educational institutions in all 52 districts of the state, and issued a schedule on Monday for the recruitment tests of two departments—farmer welfare and school education in January and February 2021, an MPPEB official said, requesting anonymity. Also Read: National Recruitment Agency’s common entrance test to help 2.5 crore job seekers: Jitendra SinghMPPEB public relations officer JP Gupta said, “The board has released a new schedule on Monday to fill posts in different departments including schools, jails and farmers welfare department. We are just following the instructions of the government. We don’t know about any decision related to the NRA test-based recruitment.” After the Union cabinet approved the setting up of NRA to conduct a CET for selecting candidates for a majority of central government jobs, Chouhan tweeted on August 20 that Madhya Pradesh was the first state in the country to decide to give government jobs to the youth of the state on the basis of their NRA score. “Now you (aspirants) will not have to incur expenditure on travelling due to repeated examinations. My children! my priority is to make your life better,” he said. मध्यप्रदेश की शासकीय नौकरियों पर केवल प्रदेश के युवाओं का हक होगा, यह हमने पहले ही तय कर दिया है। अब आपको बार-बार की परीक्षाओं के कारण होने वाले निरर्थक व्यय और आवागमन से भी मुक्ति मिल जायेगी। मेरे बच्चों तुम्हारा जीवन आनंददायी और बेहतर बने, यही मेरी प्राथमिकता है।GAD secretary Rajesh Kaul, in a letter to all heads of the departments and collectors, said, “PEB has been authorised to fill all the posts under non-gazetted service recruitment rules 2013.” Kaul wrote, “All the departments have already been intimated about it. But... the departments are conducting recruitments on their own, which is against the rules. Now, all the departments and district administration have to follow this rule.” GAD minister Inder Singh Parmar said, ”It’s true that the CM made announcement about switching to NRA but we can’t wait and solely depend upon a central agency to fill all the posts. So, we have authorised PEB to conduct the recruitment tests.” “At least for now, PEB will conduct the test as we have promised to fill all the posts by the end of this financial year,” said Parmar. Earlier, the then Congress –led state government had decided to close down MPPEB due to the multi-layer rigging of recruitment and entrance exam, the Vyapam scam, busted in 2013, which led to the arrest of certain officers in key positions in the organisation. Then chief minister Kamal Nath had announced the introduction of Rajya Karamchari Ayog after closing Vyapam, but nothing happened in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-peb-to-conduct-recruitment-tests-after-cm-announces-nra-linked-process/story-2l3mFvpKL6NvdvXZADor6K.html
06-10-2020||Dehradun||‘90 and going strong’: Author Raj Kanwar from Dehradun all set to release his 4th book||Journalist-turned-author, Raj Kanwar, renowned personality and writer from Dehradun has kept his pen going till date despite his age. The 90-year-old author still writes for eight hours a day and is all set to release his fourth book next year. The soon to be nonagenarian is currently working on his next book, likely to be named ‘Writer of Obituaries’. Speaking on his upcoming book, Kanwar said, “We always see obituaries in newspapers and other platforms now after someone dies, but people barely know what an obituary is or the history behind it. I plan to put together these minute details in my next book and have been researching about it since almost six months now.” Working six days a week for eight hours every day, Kanwar says that the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 epidemic was a bliss for him. Also read: ‘Nitish Kumar is the leader’ - BJP’s harsh rebuttal to Chirag Paswan claim“The lockdown was a blessing for me as I could focus more on my writing and researching for my new book. Earlier, many people would visit me for some or the other work and a lot of my time would go in those activities as I cannot say no to people. But after the epidemic, fewer people visit me, that too only during emergencies, and I utilise all my time writing or with my family,” he said. “I have learnt so many new words, idioms, worked upon my vocabulary a lot in these past few months,” said Kanwar. However, due to age, Kanwar is not able to write himself, rather mostly dictates to his secretary who writes for him. Kanwar’s last book, ‘Dateline Dehradun, which was self-published in January this year, will also see its third revised edition by the end of this year. “After around 1,300 copies of the first two editions of ‘Dateline Dehradun’ - a collection of all the articles I wrote about my town, its schools, its culture - were sold, I decided to change it a bit and make some additions. So, I started interviewing iconic couples from Dehradun who have added value to this city. This will be added in the revised third edition under a section called, ‘Made for Each-Other’,” said the author. Kanwar who would celebrate his 90th birthday on October 8 said, “I might be 90 by age, but by heart, I am still very young and in my 20s. After 57 years of marriage, having experienced the bliss of togetherness, I still joke around with my wife. I do not want to have any grand celebrations, rather help out the needy and give back to the society as much as I can.” The author has written three books so far. His first book was ‘Upstream India’ - the official history of the ONGC published in 2006 to synchronize with its golden jubilee celebrations. Next came ‘ONGC: The Untold Story’ which was published by Bloomsbury and launched in December 2018.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank, Social Development for Communities said, “Kanwar sir, is an encyclopaedia and an institute on Dehradun in himself. He has seen the Doon Valley evolve over the years since Independence. He worked as a journalist when there were hardly 3-4 journalists in the whole of the valley, so he knows the city like the back of his palm. The same can be seen in his writings through his memories of Dehradun.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/90-and-going-strong-author-raj-kanwar-from-dehradun-all-set-to-release-his-4th-book/story-YkklLfg511UEbfWVWKEIoL.html
06-10-2020||Pune||Restaurants, bars resume business, owners hopeful of revival||Restaurants, bars and cafes reopened dine-in facilities on Monday, after six months of lockdown in the city. In at least two areas of the city housing several restaurants, Fergusson College road and Koregaon Park, customers were seen waiting patiently outside restaurants for their turn to be seated. Dine-in facilities are allowed with 50 per cent capacity and restaurants and bars have to adhere to several restrictions and guidelines issued by the local authorities and the state government.At the Chaitanya Paratha restaurant on Fergusson College road, customers were welcomed by owners with a traditional “aarti”.“We are happy that our restaurant is now open to the public after almost six months. We make sure that the customers are safe and follow all safety precautions. The variety of Punjabi food is reduced to a certain extent, but all types of parathas are available,” said Samira Jangira, owner.“We have reduced the number of tables from 50 to 16 so that social distance is maintained. We thermal scan each customer who comes to dine-in and provide them sanitisers and disposable masks,” she said.“Our staff also follows all safety precautions and we have provided them with masks and gloves. After every order we sanitise every table and chair with hydrochloride solutions,” she said.During the lockdown period, all our staff stayed back here in Pune and we provided them with all the necessary requirements, she added.“We received a good response today,” she said.Amar Kumar, a student who was waiting for a parcel, said, “I didn’t know restaurants are reopening. The food here is amazing and they are taking all safety precautions.”Similar arrangements were seen at another prominent restaurant Wadeshwar on FC Road.Hanuman More, manager, Wadeshwar, said, “Safety of the customers is our topmost priority and so we have reduced the tables form 44 to 22. All other safety measures are also followed strictly.”“We have made arrangements for digital QR code menu card at the tables so that the customer just has to scan the code and see the menu and place the order,” he said.“Our staff is provided with necessary safety gear and we sanitise the place often,” he said.At a restaurant bar in Katraj hard disposable glasses are provided to customers and cashless payment is encouraged.“We have made special sitting arrangements and alternate tables are in use so that social distancing is maintained. As we are using special types of glasses which are disposable for safety reasons,” said Vikrant Kenge owner of the restaurant bar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/restaurants-bars-resume-business-owners-hopeful-of-revival/story-AOjX37RALjHY0zSWibF58O.html
06-10-2020||City||West Bengal to provide home guard jobs to kin of those killed by elephants in state||The West Bengal government would provide jobs to the next of kin of victims killed by elephants in the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Tuesday. “A villager killed by an elephant used to get a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh from the state government. We have taken a policy decision that a family member of a victim will get a job in the Home Guard department,” said Banerjee. Also read: West Bengal proposes to set up rail fences to rein in elephantsAt least 433 people have been killed across West Bengal between April 2014 and September 2019. Similarly, in Odisha, elephants claimed 447 human lives, followed by Jharkhand (391), and Chhattisgarh (329) during the corresponding period.“There are around 200 and 500 elephants in south and north Bengal, respectively. Man-elephant animal conflict is common in both parts of West Bengal,” said a state forest department official. Chief minister Banerjee, who chaired an administrative meeting of West Midnapore district in south Bengal on Tuesday, also promised a job for a family member of any person, who was abducted by the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) over a decade ago and is yet to be traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/west-bengal-to-provide-home-guard-jobs-to-kin-of-those-killed-by-elephants-in-state/story-MIxVf0OLJ21TnXnbj2Ob8H.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon Commission gets 7th extension; to submit report before Dec 31||The Maharashtra home department has granted a final extension to the Bhima Koregaon Commission to complete its task and submit a report before December 31. It is the seventh extension granted to the two-member commission probing January 1, 2018, caste clashes at Bhima Koregaon near Pune. The previous extension ended on April 8 amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.“Through this government order, the commission has been given seventh and last extension till December 31, 2020. The commission should file its report within the extended period,” said an order issued by VM Bhat, deputy secretary, home department.Also read: Activist Sudha Bharadwaj seeks bail on medical grounds, SC advises thisThe commission registrar, V V Palnitkar, said in view of Covid-19, the commission and its staff are likely to face some problems especially about conducting hearings. “It has become difficult for advocates and witnesses to attend the hearing due to the fear of infection. The staff is also concerned about the high risk of the virus and have expressed their fears.”Palnitkar said the commission does not want them to come to the office in such a situation and moreover they are not government employees. “Earlier, we had to postpone hearings during Covid-19 and now the situation has aggravated further. We are finding it very difficult to conduct hearings.”The Maharashtra government constituted the commission to probe the Bhima-Koregaon violence, which took place during an event held to mark the 200th anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle in Pune district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-commission-gets-7th-extension-to-submit-reort-before-december-31/story-m3C1zYKCGfKl3OF6CQODJM.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||At farmer rally, Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM Modi over Air India One||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of wasting taxpayers’ money while addressing a farmer rally in Haryana’s Sirsa.The Wayanad MP, while addressing a rally during his ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra (Save the farming)’ in Sirsa’s Dussehra ground, said that PM Modi bought the Air India One because he saw that his friend US President Donald Trump has the Air Force One.He also raked up the Ladakh issue while addressing a rally in Noorpur in Punjab. “On one hand, PM Modi has bought two aircraft worth Rs 8000 crore. On the other hand, China is at our borders and our security forces are braving harsh cold to protect our borders,” Gandhi said, according to ANI.When questioned by the media over BJP’s remarks over Rahul Gandhi sitting on a cushion while sitting atop the tractor during the ongoing protests against the farm bill the Congress leader said that the brand new aircraft that has been bought for the prime minister had many comfortable luxury beds onboard. The former Congress president also lashed out at the BJP regarding the handling of the Hathras gangrape case and asked the prime minister to not remain silent over the horrific incident that has led to nationwide protests. He also harshly criticised the UP government’s response towards the issue saying that chief minister Yogi Adityanath should have shown decency to at least call the incident tragic.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-farmer-rally-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-pm-modi-over-air-india-one/story-3oh9svIHZ3zAQozGxw1j1M.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu tests positive for Covid-19||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Sidhu attended Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Sangrur on Monday and shared the stage with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and all state ministers. The rally was part of the Kheti Bachao Yatra of the Congress to express solidarity with Punjab farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws. Sidhu said he developed mild symptoms, including fever, on Tuesday morning and underwent the rapid antigen detection test that confirmed he had coronavirus infection. The health minister is in home isolation at his official residence in Chandigarh. Ironically, Sidhu, who was the stage secretary during Gandhi’s rally in Sangrur, said that Congress leaders are being questioned for holding rallies during Covid-19 but the farm laws are more dangerous rather than the pandemic.“Coronavirus can be faced but the mahamari (pandemic) that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spread is more dangerous and we have to fight against the farm laws,” he announced during the party’s rallies in Sangrur and Bhawanigarh towns on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-V7Bqj9Xr8qFa02kEGpx0OJ.html
06-10-2020||Pune||63-year-old realtor shot dead near police station in Pune||A real estate developer was shot dead by unidentified assailant near Bund garden police station in Pune on Monday afternoon. Hours after the incident, probe officials brought in two people for questioning though no arrests were made till the time going to press. The deceased has been identified as Rajesh Kanabar (63), a partner and co-founder of Ambiience Group, a real estate development company. Kanabar had left the collector’s office after his visit there and headed towards his car which was parked in the parking area of nearby State Bank of India (main branch) as there was a protest happening near the Collector’s office building, according to the police. The incident happened at 2:43pm at a spot which is barely 500-600 metre away from the Bund garden police station and in close proximity of the Pune police commissioner’s office too. Kanabar had come to the collector’s office for a hearing about a land dispute. While he was making his way towards his car, he stopped to buy fruits from a nearby vendor and turned around to enter his car when a pedestrian ran towards him, shot him, and fled the spot, police officials said. “He was fighting a long-standing land dispute which was being fought bitterly. The dispute is about a 10 acre land in Bavdhan. Prima facie it appears to be related to the land dispute,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune. Kanabar, according to police, was shot down from a close range. The shooter fired multiple bullets of which at least one hit his chest. “The assailant shot him and headed towards the road that connects to the commissioner’s office on foot. That is as far as we can say right now,” said additional commissioner Sanjay Shinde. Kanabar’s driver, who was in the car and witnessed the shooting, collected him and rushed him to Jehangir hospital where he was declared dead, according to the police. His body was further sent to Sassoon General Hospital for post-mortem. “We are collecting the details of the land dispute from the collector’s office. His driver’s complaint is being recorded and after studying the complaint, a case will be registered,” said DCP Gore. Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta also visited the police station and took stock of the situation along with additional commissioners Ashok Morale and Sanjay Shinde, deputy commissioner of police Swapna Gore, and assistant commissioner of police Chandrakant Sangale. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code along with Arms Act is being registered at Bund garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/realtor-shot-dead-near-bund-garden-police-station-in-pune/story-2ygwDYezqbcTn9KImlJiHI.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Stubble burning: Bio-decomposer spraying from October 11 in Delhi, says CM Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Delhi government will start spraying “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution from October 11 to prevent stubble burning in non-basmati rice fields in the national capital.Scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, PUSA, have found a low-cost, simple and effective way to deal with the problem of stubble burning, he said.“They have developed ‘bio-decomposer’ capsules, which are used to prepare a liquid formulation. The solution, when sprayed in the fields, can decompose crop residue and turn it into manure,” Kejriwal said after inspecting his government’s centralised bio-decomposer system set up in Kharkhari Nahar village in southwest Delhi.The solution increases soil fertility and reduces the use of fertilisers, he said.This year, the Delhi government is going to use the solution on the land where non-basmati rice is grown.“We have estimated that only Rs 20 lakh is needed to manage stubble in 800 hectares of agricultural land in Delhi through this solution. It includes the cost of preparation, transportation and spraying,” he said.Farmers have to just give their consent and the Delhi government will spray the solution in their fields free of cost, he said.It takes seven days to prepare the solution, which has jaggery and chickpea flour as ingredients. The spraying will begin on October 11, the chief minister said.If this proves to be successful in Delhi, it can be a good solution for the issue of stubble burning in the neighbouring states too, he said.Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said, “We want to create a model in Delhi so that no government can make an excuse (on the issue of stubble burning).” “When there is an alternative available … all those who seriously want to reduce pollution should use this,” he said.The solution being prepared at Kharkhari Nahar will be enough for around 1,300 farmers in Delhi, Rai said.The minister said farm fires in neighbouring states contribute up to 44 per cent of Delhi’s pollution during the harvesting season.Asked if the method will be implemented in other states as well, Rai said it depended on their will to do it.“We have already appealed to them to implement it. If we can set up a centralised system for it in Delhi, they can do it too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stubble-burning-bio-decomposer-spraying-from-october-11-in-delhi-says-cm-kejriwal/story-TCBeef5EY7tdVRs3UG0qOJ.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Prime Minister Modi gave away land to China to salvage his image, says Rahul Gandhi||Keeping up his tirade against Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the Prime Minister of being obsessed with his image for which he ignores important issues concerning India. Addressing a press conference in Patiala on the concluding day of his Kheti Bachao Yatra in Punjab in support of the farmers protesting the recent farm laws, Gandhi said, “Modi is not interested in India’s people. He is only concerned about protecting and promoting his image. China has taken over 1,200 square kilometres of Indian territory but Modi didn’t acknowledge it as it would have dented his image.” He said the media is also to blame for helping Modi promote his image. “Why don’t you question him at press conferences?” Gandhi asked the media. Rejecting the suggestion that the Modi-led government is able to take unilateral decisions because of a weak Opposition, Gandhi said: “Give me a free press and other key institutions and this (Narendra Modi) government will not last long.” “In India, that entire framework has been controlled and captured by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, the entire architecture designed for giving voice to the people has been captured,” he said. He claimed that the BJP government has captured “the soul of the country”, which is what the Congress is fighting against. “This fight will become more aggressive, going forward. The whole country is being thrashed. It’s not a big deal if they pushed me. I’ll take lathis, but I’ll keep fighting for the people,” he said on the police action while he was on the way to meet the Hathras gangrape victim’s family. “The government may have captured the institutions but it can’t control farmers, youth and small traders, whose interests it is destroying. I work among these people, who are the hardest hit by Modi’s policies. I am patient, and will wait till the people of India see the truth,” he said. “I will fight and stop them,” he declared, pointing out that if the minimum support price (MSP) goes, Punjab, Haryana, and other agricultural states such as Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan will have no future left. Gandhi claimed that the new farm laws will destroy MSP and the public distribution system (PDS) for the poor. “The danger is real and can’t be negated just because Modi & Co are making fun of me,” he said. ‘FOOD SECURITY SYSTEM NEEDS REFORMS’ Calling the existing food security system a fortress for farmers, Gandhi said that it needed reforms, which is what the Congress manifesto had promised. In response to a question on the BJP leadership making fun of his protests in Punjab and Haryana, he shrugged it off, saying they had done that in February too when he had first warned about Covid-19. “The truth is there for all to see. Six months on, everyone will know the truth of what he is saying on farm laws, too.” Taking a dig at Modi’s statement in March-end that India aims to win the war against Covid-19 in 21 days, the Congress leader said, “You can see for yourself who talks more sense Modi or me. You (media) can decide who is joking.” In reply to the BJP’s claims that the farm laws just like demonetisation and the goods and services tax (GST) were achievements of the Modi government, Rahul said: “If the farm laws are an achievement, why are farmers not celebrating, why are they not letting off firecrackers with joy?” “If Modi was so sure that these laws were beneficial to farmers, why didn’t he face a debate in Parliament? Why did he push the laws during Covid times when farmers can’t come out on the roads? Why didn’t he hold a press conference or come and meet farmers in Punjab?” Gandhi added. Asked why he was not present in Parliament during voting on the farm bills, he said he was a son too. His mother (Sonia Gandhi) had to go for a medical check-up and since his sister could not for family reasons, it was his responsibility to do so, he said. ‘WHY IS PM SILENT ON HATHRAS?’ Gandhi accused Modi of not speaking out after the alleged gangrape of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district in September. He said he visited the victim’s family last week because he wanted them to know that they were not alone in seeking justice for their daughter. He said he told the woman’s family that he was not only there for them and their daughter but also for “lakhs of women in the country who face unruly behaviour every day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prime-minister-modi-gave-away-land-to-china-to-salvage-his-image-says-rahul-gandhi/story-N5eakhrbOPUuOhpFZCyVVJ.html
06-10-2020||Kolkata||Ex-IPS officer, accused in Assam police job scam, nabbed on Indo-Nepal border||A retired Indian Police Service officer from Assam was detained on Tuesday a month after he was named as the prime accused in a job recruitment scam. P K Dutta was on the run since the Assam government cancelled a written exam to recruit police sub-inspectors after its question paper was leaked on social media last month.“Dutta has been detained at Indo-Nepal international border on the strength of a lookout circular issued by criminal investigation department (CID) of Assam,” the Assam police said in the statement. “He has now been handed over to West Bengal police. Assam Police would take him in custody in due course and bring him to Assam.”Dutta was detained from Kakarbhitta on the Nepalese side of the India-Nepal border while he was on his way to Assam by road. His son-in-law, a Nepali citizen, was accompanying him.Also Read: Indefinite strike by Assam transport body from today An Assam police team was expected to seek Dutta’s transit remand to bring him to Assam.An associate is believed to have helped Dutta and his son on September 23 to reach Siliguri in West Bengal, where they spent a night at a hotel. Dutta’s son-in-law is believed to have helped the two enter into Nepal the next day.Dutta and ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader Diban Deka are suspected to have assured jobs to many candidates in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test.A police investigation has revealed that a day ahead of the test on September 20, many candidates had taken a mock exam in a Guwahati hotel. Nearly 70 of these candidates were staying at one of the five hotels Dutta owns in Guwahati.Police had issued lookout circulars for both Dutta and Deka and alerted the income tax department, Enforcement Directorate and the department of revenue intelligence after unearthing many properties belonging to the police officer.On September 30, Deka, who unsuccessfully contested as a BJP candidate in 2011, was arrested. He was later expelled from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/former-ips-officer-accused-in-assam-police-job-scam-nabbed-on-indo-nepal-border/story-mht4HSBGjLa9hBqWOGLo9L.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality likely to worsen due to spike in farm fires: Report||The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the “moderate” category on Tuesday morning, but it is likely to worsen in the coming days due to a spike in farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring border regions. The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the city’s air quality index (AQI) will remain in the “moderate” category on Wednesday and Thursday and will start deteriorating thereafter. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 177 at 10.30 am which falls in the “moderate” category. On Monday, the 24-hour average AQI was 179. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “A sharp increase in stubble burning was observed around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions. Boundary layer wind direction is favorable for transport (of pollutants). It will start impacting Delhi in the coming days,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. Also, there is a marked dip in minimum temperatures recorded in Delhi. On Tuesday, it settled at 18.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-likely-to-worsen-due-to-spike-in-farm-fires-report/story-8w3c7GF58btmadpzlZCTzH.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Maharashtra orders probe into ‘conspiracy to defame state’||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday announced an investigation into “the conspiracy to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra police” over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death while blaming opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for it. He asked the BJP and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to apologise for defaming them.Deshmukh said Mumbai police’s crime branch and cyber-crime branch of the Maharashtra police will conduct the probe.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty, brother Showik’s judicial custody in drugs case extended till Oct 20HT on Tuesday reported the Mumbai’s police’s cyber unit has submitted a report to commissioner Param Bir Singh saying at least 80,000 fake social media accounts were created across nine countries as part of an “orchestrated campaign” to discredit the force and Maharashtra government over the investigation into the death.Singh said the campaign was run against Mumbai Police to demoralise them.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Mumbai home on June 14, setting off speculation about the cause of his death. Mumbai Police called several members of the film industry for questioning before the actor’s family filed a police complaint in Bihar alleging a conspiracy behind the death and blamed his friend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, for it.The Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate, and the Narcotics Control Bureau are probing the case.A medical team from New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has ruled out the possibility of Rajput’s murder.Deshmukh cited a Michigan State University report on social media campaign over Rajput’s death and said it found BJP hatched the conspiracy to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra police. Deshmukh said the BJP used “a few people outside the state” as “puppets” to defame Maharashtra. “The study report has stated that SSR [Sushant Singh Rajput] case study reveals the BJP’s hand in hatching the conspiracy theory in the case.”Deshmukh said a few TV channels were at the forefront of this conspiracy. “Cyber crime cell of the Maharashtra police will investigate the fake accounts created as part of the conspiracy.”He cited the view of the AIIMS team and said it has endorsed their stand that no poisoning was involved in the death. “The Supreme Court... applauded Mumbai police’s investigation. A few BJP leaders targeted the Mumbai police for the political gain in the Bihar elections. They even crossed the limit and called the Mumbai police mafia.” He said Fadnavis also targeted the Mumbai police, doubting their competence.BJP rubbished Deshmukh’s charges. “We strongly condemn political and false allegations... The BJP or Devendra Fadnavis will never indulge in any illegal activity. Deshmukh is the most irresponsible home minister Maharashtra has had so far. He should conduct the probe. We are not against it,” said BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-maharashtra-orders-probe-into-conspiracy-to-defame-state/story-iTTMO0I1bORaShvpqTBrKI.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Sisters petition to quash FIR against them adjourned to October 13||The Bombay high court on Tuesday posted the petition filed by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, the sisters of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, for quashing of the first information report (FIR) registered against them by Bandra police, for further hearing on October 13.The bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik adjourned the hearing as no one appeared for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the counsel for Rhea Chakraborty, the actor on whose complaint the FIR was registered on September 7, 2020, sought time to respond to the petition.In her complaint, Chakraborty has accused Priyanka Singh and one Dr Tarun Kumar of Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi of prescribing medicines for Rajput which were prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Sisters move Bombay high court to quash FIR based on Rhea Chakraborty’s complaintThe 28-year-old actor alleged that the doctor prescribed a banned medicine, Clonazepam, to Rajput, which might have resulted in chronic anxiety and ultimately led Rajput to kill himself. She has blamed Priyanka Singh and other members of Rajput’s family for his untimely death.In the petition filed through advocate Madhav Thorat, Rajput’s sisters, however, claimed that the medicine was not banned and the guidelines issued by the Medical Council of India on April 11, 2020 for telemedicine “allows the medicine to be prescribed to a patient even at the first consultation.”“A bare perusal of the complaint along with the FIR shows that the statements made therein do not make out any cognisable offence,” states the petition. It adds that the lodging of Chakraborty’s complaint was nothing but a feeble attempt on her part to scuttle the investigation against herself and blame Rajput’s family members for his suicide, as she was on the verge of being arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Mumbai Police registers two FIRs against trolls who tried to discredit the forceIt adds that no criminality could be attributed to the petitioners, especially when the complaint was solely based on medicines prescribed by a doctor. In support of their contention, they relied on a 2005 Supreme Court judgment in Jacob Matthew’s case, in which the apex court held that no offence against a medical practitioner can be investigated without first obtaining the opinion of experts in medical field.The petition also highlighted that there was an inordinate delay of 90 days in lodging the police complaint—the medicines were prescribed on June 8, 2020, the day Rajput asked Chakraborty to leave his house, and the complaint was lodged on September 7, 2020.A day after the FIR was registered, NCB arrested Chakraborty after interrogating her for three consecutive days in connection with the drug trail that came to the fore following Rajput’s death.Meanwhile, Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde issued a statement which read: “It is disturbing to learn that the family of SSR and its lawyers are interfering and tampering with the investigations by bringing pressure on the AIIMS team of doctors by speaking to them during investigations and releasing purported audio recoded conversations and information to the media in order to bring pressure and tamper with potential witnesses. The SSR family lawyer is supposed to have said that he is going to meet the CBI director to get the family’s pre-determined path of investigations in SSR death. It is very disturbing to read such information in the media as attempts are being made to get a pre-determined result in the case. Any further attempts to interfere and tampering in the investigations would be brought to the notice of the appropriate courts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-sisters-petition-to-quash-fir-against-them-adjourned-to-october-13/story-gKhPfaLJDsvVSlky9bnmdJ.html
06-10-2020||Lucknow||RLD’s mahapanchayat on Thursday; may trigger farmers’ agitation in western UP||Speculation is rife that the Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RLD) proposed mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday against the controversial farm bills may trigger farmers’ agitation in western Uttar Pradesh (UP). Besides, UP Police’s assault on RLD leader Jayant Choudhary and his supporters in Hathras district on Sunday triggered an uproar among the followers of late Prime Minister and Jat leader Charan Singh. Jayant is the grandson of Charan Singh and also the son of former Union minister Ajit Singh. RLD and Samajwadi Party (SP) workers in Hathras were assaulted by the UP Police on Sunday after they had allegedly breached barricades in their bid to reach Boolgarhi village in the district, which is in the eye of a raging political controversy. Trouble had erupted after a Dalit teenager (19) was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men and the grievous injuries led to her death last week.The UP Police’s action against Jayant has enraged the Jat community, which is largely engaged in agriculture and also a dominant caste group in western UP. A video of the assault went viral, where Jayant can be seen interacting with media persons, when the police resorted to lathi charge and beat up RLD leaders and their supporters. However, the video clip did not show RLD supporters trying to breach police barricades to enter into Boolgarhi village. Sunday’s incident ahead of the mahapanchayat has angered the public and RLD leaders are expecting a massive turnout at the event in support of Jayant. “The party has a rural base and farmers are associated with it in large numbers. Majority of them still admire Charan Singh. The assault on Jayant has angered the public and they are expected to turn up at the mahapanchayat in large numbers to show their solidarity with Jayant and his family in a bid to send a message to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” said Rahul Deo, Meerut district president, RLD.Rajkumar Sangwan, RLD’s organisational general secretary, said the mahapanchayat was announced to oppose the controversial farm laws and the Muzaffarnagar district administration’s decision to register cases against party leaders, who had protested against these legislations and staged a dharna last week. “UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wants to govern the state with batons. FIRs (first information reports) are being routinely filed against opposition parties to suppress our voices of dissent,” said Sangwan. RLD workers and leaders staged a protest outside the office of the divisional commissioner in Meerut on Monday. They raised slogans and burnt an effigy of the UP CM to oppose the assault on Jayant and RLD supporters in Hathras on Sunday. “We demand arrest of the police personnel who had assaulted our leader and supporters and condemn the ‘jungle raj’ under Yogi’s rule in UP,” said Narendra Khajuri, a RLD leader. RLD leaders have been busy mobilising farmers and party supporters in villages to ensure their participation in the mahapanchayat in large numbers, said Sunil Rohta, a spokesperson of the RLD. “We have been receiving an overwhelming response from the public and expecting a good turnout at the mahapanchayat on Thursday,” said Rohta.He claimed that the event would trigger a movement against the farm bills and the “excesses of the ruling party”. Dharmendra Malik, UP spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a farmers’ organisation linked to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the BJP, said farmers from western UP were against the farm laws and a movement was building up against the recent legislations. He said the BKU had called for a warning protest on October 22, where farmers would stage a protest at district and tehsil headquarters across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rld-s-mahapanchayat-on-thursday-may-trigger-farmers-agitation-in-western-up/story-y3VC8OdNt43lh9TnnvAOML.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Actress gets Y plus security, while Hathras victim’s family left at mercy of God, says Saamana||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Tuesday hit out at the Centre over the rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, saying her family has been left to the “mercy of God”. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena warned of a Dalit backlash if injustice against the community continues.The editorial said the woman’s family is living under fear as they are getting threats. “The Centre provides Y plus security to an actress from Mumbai but leaves the family of the Hathras victim to the mercy of God. This is not an element of equal law for all that Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar provided in the Constitution,” it said.The Centre last month granted actor Kangana Ranaut Y-plus category security, which involves deployment of around a dozen guards, amid her war of words with the Shiv Sena. The verbal duel began after Ranaut likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and said she feared Mumbai Police.The editorial called Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad’s demand for 50% subsidy for the Dalits to buy guns for self-protection the “first spark” of Dalit backlash. It added former Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Rajveer Singh Pahalwan held a rally in support of the Hathras accused. “All this adds to the terror in which the victim’s family is living. Besides that, it adds to the communal discord... The government should not add fuel to the fire.”The editorial said Uttar Pradesh’s Yogi Adityanath government handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) even as the family did not seek it. It added instead the family sought a judicial probe. “Using the force of police, the voice of the victim’s family was muzzled. The dead body of the victim was burned in the night. Lathis were rained down on the political leaders who went to meet the family of the victim. When the public opinion started shifting, the Yogi government... handed over the case to CBI. Handing over the probe to CBI proves that Yogi Adityanath does not trust his police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actress-gets-y-plus-security-while-hathras-victim-s-family-left-at-mercy-of-god-says-saamana/story-wk08TkmZjDxC1uzBt9pMuM.html
06-10-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur’s Bikru ambush was planned; women helped in carnage, says chargesheet||The July 3 ambush of a raiding police team in Bikru village of Kanpur Dehat, Uttar Pradesh, was well planned, says the 1,700-page police charge sheet. Filed by the Kanput police in Kanpur Dehat court, the charge sheet also says that information about the raid on gangster Vikas Dubey’s house was leaked by local police and women helped in the ambush, allowing the assailants to kill police personnel and escape. Eight policemen, including a deputy SP and three sub-inspectors, were killed in the ambush. The police have charged 36 persons in the case. Six of the assailants, including gangster Vikas Dubey, were killed in encounters and two others are yet to be arrested. Among the accused are also four females-- Kshama Agnihotri, Rekha Agnihotri, Shanti Dubey, and a minor. Their husbands are also accused in the case. Also read: Supreme Court rejects plea to reconstitute Vikas Dubey probe panelSP rural Brijesh Shrivastava said police have enough evidences against the accused women. They even provided bullets to the men firing at the police team from three sides, he said. “We will prove all this in the court,” he said. The police, however, did not charge Manu Pandey, whose purported audio clips talked about the role these women may have played in the ambush. Also it did not make Vikas’s elusive brother Deepu Dubey or his wife Richa accused in the case. According to police, Vikas Dubey planned the ambush after he was tipped off by local police about the raid. He instructed them that they would also have to loot police weapons. The meeting took place at his house, which the police later razed to the ground. Sub-inspector KK Sharma of the local police spoke to Dubey and his men 13 times that night. The last conversation was with one of accused, Ram Singh, at 11.44 pm — 11 minutes before the police left for the raid. Sharma spoke about the raid to Ram Singh, who passed on the information to Hiru Dubey who then shared it with Vikas Dubey. The women named in the charge sheet were part of plan, police said, including the minor who was married just three days before the ambush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-s-bikru-ambush-was-planned-women-helped-in-carnage-says-chargesheet/story-mBzjbCmDPq0CMRtk8TyGOP.html
06-10-2020||Bangalore||Sandalwood drugs case: Bineesh Kodiyeri appears before Enforcement Directorate||Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, on Tuesday deposed before the Enforcement Directorate here over charges of his links with an accused in the drug seizure case.The ED had served a notice directing him to appear before them on Tuesday in connection with his alleged links with one of the accused arrested in the drugs case by the Narcotics Control Bureau.The NCB had arrested Anikha D, R Ravindran and Mohammed Anoop in August from Bengaluru for allegedly possessing drugs.They are accused of supplying drugs to Kannada film actors and singers.It is suspected that Bineesh has links with Mohammed Anoop.The ED had questioned him on September 9.The youth wing of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had alleged that Bineesh Kodiyeri has close links with some members of a drug racket busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bengaluru. PTI GMS ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/sandalwood-drugs-case-bineesh-kodiyeri-appears-before-enforcement-directorate/story-LM4yWCgpIKnA9AZwajugXJ.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to prepare bio-decomposer for crop stubble: All you need to know||Beginning Tuesday, Delhi government is set to start preparation of a biochemical solution—a new technology that decomposes crop stubble so that it doesn’t need to be burnt. The technology could prove to be a solution for farmers who otherwise end up burning paddy stubble causing fumes that add to air pollution during winter. As per government figures, at least 800 hectares of farmland in the rural belt of Delhi is under cultivation where crop stubble burning is practised. Here are five things you need to know about the technology and what it aims to doWhat is a bio-decomposer?The Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, Delhi has developed a decomposer capsule, which could be converted into a liquid solution and sprayed on fields with crop stubble. The solution, once sprayed on the fields, will decompose the stubble, which can be used by farmers to treat the fields.How and where does the Delhi government plan to prepare the biochemical solution?The liquid biochemical solution can be formulated by mixing the capsules with jaggery and several other ingredients. The mixture needs to be fermented over three or four days before it’s ready to be sprayed. The Delhi government has set up a centralised plant for large-scale production of the solution at Najafgarh’s Kharkhari Nahar village. From Tuesday, operations will begin at 400 different camps here under the supervision of IARI scientists.How much time does it take for the stubble to decompose after the chemical has been sprayed?IARI scientists said that it takes over 20 days for the stubble to decompose into compost.How can farmers use this scheme?Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said that the chemical will be sprayed in the fields free of cost. Agricultural development officers at all districts will lead the task of filling up forms for farmers with details of their village and area under cultivation, among others. Once the forms are submitted, officials will be deployed to spray the chemical at the designated location. The district officials will also be creating awareness about the same.How much will it cost the government?From preparing the mixture to spraying it across 800 hectares of farmland, the entire process will cost the government Rs 20 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-prepare-bio-decomposer-for-crop-stubble-all-you-need-to-know/story-kec0HffMCCDz5sZ4wlOZbI.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Port Trust to prepare conservation plan for Kanhoji Angre Island||In its bid to develope the Kanhoji Angre Island as a toursit spot, the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) will prepare a restoration and conservation plan for the place that includes a fort wall, water bodies and cannons. The port trust, which owns the island, is looking for a consultant to prepare a site management plan on the ancient remains of the island, located 20 km south of Mumbai. According to MbPT documents accessed by HT, the island has a peripheral dry stone masonry wall that has collapsed at many places. A prominent structure on the island is the 22-feet lighthouse, built by the British in 1867. The fort also has old metal cannons, the tomb of local saint Daud Pir, a temple of Sri Betal, where local fishermen from the nearby villages perform rituals, and four wells. The whole island has an area of about 16 acres. The island is named after the great Maratha navy commander Kanhoji Angre who fought and won many a battles against the Portuguese and the British. A senior planner from MbPT said, “The idea is to undertake restoration work since many parts of the fort wall have collapsed. We are also on the lookout for a firm to maintain the place once we open it as a tourist spot.” MbPT is looking at transforming the island by developing camp sites, gazebos, amphitheatre, cafeteria, pathways, food courts and light and sound shows there. It is also planning to build a resort on the island to facilitate overnight stays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-port-trust-to-prepare-conservation-plan-for-kanhoji-angre-island/story-QUgiRpNGEMr4VtRH1HuAKM.html
06-10-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 816 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths as tally rises to 88,026||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 88,026 as 816 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said on Tuesday.Four more patients succumbed to the disease, taking the state’s coronavirus death toll to 747, he said.Fresh fatalities were reported from Ranchi, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Dhanbad, the official said.Ranchi district reported the maximum number of new cases at 319, followed by East Singbhum at 70.Jharkhand now has 10,436 active Covid-19 cases, while 76,843 people have been cured of the disease so far, the official said.The state has conducted 18,929 sample tests for Covid-19 on Monday, he added. PTI IKD BDC BDC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-records-816-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-as-tally-rises-to-88-026/story-rUMWUNHET0TN2l1pHEiqgM.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Mumbai Police registers two FIRs against trolls who tried to discredit the force||A first information report (FIR) has been filed against those who had created fake accounts on social media to troll Param Bir Singh, commissioner, Mumbai Police, and orchestrated a campaign to discredit the police and the Maharashtra government regarding the investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34).Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. At least 80,000 fake social media accounts were created across nine countries as part of the orchestrated campaign, according to a report by Mumbai Police’s cyber unit. “The Mumbai Police commissioner is being trolled on various social media platforms and abusive languages are being used against him and the Mumbai Police. An FIR has been filed against social media account holders under section 67 of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. Most of these social media accounts are found to be fake and we will be taking action against them,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (cyber), Mumbai Police.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty, others’ judicial custody likely to be extended“Another FIR has been registered against the culprits who had used a morphed image of the official Twitter account of the Mumbai Police commissioner recently. We have started the probe in both the matters,” added Karandikar. The internal report, submitted by the unit to Singh, said it found posts were uploaded on social media platforms from different countries, including Italy, Japan, Poland, Slovenia, Indonesia, Turkey, Thailand, Romania and France. “The campaign to demoralise us was orchestrated at a time when 84 Mumbai Police personnel has died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and over 6,000 were found to have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease. This was a motivated campaign with vested interests to malign the image of the Mumbai Police and derail our line of investigation,” Singh had said. Those found violating the law would be prosecuted under relevant sections of the IT Act, 2000, he had said. “Multiple fake accounts on social media were created to target the Mumbai Police in an abusive language,” he had added. There have been speculations galore about Rajput’s death. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Sisters move Bombay high court to quash FIR based on Rhea Chakraborty’s complaintEarlier, Mumbai Police had questioned several members of the film industry before the actor’s family members filed a police complaint in Bihar alleging a conspiracy behind his death and blamed his girlfriend actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members. At present, the case is being probed by several central agencies, including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Chakraborty, her brother Showik and some other associates are in judicial custody for their alleged involvement in consumption of banned narcotic substances and NCB authorities claimed are related to Rajput’s death.The cyber unit’s revelation came days after a medical team from New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has ruled out the possibility of murder in Rajput’s death. The Maharashtra government has claimed that the AIIMS report is a vindication of its stand in the high-profile case. “We had investigated this case professionally. CBI had set up a panel of AIIMS doctors, who have justified our investigation, the findings of Cooper Hospital and the forensic laboratory. Except for a few people, nobody else was aware of our investigation, but still, many have criticised it,” Singh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-mumbai-police-registers-two-firs-against-trolls-who-tried-to-discredit-the-force/story-QOnTFgBZrP6bWMIRAB7o4M.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Security up outside Dushyant, Ranjit Chautala’s houses in Sirsa after farmers call for gherao||Security has been tightened outside the houses of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and his grand uncle Ranjit Chautala, who is the state power and jails minister, in Sirsa following a protest called by two dozen farmer organisations on Tuesday, seeking their resignation from the Manohar Lal Khattar government. Farmers from across the state plan to gherao the houses of Dushyant and Ranjit Chautala as they are part of the BJP-led government in the state and support the Centre’s farm laws that look to liberalise agriculture. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, Independent Meham MLA Balraj Kundu, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni will also take part in the protest at Sirsa. DUSHYANT URGED TO WITHDRAW SUPPORT TO BJP Kundu said he along with farmers from his constituency will visit Sirsa to extend support to the agitating farmers. “Everyone knows the consequences these laws will have on the farming community but Dushyant has closed his eyes to this issue. His great grandfather Devi Lal had struggled for farmers and labourers during his entire political career but he is still sitting in the BJP’s lap. I urge Dushyant and other legislators belonging to the agriculture community, who are supporting the BJP government in Haryana to withdraw their support. If the Shiromani Akali Dal can snap 23-year-old ties with the BJP, why can’t Dushyant?” he said. Yadav wrote an open letter to Dushyant, seeking his resignation for the sake of farmers. “Those supporting these anti-farmer laws will have to face public protests and black flags,” he said. FACING THE BRUNT OF THE AGITATION According to political observers, Dushyant and Ranjit Chautala are facing the brunt of the farmer agitation’s heat in Haryana because they were backed by farmers, mostly from the Jat community. Ranjit had won the election after 32 years from Rania assembly seat in Sirsa. After snapping ties with his estranged uncle Abhay Singh Chautala and grandfather, OP Chautala of the INLD, Dushyant formed his own outfit, the Jannayak Janata Party, and won 10 seats in the state assembly election in 2019. His party won eight of the 10 seats, where Jats from the agrarian community are dominant. SIMMERING ANGER AMONG FARMERS Last week, farmers had shown black flags to Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal at Odhan village in Sirsa, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and former state minister Karan Dev Kamboj during their visit to Yamunanagar. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal and Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik were also greeted with black flags during their visits to Chhichhrana and Madina villages in Sonepat’s Baroda constituency that goes to the polls on November 3. The agitators had also gheraoed the offices of Dushyant and Jannayak Janta Party MLA Devinder Babli in Uchana and Fatehabad, respectively. Protesters showed black flags to Dushyant in Kaithal, too. BJP’s Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap also faced the farmers’ ire when they confronted him, leaving him with no option but to flee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/security-up-outside-dushyant-ranjit-chautala-s-houses-in-sirsa-after-farmers-call-for-gherao/story-110l1vhLxW5FHZlYYnK2uM.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Suburban train services on the Western Railway disrupted||Suburban train services on the Western Railway were disrupted on Tuesday morning after an Overhead Equipment (OHE) wire snapped near Nallasopara railway station.Local train services on the fast railway line corridor towards Churchgate railway station are impacted, authorities said.“Due to OHE problem on UP fast line between Nallasopara and Virar, trains are being run on UP local line between Virar and Vasai Road railway stations. Other three lines are fully operative.Restoration work is in full swing & up line expected to be restored in 3 hours.” tweeted Western Railway.#WRUpdates. 06.10.2020. Due to OHE problem on UP fast line between Nallasopara & Virar, trains are being run on UP local line between Virar & Vasai RoadOther three lines are fully operative.Restoration work is in full swing & UP line expected to be restored in 3 hrs. @drmbctThe fast local train services are being diverted to the slow railway lines. One outstation train was also held up due to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-suburban-train-services-on-the-western-railway-disrupted/story-kuer0LtI4Yo6By8kWOnuXM.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Sisters move Bombay high court to quash FIR based on Rhea Chakraborty’s complaint||Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, the sisters of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput have moved the Bombay high court to quash the first information report (FIR) registered against them by Bandra police on September 7, 2020.The FIR was registered based on a complaint lodged by actor Rhea Chakraborty, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after WhatsApp chats revealing the alleged sale and purchase of drugs surfaced during the investigation into Rajput’s untimely death.In her complaint, Chakraborty accused Priyanka Singh and one Dr Tarun Kumar of Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi of prescribing Rajput medicines that were prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty, others’ judicial custody likely to be extendedIn the petition filed through advocate Madhav Thorat, Rajput’s sisters have contended that no criminality could be attributed to them since the complaint was solely based on medicines prescribed by a doctor, and therefore liable to be struck down in view of a particular Supreme Court judgment.They have also contended that the complaint was fraught with material irregularities and discrepancies and there was an inordinate delay of 90 days in lodging the complaint—the medicines were prescribed on June 8, 2020, the day Rajput asked Chakraborty to leave his house, and the complaint was lodged on September 7, 2020.Advocate Madhav Thorat said the sisters have also sought interim orders to restrain the Central Bureau of Investigation, to whom the case has been handed over by the Maharashtra government, from taking any coercive steps against them.The petition will come up for hearing before a bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-sisters-move-bombay-high-court-to-quash-fir-based-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-complaint/story-Im5bAWuVZXK8Ynng3Y1aPI.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty, others’ judicial custody likely to be extended||The judicial custody of actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakaborty, and 18 others arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), in connection with its probe into the drug angle to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, ends Tuesday. Their judicial custody is most likely to be extended for another 14 days considering their bail pleas before the Bombay High Court have been heard, and a single bench has reserved its order. Chakraborty and her brother were arrested by NCB after WhatsApp chats regarding the alleged use of drugs surfaced during the investigation into Rajput’s untimely death. Chakraborty was arrested after being interrogated by an NCB team for three consecutive days, on September 6, 7 and 8. According to NCB, the actor was “involved in illicit trafficking of drug and she financed drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput.” Similar allegations were levelled against Showik Chakraborty and stringent conditions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 were slapped against the two.Also Read: End the conspiracy theories, now | HT EditorialTheir bail applications were turned down by a special NDPS court on September 11, 2020. Following this, Chakraborty and her brother had moved the Bombay high court for bail and had refuted the allegation of “financing” narcotic drugs for the consumption of the deceased actor. Arguing their bail applications before the Bombay high court, advocate Satish Maneshinde said Rajput was in no dearth of funds. His house manager Samuel Miranda used to take care of “all” household expenses, and there was no question of Chakraborty financing drug purchases for the deceased actor. Responding to NCB’s accusation that Chakraborty was part of a drug syndicate, Maneshinde said the allegations was merely on the basis of a solitary incident of March 17, 2020 when she gave her credit card to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, who withdrew Rs 10,000 using the card and purchased some contraband material for the deceased actor. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister demands probe into AIIMS Dr Sudhir Gupta, cites ‘flip-flop’ as he rules out murderHe maintained that no amount was paid directly using Chakraborty’s card to any of the alleged peddlers for procuring drugs and therefore she can’t be said to be associated with any drug ring. It was an admitted fact that Rajput was consuming drugs even before Chakraborty became acquainted with him in April 2019, and two of Rajput’s co-stars, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor, have reportedly told NCB that he was consuming drugs for quite a while. Maneshinde said Showik Chakraborty too was accused of being part of a drug syndicate for allegedly paying petty amounts on three occasions in April 2020 to purchase minuscule amounts of hashish and marijuana. The lawyer had added that stringent provisions contained in 27A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 for financing illicit trafficking of drugs or harbouring offenders were not at all applicable to Rhea Chakraborty or Showik Chakraborty, even if one went by the allegations levelled by NCB. NCB also alleged that Rhea Chakraborty had harboured Rajput. Maneshinde had argued that during the relevant period, Chakraborty was residing with Rajput in his house and questioned how she could have harboured the late actor in his own house. Advocate Taraq Sayed, who had argued the bail plea of another man accused in the case, Abdel Basit Parihar, submitted that NCB has been claiming to have busted a major drug ring by arresting 18/19 college students. He claimed that almost all the persons arrested by NCB in this case come from well-to-do families and cannot by any stretch of imagination be termed as drug peddlers or suppliers. Sayed submitted that the arrests were made only on the basis of statements recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act, especially when there was hardly any recovery from most of them. He said the statements under Section 67 can at the most be used to corroborate recovery from an accused, and not otherwise. Sayed said Parihar is a final-year student of architecture and had missed his examination as he had been arrested by NCB. He added that though a moralistic argument was being advanced by NCB as to how society, especially the younger generation, was affected by the menace of narcotic drugs, in India, more people die due to smoking than by drug abuse. Maintaining that all alleged transactions involve small quantities of drugs and therefore were bailable, Sayed said all five applicants before the high court—Rhea Chakraborty, Showik Chakraborty, Miranda, other Rajput staffers Dipesh Sawant and Parihar—were entitled to bail as a matter of right. In support of his submission that the offences alleged were bailable, he relied on a 2010 judgment of Bombay high court holding that all offences under NDPS Act involving small quantities were bailable. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who opposed the bail applications on behalf of NCB, however submitted that the applicants were under a wrong assumption that all offences under the NDPS Act involving small quantity of drugs were bailable. Singh submitted that NDPS Act nowhere states that certain offences were bailable and claimed that all offences under the Act were non-bailable. Justice Sarang Kotwal had agreed with his submission. The judge referred to a 1999 judgement of a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, observing that all offences under the NDPS Act were non-bailable, and no other court was therefore authorised to take a different view of the issue. The judge had then reserved the order on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-others-judicial-custody-likely-to-be-extended/story-Gx5ceiYyPL2KTKnIRx4IWN.html
06-10-2020||City||Covid-19: Active cases in Maharashtra down by 49,475 in 18 days||Active coronavirus cases in Maharashtra are constantly declining, coming down to 252,277 on Monday. The count of active cases, an indication of the spread of the epidemic, has reduced by 49,475 cases in the last 18 days, reveals data released by the state health department.This has happened for the first time in the past over seven months since the pandemic outbreak on March 9. This is because of decline in fresh infections in the last two weeks.Active cases is the difference between total cases and the patients who have recovered (or discharged from hospitals) as well as died. Also read: India maintains below 10% Covid-19 positivity rate, says govtThe state had touched 301,752 active cases on September 17. But the figure has been on decline from the very next day. On September 30, it was down to 259,033 and on October 5, it further dropped to 252,277 cases.“The rate of fresh infection has comparatively reduced in the last two week. In addition, the state has also recorded more number of recoveries than the fresh infections between September 18 and October 5. As a result, the number of active cases is dropping,” said an official from the state health department.Data released by the state health department shows that fresh infections were rising till the second week of September but have been on decline since. Reported cases were 130,789 in the first week; 153,972 in the second week; 148,365 in the third week; 126,773 in the fourth; and 103,654 in the fifth week.Further, between September 18 and October 5, the state has reported a total of 291,936 new cases whereas recoveries recorded in the corresponding period are 350,231, reveals the data.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with the pandemic across the country. On Monday, its case count reached 1,453,653 as 10,244 cases were recorded. The toll also went up to 38,347 with 263 new casualties.The state authorities are still struggling to control the high number of casualties. Figures show that the state’s contribution in total Covid casualties is around 37.34% with 102,685 deaths reported across the country till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-active-cases-in-maharashtra-down-by-49-475-in-18-days/story-G3uxSDhko5aRdP7t6xDYWN.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Western Railway services disrupted after overhead wire snaps||Western Railway’s local train services were disrupted on Tuesday morning after an overhead wire snapped at the Nalla Sopara station, officials said. Restoration work in underway, an official of the government railway police said.Suburban services on the Churchgate-bound fast corridor stopped after the overhead wire, from which power is drawn to run the train, snapped around 6.30am at Nallasopara station in neighbouring Palghar district, he added. News agency PTI cited railway sources saying that a Mumbai-bound long-distance train was also held up at Nallasopara.Earlier, Western Railway said that it would introduce six new local train services out of which two will be for females and will operate during peak hours adding that 506 trains will operate on a daily basis between Churchgate and Virar stations.The Railway Board has been currently running 500 special trains for essential workers along with state and government employees amid the prevailing Covid-19 situation.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-western-railway-services-disrupted-after-overhead-wire-snaps/story-evqASqOOMQ3uOInLcS8Q5N.html
06-10-2020||Kolkata||Darjeeling parties surprised as Centre changes Delhi meet’s agenda from Gorkhaland to GTA||Political parties in the Darjeeling hills were taken by surprise on Monday when the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sent a letter to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s (GJM) founder Bimal Gurung-led faction and stated that the agenda of the meeting convened in Delhi on Wednesday (October 7) had been changed from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to “issues related to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” (GTA). GTA is the local autonomous body in the Darjeeling hills, which is headed by the Binoy Tamang-led faction of the GJM that supports the TMC. The meeting has been convened by G Kishan Reddy, Union minister of state (MoS) for MHA at the ministry’s North Block office in the national capital. Also Read: Centre calls meeting on Gorkhaland at short notice; election move, says TMCHK Dwivedi, the newly appointed Bengal home secretary, and Darjeeling district magistrate (DM) S Ponnambalam have been asked to attend the meeting. The first letter was issued on October 3 and another was sent two days later. Both the letters are marked “most immediate”. Significantly, both the letters are marked to the “President, GJM” and the address mentioned is that of party’s founder Bimal Gurung’s office at Singamari in North Point, Darjeeling. Gurung had signed the GTA accord on behalf of the undivided GJM in July 2011.Gurung, who had founded the GJM and clamped a 104-day shutdown in the Darjeeling hills in 2017 in demand for a separate state, is on the run ever since he was charged by the state under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967.In November 2017, Gurung’s erstwhile lieutenant Tamang suspended him and his aides in their absence. Anit Thapa, a leader of the GJM’s Tamang faction and the chairman of the board of administrators of the GTA, on Sunday said, “The Centre is making a fool of the Gorkhas. It has called a meeting because the Bengal assembly polls will be held next year. A court order had said both Gurung and Tamang are presidents of the GJM. How can Gurung be invited alone for the tripartite talks?” On Monday, Thapa was not available for comment. GJM leaders, who belong to the Tamang faction, said they were surprised that the Centre changed the agenda of the meeting. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 by forging an alliance with the GJM. In 2019, the BJP had an alliance with the GJM’s Gurung faction, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and other smaller hill parties. Since 2009, the BJP has been promising to find a permanent political solution to the long-pending demands of people of Darjeeling, Siliguri, the Terai and the Dooars region. The promises were made in the BJP’s election manifestos in 2014 and 2019 as well. Though not invited to the meeting, Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, had earlier welcomed the Centre’s move.He had said the GNLF is also an alliance partner of the BJP. Reacting to the second letter, Edwards said, “We will hold our own meeting in Darjeeling on the same day and take a call.” TMC spokesperson and Dum Dum Lok Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Saugata Roy said the Centre has called the meeting to create disturbance because assembly elections are due in around six months. “There is no official reason for convening the meeting. The Centre simply wants to create disturbance in the Darjeeling hills. Also, the letter is directly addressed to state government officials. We had told the Centre time and again that it should not be done and instead communications should be sent to the state government,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/darjeeling-parties-surprised-as-centre-changes-delhi-meet-s-agenda-from-gorkhaland-to-gta/story-CDfSiAh5Pfz1zDzQAiIEFM.html
06-10-2020||City||Covid-19: Experts, parents urge Maharashtra government to amend fee regulation Act||After parents raising concern over fee being charged by private schools in Maharashtra even amid Covid-19 pandemic, now experts have also sought government intervention in the matter. In a second letter written on Monday, Pune-based think-tank, SYSCOM, has requested the state government to amend the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011. “During the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, parents across the state are facing financial issues due to pay cuts and job losses. While the current law allows private schools to set their own fees, it needs to be strengthened, especially in the present context to ensure that schools are not run as profit making institutes,” states the letter issued by SYSCOM. Also read: Many pre-schools shut down, leave teachers jobless in LudhianaA government resolution (GR) released on May 8 had stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and must allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners.The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.In the absence of strict norms, say parents, they have nowhere to go. “The department has promised to audit schools against which there are complaints but the process is so long and schools are not going to wait until then,” said the parent of a South Mumbai-based school. An official from the education department said that action is being initiated against schools that have been found flouting norms. Meanwhile, several parents from Mumbai are planning to join the nationwide protest against unjust fees charged by private schools on October 10. The protest is organised by the Forum for Fairness in Education (FFE), a city-based NGO. “We hope the government takes strict action against schools charging capitation fees. Parents also demand a reduction in tuition fees because the school is saving on several expenses, such as electricity, water, and laboratory charges,” said FFE president Jayant Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-experts-parents-urge-maharashtra-government-to-amend-fee-regulation-act/story-ybJxZz6FA8E3EuanFrq4LI.html
06-10-2020||City||Army man killed in Pakistan shelling along LoC in J&K’s Rajouri||A junior commissioned officer (JCO) was killed on Tuesday morning in Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in the union territory (UT) Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district.The deceased has been identified as Subedar Sukhdev Singh.“The JCO sacrificed his life in the line of duty in Pakistan’s ceasefire violation in the Nowshera sector of Rajouri district,” said a spokesperson of the Indian Army. India retaliated to Pakistan’s unprovoked act, he added. “Late Monday Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Nowshera Sector, District Rajouri. Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Subedar Sukhdev Singh was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries”, he said.“Subedar Sukhdev Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” added Col Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-man-killed-in-pakistan-shelling-along-loc-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-yzzkJo5VUfkBsIoB4KSaaP.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Every single grain of farmers will be procured at MSP: Haryana minister||Haryana co-operation minister Dr Banwari Lal on Monday said that adequate arrangements have been made to ensure that both farmers and arhatiyas do not face any problem in the sale and purchase of crops.“Every single grain of farmers will be procured at Minimum Support Price as fixed by the government, Dr Banwari Lal said while inspecting millet procurement in the grain market of Rewari today. The minister said that farm acts are very beneficial for the farmers and the positive impact of these acts will be seen in the near future,” read a release from the state government.“The minister said that the opposition leaders are misleading the farmers about these farm acts, but the farmers of the state are aware and they are not going to be misled by anyone,” the statement added.Lal said that now after fulfilling the condition of moisture content up to 12 per cent, The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) will purchase 100 per cent cotton from Haryana. Earlier, only 25 per cent of cotton was being procured by CCI, the statement stated further. According to the release, he directed the officers that special arrangements should be made to ensure that farmers do not face any problem while selling their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/every-single-grain-of-farmers-will-be-procured-at-msp-haryana-minister/story-5pZVQAunmpwuF7QhqkCW1I.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Most Maharashtra Covid-19 cases from 30-40 age group||At 21.34%, the 31-40 age group accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, data from the state government’s Medical Education and Drugs Department shows. The percentage of cases from the category was 20.54% on June 4, which increased to 20.74% a month later and then to 21.14%, the same day in August, after the lockdown measures were eased. Maharashtra reported 1,443,409 Covid-19 cases and 38,084 fatalities until Sunday evening. The 31-40 age group is followed by 41-50 (17.9% cases), 21-30 (16.98% cases), and 51-60 (15.95%). “Major activities, including inter-district movement, a rise in office workforce and reopening of commercial activities from the first week of September, have led to a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 patients from the age group of 31 to 40 years over the past couple of months. The common perception is that youngsters can be allowed to step out, while senior citizens must stay at home,” said an official from the health department. The percentage of cases among the 41-50 and 51-60 age groups has declined gradually. The 41-50 age group contributed to 18.03% cases on June 4, which dropped to 17.9% four months later. Similarly, for the 51-60 age group, the percentage of patients came down to 15.95% from 16.69%. The 21-30 age category, too, has seen a drop – 19.55% on June 4 to 16.98% four months later. State health officials attributed the dip in the infection rate to closure of schools, colleges and high awareness among youngsters. However, the spread among 61-70 and 71-80 age groups has increased during the corresponding period – June 4 to October 4 – from 9.72% to 10.63% and from 4.19% to 5.02%, respectively. “The rise in the percentage of cases in the 31-40 age group is because of their mobility after lockdown restrictions were gradually eased. The positive aspect of this age group is that they have a higher recovery rate. It also helps to develop herd immunity and increase the percentage of people with positive antibodies. Besides, the mortality rate is low,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital, said carelessness among people in the age group is the major reason. “Most of them are without any comorbidity and it brings the feeling of surety that they would not get infected. If due precautions are taken, like by those in the 40-60 age group, the number of cases can drop further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/most-maharashtra-covid-19-cases-from-30-40-age-group/story-2WaiK2jOuafs65ohhrhmdP.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi launches plan for war on pollution||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a “Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virudh” (war against pollution) campaign, with a seven-point action plan ranging from measures to control dust and mitigate hot spots, to a mobile application for complaints to a “war room” for monitoring.Addressing a digital press conference, Arvind Kejriwal said the activities under this programme will continue through winter months, when pollution peaks and plunges Delhi into a public health emergency every year.He said keeping pollution levels low was even more crucial than usual this year because Covid-19 directly affects the lungs of those infected by it, and pollution could make the situation worse.“October has started, and we know that every year, the level of pollution rises in the months of October, November, and December in the Capital. One of the biggest reasons for this rise in pollution is the burning of crop stubble in Delhi and the nearby areas, due to which farmers and their families have to bear the maximum brunt of the pollution caused by stubble burning,” he said, reiterating the state government’s position that farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were the biggest components to spike in bad air in Delhi. The chief minister did not mention the odd-even road rationing scheme, which was one of the biggest innovations by the government to attempt to control vehicular emissions, and which is part of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) enforced under certain conditions by the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca).When asked if Delhi will see another odd-even drive, a Delhi government spokesperson said, “We have stringently followed Grap in the past and will continue enforcing it in the future too.”Also Read | Mercury drops, Delhi’s air begins to worsenExperts said that while the steps taken by the government were welcome, the real test would lie in their implementation.Unveiling the components of the anti-pollution campaign, Kejriwal said the first action point of the campaign was to control stubble burning within Delhi.“This year, Pusa Agricultural Research Institute has devised a very cheap and simple solution. They have formulated a fermented liquid solution which is to be sprayed on the fields to soften the stubble and prevent its burning. This year, the Delhi government will spray the solution on the basmati rice farm fields for free. If this technique is successful in Delhi, we can tell the other states to implement the same to prevent stubble burning. The Delhi government is preparing the mixture in Delhi on a large scale, and the process will start tomorrow under the guidance of the Pusa Research Institute,” Kejriwal said.The second point is an anti-dust drive in which construction sites will be strictly and regularly monitored, municipal corporations will carry out mechanical sweeping of roads, smog guns will be used, and road-owning agencies will be asked to fill potholes to prevent road dust. The government has identified 13 major hot spots where Kejriwal said an “area-specific” action plan will be executed. The areas are Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri — all classified as hot spots by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Central Pollution Control Board last year based on high particulate matter concentration. “We will be launching the Green Delhi App this month. If you witness a source of pollution, including vehicular and industrial emissions, click a photo, and post it on the app. We have specified a deadline for each type of complaint. I will personally monitor the grievance redressal. We are also creating a ‘war room’ against pollution for monitoring of various measures that are implemented and have to be implemented in the coming days. I will get the daily report of the frequency, impact and success of these activities,” the chief minister said, adding that more activities will be added under the campaign in the coming months.He also talked about two policies which the Delhi government has been working on for more than a year now -- the Delhi tree transplantation policy, and the Delhi electric vehicle policy. “The tree transplantation policy will be passed in about 10 days. Under the policy, if an agency cuts a tree for, say, construction purposes, they have to ensure scientific transplantation of a minimum of 80% of affected trees, over and above the compensatory afforestation of planting of 10 saplings. Also, the subsidies under the notified EV policy will also be soon rolled out,” Kejriwal said.Also Read | With Delhi’s pollution going up, watchdog begins to crack whipThe head of the SC-appointed Epca, Bhure Lal, said several measures announced under the campaign were steps which authorities anyway have to carry out during the winter months under the Grap every year. “What is important is the enforcement — be it burning of waste, use of unapproved fuels by industries or construction companies adhering to dust -control norms. The agencies, including municipal corporations have to ensure strict enforcement of all measures given in the action plan, especially during the prevailing Covid pandemic. Polluted air affects lungs, which can further complicate the situation with Covid-19 also affecting the lungs,” Bhure Lal added. The Delhi chief minister also appealed to neighbouring states to control pollution by supporting farmers in providing a free alternative to burning stubble, and called for problems being faced by thousands of brick kilns in Delhi’s vicinity to be addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-launches-plan-for-war-on-pollution/story-UFMdvsklf4hIm7R8zYRwML.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||‘Consider allowing final-year students to stay in hostels’: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court has asked the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to consider the representation of a parents’ body, which had sought directions to allow final-year students of various universities to stay at hostels or paying guest accommodations, for the duration of exams. These facilities have remained shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Jayant Nath said the authorities may treat the writ petition as a representation and deal with the same as per law, while disposing of a petition filed by Juvvadi Sagar Rao, founder of Telangana Parents Foundation.The plea also sought directions to the home ministry, department of higher education and the department of health and family welfare to take measures for conducting final-year exams and entrance exams for without causing trouble to students.The petition, filed through advocates Sravan Kumar and R Balaji, said due to the Covid-19 restrictions, government, private hostels and paying guest accommodations are closed except a few government-university run hostels.“This has been causing immense difficulty to final-year students of various universities who belong to rural areas and who stay in private hostels or PG accommodations,” the plea said.It said Rao has made a representation to the Centre seeking a relaxation in restrictions to allow final-year students to stay in hostels and PG accommodations during their exams and it was transferred to the department of higher education for appropriate action.It sought that in these circumstances, government and private hostels and PG accommodations may be allowed to accommodate final-year students so that they can appear for the exams by taking all precautions against the pandemic.Also Read | Huge misappropriation of funds found in audit of six DU colleges: SisodiaMeanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday held meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing.Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev also held a review meeting with all district magistrates on Covid-19 management. Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days, with the count on several occasions crossing the 60,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/consider-allowing-final-year-students-to-stay-in-hostels-delhi-hc/story-YHoXteJlXH7rCXjkmsKZOI.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Federation International Roller Basketball launches calendar in Chandigarh||A well-known sports administrator from Chandigarh, Ravinder Talwar, has been named the chairman of the Federation International Roller Basketball (FIRB), while former deputy mayor HS Lucky has been made the president of the body.The FIRB announced its international calendar during a press conference held at Chandigarh Press Club in Sector 27 on Sunday.The sport, which is a combination of roller skating and basketball, has a presence in around 30 countries, including those in Asia and North America.“We are likely to host the inaugural World Cup next year in Chandigarh. And before that, we will organise the national championship in the city as well. As far as India is concerned, we have presence in 18 states, and in the next two-three years, we will have affiliated units in every state and Union Territory,” said former international roller skater Balwinder Johal, who has been named the secretary general of the federation.“The sport is played on a basketball court and is a combination of two of the fastest sports. It combines the thrill of moving on wheels and excitement of basketball,” Johal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/federation-international-roller-basketball-launches-calendar-in-chandigarh/story-6MeHK2TLL2Y4OiO4zyemBJ.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||JNU spending on security up, research budget down||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has seen a substantial decrease in its academic expenses over the past three financial years, affecting the organisation of seminars and workshops; subscription to journals and publications; and sponsorship of fellowships and research activities. The matter was raised by members of the executive council (EC), the university’s top decision-making body, after the annual financial report for 2019-20 was presented before the council on Monday.The financial reports of the last three years show that annual academic expenses decreased by 26.38% from Rs 38.36 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 28.24 crore in 2018-19, and by another 30% to Rs 19.74 crore in 2019-20. Academic expenses include important components such as spends on seminars and workshops, journals and publications, and teaching aids and research activities. HT has seen the financial reports. While the annual financial reports for 2017-18 and 2018-19 are available on the university website, the report for 2019-20 was tabled in the EC meeting on Monday as an agenda item. In the same period, legal and security expenses have increased in the university. Legal expenses increased from Rs 2.72 lakh in 2017-18 to Rs 17.7 lakh in 2018-19. An additional fund of Rs 30 lakh was approved for legal expenses this year in the EC meeting held on September 7, in additional to the already sanctioned budget of Rs 9 lakh. Also Read | Over 50% JNU research scholars may drop out if ‘roadblocks’ not removed: SurveySecurity spends increased from Rs 17.37 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 18.54 crore in 2018-19. For 2019-20, the security budget was Rs 15.34 crore. JNU has seen significant strife on campus since 2016 — including flashpoints such as a protest against the hanging of 2001 Parliament attack accused Afzal Guru and a 2019 protest against a new fee structure. An EC member, who asked not to be named , said that the reduction in academic expenses has been consistently questioned by some of the members. “At the same time, the cost incurred on legal and security expenses have witnessed a drastic increase during these years. The centres have been witnessing major issues in organising seminars and workshops for students since we do not get enough funds for them. We are not being able to invite speakers due to the issue. The expenses on seminars and workshops have decreased to Rs 45 lakh in 2019-20 from Rs 1.48 crore in 2018-19,” the member added.JNU VC Jagadesh Kumar did not respond to several calls and texts seeking a comment. Specifically, expenses on journals and publications decreased by 33.8% from Rs 4.18 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 2.76 crore in 2018-19, and by another 58.37% in 2019-20 to Rs 1.15 crore. Similarly, the expenses on research activities -- this includes costs of research projects and teachers’ trips to international or national seminars among others -- reduced by around 98% from Rs 1.13 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 1,72,853 in 2018-19, and then inched up marginally to Rs 2,39,144 in 2019-20. The students’ fellowships/stipends -- also part of academic expenses -- decreased by at least 84% in 2018-19 to Rs 2.57 crore from Rs 18.22 crore in 2017-18. It fell further to Rs 2.39 crore in 2019-20. Registrar Pramod Kumar said that the university offers fellowships and stipends under various heads. “There are numerous sponsored fellowships in JNU. Besides there are UGC-net fellowships/stipends. These are non-net fellowships. The university is providing all fellowships/stipends to our students.”There are also reports of fellowship payments being delayed. JNU students’ union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh said that the union has been raising the issue of the decrease in academic funds for the past few years. “Students have been struggling due to the delay in the release of fellowships and stipends. I myself have not received my fellowship for past one year. Similarly, the expenses on work travel of teachers have been reduced drastically over the years,” she said. In 2018, the JNUSU alleged that the administration cut library funds by over Rs 6 crore. The University, however, denied the charges.Surajit Mazumdar, secretary of JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) said that the teachers’ body has also constantly been raising the matter of reduction in academic expenses. “The immediate implications of these are the disruptive effects on academic activities by cutbacks on important expenditure -- lab material, fieldwork, journals, conferences and seminars, etc. This is also initiating a long-term process of erosion of academic standards and establishment of a new normal where the best is no longer expected. The irony is that increased expenditure on things like security has produced the opposite of a more secure campus,” he said. Also Read | Inquiry committee set up after objections raised over four faculty appointments in JNUJNU registrar Pramod Kumar confirmed that the matter was raised by some EC members on Monday. He, however, said that reduction in academic expenses has not affected the academic performance of the University. “The University has been constantly on the top of all national rankings. The administration has in fact regularised the expenditure. We are encouraging our own faculty to conduct seminars and workshops instead of inviting people from outside. We are also encouraging our faculty members to get financiers for their research activities and we are getting it in a significant way. Besides, the Covid-19 lockdown has also affected our expenses in 2019-20 since we could not organise any seminar and workshop after March,” he said.The university follows an April to March financial year. “How can the university include seminars or workshops conducted after March in the annual report of 2019-20? There is no question of the annual account of 2019-20 being affected by the imposition of lockdown,” an associate professor said on condition of anonymity. Explaining the reason behind the increase in legal and security expenses, the registrar said: “The increase in legal cost is because of the rise in the number of cases being filed against the administration by the students and teachers. It’s not us who have moved the court.”A senior university official, who wished not to be named, said, “In the last few years, there have been many incidents of violence and disruption at the campus leading to the increase in the security cost. It includes everything from hiring guards to installing CCTV cameras to video recorders. It is for the safety of students and faculty members living at the campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-spending-on-security-up-research-budget-down/story-XYRxiddp16Ma24phZHuCPL.html
06-10-2020||City||Two youths held for armed robbery at milk booth in Panchkula||The police on Monday arrested two youths who had allegedly looted ₹18,000 from a 52-year-old man at a milk booth in Sector 28 on September 30.The accused, identified as Gulam Rasool of Jharkhand and Dilip Kumar of Bihar, were sent to one-day police remand. Both are in their early twenties and were living in a rented accommodation in Manimajra.Police said on September 30 at around 4pm, one Kuldip Singh had been manning the Vita milk booth near the diving road of Sector 27/28, when the accused duo had come on a bike and asked for a milk packet. As Kuldip had turned his back, the duo had barged in and attacked him.According to Kuldip, one of the masked men had pointed a gun at him and the other had stolen around ₹17,000-₹18,000 from the till and sped away.Kuldip had sustained minor injuries. An FIR was registered under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-youths-held-for-armed-robbery-at-milk-booth-in-panchkula/story-uoflvPFOoXqwPLcqaEWcEK.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee to begin digital issuance of consent certificates in a week||In a bid to improve ease of doing business in the city and bring in more transparency, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has decided to begin issuing no-objection certificates (consent) digitally.The applicants will be able to receive consent from the committee through their registered email ids. The current practice of manually issuing hard copies of the certificate will be reserved only for cases where the applicant specifically asks for them.Before an industry is established and begins operations, it requires the consent of the CPCC to discharge any effluent (sewage or trade effluent) into a stream or well or sewer or on land, and/or emit air pollutants into the atmosphere.The consent issued by the CPCC under Section 25/26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, is known as ‘water consent’ and under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, is known as ‘air consent’.Confirming the development, Debendra Dalai, member-secretary, CPCC, said, “Even though our internal processes are online, the consent is issued manually. We plan to start the process of issuing it online to all applicants within this week.”The manual process takes time as the applicant file moves up for approval and then down the hierarchy after approval. “Now, after the competent authority approves, the consent will be immediately sent to the applicant through their registered email. There will be no lag between grant of approval and receipt of consent certificate,” said Dalai.The National Informatics Centre (NIC) was roped in to digitise the process. “While the applicants could apply online earlier, too, they were not getting online issuance of consent. So, three months back we started the work on digitising the last step in the process. This will make the entire process transparent,” added Dalai.The applicants can also track their files as their application moves through the committee’s approval process.Welcoming the move, Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh, said, “The online issuance of consent form will save a lot of time, energy, and will go a long way to help the beleaguered industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cpcc-to-digitise-issuing-of-consent-certificates-to-industrialists/story-oLqTW4z3v7VCD9LfiLgsxN.html
06-10-2020||City||‘If govt doesn’t scrap anti-farmer laws, farmers will change this govt’||Addressing one of his biggest rallies in Ambala since his party came into existence in March this year, Haryana Democratic Front leader and former minister Nirmal Singh said the government has to scrap the farm laws or the farmers will have to change the government. Protesting outside the local DC office, where many party workers and farmers reached on tractors, Nirmal said, “States like Haryana and Punjab where agricultural produce market committee (APMC) system is strong and flourishing, farmers are also thriving. Today, farmers from states like Bihar and UP who own enough land prefer to come to Punjab and Haryana and work as labourers. If the new laws related to contract farming and others are implemented, then the farmers here will have to face a bleak future.” Meanwhile, his daughter and party leader Chitra Sarwara said the farmers have been protesting since months against these ‘anti-farm laws’. The manner in which they were passed in the parliament was also undemocratic, she added. Later, a memorandum in the name of the President was submitted at the DC office. Kundu calls off dharnaIndependent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, on Monday evening called off his sit-in against the recently enacted three farm legislations.Kundu said the dharna which commenced on October 2 was called off after a discussion with farmer unions’ heads, khap representatives and leaders. “The next dharna will begin in Sonepat’s Gohana from October 8. We will kick-off a yatra from November 1 against these laws and apprise people of the consequences these laws will have on farmers,” he added. SAD leaders extend supportSenior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, Rajya Sabha member Balwinder Singh Bhunder along with others visited the dharna site in Meham and extended his support to Kundu.Chandumajra said these legislations were introduced to destroy the farming sector, especially in Haryana and Punjab. “The farmers of both the states are agitating against these laws. We came here to extend our support to Kundu, who is fighting against the BJP-JJP government for the sake of farmers’ interest in Haryana. Badal sahab has assured him of help whenever required,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/if-govt-doesn-t-scrap-anti-farmer-laws-farmers-will-change-this-govt/story-UJs89RRZ0uvBuPFbizyDtM.html
06-10-2020||City||Will welcome Rahul if he brings Haryana’s SYL share from Punjab, says Ambala City MLA||Commenting on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s upcoming farmer rallies in the state, the Ambala City MLA, Aseem Goyal, has said that Gandhi will be welcome if he brings along Haryana’s SYL (Satluj Yamuna Link) water share from Punjab.“If Rahul (also) brings back the lands of state’s farmers from Robert Vadra who had seized them illegally, I will welcome him with garlands. Even the Supreme Court has ruled on SYL, but Rahul is only trying to mislead the farmers by opposing farm laws,” he added.Reiterating the statements of his counterpart in Ambala Cantonment and those of Haryana home minister Anil Vij, Goyal said, “He (Rahul) won’t be allowed to enter the state at any cost if he intends to disturb the law and order situation here.”Haryana Congress treasurer Rohit Jain, in turn, hit out at Goyal, saying, “Aseem Goyal is no one to dictate anybody on entry in the state. If the comment or order comes from the chief minister, the home minister or some senior official, it is a separate issue, but Goyal is just an MLA and is not liable to decide on this.”Former Congress president and current MP, Wayanad, Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to begin his two-day tractor rally in Haryana on October 6, entering from the Devigarh border at around 10am, to protest against the recently-passed farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-welcome-rahul-if-he-brings-haryana-s-syl-share-from-punjab-says-ambala-city-mla/story-KWROxQHjPqc3NTbCnchsiI.html
06-10-2020||City||No permanent medical emergency services available at Chandigarh International Airport||After its contract with Fortis Hospital, Mohali, ended on September 25 this year, the Chandigarh International Airport is now without any permanent provisions in place to cater to medical emergencies on the premises.Post lockdown, the Airport hosts more than 3,000 passengers daily and employs around 1,000 staffers, but does not even have a permanent ambulance service.What’s more, it has been five years since the Airport was declared ‘international’, and yet, the post of airport health officer (APHO), mandatory at a structure of this magnitude, is still lying vacant.In October last year, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, had discontinued their services citing “high rent”, but after a few days, they were allowed to continue rent-free. The hospital had deputed a doctor, paramedical staff, technicians, a highly-equipped ambulance and driver for 24X7 services.At present, however, there are two state-sponsored doctors at the Airport who scan the temperatures of the incoming passengers. But they do not have any emergency medical equipment or medicines.When contacted, Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO of the Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL), said, “For a permanent medical facility, we have floated tenders and hopefully, some permanent doctors will be stationed here soon.”Dr Manjit Singh, Mohali civil surgeon, said, “Our doctors go to the airport just for the screening of the passengers whenever a flight arrives. For permanent medical emergency services, it is the duty of the airport authorities to make provisions.”The domestic flight operations resumed at the Airport on May 25 after a gap of nearly three months. Before the lockdown, the airport saw at least 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. The number has since come down. While 44 domestic and two international flights (Sharjah and Dubai) used to arrive and depart from here before March 23, only six to eight flights operate daily these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-permanent-medical-emergency-services-available-at-chandigarh-international-airport/story-4DaFJCCR80wXw2mzMeFyiO.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally rises to 1,453,653, as state sees lowest spike in 49 days||Maharashtra on Monday reported 10,244 Covid-19 infections, its lowest spike in 49 days, taking the case count to 1,453,653. On August 17, 8,493 cases were reported. Active cases also went down to 252,277, accounting for 17.35% of the total. The state’s Monday low, in terms of cases, could, however, be attributed to testing numbers. Maharashtra conducted only 58,683 tests on Monday, 75,908 on Sunday and 75,093 on Saturday — all lower than the usual range of 80,000 to 90,000 tests.According to the state’s latest data, the toll climbed up to 38,347 after 263 casualties were reported, of which, 133 were in the past 48 hours, another 58 were from the past week, while the remaining 72 deaths were from the period before that.Fresh infections across the state have continued to be on a comparative decline. In the past five days, 70,361 cases have been recorded, down from the 91,010 cases in the corresponding period last month. In the past week, the state has recorded 103,654 cases, lowest of the previous four weeks. In the first week of September, cases reported were 130,789, second week saw 153,972 cases, third week had 148,365 cases and fourth week saw 126,773 cases, according to state data.Meanwhile, after a gap of over six months, hotels, restaurants and bars started their operations from Monday, at 50% capacity. All industrial and manufacturing units of non-essential units have also started their operations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The state had also declared trains originating and ending their journey within the state can operate. Officials are wary that this may change the current picture.“Cases are declining in the state, a good sign. This is because areas such as Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, which were contributing most cases, are now seeing fewer infections. In Mumbai, the situation is yet to come under control and if that happens, then improvement will be significant,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.“A rise in cases has been observed soon after fresh relaxations come into effect. There is a chance that cases will rise again, but we are working on keeping the same in mind and are hoping that this time there won’t be any rise,” he added.Mumbai continues to report the highest number of cases across the state as it recorded 1,836 on Monday, pushing its tally to 215,488. Of them, active cases were 26,392. It has also recorded 47 deaths.The scenario in Mumbai has changed from September, when the cases went up and have yet to come down. Nashik city contributed the second-highest infections to the daily caseload as it recorded 654 cases, taking its tally to 56,660 while Satara district became the third-highest contributor with 486 cases pushing its count to 39,755. Pune city, which was contributing highest cases in the state at one point of time, on Monday recorded only 395 cases.A total of 7,169,887 tests have been conducted till date and the positivity rate recorded is 20.27%.Despite a decline in cases, casualties are not reducing Maharashtra still has the highest number of casualties across the country. Tamil Nadu has reported the second-highest number of deaths — 9,784.“There needs to be more awareness among people as still patients are found not keen on doing Covid tests. They admit to a hospital only when conditions worsen, which makes it difficult for doctors to save lives,” said another official from the health department.On Saturday, state’s CFR was recorded at 2.64%, which comes at second position after Punjab. The CFR of Punjab was 3.05% (with 3,603 deaths) till Sunday, according to information shared by the state medical education department.The number of recovered patients also reached 1,162,585 as 12,982 patients recovered in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-1-453-653-as-state-sees-lowest-spike-in-49-days/story-K06lw1buLzTTMor26zjLaK.html
06-10-2020||City||Khattar takes stock of paddy procurement process at Karnal grain market||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday reached a Karnal grain market and reviewed the procurement of paddy. He also interacted with farmers and listened to the problems being faced by them while selling their produce.Farmers and arhtiyas also apprised him of the issues encountered due to snags in the ‘e-kharid’ portal. The chief minister said that there were some problems with the portal as other crops like bajra and cotton have been included in it. “But it will be sorted out,” he added. When farmers urged him to allow the procurement without formalities on the portal, Khattar said this system has been adopted to ensure hassle-free procurement and avoid glut in mandis.He assured that every single grain of the farmers would be procured and they will not face any problem in the process. He urged the farmers to bring only dry produce in mandis, and also directed the officials concerned to calibrate the moisture meter every Sunday to ensure the quality of grains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khattar-takes-stock-of-paddy-procurement-process-at-karnal-grain-market/story-k9QxC2ymHsW17ZhPKKJEnK.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Recovery rate in Haryana goes past 90%||The recovery rate in Haryana went past 90% on Monday even as the state logged 21 fatalities and 1,031 fresh Covid-19 cases, the health bulletin stated. The latest deaths were reported from nine districts, while the new infections were registered in 20 districts. No new case was recorded in Kurukshetra and Fatehabad in the last 24 hours. As many as 17 employees of Dadri deputy commissioner’s office also tested positive for the virus on Monday evening, said an official spokesperson. Five people in Ambala and four in Jind succumbed to the infection, while two patients each died in Sonepat, Panipat, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad. In Faridabad and Jhajjar, one patient each lost life. Doubling rate reaches improves to 33 daysIt is for the first time that the recovery rate in Haryana reached 90.13%, while the doubling rate improved to 33 days. As on Monday, the recovery rate of 10 districts was above 90% with Palwal topping the list at 95.42%, followed by Faridabad where recovery rate hovered on 94.49%. The death toll has increased to 1,491, while the number of people so far tested positive in the state has reached 1,34,909. As many as 1,255 patients recovered on Monday, taking the overall recoveries to 1,21,596. The tally of active cases stood at 11,822. Gurugram recorded the maximum 206 new cases, Faridabad (129), Hisar (75), Sirsa (72), Sonepat (56), Rewari (63), Panchkula (43), Yamunanagar (48), Ambala (35), Rohtak (36), Panipat (13), Karnal (28), Mahendergarh (60), Palwal (21), Jhajjar (32), Bhiwani (48), Nuh (6), Kaithal (33), Jind (22), and Charkhi Dadri (5). The number of critically ill patients stood at 275, including 39 on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-haryana-goes-past-90/story-U5wqbIeOIlIhe7FSw53xaI.html
06-10-2020||City||Blame game erupts after Jind varsity dean’s suspension||The dean of academic at Jind’s Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University, Sandeep Berwal, was suspended on Monday after he accused the varsity’s vice-chancellor RB Solanki and registrar Rajesh Punia of mounting pressure on the selection committee to recruit 11 assistant and three associate professors of physical education by ‘violating norms and regulations’.Berwal has been sitting on a dharna on the university campus since Sunday night.“The candidates aspiring to be assistant professors had appeared for their interviews, followed by those who had applied for the posts of associate professors. Vice-chancellor Solanki was chairing the interview, along with three external experts. As a dean academic, I was also a part of the selection committee. When the registrar and vice-chancellor asked me to sign on the final list of the candidates, I refused to do so because they selected the candidates by ignoring the norms,” Berwal said. “The committee ignored a candidate who appeared from Jammu and Kashmir for the post of an assistant professor and another candidate who has been teaching at a varsity in Sonepat for the post of associate professor. When I asked them to show the documents of selected candidates, the duo refused to do so. Registrar Punia asked me to sign on the final list and told me not to interfere as the selection process was being done by the subject experts,” he added.Berwal further alleged that a varsity employee also abused him and tried to beat him up.Reacting to Berwal’s allegations, registrar Rajesh Punia said the selections were made in a transparent manner and Berwal had raised questions after one of his “friends” did not make it to the final list. “He himself had signed on every page of the list ,except the final list. He told the selection committee that he would only sign on the final list if they recruit his friend for the post of associate professor. Berwal was suspended after he called his people and relatives, who tried to intervene in our work. An inquiry committee has been formed which will look into the conduct of Berwal,” he added.He said all the selected candidates have joined their services from Monday.Congress’ Safidon MLA Subhash Gangoli also reached the varsity and demanded a fair inquiry into the selection process from a sitting judge of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blame-game-erupts-after-jind-varsity-dean-s-suspension/story-sROgi92cHksD8f0OK5GAHN.html
06-10-2020||City||Rahul can enter Haryana but without Cong crowd: Khattar||Asking Congress to refrain from creating a law and order problem during Rahul Gandhi’s Haryana visit, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said the state government doesn’t have any reservation if the former Congress president holds tractor rallies and road shows with ‘people of Haryana’. Rahul will be in the state on a one-day tour on Tuesday to protest against the Centre’s newly enacted farm laws. “Rahul Gandhi will now be on a one-day tour instead of two,” Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja announced on Twitter on Monday evening.  He will step inside the state territory from Punjab via Devigarh border of Patiala from where he will lead a tractor rally up to Pehowa in Kurukshetra. As there are apprehensions of possible law and order situation emerging in case Congress leader is accompanied by a huge Punjab crowd while entering Haryana, Khattar clearly expressed reservations over large number of people coming from Punjab to Haryana along with Rahul. “Not acceptable if he comes to Haryana along with a big procession from Punjab. We have no problem with his visit if he holds his yatra along with the people of Haryana as this is his own tour,” the chief minister said, when asked about home minister Anil Vij previous statement that Congress leader will not be allowed to enter Haryana. Stating that in a democratic set up, everybody had the right to air views, Khattar said the state government was not opposed to the upcoming visit of the Congress leader. “They should not vitiate the atmosphere and must not take law and order in their hands,” Khattar said as the opposition Congress set into motion a flurry of activities to give a rousing reception to Rahul on his arrival in Haryana on Tuesday. Top government officials also said there was no plan to stop Rahul Gandhi from entering the state. However, Congress supporters from Punjab will not be allowed to enter Haryana with the procession, they added. The officials further said the permission to hold processions will be subject to the Union ministry of home affairs’ cap of gathering of up to 100 persons outside containment zones. At Pehowa, the state Congress has planned a show of strength where the party leader will address the farmers. After the Pehowa rally, Rahul will travel to Kurukshetra. He was earlier supposed to embark on a road show from Pipli grain market on Wednesday, but his plan has been curtailed. Party Supporters Swing into ActionThe Congress had on Sunday swung into action and held meetings to mobilise support and ensure a huge gathering. As per the reports, police have been deployed on the Haryana-Punjab border from where Rahul Gandhi will enter the state. Kurukshetra SP Rajesh Duggal refused to divulge details, but it has been learnt that Haryana government has decided that tractors from Punjab will not be allowed to enter the state. Meanwhile, Selja convened a meeting in Kurukshetra and urged party workers to bring their tractors and ensure huge gatherings at the road shows. “Why are the BJP leaders scared of Rahul’s visit....why are they saying that they will not allow him to enter the state?” Selja questioned, reacting to the reported remarks of home minister Anil Vij. “He is a grandson of Indira Gandhi and son of Rajiv Gandhi. We will see how this government will stop him,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rahul-can-enter-haryana-but-without-cong-crowd-khattar/story-mqA8dINIc1lEtQ22nTzToJ.html
06-10-2020||City||Two days on, 25-year-old hit-and-run victim dies at Chandigarh hospital||Two days after being hit by an unidentified vehicle on the Zirakpur flyover, a 25-year-old resident of Behlana village, Chandigarh, on Monday succumbed to his injuries at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Barinder Kumar, who was employed with a private firm. On October 3, he was travelling to Chandigarh from Panchkula, when on reaching the Zirakpur flyover, his motorcycle was hit from the rear by a car bearing a Haryana registration number.Kumar was rushed to GMCH-32, where he died during treatment on Monday. The police have kept his body in the hospital mortuary and are waiting on his Covid report.Meanwhile, a case was registered against the car driver, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-days-on-25-year-old-hit-and-run-victim-dies-at-chandigarh-hospital/story-KoeQDH8baejoXbeP0EjMhP.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two killed as vehicle rolls into gorge in Kinnaur||Two people were killed after the pick-up they were travelling in plunged into a gorge in Kinnaur on Sunday night. The victims, Navjeet Singh, 22, and Kuldeep, 23, residents of Rohru were on their way back to Sangla from Chitkul village when they lost control of the vehicle near Sushang village on the Chitkul-Sangla link road. Both of them were killed on the spot.The vehicle was noticed by local residents on Monday around 8am. The bodies were recovered with the help of the Indo Tibetan Border police (ITBP) personnel and local residents. A postmortem was conducted at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Sangla. The victims’ families have been informed. Kinnaur superintendent of police (SP) SR Rana confirmed the report.Two women killed, three injured in road mishap in Shimla Two women were killed while three sustained injuries as the car they were travelling in plunged into a 50-metre deep gorge in Nankhari tehsil in Shimla. The victims are Alma Khoond, 57, who was driving the car and Garja Devi, 47, while the injured are Meera Devi, 47, Shakuntala Devi, 40, and Satya Devi, 38, all residents of Nankhari Tehsil. The accident took place on Monday around 4pm when they the driver lost control of the vehicle near Nalavan village, killing two of them on the spot.The injured were rushed to Community Health Centre (CHC), Nankhari, from where Shakuntala Devi and Satya Devi were referred to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Rampur Bushahr, for further treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-killed-as-vehicle-rolls-into-gorge-in-kinnaur/story-cHtcqWAgSco4prKoh8D1VI.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Rare weather phenomenon: Water-tornado seen off Mumbai’s coast||Malabar Hill resident Darshan Khatau was pleasantly surprised to spot a rare weather phenomenon on Monday morning. He saw a waterspout or water-tornado — a rotating vertical column or funnel shaped cloud formation as an intense vortex over water —around 3 km off the coast of Mumbai from Malabar Hill, near Prongs Lighthouse at 9.15am.“I saw it when I had stepped out on my balcony to take photographs of birds like I do daily. The phenomenon lasted for about 20 seconds and I managed to take two short videos. The location of the waterspout may not have been more than 1 km off Colaba early this morning. Owing to cloud cover and haze, the photos were not very clear,” said Khatau, an avian and wildlife enthusiast who has documented several bird species.A similar image of the waterspout was shared on social media by Seju Nair on Twitter. The posts stated that it was spotted near Marine Drive on Monday morning.Some isolated spells of light rain were recorded in different parts of the city and suburbs on Monday.HT shared Khatau’s videos with the weather bureau, Union earth sciences ministry and independent meteorologists.Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD), called it a ‘rare occurrence especially close to the coast’. “This does not happen frequently. Whenever there is any convective activity (vertical transport of heat and moisture in the atmosphere from warmer surface area and lifted to cooler zone) followed by thunderstorms, this kind of weather phenomenon is witnessed,” he said adding, “This phenomenon is a tornado when it occurs over land, and over sea it is termed as a waterspout. It can happen over a river, large pond, and over the ocean. During the monsoon season, whenever there are convective clouds, it can occur in coastal areas.”M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences said, “This is an atmospheric phenomenon. It is a rotation of the cloud that comes down and pulls up water. Owing to convective currents, there is a down-drop effect which pulls up the water in a rotational manner for a small time frame.”Mohapatra said the phenomenon was also reported off Vishakhapatnam coast earlier this monsoon. Even during the landfall of severe cyclone Nisarga during the first week of June this year, it was observed by the fishing community off Shrivardhan coast in Sindhudurg. “The coverage area is less than one kilometre where there is intense downpour of water within that column. In some cases, it lifts water from the water bodies and falls less than 500 metre away dropping fish or other aquatic life at a distance from the emergence of the system,” said Mohapatra.Unfortunately, it is very difficult to detect through radars and only eye witness records have been relied on, said Rajeevan. “We do not have a good record or statistics of such events. Only this kind of qualitative record is there. However, we have to check our radar data for convective clouds for that period on Monday morning. The whole thunderstorm activity is short-lived (one or two hours) and convective clouds die off quickly. Thus, such a phenomenon is also short-lived,” he said.IMD’s Mumbai regional meteorological department in Colaba confirmed the presence of convective clouds over south Mumbai and off the coast on Monday from 9am onwards.Independent meteorologists said these events generally happen at least 20 miles off the coast and are common in deep oceans. However, it is rare to have happened closer to the coast, said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian of department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. “There is an active circulation in the Arabian Sea off Mumbai coast. Mumbai has also been witnessing thunderstorms since October 3. The active circulation could have led to the formation of this super cell thundercloud where intense convective activity in that area led to this abrupt vertical abrupt phenomenon and formation of a large cumulonimbus (dense tall vertical) cloud followed by this funnel shaped formation. If it happens over land (tornado), it is rare. In the ocean, it is possible due to the presence of strong vertical currents,” he said.Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said, “From the photograph and observed meteorological conditions, it appears that this was a fair weather waterspout. Satellite images show the presence of developing cumulus clouds off south Mumbai coast at the time of the event. Fair weather waterspouts form along such cloud bases.”What are waterspouts or water-tornadoesWaterspouts are generally classified into two categories: tornadic and fair weather. Fair weather waterspouts are more frequent and less destructive than tornadic waterspouts and they usually form during morning hours. An interaction of warm air near the water surface with cooler air creates atmospheric instability, which forces the moist air to rise and then condense. If there is sufficient wind shear (change in wind velocity with height), the air column starts spinning and a waterspout forms.(Source: Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rare-weather-phenomenon-water-tornado-seen-off-mumbai-s-coast/story-h1hXKUUcbKWpvGEvGmkKeO.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government ‘unwillingly’ accepts option of borrowing ₹97,000 crore to make up for GST losses||Maharashtra, which had initially opposed both the options of borrowing to make up for the goods and services tax (GST) losses, has now intimated the Centre that it will “unwillingly” go for the first option of raising loans equivalent to the actual losses, as officials said the state has no other alternative. Under the first option, the Centre had allowed states to borrow a collective amount of Rs97,000 crore, which is equivalent to the losses in revenue owing to the GST transition. During the 42nd meeting of the GST Council headed by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, the Centre increased the borrowing limit to Rs1.1 lakh crore from the earlier Rs97,000 crore, in the wake of the drop of about 3% in the growth rate. During the meeting, the Maharashtra government informed the Centre that it will go for the first option. “We are not in favour of any of the options, and want the Centre to borrow on behalf of the states. But as no alternative is given to us, we will unwillingly go for the first option,” said an official from the finance department. The state is expected to borrow more than Rs12,000 crore to make up to the compensation due from the Centre in the current fiscal. During the 41st meeting of the Council on August 27, the Centre had proposed that the states could borrow Rs97,000 crore, which is equivalent to the revenue losses owing to the GST transition, or they could borrow Rs2.35 crore – equivalent to the revenue losses due to the GST transition and the Covid-19 pandemic situation. In the first option, the principal and interest would be paid from the cess fund, while in the second the states would bear the interest. Most of the states have opted for the first option. The outstanding compensation expected from the Centre to Maharashtra has mounted to Rs30,000 crore between April and September. Maharashtra accounts for at least 11-12% of the total compensation paid to states and received the highest (Rs19,233 crore) compensation in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-unwillingly-accepts-option-of-borrowing-97-000-crore-to-make-up-for-gst-losses/story-GtPsmlefYra5m3Srdmh3TP.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||As cases surge, FDA increases daily oxygen production to 1,100 metric tonnes in Maharashtra for Covid-19 patients||Amid the growing Covid-19 cases, the demand for oxygen has increased across Maharashtra. As per data provided by the state Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), the state requires around 900 metric tonnes of oxygen everyday for Covid-19 patients who develop difficulties in breathing. To address the growing demand for oxygen, FDA has increased its daily production to more than 1,100 metric tonnes. Patients with oxygen saturation levels lower than 94% are put on oxygen support. Currently, there are more than 2.50 lakh active Covid-19 cases in the state, of which 14,437 patients are on oxygen support, while 9,857 patients are in serious condition and are undergoing treatment at intensive care units (ICUs).Everyday, the FDA gets over 25 calls from hospitals in the state seeking oxygen supply. “The collectors of districts inform us about the need for oxygen. Most requirements are from rural areas, especially in western Maharashtra, where cases are increasing gradually,” said a senior FDA official. “At the beginning of the pandemic, there were only two suppliers. Now, there are six suppliers which are providing enough amount of oxygen needed for patients. We have asked the manufacturers to increase the production further but there is no crisis of oxygen in the state.,” said the official. Last month, health officers alleged that hospitals were often found using unregulated amount of oxygen on patients. To control daily expenditures, the state government had issued a notification, asking hospitals to restrict oxygen use to 12 litres per minute in ICUs and 7 litres per minute in wards. The notification had drawn severe criticism from doctors. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president of Indian Medical Association, said, “The government should not restrict the usage of oxygen. A doctor’s judgement should be final. The government should believe that doctors work ethically in the interest of patients.” After facing criticism, the state on September 21 withdrew the circular. Recently, the Maharashtra government issued new guidelines for the medical usage of oxygen, based on the recommendations of a central government-appointed expert committee. Private and public hospitals have been advised to restrict oxygen supply to 40 litres per minute in ICUs and 15 litres per minute in wards, depending on the patient’s condition. Dr Jalil Parkar, a pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra, said there is no shortage of oxygen in city hospitals at present, but medical centres at rural Maharashtra are still facing a problem. Welcoming the FDA move to increase production, Parker said the move will help relax the regulation over oxygen usage. “If a patient needs more amount of oxygen, I can’t deny it because it can be fatal for the patient. The government needs to understand that hoarding oxygen unlike other drugs isn’t very feasible, as it starts leaking gradually. So they should focus on the production and leave its clinical usage on doctors,” said Dr Parkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-cases-surge-fda-increases-daily-oxygen-production-to-1-100-metric-tonnes-in-maharashtra-for-covid-19-patients/story-wECpOSwGIP4NH28d4GBhAL.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Flap gates installed at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to facilitate screening of passengers||Central Railway (CR) has installed flap gates on the entry and exit points of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to screen outstation passengers and study commuters’ movements. This is the first time that flap gates have been installed at any station on Mumbai’s suburban railway network. The gates, which will be activated later this week, will have the quick response (QR) code scanner and thermal scanning facilities. Passengers will have to place the QR code generated on their e-tickets at the entry points of the station for the validation of their tickets. The QR code will be generated from the tickets booked through the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. Passengers who have booked their tickets from the booking windows will receive a message on their mobile phones with the QR codes. Access inside the railway station will be permitted only after temperature screening of passengers. “The flap gates will facilitate safe commuting during coronavirus and promote social distancing between passengers. It will also help railway staff in detecting unauthorised access to station premises,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. The gates have been installed on pilot basis. Based on the success, the gates will be introduced at other railway stations in the city. The Western Railway will also be soon installing flap gates on Churchgate railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/flap-gates-installed-at-mumbai-s-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-terminus-to-facilitate-screening-of-passengers/story-2nOl3xAF6iThsokvEph1OP.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Two stop BMC workers from conducting health check-ups in Mumbai’s Oshiwara area, arrested||The Oshiwara police on Sunday arrested two men who stopped health workers from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from discharging their duty. According to police, the health workers had gone Gulshan Nagar society in Oshiwara for door-to-door survey programme initiated by the state government when the accused Nasir Khan, 45 and Alam Ali Shaikh, 30, stopped them from conducting check-ups. “They even told other members of the society that the health workers were child thieves and tore the government survey book,” said an officer. The complainant Anita Khadtare, 35, a health worker at BMC’s K-West ward and her colleague Meena D’Souza, 40, visited the building at Gulshan Nagar. “A woman on the second floor refused to share details asked by them and also told their neighbours to not share any details, said Khadtare in her complaint. Meanwhile, Khan, the husband of the woman, came out and started yelling at them stating that they were child thieves and to remove their mask to check their faces, said an officer. Khadtare and D’Souza told them that they were from the BMC and that they were doing their duty to check people, but Khan refused to listen and snatched the survey book and tore it. More than 20 people gathered at the spot and each one of them started shouting. A team of Oshiwara police reached the spot and arrested the accused under section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-stop-bmc-workers-from-conducting-health-check-ups-in-mumbai-s-oshiwara-area-arrested/story-1zZiSbxmjRQmhpr7qdJxbL.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Residents encroach upon park in Chandigarh’s Sector 27||A few residents have encroached upon a park opposite Arya Samaj Mandir in Sector 27 by making illegal entrances from their houses to get a direct access. The park with a functional open-air gym is also being used by them to dry clothes.Shubham Sharma, a local, said that people come to the park to dry their clothes almost every day. “We had written to the authorities regarding this and were told that notices had been sent about a month back but nothing has changed even now.”Another resident on the condition of anonymity said that before the lockdown some residents had also been using the park’s entrance as makeshift shops. Some residents also park their vehicles which is not allowed.Area councillor Devinder Singh Babla said, “These are government quarters and the practice has been going on for a long while. The residents here had told me that they have no other alternative but to dry their clothes in the park. The area is plagued with monkeys who steal clothes from the roofs of houses, so residents hang them in the park to keep a vigil.”Babla added that although it wasn’t allowed, there was no alternative available and he has not received any complaint regarding this.UT deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Abdul Qayum said, “We need to check whether the trees in the park have been harmed to hook up the clothing lines. Such a practice should be discouraged.” Officials of the horticulture wing of the MC said that they would investigate into the matter and action would be taken if anyone is found encroaching upon the park.Officials of the UT estate department said that they will have to visit the spot to see if there is any violation, “Government houses are made as per plans by the engineering department and we will have to check with them if the entrances made into the park are allowed are not,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-encroach-upon-park-in-chandigarh-s-sector-27/story-nctM3DJ36r4wxxYcLFPgmK.html
06-10-2020||City||₹4 lakh stolen from Navi Mumbai woman’s bank account through 32 transactions||A 26-year-old woman in Nerul has been cheated of ₹4 lakh after an unidentified person siphoned off the money from her bank account in one-and-a-half months. Police suspect the accused managed to hack her net banking login to make digital transactions.According to the Nerul police, the complainant Nadira Khan’s father had opened a savings account for her marriage expenses in 2015. Until late June, her family had managed to save ₹5.03 lakh in the account.In her complaint, Khan stated that she did not make any transaction from her account during the lockdown period. In September, when Khan had gone to the ATM to withdraw ₹200, she realised that the account had only ₹1.03 lakh left.“Khan and her brother approached the bank and got the statement of her account during which they found that ₹4.01 lakh was fraudulently spent from the account in 32 transactions. The transactions were made between July 15 and September 1,” said an officer of the Nerul police station.After Khan submitted a complaint to the police, a case of cheating was registered against an unidentified person under the Indian Penal Code and IT Act.The police have approached the bank and are also taking assistance from the Navi Mumbai cybercrime cell to establish how exactly the accused managed to withdraw such large amounts without the complainant learning about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-lakh-stolen-from-nerul-woman-s-bank-account-through-32-transactions/story-ojIECqmVYMd7nF6CAf3arL.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||JEE Advanced: Dhvanit Beniwal is Chandigarh tricity topper with AIR 10||Dhvanit Beniwal, 18, has topped from the tricity in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Advanced conducted for admission to Indian Institutes of Technology.The results announced by the National Testing Agency on Monday morning brought a welcome news for his school Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, Panchkula, too, as all five students from the tricity who have made it to the top 100 have completed their Class 12 from there. The results this year are also an improvement for the tricity, as in 2019, only one student (Yatin Jindal, AIR 94) was in the top 100.Giving credit to his school, Dhvanit said: “Attending the classes regularly was very important as it helped me gain insight into practical applications of concepts in order to understand them better.”This year, the Panchkula school had also produced five tied tricity toppers in the CBSE Class 10 examinations, and a tricity topper in Class 12 humanities. A similar trend was seen in 2019 and 2018 when the school produced two national toppers and three tricity toppers in Class 10.Speaking about the recent string of toppers, principal Gulshan Kaur said it is the result of overall development of students. “The preparation is not just for two years, but begins in earlier classes. Instead of targeting competitive exams, we focus on making students develop the right attitude to crack the exams. We make them competitive to the right degree, which is why they score well,” she said.Dhvanit’s elder brother Devang also cleared the JEE Advanced in 2019 and is currently pursuing electrical engineering from IIT Roorkee. His father, Dharampal Singh Beniwal, retired as a chief engineer from the public health department in Haryana, while mother, Sangeeta Beniwal, is a government schoolteacher. He had secured 97.6% marks in his CBSE Class 12 exams.The other four toppers are Gurpreet Singh Wadhwa (AIR 23), Hemank Bajaj (AIR 71), Kartik Sharma (AIR 87) and Tanish Tuteja (AIR 96). Besides their schooling, the five have another thing in common between them: all want to pursue computer science engineering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jee-advanced-dhvanit-beniwal-is-chandigarh-tricity-topper-with-air-10/story-8dwUAPiVzCmRlDChF9kmcJ.html
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||As fresh cases go down, has Covid curve flattened in Chandigarh tricity?||A day after the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the tricity dropped below 200 for the first time since mid-August, there was a marginal rise as 239 people tested positive for the virus.However, the figures in the first five days of this month are quite promising, as only 1,512 people have tested positive, as compared to 18,584 throughout September. The last month witnessed a major surge in infections, with the peak reached on September 13, when 865 people tested positive.The month had also accounted for 65% of the total deaths recorded in the tricity till September 30. Even the daily toll has come down, with five recorded on Monday. Three men, aged 34, 54, and 56, from Sectors 47, Sector 25, and Sector 19, respectively, died in Chandigarh, while a 48-year-old man from Sector 15 and a 62-year-old woman from Bitna succumbed in Panchkula district. Mohali recorded zero casualty for the second time in three days. In Chandigarh, 133 people tested positive on Monday, a day after the number had come down to double digits (85) for the first time since August 19. With 199 people being discharged, the number of active cases came down to 1,604, reaching the pre-September level. For the third consecutive day, Mohali district too witnessed positive cases in just double figures. On Monday, 63 people tested positive while 169 patients were discharged. In Panchkula, which too has been reporting fresh infections in double digits, only 43 people tested positive.The tricity’s tally is inching towards 30,000, with 29,805 people tested positive so far, of whom 3,663 (12.3%) are still not discharged. As many as 472 patients have died while 25,670 have been cured.“The pattern seen in the past two weeks in the region, including Chandigarh, shows the Covid trajectory is on the downturn after witnessing a spike in the month of September,” said Dr KK Talwar, former director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. “The infection spread has been contained to an extent and things are settling down with the number of fresh cases lesser than the number of people recovering. It is a positive sign, but we need to be vigilant and keep taking the Covid threat seriously.” TESTING NUMBERS DROP TOOIn Chandigarh, there has been a significant drop in Covid-19 testing and cases in the past one week. Data of the last 15 days shows testing almost halving from 11,271 (conducted between September 21 to September 28) to 5,110 last week. This corelated with a drop in the number of cases from 1,380 to 767 in the same period. In Panchkula, too, the numbers are on the decline. Except on Sunday, when 1,120 tests were conducted, the authorities have conducted less than 300 tests daily in the past four days. On Monday, only 275 were conducted.While some health experts claimed infection spread appeared to have been contained because fewer contacts of infected persons were being tested, Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, department of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER, said people should come forward for tests even for mild symptoms, which in turn can stop infection spread and fatalities.“The dip is on the expected lines, just as the rise in late July. Around 1% population has been infected in Chandigarh, which has been detected through diagnostic tests. There will be more or less an equal number that would have been infected as they remained asymptomatic or had mild symptoms,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Meanwhile, Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, while giving a note of caution to residents, said: “Though the number of cases has gone down in the past few days, if we adopt a careless attitude and do not take precautions, the virus can strike us again in no time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-fresh-cases-go-down-has-covid-curve-flattened-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-EHzYGLFtis7b4KkTlzfoxJ.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Pune teen is all-India JEE-Advanced topper||With a score of 352 out of 396, Pune resident Chirag Falor, 18, from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) zone, emerged the all-India topper in the Joint Entrance Examination Advanced (JEE-Adv) exams, results for which were announced on Monday. However, unlike many other candidates vying for seats in popular courses in top IITs, Falor plans to skip the race. “I have already secured admission at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the United States and plan to pursue my undergraduate degree (Bachelor of Science) from the institute,” said Falor, adding that his application was accepted by MIT in March. “I consider JEE a test of skills. As I had already spent four years preparing for the exam, I chose to appear for the papers, despite already confirming admission with MIT,” he added. Elaborating on the efforts that went into it, he said, “I started my preparation in Class 9 and completed my syllabus for Class 11 and 12 before I could pass out of Class 11. Throughout Class 12, I gave daily mock tests for JEE-Advanced.” His parents hail from Rajasthan and he came to Pune when he was in Class 2. He completed his Class 10 from Saint Arnold’s School in Kalyaninagar in Pune. For Class 11 and 12, he enrolled himself at Pragati School, New Delhi. His father works as a software development manager, while his mother is a homemaker, who takes tuitions. On getting into MIT, the Pune boy said it was “super tough than IIT”. “Less than five students from India make it to MIT. I aspire to become either an astrophysicist or an astronaut and plan to take up physics as a subject from second year at MIT,” he said. For the last one month, Falor has spent almost 11 hours, from 5.30pm to 4.30am, six days a week, attending his regular classes online for MIT, and then spent a few hours preparing for the JEE. “My son’s body clock is working differently, but he didn’t let anything affect his JEE preparation,” said Pawan Kumar Falor, his father. “Chirag has been passionate about planets and skygazing since childhood. We supported his interests and his dreams. He was always interested in research. He does things from heart and concentrates on the tasks. We are proud of him.” Seventeen-year-old Swayam Chube from Mumbai bagged the eighth all-India rank, becoming the Mumbai topper. Last month, Chube was among 24 students across the country to score a 100 percentile in the JEE Mains exam held in the first week of September.“I’ve been working very hard to prepare for both JEE Mains and Advanced for the past two years. During the lockdown, I took a break from the preparation and again in the last one month, I spent a lot of time studying and solving papers,” said Chube, who wants to get a seat in the computer science department at IIT-B. Toppers from the Scheduled Caste (SC) and SC (persons with disability) categories – Avi Uday and Yash Patil – too are from the IIT-B zone. While Chirag is the male topper for JEE-Adv 2020, female topper Kanishka Mittal with the same rank (17) belongs to the IIT-Roorkee zone. The zone-wise female topper from the IIT-B zone is Niyati Mehta from Ahmedabad, with a common rank of 62. As per information shared by the organising institute IIT-Delhi on Monday, 24 of the top 100 toppers of JEE-Adv 2020 belong to the IIT-B zone, including four of the top 10 scorers. Twenty-two toppers belong to the IIT-Delhi zone. The Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) has announced that eligible students can start the form filling process for admissions to IITs, NITs, IITs and other GFTIs on josaa.nic.in on October 6, starting 10am. The total intake capacity across 23 IITs this year has gone up by almost 2,500 seats. From 13,583 last year, the intake capacity stands at 16,053 this year. This year JoSAA will conduct six rounds of seat allotment as opposed to seven rounds last year. The first seat allotment list will be released on October 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pune-teen-is-all-india-jee-advanced-topper/story-DYQ28eMHx7FqyNjvVqdVzI.html
06-10-2020||City||Navi Mumbai civic body collects ₹35 lakh fine for Covid-19 violations||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has collected ₹35 lakh in fine from those violating Covid-19 norms like social distancing and wearing of masks, among other from April 29 till date. Special ward level squads have been formed to levy fine and ensure the guidelines are followed. Those violating the norms are also given a rose and an appeal is made to henceforth follow the rules. The corporation collects fine of ₹1,000 for spitting in public place, ₹500 for not wearing a mask, ₹200 for flouting social distancing norms and ₹2,000 for shopkeepers and traders flouting the social distancing norms. NMMC civic chief Abhijit Bangar, said, “Under the circumstances, to prevent the spread of the Covid pandemic, regular use of masks, washing of hands and maintaining adequate distance are of utmost importance. However, some residents continue to violate the norms.” He further said that the NMMC’s intention is not to harass anyone or earn from this drive. It is being done to control the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-civic-body-collects-35-lakh-fine-for-covid-19-violations/story-j8YbZp7xfIYFlhrnQi6NZK.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||30% restaurants, hotels reopen in Maharashtra on Monday; shortage of staff and monetary issues plaguing the sector||Approximately 30% of hotels and restaurants in Maharashtra reopened on Monday after being shut since the lockdown was announced at the end of March. On Saturday, the state-issued Covid-related guidelines for hotels and restaurants to reopen. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an apex body of hoteliers, said approximately 1.20 lakh hotels of the total 4 lakh in the state opened on Monday. “Majority of the hotels are facing an acute shortage of staff as the migrant workers have not been able to reach their workplaces till date. Besides, issues like the renegotiation of rents with landlords are taking place. Some hoteliers want to be fully compliant with the new rules before opening their establishments,” said Sherry Bhatia, president, HRAWI. Those who opened their establishments said there were few customers. “We hardly had 10 % consumers on the first day,” said Narayan Poojari, managing director of restaurant chain Shiv Sagar, which has 15 outlets across Mumbai. He said they are facing acute shortage with only 150 of their 800 staff on duty. Fountain Hospitality Private Limited (FHPL), which runs four restaurants including Flamboyante and Fountain Sizzlers, said there was some interest in dining out. “There is happiness among the patrons who came to dine on the first day. We are taking all precautions to ensure their safety and also requesting them for prior reservation so that we can plan better,” said Amrish Arora, managing director, FHPL. However, FHPL has restricted its menu to 110 items from the pre-Covid 200 items. “It is just the first day and it is a matter of time before business picks up,” said Arora. “Most of the hoteliers are facing monetary crises as they have been closed for more than six months with hardly any income. Also, most landlords did not waive rent, which has impacted their finances very badly. They are raising funds,” said Savio D’sa, a consultant for several hotels and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-restaurants-hotels-reopen-in-maharashtra-on-monday-shortage-of-staff-and-monetary-issues-plaguing-the-sector/story-LMSH4PfpwFe1G08lAgh5JL.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Over 80,000 fake accounts created to discredit Mumbai Police probe||Over 80,000 fake accounts were created on various social media platforms on June 14 to discredit the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government over the investigation into the death of 34-year-old Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has asked the cyber cell to investigate the matter, and register cases under the Information Technology (IT) Act.Mumbai Police’s cyber unit has submitted a report citing that posts were uploaded on social media platforms from different countries like Italy, Japan, Poland, Slovenia, Indonesia, Turkey, Thailand, Romania and France. “We identified the posts in foreign languages because of the hashtags used like #justiceforsushant #sushantsinghrajput and #SSR, and are in the process of verifying more accounts,” said a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer. “The campaign was run against Mumbai Police to demoralise us at a time when 84 personnel had died due to the pandemic and over 6,000 were infected with Covid-19. This was a motivated campaign with a vested interest to malign the image of Mumbai Police and derail our line of investigation. Multiple fake accounts on social media were created to target Mumbai Police in abusive tones. Our cyber cell is conducting a thorough investigation into this matter and all those found violating the law will be prosecuted under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act,” Singh told HT on Monday.  Also Watch | Sushant case: Mumbai top cop ‘not surprised’; Sena sees plot after AIIMS reportReacting to reports of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) having ruled out the possibility of murder in the case, Singh said, “We had investigated this case very professionally. The CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) had set up a panel of AIIMS doctors who have justified our investigation, the findings of Cooper Hospital and the forensic laboratory. Except for a few people, nobody else was aware of our investigation, but still, many have criticised it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-over-80-000-fake-accounts-created-to-discredit-mumbai-police-probe/story-wJVcn4d4bkCEDZHUDx3f2N.html
06-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Shiv Sena retains hold of BMC with help of allies Congress, NCP||The Shiv Sena has retained control of the crucial civic standing committee as its nominee Yashwant Jadhav was elected as chairman. The Congress withdrew its candidate and abstained from voting. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) voted in favour of Sena against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sena’s Sandhya Doshi also won the election for the education committee that supervises primary and secondary education in Mumbai. Sena insiders said the party would offer chairmanship of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) to the Congress in exchange for support in BMC.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) voted for Sena, citing that they wanted to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) out of the race due to ideological differences. Rais Shaikh, SP Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Bhiwandi and BMC corporator, said, “Our votes went to Sena, and it was purely to keep the BJP out of the race.” The Congress, on the other hand, stayed neutral in the voting on Monday by withdrawing candidatures for both committees, citing insufficient numbers. It also alleged that the BJP tried to bribe its corporators for cross-voting. The Congress added that it did not want to support the BJP on grounds of principles, and hence withdrew candidates.Ravi Raja, leader of opposition of the Congress, said, “We withdrew our candidatures to keep the BJP out of BMC as they were somehow contacting our corporators to cross vote by offering money. We will continue to remain in opposition and will withdraw candidatures for all the remaining committees like the improvement committee and BEST (Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport), for which elections are on Tuesday.”Cross voting was possible in both committees where Sena has a majority followed by BJP having the second-largest majority, Congress, NCP and SP. In this case, if somehow the Congress corporators would have voted for BJP or BJP corporators voted for Congress, Sena’s chances to win would have been in danger.Eknath Gaikwad, Mumbai Congress president said, “We withdrew as we had no numbers and we did not want support from the BJP. We will continue to remain in the opposition in the BMC.” BJP rubbished all allegations by the Congress of trying to buy votes. Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and standing committee member, said, “We are the true opposition party in the BMC, considering Congress and Sena are together in the state government. By the withdrawal of candidatures, it is very clear that Congress is Sena-sponsored opposition. We did not offer any money to Congress corporators.”In the civic house of 227, the Sena has 97 elected representatives. It is short of 17 for a simple majority of 114 but has managed to remain in power as the opposition is divided. The BJP is the second largest party with 83 seats but it has decided to play the role of an opposition party. The Congress (29) is also in the opposition, and so is the NCP (8). Though these two parties are Sena’s allies in the state government, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party has avoided any sharing of power with them in the BMC. Other smaller parties include Samajwadi Party (6), AIMIM (2) and MNS (1).Significantly, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) members Sena, Congress and NCP, along with SP have been discussing the possibility of contesting the Mumbai civic polls in 2022, together. “We are together in the state but not in the BMC. About BMC, I cannot comment now, it all will depend on the situation at that time,” said Gaikwad.However, a senior Congress leader said that an understanding was struck between the Sena and Congress, over giving the latter the chairmanship position in the Mumbai Board of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) and chairmanship of the Maulana Azad Minorities Financial Development Corporation Limited (MAMFDCL) in exchange for withdrawing candidates from the BMC.The members of every statutory committee are elected from among elected corporators (except BEST), and the members then elect a chairman. In the 27-member standing committee, 26 members were eligible for voting. Sena’s Jadhav got 14 votes, and BJP’s Makrand Narvekar got nine votes. In the 26-member education committee, Sena’s Doshi got 13 votes and BJP’s Surekha Patil got seven votes. The representation for each party to these committees is given based on the strength of the party’s elected corporators. The members have tenure of two years, and the chairmanship is for one year. On Monday, elections for the education and standing committee were held, and elections for improvement and BEST committees will be conducted today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-shiva-sena-retains-hold-of-bmc-with-help-of-allies-congress-ncp/story-grOgky5jgvPKBv4EKr3L8O.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Ambedkar University agrees to provide tablets to students, increase reimbursement for Internet||Following weeks of protest, students of Ambedkar University of Delhi (AUD) on Monday said that the varsity administration had agreed to the demands put forward by the students demanding fee waiver and technological support for marginalized students. The varsity administration said that it would begin distribution of around 30-40 tablets to needy students this week.On Thursday, students had also staged a sit-in protest outside the vice chancellor’s office demanding restoration of the old reservation policy, allowing fee waiver, providing tablets to needy students, and increasing the internet reimbursements already being offered by the university to marginalized students.On Thursday, following a meeting with vice chancellor Anu Singh Later, registrar Nitin Malik, proctor Satyaketu Sankrit, dean of students Santosh Singh, and other administrative officials, the varsity’s elected students body said they were “largely satisfied with the outcome.”“Though we have not been able to secure a reduction of fees, the meeting was largely successful since the administration has done everything on their end. The university administration said they will help students in getting required SC/ST certificates to facilitate their admissions. The varsity has also assured of increasing the reimbursement being given for Internet packages and extending the facility to research scholars as well,” said Shubhojeet Dey, treasurer, AUD students’ council.Students had also demanded a reduction in semester fee, extension of fee deadline, and removal of fee components like “Extra Mural Fee” for certain courses. “Since we were not having offline classes, these components should not be charged,” said Dey.The students’ body had alleged that the university had revised its reservation policy by tweaking the domicile criterion — an allegation rejected by the university. Registrar Nitin Malik said, “We explained to the students that the reservation policy being followed is as per the norms of the Delhi government.”The registrar said that the tablets could only be distributed after the procurement procedure had concluded. “We will start with the distribution of tablets this week,” he said.The administration has also extended the deadline to submit the semester fee by one month — till November 18. The late fee component has also been removed. “Even those wishing for a fee waiver can apply to us and we will take the decision on a case to case basis. Once the reopening directives are in place, we can also open our computer labs for students who need to use it, while maintaining social distancing norms,” said Malik.Postgraduate student Riti Choudhari, currently in Bhilai, Chhattisgarh, said that attending the online classes has been difficult for her and it was affecting her education. “Due to financial challenges, I haven’t been able to get a new laptop to work on. We have one working smartphone and that belongs to my father. I will only be able to either pay my fee or secure a device for my learning. This is why I was looking forward to getting some assistance from the university,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ambedkar-university-agrees-to-provide-tablets-to-students-increase-reimbursement-for-internet/story-G9zimfEZsB2rFrv7eEvPCJ.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Man dies of electrocution after touching a power pole in Nizamuddin||A 23-year-old man died of electrocution after he touched an electricity pole, located in a park in south-east Delhi’s Nizamuddin, late Sunday night. The man had gotten engaged to be married three months ago and was to have the nuptials before December. Police have registered a case of death due to negligence to probe the incident.According to the police, they received a call at the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station around 11.50pm reporting that a man has died of electrocution after he came in contact with a pole at a park near Nizamuddin Basti. A police team reached the spot rushed the injured man to AIIMS, where he was pronounced dead.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said the police were later able to identify the man as Jubair, a resident of Nizamuddin Basti, who worked at a car accessories shop in Lajpat Nagar. He hailed from Amroha in Uttar Pradesh. His body was sent for a postmortem examination and the family members were informed, the DCP said.Meena said the spot where he got electrocuted was inspected and a case of causing death due to negligence was registered against unknown persons to probe the matter. “A team from power discom BSES also visited the spot and cut the supply to the pole,” he said.A BSES official said the stretch and the pole in question are not maintained by BSES.When contacted, PWD officials did not comment on the matter.According to Jubair’s cousin Rehman, he had just returned home from work and was talking to his mother over the phone, when the incident took place. “His mother is visually challenged and lives with Jubair’s three brothers and father in Amroha. While talking over the phone, he touched the pole unintentionally and got electrocuted. Some men known to him, who were present in the area, used a stick to separate him from the pole and then he was rushed to the hospital,” Rehman said.He said Jubair got betrothed three months ago and was planning to get married before December. “His was a poor family and we pray to the government to help them in any way possible,” said Rehman, who runs an apparel shop in Nizamuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-dies-of-electrocution-after-touching-a-power-pole-in-nizamuddin/story-PUTAHCy4i2JMSznjooGDiK.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar again over salaries of dengue workers||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday criticised the BJP-ruled municipal corporations (MCDs) for not complying with the court’s order to pay a salary of Rs 32,000 per month to dengue-malaria warriors of Delhi instead of the present Rs 14,000. The party also said AAP had moved the Delhi high court against the north MCD’s decision to suspend 30 of its councillors last week after which the court on Monday ‘rejected the civic body’s last two sessions’ and served notice over the suspension orders.Addressing a press conference, AAP leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the fight against dengue and malaria cannot happen without the people who spray anti-dengue and malaria medicines across the Capital. “These people are also known as dengue-malaria warriors. They check the breeding of larvae, go door to door and spray the medicine. There are around 3,500 such people who work as dengue-malaria warriors. But it is unfortunate that the BJP-ruled MCD is showing a step-motherly attitude towards these people. From 2002, the BJP-ruled MCD has not confirmed their jobs but kept them as contractual employees. These people protested many times. The BJP leaders repeatedly assured them of justice but always denied it,” he said.“These people had no other way than moving court and in 2019, they got rights after the court’s verdict. The court ruled that these employees should get a Rs 32,000 salary instead of Rs 14,000. The verdict also observed that the BJP-ruled MCD should clear their arrears and bonus from 2012. The court issued a timeline of March 31, 2020, to finish these works. But none of it was complied with,” Pathak said. He also said, “Some days back when the AAP raised the issue of salaries, then the councillors were suspended for 15 days. The North MCD called the house two times within a span of 15 days. AAP then moved the Delhi HC against the suspension order. Today, the Delhi HC rejected these two sessions and served notice to the MCD over the suspension orders.”North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said salary up to the month of August had been released to domestic breeding checkers (DBC). Asking Pathak to “first clarify his facts” and then make allegations, he said. “The North Delhi Municipal Corporation will soon release outstanding salaries to DBC employees. The Delhi government wants to create an atmosphere of anarchy in Delhi by stopping funds due to the corporation.”Responding to AAP’s allegations, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Kejriwal government owed crores of rupees to the three municipal corporations.“But the Kejriwal government will never discuss those dues due to which the economic condition of the MCDs is deteriorating. It is due to sheer political malice that the Delhi government has neither released the entire funds allocated to the MCDs and whatever is given, it is not given on time,” he said. “The result of all this is that the Delhi government had to release stalled funds of about Rs 18,000 crore by March 31, 2020, to all the three municipal corporations. Half of the current financial year 2020-21 had gone but even 25% of the total fund had not been released yet,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-spar-again-over-salaries-of-dengue-workers/story-8NEETiTNqVp4GmW5Y0TNcM.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Focus on on-ground implementation, Epca tells Delhi govt||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority (Epca) on Monday said that the action plan launched by the Delhi government to combat winter pollution was welcome. The focus, however, needs to be on strict implementation of the proposed measures on the ground. Epca chief Bhure Lal said that any step to reduce pollution is welcome at a time when the city is also grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. Both air pollution and the Covid infection affect the lungs, which could complicate the situation for those infected. Hence, extra effort was required to keep pollution levels from spiking this winter.The Epca is tasked by the Supreme Court with enforcing the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) that was formulated in 2017. Grap essentially entails measures to deal with different levels of pollution and usually comes into effect from October 15. It comprises measures such as sprinkling of water and mechanical sweeping of roads, ban on construction activities as well as on operation of diesel generator sets in Delhi-NCR, among others. “The state government’s action plan is welcome. Even with Grap, it is the states have to ensure the implementation. This year with the pandemic, extra vigil is required on part of government agencies. What is important is the enforcement on the ground — be it curbing dust pollution or taking action against industries using unapproved fuels. It has to be ensured that citizens are also roped in the drives so that they feel responsible and comply with green norms,” said Lal.He added that the Epca will meet representatives from the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan on Thursday to discuss implementation of Grap.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a mega campaign against pollution. The action plan involves 10 government agencies — including municipal corporations — that will work on reducing the sources of pollution. The CM said that a war room will be created to monitor the action on the ground. Besides, an app — Green Delhi — will be launched to address pollution-related complaints on a daily basis.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said that this year the state government must change its implementation strategy. “It is good that a plan is being discussed. It shows the government’s intent and seriousness on tackling the issue. The new steps, such as the creation of a war room and launching of a citizen app, will be successful only if it’s linked with implementation on the ground, which has been lacking in several sectors over the past years,” she said. The government this year also plans to launch site-specific action plans to contain pollution at the city’s 13 major hotspots. In Delhi, 13 areas — Okhla phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri—were identified as hotspots by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) last year based on particulate matter (PM) concentrations. Pollution levels in these areas were found to be higher than the city’s average.In an inspection of the hotspots carried out by the EPCA last month, it was found that dumping and burning of waste as well as dust pollution at several sites were rampant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/focus-on-on-ground-implementation-epca-tells-delhi-govt/story-AVzAiyLYZox6WpSncLH3xL.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi to begin production of stubble decomposing solution today||Beginning Tuesday, Delhi is set to start large-scale preparation of a biochemical solution, a new technology that decomposes crop stubble so that it doesn’t need to be burnt. It could prove to be a solution for farmers who otherwise end up burning paddy stubble and causing air pollution during the winter. The solution will be ready within 3-4 days and the first set of trials could be expected over the weekend, said government officials.As per Delhi government, at least 800 hectares of farmland in Delhi’s is under cultivation where crop stubble is burnt every year. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday while launching a mega campaign against pollution said that a centralised system to produce anti-stubble burning bio-chemicals has been set up at Najafgarh’s Kharkhari Nahar village, under the supervision of scientists from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, Delhi. The plant will become operational on Tuesday and will be inspected by the CM.“Production of chemicals will start from October 6 at 400 different camps here under the supervision of IARI scientists, who have developed the technology. Within a few days of starting production, the first round of chemicals will be ready. Based on the demand, we will spray the chemical through tractors at the farm fields,” said Kejriwal during a press conference.If the experiment is successful this year, the CM said, he will request neighbouring states like Haryana and Punjab to also adopt this strategy. Air pollution in Delhi spikes every winter, starting October when calmer winds and stagnant weather conditions do not allow dispersion of pollutants. This, coupled with stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, contributes to up to 40% of pollutants according to government data.Also Read | Farm fires growing in Punjab, plumes of smoke seen over Delhi in satellite imagesLast week Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said that once the solution is sprayed over the stubble, it will take at least 15 days for it to decompose and convert into manure after which farmers can treat the fields with it. An IARI scientist, who did not wish to be named, said that the solution decomposes into fertiliser over 20 days of being sprayed and can be used by farmers in the fields.However, farmers in the city said that the government has so far not started any awareness campaign about the new technology. Many of them also raised concerns over the long window of the chemical decomposing into manure, which may delay sowing. The window between the harvest of paddy and sowing of rabi crop is just about a week, the farmers said.“I have a 35-acre farm where I grow both paddy and rabi crops. The varieties grown in Delhi are harvested around the second week of November, after which there is just one week left for us to sow rabi crop. If we use the solution, it will delay the sowing while the long gap will also take away the moisture from the field. I don’t know how feasible this technology will be,” said Sukhbir Dagar, a farmer from Delhi’s Dhansa village.Also Read | EPCA writes to Punjab and Haryana to act against stubble burningAccording to Bhupender Bazad, member, Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, approximately 1 lakh acre farmland is under cultivation in Delhi. At least 165 of the total 360 villages in the city still practise farming. “The government should have started an awareness campaign by now to make farmers familiar with the benefits of the technology. There is just about 10% stubble that is burnt every winter in Delhi. It is an experiment that we are yet to see. If it’s beneficial for the crops and the fields, we will support the initiative,” said Bazad.Rai had earlier said that last year there was zero stubble burning inside Delhi. But in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Western UP, massive stubble burning took place which contributed to 45% of overall pollution levels in Delhi. He also said that district officials will reach out to farmers to help them fill up forms to apply for the chemical to be sprayed in their fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-to-begin-production-of-stubble-decomposing-solution-today/story-YniaGlcHsJuo9sy7MNKzYL.html
06-10-2020||Pune||Pune Cantoment Board to forcefully close shops, impose heavy fines for violating norms||The Pune Cantonment Board administration will be imposing heavy fines on shops and establishments and closing them if they are found violating Covid-19 safety norms.The cantonment board would be imposing fines starting Rs 1,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 for the first, second and third offences before forcefully closing the shops. The revised orders for control and prevention of Covid-19 were issued by Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO), PCB, on Monday.The directives state all the national directives of Covid-19 will be applicable to the area where large gatherings will continue to remain prohibited and marriage gathering would not exceed 50 persons. The board has resolved that a fine of Rs 500 will be charged from persons for not wearing a face mask while spitting at public places will invite a fine of Rs 500.The shopkeepers and vendors will be penalised Rs 1,000 for the first offence, Rs 2,000 for the second offences and Rs 3,000 for the third offence and thereafter their shops will be forcibly closed, the order stated.The patrolling team of cantonment board and police under the incident commander (CEO) have been empowered for forcible closure of shops violating the guidelines. The board has reserved its order on the opening of hotels, restaurants and food courts.However, Fashion Street and Kumbhar Bawdi markets will remain closed till further ordersKumar said“ The order has been issued in the public interest and for the safety of the residents. The decision on the opening of Fashion Street and Kumbhar Bawdi will be decided only after board resolution.”“We are suffering losses from the last six months. Action is needed but we also need money for survival. The board must adopt a flexible approach in this scenario, ” said Sanjay Pitambare, a businessman from East Street.Currently, containment zones in PCB include Solapur Bazar PCB quarters, Jan Mohammad Street, Boottee Street and Ghorpadi gaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcb-to-forcefully-close-shops-impose-heavy-fines-for-violating-covid-norms/story-C77MNbbz0IWRTCNPRGouJK.html
06-10-2020||Pune||Sound system, mandap owners to protest on October 7||At least five lakh people engaged in the business of sound and lights, LED displays and generators, along with florists, decorators and mandap owners have demanded to be allowed to reopen business, as they are suffering an economic loss due to the restrictions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of Pune sound, electrical generator, and events equipment vendor association will protest outside the Pune district collector’s office on October 7, if demands are not met with.“Due to the ban on celebrations and events, our business has suffered drastically in the last six months and we are struggling to survive,” a statement issued by the association at a press conference held at the Pune Patrakar Bhavan on Monday, said.“Due to the pandemic, our business has suffered losses of Rs 50 crore in the past six months. Now, that the restrictions are easing we were hoping we will be allowed to resume business, but that has not happened,” said Bablu Ramzani, president of the association.“Festivals like Ganpati and wedding season is the time when our business is at its peak, but due to the restrictions, our business has suffered. Now we do not have any source of income and our families are suffering,” he said.Shirish Pathak, a member of the association, said, “Our savings are sinking and so we need some help from the government. the industry needs to restart. We are willing to follow all the safety guidelines, there are big lawns and halls where events can be carried out by following all safety norms.”“We will be holding a protest on October 7 at the Pune collector office,” he said.“Also, one of our major demand is to give us the status of ‘artistes’, so that we will be able to get the benefit of government schemes and subsidies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sound-system-mandap-owners-to-protest-on-october-7/story-USGUaQoshAFffy29xSBMWP.html
06-10-2020||City||Bike-borne assailants rob two senior citizens in separate incidents in Pune||PUNE: In two separate incidents, two senior citizens were robbed by bike-borne assailants in parts of Pune within two days. In the first incident, a 78-year-old woman, a resident of an independent house in Karvenagar, was robbed of her gold necklace by two men travelling on a motorbike. The necklace is estimated to be worth Rs 63,000. The woman was opening the main gate of her house around 7:30pm on Sunday when the two men arrived on a bike, yanked at the necklace and fled. A case under Sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Alankar police station against the two. In another incident which happened 24 hours before the first one, a bag with Rs 11,700 cash was stolen from a senior citizen after throwing chilli powder in his eyes by four men travelling on two-motorbikes. The complainant was identified as Sabjan Bhojani (62), a resident of Meet Rivera society located near Max Mueller Bhawan, Pune. The incident happened at 7:30pm on Saturday when the man was returning home from work. “He has a vegetable stall in Market Yard. He was going home from his workplace and was entering his building when it happened. We are checking CCTV camera footages and have zeroed in on 3-4 suspects. We will soon find them,” said sub-inspector Rupesh Chalke of Koregaon Park police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Koregaon Park police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lone-senior-citizens-robbed-in-pune/story-M9A85gKp0WVjKNw88rYTbN.html
06-10-2020||Pune||Former BJP MLA among others held for ransacking PMC office||Though the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is ruling in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the party’s former MLA Yogesh Tilekar and some elected members staged agitation at Swargate water depot and ransacked the office. Police arrested Tilekar and his supporters after PMC filed a complaint. The police complaint filed by PMC water department engineer Aashish Jadhav states, “Tilekar called me when I was in office and wanted to discuss the water issue in Katraj area. As he was accompanied by many supporters, I requested them to talk on the water issue in the presence of three or four persons because of the Covid situation. They started shouting slogans and staged agitation at Swargate water station office and threw files from my table before breaking windows, throw chairs and damaging cupboard and office furniture. Later, they forcefully brought me in front of agitators and felicitated me and junior engineer Rahul Sorte and shouted slogans against PMC administration.” Police arrested Tilekar and other protestors for obstructing government work in the evening. The incident happened at 12.30 on Monday afternoon.” Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “I am aware about the agitation at Swargate water station, but will be able to comment only after knowing the details.” Former mayor and Nationalist Congress Party leader Datta Dhankawade who also represents Katraj area said, “The incident shows the party in poor light. The work of the new water tank is completed and trials are underway. To take credit of the water project, the BJP did the drama and broke PMC furniture. It is wrong to carry out such agitations when administration is already under work stress because of Covid situation.” “Around 40 people have been remanded to judicial custody,” said senior police inspector Brahmanand Naikawadi. The protestors were booked under Sections 353 and rioting of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act registered at Swargate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-bjp-mla-among-others-held-for-ransacking-pmc-office/story-Wu01OS4v2b4LM50BmMPjEM.html
06-10-2020||City||Man bludgeoned to death in Pune, four held||PUNE: The body of a man with criminal record was found lying at an open ground in Kharadi with his head bashed with a cement block, on Monday morning. The man has been identified as Shailesh Ghadage (34), a resident of Chaudhary vasti in the Shantinagar area of Kharadi, according to police. Four people were arrested on Monday evening. The four were identified as Raju Tukaram Aswale (23), a resident of Dinkar Pathare Vasti of Chandananagar; Akash Anil Devkar (25), a resident of Yerawada; Sunil Ravindra Patil (24), a resident of Kharadi; and Vishal Ramesh Bhadve (25), a resident of Chandannagar, according to the police.The ground where he was found is located near a small restaurant in the area. A family member was called to identify his body, after which, it was sent for post-mortem at a local hospital. The suspects and the deceased have been at loggerheads since 2016, after a fight they had gotten into had turned violent, police said. The suspected assailants had also been in a fight with the deceased three months ago over the same issue. This information was provided to the police by the deceased man’s brother Nilesh Ghadage (26), who is the complainant in the case. The victim was hit with a cement block and wooden rod and has a history of criminal cases against him, including murder and attempted murder. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chandan nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-with-history-of-violent-crime-found-bludgeoned-to-death-in-pune/story-eagLrAV8XbkAYiKyPFSEQP.html
06-10-2020||City||412kg of marijuana worth Rs 65 lakh seized in Pune||Pune: Pune customs officials, on the basis of specific intelligence, recovered 412kg of marijuana worth Rs 65 lakh in a seizure on the Naldurga-Solapur road on Sunday. According to customs officials, the contraband was being trafficked in a truck from Andhra Pradesh to various districts of Maharashtra. The 412kg of marijuana was packed in 206 plastic bags, concealed in a special cavity on the roof of the vehicle and was detected by officers during a search of the vehicle. “While the officers were engaged in 100% road checking on the suspected route at a zeroed-down location, it was noticed that the subject vehicle had been abandoned, with the engine running, at distance of about 500 metres before the said place,” said a customs official, requesting anonymity. “Pune customs is conducting the necessary verification and investigation to trace the traffickers,” said Vaishali Patange, joint commissioner, Pune Customs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/412kg-of-marijuana-worth-rs-65-lakh-seized-in-pune/story-GqceBIFT6BLi7Mzh414rDL.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||Schools in Delhi to stay shut till end of October, says Manish Sisodia||All schools in the national capital will remain closed for the rest of the month, the Delhi government said on Sunday, days after the Centre’s guidelines to ease nationwide restrictions necessitated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic announced that states and Union territories were free to open such educational facilities in a graded manner beginning October 15.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said that while all schools – both government and private – will remain closed till October 31, online classes will continue as usual, with teachers being told to mandatorily educate schoolchildren on mask etiquette and hand hygiene at the beginning of every session.Educational institutes have remained closed since March this year, when a nationwide lockdown was put in place to control the spread of the infectious disease that has infected millions across the globe and claimed more than one million lives so far.More than six months after the Centre imposed the hard lockdown, the Union home ministry on Wednesday moved closer to unlocking almost all activities by allowing a graded restart of schools, partial reopening of movie theatres, and large gatherings.The home ministry’s guidelines on unlocking activity said that the decision for opening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner could be taken by the states/UT after October 15 “in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”. However, if students preferred to attend online classes, they would be permitted to do so. The guidelines said attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent. Following the announcement, officials of the Delhi government’s education department held meetings to discuss the rules issued by the Centre.The previous order of the Delhi government on the status of physical classes at schools, issued on September 18, said the institutes would remain closed till October 5.“All schools in Delhi will remain closed till October 31 due to Covid. Chief minister @ArvindKejriwal has said that as a parent, he understands the seriousness of the situation. At this time it will not be appropriate to take any risk regarding the health of children (sic),” Sisodia tweeted in Hindi on Sunday.Following Sisodia’s instructions, the directorate of education issued an order which also said: “...Online classes and teaching learning activities will continue as usual and heads of schools are authorised to call teachers/staff (as per requirement) for smooth conduct of online classes, teaching learning activities and any other work.”Teachers were also asked to educate students on wearing masks, following physical distancing, and maintaining hand hygiene before beginning online classes. “Teachers to motivate students to convey the message to parents and relatives, Banners/Posters should also be displayed in the school premises to promote the awareness campaign in this regard,” read the order signed by Saroj Sain, additional director (school).The decision to keep schools shut comes after an assessment of the Covid-19 situation in the Capital. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the city reported 3,037, 2,920 and 2,258 cases, respectively. Overall, Delhi has reported 290,613 cases and 5,510 deaths due to the virus till Sunday.Some school administrators, however, expressed apprehensions over how the fresh order will affect the academic prospects of students.Sarita Batra, principal of a government school in Shalimar Bagh, said: “This will affect the academic calendar and the students. But the life of children is more important. We are hoping that the Central Board of Secondary Education reduces the syllabus further since the closure of schools is being extended.” In July, the board revised the curriculum for students of classes 9 to 12 and rationalised 30% syllabus to reduce the course load for students.Madhulika Sen, Education Advisor at Tagore International Schools, said that while the health of children was of paramount importance, not reopening schools could also take a toll on their emotional and mental well-being.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales, Pusa Road, pointed out that the closure of schools till October-end would not make much of a difference. “Schools were already slated to remain closed till October 15 followed by the Dussehra break between October 21 and 26. So, the closure of schools till October 31 doesn’t make much of a difference. We hope that there are fewer Covid-19 cases by November, giving parents confidence to send their children to school,” she said.Ashok Agarwal, national president of the All India Parents Association, said: “The extension of school closures is being done in instalments, giving rise to confusion and stress among parents and students. If the Covid-19 situation is the same till March next year, they will keep announcing such repeated extensions till then. CBSE had reduced 30% syllabus, but now the closure of schools has gone on for far too long. Why not assure parents and children that they won’t be failed in this academic year considering the unprecedented circumstances and announce a zero year,” said Agarwal.According to the Centre’s guidelines, for higher education, the ministry of education will decide on the timing of the opening of colleges based on the assessment of the situation. “However, higher education institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/experimental works will be permitted to open from October 15,” the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/schools-in-delhi-to-stay-shut-till-end-of-october-says-manish-sisodia/story-Kir9RxSNwjHlUMTBi4OIzJ.html
06-10-2020||Noida||Rs 10 crore projects inaugurated in Noida||The Noida authority on Sunday started work on six projects estimated to cost Rs 10 crore. These include resurfacing roads and repairing drains and footpath in different sectors.Gautam Budh Nagar Member of Parliament Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and the Noida authority general manager Rajiv Tyagi inaugurated these projects.“Resurfacing of roads, repair work of footpath, pavement and drains will benefit the general public. Residents have been demanding for these issues of road resurfacing and repair of drains addressed,” said Pankaj Singh MLA, Noida.The work include internal road resurfacing in sector 52 with a budget of Rs 2.4 crore, pavement repair in sector 22 with a budget of Rs 1 crore, drain repair in sector 22 to cost Rs 1 crore, internal road resurfacing in sector 70 with a budget of Rs 2.5 crore, plaster of the flats built by the authority in sector 66 on a budget Rs 1.7 crore and internal road resurfacing along with culvert with a budget of Rs 1 crore.The authority aims to finish these works in next two months.The authority decided to carry out these works after residents in all of these sectors demanded road resurfacing and other works to be done on priority basis.“We have started the work on these projects right after the inauguration so that the residents do not face any inconvenience in future. We aim to finish these works in next two months time. We will put these projects on fast-track,” said Tyagi.Residents of sector 70 said that broken internal roads were an issue in their locality.“We had demanded that the internal roads and other maintenance works should be looked into without further delay. And we are happy that the work will be completed in next two months,” said Manoj Goyal, a resident of sector 70.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/10-crore-projects-inaugurated-in-noida/story-ze20omMVY12QpX7VGFTzRO.html
06-10-2020||Delhi||For students, teachers, it is a choice between health or education||Delhi government’s Sunday announcement that schools in the city will stay shut till the end of October has triggered ripples of concern among teachers over the fallout the move may have on the prospects of students set to appear for their Class 10 and 12 board exams next year.Though most of school administrations said that rationalization of syllabus by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which was announced in July, will help in mitigating the academic losses arising out of the Covid-19 lockdown, conducting practical lessons for students of class 10 and 12 is the challenge.Madhulika Sen, Education Advisor at Tagore International Schools, said, “While digital classes have helped in achieving desired learning outcomes, if schools aren’t reopened in November, science practical lessons will definitely be impacted. Our first priority will be to conduct practical classes for students of classes 10 and 12, as soon as schools reopen. We will also conduct doubt-clearing sessions for them since the syllabus will be covered in most schools by mid-November.”Sen also emphasized on the importance of maintaining mental well-being of these students. “Classrooms allow peer-based learning and interaction which these students have been missing out on since March. We hope that November onwards, small groups of students can come to schools while maintaining all safety norms,” she said.Shailendra Sharma, principal advisor to Delhi government’s director (education), said, “We have decided on maintaining the status quo with regards to reopening of schools for all classes due to the current Covid-19 situation in the capital. Any decision regarding students of any class, including students those of classes 10 and 12, visiting schools will be taken only when parents are confident of sending their wards back to school.”Following the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown imposed in March, schools have been conducting online classes through video conferencing and WhatsApp to ensure the learning process continues for students. Teachers of Delhi government schools have also been sending worksheets to students who do not have unlimited access to internet or to devices like smartphones and laptops.Schools have also resorted to recording videos of teachers conducting experiments in science labs and sending it to students for some exposure. “While teachers have explained some of the practical experiments during online classes through videos, the lack of hands-on learning cannot be ignored. For instance, in the vocational subject of travel and tourism, students earlier went for industrial visits to various places like banks or post-offices and submitted reports. We haven’t been able to conduct such practicals so far,” said Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar.Sharma also recommended that children could be made aware of the necessity of safety and hygiene protocols during Covid-19 crisis and allowed to attend such practical lessons in smaller groups from November. On Sunday, the Directorate of Education, while announcing closure of schools till October 31, asked teachers to emphasize on educating students on wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene before the start of every online session.Sharma also cautioned against asking for a further reduction of CBSE syllabus for class 10 and 12 students. “The 30% rationalization of syllabus has helped schools but any further reduction may affect their future prospects, as important topics may be skipped. If schools are closed in November as well, we have to look at other alternatives like increasing the number of online classes to cover the syllabus,” he said.The situation seems to be far more challenging for those government school students who cleared their class 9 and 11 exams only after retests in August and were promoted to classes 10 and 12 the same month. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector-8, said, “There is still fear among parents and teachers of contracting the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So it is better to keep schools closed till October. However, students who recently cleared their retests and joined these classes have a tough road ahead as they have not attended any class 10 and 12 online classes before August. Though we have created smaller groups consisting of these students to do a targeted intervention by teachers, physical classes from November, after a discussion with parents and staff while following all safety protocols, would help more.”Students, on the other hand, said that the current situation has put them in a spot — where they need to choose either their health or their education.Kunal Singh, a class 12 student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Nand Nagri said, “When schools in the USA reopened, students there started getting Covid-19. But, we are also concerned about underperforming during our practical board exams.”Several students like Kunal said that while the theoretical portion of their subjects was covered in their schools, they were yet to attend any practicals, even after six months of the academic session having begun. “Teachers are doing their best but online classes are not enough. If we are allowed to go to schools in November, I would like to go at least once and see how safety protocols are implemented and get my doubts cleared,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/for-students-teachers-it-is-a-choice-between-health-or-education/story-srX7ED2j7cKEF48LDPUxfI.html
