07-10-2020||Noida||MSPs and mandis not abolished, we will reach out to farmers to remove misconception: GB Nagar MP||Gautam Budh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma on Wednesday said the minimum support price (MSPs) and mandis (wholesale hubs) have not been abolished in the Farm Bills 2020, and party workers will meet farmers to remove the ‘misconception’ in a chaupal initiative. “There is misconception that the Farm Bills 2020 are anti-farmer. In fact, the Bills open a number of options for the farmers to sell their produce at good price. The farmers will be able to directly sell their produce to private companies. In contract farming, private players will bring in new technology and invest. This will help the farmers,” Sharma said. Sharma was speaking at a press meet where Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and other BJP functionaries were present. The MP reiterated that the Bills had not abolished the MSPs and the mandis. “The MSPs will continue to remain in force. The MSPs will be decided on the principal investment amount plus 50% profit,” he said. He said contract farming policy is already in place in some states. “Contract farming is in place in Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and some other states,” he said. In such a farming pattern, only the crops will be under contract and not of the land, he said. “In case of any dispute, the local sub-divisional magistrate will resolve the matter and the farmers need not go to court,” he said. The GB Nagar MP said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, through these Farm Bills, implemented recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee Report: National Commission on Farmers. He said under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the government had transferred Rs 93,000 crore directly in the bank accounts of 10 crore farmers. Pankaj Singh termed the three bills as historic and said BJP workers will take the message to urban and rural areas and inform the farmers. “There are some people who are misleading the farmers that these bills are against them. In fact, this reduces the involvement of middlemen. We will hold meetings and chaupals and inform farmers them about it,” he said. On September 25, Bharatiya Kisan Union members had protested and blocked the Delhi-Noida border near Sector 14A in protest against the Farm Bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/msps-and-mandis-not-abolished-we-will-reach-out-to-farmers-to-remove-misconception-gb-nagar-mp/story-YGR7VmkoJU87KqpHeutg0I.html
07-10-2020||Noida||Three more persons arrested in Bike Bot ponzi scheme case||The Noida police Economic Offences Wing (EOW) and Noida Special Task Force (STF) teams on Wednesday arrested two more suspects in connection with the ₹3,500 crore Bike Bot scheme case.Till date, 14 people have been arrested in the case, which involved duping many investors in the name of opening a app-based motorcycle taxi company.The suspects arrested on Wednesday were identified as brothers 35-year-old Dankaur resident Sachin Bhati and 33-year-old Dadri resident Pawan Bhati. Meerut STF also arrested third suspect 50-year-old Ganga Nagar resident Karanpal Singh from Hapur in connection with the case. Raj Kumar Mishra, additional SP (Noida STF) said that that Pawan and Sachin were arrested from Nangla Nainsukh village in Dadri. “They were directors of Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited, which had floated the Bike-Bot scheme in 2017. Their older brother Sanjay Bhati was the mastermind of the scheme and is presently in jail,” he said. Mishra said that police arrested the absconding brothers based on a tip.Meanwhile, Karanpal Singh, who was also a director in the company, was arrested from an auto in Hapur. He told police officials that he had retired as hawaldar from Indian Army in 2009. In 2013-14, he went to Dehradun and worked with a private investment company. In 2017, he came in contact with Sanjay Bhati and started working for the Bike-Bot scheme. Sanjay Bhati had allegedly set up the company in 2010. The modus operandi was lucrative, said police. The accused would seek ₹62,000 investment per motorcycle in return for ₹1.17 lakh per annum income. This, however, never took off and last year, people approached the police against the company. Police say almost 225,000 people were duped this way. Last year, while the oldest Bhati brother was arrested, the others were absconding and police had announced a ₹50,000 reward for their arrest.The three suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-more-persons-arrested-in-bike-bot-ponzi-scheme-case/story-CPnR58T0yTyvjcpdc4lHzH.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Daring Cities 2020: Arvind Kejriwal reiterates commitment to cleaner and greener Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday highlighted the major environmental successes achieved by the national capital. He was addressing the virtual ceremony of ‘Daring Cities-2020’, a global forum on climate change. Speaking of the odd-even plan, Kejriwal said that initially there was lack of political will as well as fear among citizens that they would face transportation issues due to the plan. He said, “Earlier there was fear among the people as well as politicians that this would lead to problems but gradually we started seeing benefits of this scheme.”He also said that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has expanded its operations to ensure people across the city remain connected. “We have given a huge push to develop public transportation.DMRC’s network has observed an 80% increase in the last four years,” Kejriwal said.“Sharing this experience with you all to let you know that political will exists to implement such plans now,” he added. The chief minister also highlighted that when the measures were introduced there were huge fines levied on violators, but gradually fines have decreased.Speaking about the air pollution that Delhi faces during the winter season the chief minister attributed it to stubble burning along with other causes. He said that due to stubble burning the air quality index (AQI) drops below normal range. He highlighted that the city has taken various measures to lower the effects of the stubble burning by using methods suggested by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).Kejriwal also said that the city continues its mission of developing a greener Delhi. He said, “Every year 3 million saplings have been planted by citizens as well as the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/daring-cities-2020-arvind-kejriwal-reiterates-commitment-to-cleaner-and-greener-delhi/story-sEr5iTXodMWwDgrMm2hCjP.html
07-10-2020||Noida||Five persons booked for blackmailing private university CEO||A private university based in Greater Noida has filed a complaint in Dankaur police station against a woman and four others for blackmail and extortion. The case was registered on Wednesday on the direction of district and sessions court in Surajpur.The university’s CEO, the complainant in the FIR, alleged the five had made five fake videos and also uploaded it online. “This has resulted in tarnishing the image of the university. They later made a fake account on YouTube in the name of the complainant and uploaded the five videos there too,” he said.As per the complaint, the suspects had also visited the university on September 8, 2020 and asked the office staff to arrange a meeting with the management. “The staff informed them that the senior management officials were not available at that moment. They then abused the staff. They also asked the staff to convey a message to the management -- arrange ₹10 crore or they would make the videos viral,” the FIR states. The complainant said that he had filed a complaint in Dankaur police station on September 8, but the FIR was not registered. He then moved to court seeking an FIR, which it granted. The University CEO did not respond to calls and text messages for a comment. Police said that the videos were eight months old in which the complainant is seen in police custody in connection with a case. Anil Kumar Pandey, SHO Dankaur police station, said the case has been registered against the five suspects under the Information Technology Act and Indian penal code sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), and 386 (extortion). “We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-persons-booked-for-blackmailing-private-university-ceo/story-kG4uGJ3Z9ZYVhRQj1dgVEL.html
07-10-2020||Noida||30 booked for drinking in public, harassing women in Noida||In a special drive aimed at the safety of women, Noida police on Tuesday night booked at least 30 men across the district for drinking in public and harassment.The drive was carried out by teams from local police stations and personnel from the special unit of women police formed in August. According to police, the teams covered 38 vulnerable spots in a three-hour operation.“These areas were identified taking into account both police input and feedback from the public, including suggestions received on the women helpline,” joint commissioner of police, law and order, Luv kumar, said.The drive mostly focussed on public markets and parks across the district.“We had inputs from women in sector 29 that a few nefarious characters hang out at the open gym and ogle women there. Taking such feedback into account, these areas were targeted and 30 people across the district were booked for either public drinking or harassment,” Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and children safety, said.Police said 536 suspicious characters were questioned, most of whom were let go after questioning and warnings. Some of the police teams were in plainclothes for surprise checks.The suspects were booked under section 290 (Punishment for public nuisance) of the Indian Penal Code while a few were booked under section 151 of the CrPC. Those found involved in harassment were released in the care of a guardian after warning, police said.The department plans to take community policing further by letting women accompany patrolling teams.“We will invite women to work with these patrolling teams. It will improve public-police dynamics and empower them further. The plan is under works and we will soon roll it out for the public,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/30-booked-for-drinking-in-public-harassing-women-in-noida/story-P8PUJZhsiWSRLrrLtRn50J.html
07-10-2020||City||Need to work on a war footing to stop pollution spike: Delhi minister||New Delhi: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said all agencies need to work together on a ‘war footing’ to stop air pollution from spiking this winter as the situation is already complex with the Covid-19 pandemic, even as his party colleague and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national spokesperson Raghav Chadha accused the Punjab and Haryana governments of “dereliction of duty” in tackling stubble burning.The Delhi leaders’ comments came as the city’s air quality touched the ‘poor’ category on Wednesday for the first time since June this year.Rai said the government’s focus this year is on curbing dust pollution for which a campaign was launched on October 5, which will go on till October 15. “Over the past five years, because of efforts by the government and people, overall pollution levels decreased by 25%. This year, more vigilance is required on part of all agencies and neighbouring states to curb pollution, and not let it aggravate the Covid-19 situation,” Rai told reporters. He said working together is crucial as Delhi falls in the airshed area where activities around 300 km of its radius contribute to high air pollution levels in the city. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee has constituted 14 teams to inspect various locations to ensure dust-control norms are being followed at construction and demolition sites and ready-mix plants. “This August we had directed that all construction sites bigger than 20,000 square metres will have to mandatorily install anti-smog guns to control dust. In a recent inspection of 39 such sites, we found that six have not been following norms and these agencies were asked to stop work. At most sites, construction and demolition work is being taken up by central government agencies,” Rai said.Rai said he will inspect these sites on Friday and if they are still not following rules, work will not be allowed to start. He said states such as Haryana and Punjab must adopt the bio-decomposer technology initiated in Delhi to tackle stubble burning. “Even though stubble burning is negligible in Delhi. we have taken this initiative to create a role model for other states,” he said. Chadha, in a separate press meet, said: “The states of Punjab and Haryana are guilty of dereliction of duty towards dealing with air pollution and stopping stubble burning. The first week of October has seen stubble burning increase nine-fold in Punjab and three-fold in Haryana, compared to the corresponding period last year.”“On the one hand, the Prime Minister talks about combating air pollution. On the other hand, the BJP government in Haryana disregards his advice. The state governments of Punjab and Haryana have chosen to blindfold themselves on the issue of stubble burning. AAP demands that the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority recommends stringent action against the two governments,” he said.EPCA chief Bhure Lal said, “We have already directed the state governments of Haryana and Punjab to take action against the rising incidents and step up surveillance. They have started several measures to stop stubble burning in smaller patches of farmlands, which used to go unnoticed before.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-work-on-a-war-footing-to-stop-pollution-spike-delhi-minister/story-TuB9hAS2sFo3Qq4q1fuKUM.html
07-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad corporation starts ‘Jan Chaupal’ in residential wards for addressing local complaints||To better connect with residents, the Ghaziabad municipal commissioner has initiated ‘Jan Chaupal’ where senior officers, the Mayor and the department heads go to wards and hold direct interactions.  “The idea is to address ward-level issues. There are many residents who find it difficult to come up to the corporation headquarters for seemingly small complaints like related to water supply, cleaning staff, dysfunctional street lights or even on the number of benches in parks,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner, Ghaziabad. “So now the corporation will go to them.”The chaupals have been happening since October 1 and the corporation has prepared a schedule to cover all 100 residential wards. Around three to four wards are covered a day and the chaupal is held from 8am to 10am in a park which is accessible to residents of the wards. “When residents raise their issues, the concerned department heads note it down and begin the resolution process. The heads are also given a chance to speak and they tell the residents about the work they have been doing in the area. We hope to cover all 100 wards in 25 days. In next round, the process will continue,” Tanwar added. Sant Ram, the local councillor from ward 51 of Sector 11 at Vijay Nagar, said that one such chaupal was held in his ward last week. “The residents pointed out that walking track should be prepared at one of the parks and also raised issue of dysfunctional motor pump that affected water supply. After the issues were raised, the pump was rectified in 24 hours and the work for creation of walking track in park has also started,” he said. “In the next chaupal, we will update the officials on the work. In a way, the concept is well received by residents as they have small issues and many of them do not find suitable platform to lodge their complaints.”Residents welfare associations (RWAs) said the opening of a complaint redressal call centre, on October 5, and initiation of the Jan Chaupal will help residents get more access to the corporation. “Since it is a civic agency and handles local civic issues, the Jan Chaupal has provided residents with a way to connect to officials. Now, the residents will be able to speak out issues concerning their area. We appreciate the initiative and it must go on,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-corporation-starts-jan-chaupal-in-residential-wards-for-addressing-local-complaints/story-eUzufqQRXQsYzruLq9RHkK.html
07-10-2020||Noida||Big infrastructure push in Uttar Pradesh, plan for an airport in each division||To boost air connectivity and fuel growth, the Uttar Pradesh government has set a target to build the maximum number of airports in the country, director of the UP civil aviation department Surendra Singh said on Wednesday, adding at least one airport will come in each division in the state. “The aviation sector, one of the major catalysts for growth and development, is not limited only to the Noida airport but UP bhief minister Yogi Adityanath’s vision is to develop this sector across Uttar Pradesh. To make sure that happens, the government has planned to make at least one airport in each division. There are 18 divisions in the state and we have a vision to ready 20 airports in the next two to three years to boost air connectivity,” Singh said.Singh visited the Noida International airport Limited office in Greater Noida’s sector Omega-I, where the concessionaire agreement for the Noida International Greenfield airport proposed at Jewar was signed with Zurich International. In Western UP alone, the government has decided to build an airport each in Saharanpur, Meerut, Aligarh, Noida and Muradabad.“We are likely to acquire land for the Meerut airport project and work will begin soon. In Western UP, work will begin soon for the Saharanpur, Meerut, Aligarh, Noida and Muradabad airports. Hindon has already started operations. Besides we have planned airports in Eastern UP cities such as Azamgarh, Chitrakoot, Sonbhadra, Shravasti and Ayodhya. We acquired 78 acres land for an airport in Bundelkhand’s Lalitpur division and land is to be acquired for an airport in Jhansi division. Nobody ever thought of providing air connectivity to these cities,” Singh said. In the temple town Ayodhya, the UP government already has 200 acres of land and another 400 acres are being acquired to set up an international airport there, Singh said. The Kushinagar airport is likely to start its first flight by the end of October. “We plan to start work in Azamgarh, Shravasti, Muradabad and Aligarh by March 2021. In 2016, UP had only 37 flights daily and now in 2020, there are 63 daily flights. We are focusing on air connectivity to boost growth and bring development,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/big-infrastructure-push-in-uttar-pradesh-plan-for-an-airport-in-each-division/story-sxQZo2ZMUO8bcUEusF63MM.html
07-10-2020||Noida||UP govt to focus on critical link infra to connect Jewar and Delhi airports||With the Jewar International Airport agreement signed, the Uttar Pradesh government and the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has shifted focus on to other projects to connect Jewar with Indira Gandhi International airport (IGIA) in New Delhi. A high-speed Metro line, an extension of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and other road projects are part of the plan.“The UP government is serious on constricting a 50 kilometre dedicated high-speed Metro project that will directly connect proposed Jewar airport with IGIA. Also, we will expedite the work to connect the Eastern Peripheral Expressway with Jewar and also extend Delhi Metro via Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk so that once the airport is operational, commuters can reach the airport conveniently,” said SP Goyal additional chief secretary to UP Chief Minister and civil aviation department, after the agreement singing with Zurich International AG. Jewar is 70km away from Delhi and 30 km away from Greater Noida. Yeida has already planned to build a 35.64-km Metro connecting Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park-II with Jewar airport by 2023 even though the agency admitted that the project may not be economically viable. According to the detailed project report, the ridership by 2023 would be only around 82,000 when it needs at least double that number to recover the cost.“ We are bound to provide world-class public transport facilities along with Jewar airport. We will start work on the Metro project after obtaining requisite clearances and finish it with the airport’s deadline of 2023,” said Arun Vir Singh CEO of the Yeida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-to-focus-on-critical-link-infra-to-connect-jewar-and-delhi-airports/story-4PcB0Oh9aBv9quSnjJImoI.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||PEC students express resentment over on-campus exams||Students of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) are upset over the institute’s decision to call them on campus for semester examinations which are scheduled for November and December. Bhavya Chopra, a BTech 7th semester student, said, “It is very difficult for us to come to the campus to take exams as the number of Covid-19 cases are rising. Many students are from far-flung places as well.” After a communication was issued to all heads of departments on Tuesday, detailed guidelines were released for the evaluation process of the ongoing semester and the pending exams of the second semester of the previous academic session that were not held due to the lockdown. Many students have raised issues with the PEC authorities.“It is not convenient to come to Chandigarh during this time and give an examination. It may be risky to stay in hostel as well,” said Navkaran Singh, a PEC student, who hails from Ludhiana.Guidelines for conducting examinationAccording to the guidelines issued to the department heads on Tuesday, the course instructors have been asked to continue classes beyond October 19, 2020 till the physical reporting of the students in the campus. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for conducting practical and semester examinations will also be issued. To avoid large gatherings, department-wise slots have been prepared as well. The dates of project and survey camp evaluation may be decided at the department level within the stay period of students.The students from far-off places, who wish to stay back in the hostels for the second end term examination, have been permitted to do so.Meeting with student reps tomorrowPEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We have fixed a meeting with student representatives on Friday. We will listen to their problems and make a final decision after that.”The SOPs for research scholars will be finalised on Thursday. PEC had already decided to allow research scholars to visit campus from October 8 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-students-express-resentment-over-on-campus-exams/story-mwHyDSJC8RekC1z2PNOGgL.html
07-10-2020||Noida||Concession agreement for Jewar airport signed; work to begin at site by June next year||Zurich Airport International AG, the Swiss company selected for developing the international airport at Jewar, and the special purpose vehicle (SPV) Yamuna International Airport Private Limited on Wednesday signed a concession agreement, paving the way for the work to start at site of the about Rs 30,000 crore project.Officials said that the airport is likely to become operational by its original deadline of 2023, unaffected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The agreement was signed by Christoph Schnellmann, chief executive officer of the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), and Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), in the presence of SP Goyal, additional chief secretary at UP’s civil aviation department. Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan, Noida authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, and UP civil aviation department director Surendra Singh were also present at the event that took place at the NIAL’s office in Greater Noida’s Sector Omega 1. Other top officials of Zurich International joined the event online. “The Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar will become operational as per schedule by 2023 as we have already been working on all required procedures, such as geographical survey, topographical survey and soil testing, among other things. We will start work at the project site by middle of 2021 after finalising the required agencies. Once the engineering and designing work gets completed, we will issue tender on our website, and then qualifying agencies in the bidding process will start construction and development work,” said Christoph Schnellmann, chief executive officer of the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the SPV formed to develop and operate the ambitious project. On May 19 this year, the Swiss firm had got requisite security clearance from the ministry of home affairs, paving way for the singing of the concession agreement.The agreement was supposed to be signed by July 2. However, on June 10, the UP government postponed the agreement signing date to August 17 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On August 14, Zurich had been given time till October 15 for signing of the agreement in view of restrictions on international air travel. Finally, Schnellmann from Zurich International, along with one more staff member, travelled for the agreement signing process. According to the officials, the signing of the concession agreement holds importance as Zurich could not start work at the airport site without it. “The airport project at Jewar will not only prove to be a catalyst for economic growth and opportunities to Noida region, but also for the entire state. The project will help in economic recovery and attract investment in the state. Besides, it will create jobs,” said Goyal. According to Schnellmann, the Phase 1 of the airport will start in 2023-27 with one runway initially and will cater to 12 million passengers per annum. “We will soon set up our office along the Yamuna Expressway once the Covid-19 pandemic is over. If all goes as per the plan, the project will be completed by 2023,” said Schnellmann.The UP government has acquired 1,334 hectares of land from farmers via direct land purchase for the first phase of this project. In total, the UP government will acquire 5,000 hectares of the land for the project. “We will soon take possession of the land from the Noida International Airport Limited so that the project sees further progress,” said Schnellmann, adding that they are happy and excited to take up this project and looking forward for required support from the government of UP.After signing the agreement, NIAL chief Arun Vir Singh said, “This is a historic day as we have signed an agreement with Zurich. As the agreement is signed today, we are looking forward to work together to make sure the project is completed as per the scheduled deadline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/concession-agreement-for-jewar-airport-signed-work-to-begin-at-site-by-june-next-year/story-0rjzVLm96XE08IiSE38JfK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway to resume 5 intercity trains in Maharashtra; 2 special services between Mumbai and Pune||Days after the Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced resumption of intercity train services within the state under its unlock guidelines, Central Railway (CR) plans to resumed five services starting October 9.Daily outstation special trains have been introduced on the Mumbai-Pune, Mumbai-Nagpur, Mumbai-Gondia and Mumbai-Solapur routes.“Five services will be operated daily within Maharashtra. Only passengers having confirmed tickets will be permitted to board these special trains. Passengers are advised to adhere to all norms and standard operating procedures related to coronavirus during boarding, travelling and at the destination,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. Of the intercity services, CR has announced two trains between Pune and Mumbai, starting October 9. According to information released by CR on Wednesday, a ‘Mumbai-Pune Superfast Special Daily’ (train number 02123) will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and arrive in Pune the same day. A ‘Superfast Special Daily’ (train number 02124) will leave Pune railway station starting October 10, and arrive at CSMT the same day. A second ‘Mumbai-Pune Superfast Special’ train will mirror the timings of the Indrayani Express (train number 22105/22106). The Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) also announced resumption of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express from October 17. Passengers travelling on board the Tejas Express will be provided with a Covid protection kit consisting of hand sanitiser, face mask, face shield and gloves. Passengers will have to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application in order to travel.On the suburban railway network, the state government has permitted the city’s dabbawalas and employees of consulate generals, high commissioners and international institutes to travel by local trains within the city.‘Allow private buses to ply at 100% occupancy’The transport department has written to the state government suggesting allowing 100% passenger occupancy in private buses operating within the state. The state had earlier allowed the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to ply buses with 100% passenger occupancy.(With inputs from Dheeraj Bengrut)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-resume-5-intercity-trains-in-maharashtra/story-S6j9gUTPBg1HkHoQzusrQO.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s uniform traders see a ray of hope with schools reopening next week||Private schools deciding to reopen for board classes has come as a much-needed relief for school uniform dealers, who have been struggling with losses due to the closure of schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic.With educational institutes remaining closed for the past seven months, dealers had reported zero sales of summer uniforms, leaving large stocks unsold. This pushed several of them in severe cash crunch with no funds to purchase the winter uniform stocks next.Right before the schools were ordered closed due to the pandemic, traders had stocked their shops with school uniforms as the new academic session starts from April 1, which normally elicits huge demand for the summer collection by parents. However, due to the unprecedented disruption in demand due to the Covid outbreak, uniform traders were left staring at huge losses, with monthly rentals and instalments also knocking at their door. This caused a lot of them to shut shop or remain closed for months. “I was forced to keep the shop closed as there was no income since March and it was becoming difficult to pay the rent. I purchased the summer stock in March first week and expected to earn profits by the end of that month. But the lockdown imposed by the government shattered the hopes of shopkeepers and forced them to sit at home,” said Sunil Kumar, who runs a uniform shop near Clock Tower. “I used to have seven employees, but had to lay off five of them due to losses for five months. I had never faced such a slowdown before in my 34 years in this business. I reopened the shop two months ago, and for the last 10 days, some customers have been turning up to purchase uniforms,” said Kulpreet Singh, owner of King’s Wear in Model Town.Echoing Kulpreet’s views, Manjeet Singh, owner of Virdi Point on Char Khamba Road, who has also been in the trade for 35 years, said the uniform business will revive only if schools reopened completely.“Earlier, I had 15 staff members, but due to the pandemic, the shop remained closed for several months. This forced me to trim down my staff strength to three, as it was difficult to pay the salaries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-uniform-traders-see-a-ray-of-hope-with-schools-reopening-next-week/story-kCm8dnFsrTfyv8TGDWoUPM.html
07-10-2020||City||Jalandhar MC collects highest property tax in state in Sept||Jalandhar The Jalandhar Municipal Corporation (MC) collected over Rs 76 lakh as property tax in September, which is also the highest in the state. “MC officers used the lockdown period well and they did some excellent work by classifying our customers as bill payers and non-payers consumers, besides defaulters,” MC commissioner Karnesh Sharma said.There has also been a 91% increase in the amount of money that the MC has collected from water and sewerage bills from September 1 to October 6 this year. This year, Rs 3.4 crore was collected against Rs 1.8 crore in the corresponding period in 2019. The MC has managed to recover around Rs 6 crore from water and sewerage bills, even as recovery started after July due to covid-19 pandemic. “The MC has targeted to collect Rs 40 crore from water and sewerage bills for this fiscal. Our bill distributors have been told to ensure that all bills are delivered to consumers. This is important as 60% bills were not delivered,” said Innayat, MC joint commissioner.“All employees were on covid duty and there was no revenue for four months,” commissioner Sharma added. The MC suffered Rs 20 crore revenue loss due to covid-19 pandemic, as there was no money coming in from advertisement, parking, taxes, said an officer.From 2013-14 to March 31, 2020, the MC has not received Rs 50 crore on account of house and property tax from over 50,000 defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-mc-collects-highest-property-tax-in-state-in-sept/story-fGqVbXa0dDCFZkXKIR7agP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for forging documents in dead wife’s name||A resident of Colony Number 4 was booked for forging documents in his dead wife’s name to seek allotment of a flat. A case under sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against Lal Chand at the Sector-17 police station. In his complaint, naib tehsildar, estate office, Sector 17, stated that Lal Chand had applied for the allotment of an EWS flat under the Small Flats Scheme, 2006, in 2011. He had made his wife Usha a co-applicant and attached her voter card issued in 2007 as identity proof. Relying on this claim, allotment was approved in August 2015. Later, a complaint was filed by one Shakuntala, who claimed that the voter card of Usha was forged as she had reportedly died in 1990. 3 Uttarakhand men lose Rs 32,000 to miscreantsTwo miscreants decamped with Rs 32,000 and a mobile phone of three migrants from Uttarakhand on the pretext of collecting their belongings before they boarded a bus to their home town. One of the victims, Haridhan, said he, along with his friends Kamlesh and Chiranjit, was about to board a bus back to Uttarakhand when two masked men approached them and told them that they were making a list of their belongings before giving them ticket, claiming that no passenger was allowed on the bus meant for cargo.The accused then fled with their cash and mobile. An FIR was registered under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-booked-for-forging-documents-in-dead-wife-s-name/story-2oRVQCJQOzWuJcEhSXs4yM.html
07-10-2020||City||DDA plans a mega sports complex in Dwarka on a PPP mode||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is planning a mega sports complex in Dwarka and has invited expressions of interest from private players to develop the project and operate it on a public-private partnership model.Spread over 53 acres, the complex is going to be the biggest sports facility developed by DDA in the city, a senior official said. It is for the first time DDA is hiring a private player to not only construct but to operate the sports facility.The land-owning agency, which had earlier planned three sports facilities in Dwarka sectors 8, 17 and 22, has now decided to integrate all three and proposed this integrated complex that will have a FIFA-compliant football stadium, shooting range, swimming pool, tennis and basketball courts, etc.“We have decided to integrate all the projects and develop this sports complex,” the official said.At present, the land-owning agency has 15 sports complexes—Siri Fort, Yamuna, Commonwealth Games, etc., three mini-complexes with facilities for a few sports and two golf courses.In Dwarka, there is just one sports complex in sector 10, which was constructed 15 years ago. A senior DDA official said, “This will be a state-of-the-art facility with sports infrastructure as per international standards. This is the first time we plan to develop the facility on a PPP basis. We have invited expressions of interest after which we will float tenders for the Rs 250-crore project,” said the official.According to a senior DDA official, the private developer will be given two years to complete the project after the work is awarded. While locals welcomed the move, they say there should be more sports complexes in different areas than just one facility. “It is good that they are finally thinking about creating a new facility, as there is an urgent requirement for it. But we want more sports facilities to be planned in different sectors so that it is convenient for people to go,” Sudha Sinha, president of Federation of CGHS Dwarka, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-plans-a-mega-sports-complex-in-dwarka-on-a-ppp-mode/story-1rnTGTleidZ8LzlN0BD5CL.html
07-10-2020||City||Panchkula: 22-year-old man held for sexually assaulting girl||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly assaulting a 13-year-old girl sexually, Panchkula police said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Ankit. As per the victim’s grandmother, on August 30, around 1am, she noticed that her granddaughter was missing. “I tried to find her with the help of my 10-year-old grandson, she could not be traced. Then I went to check the bathroom where she was found lying unconscious,” she had told the police. On regaining consciousness, the girl told her grandmother that Ankit took her to his house and outraged her modesty.As per the complainant, the accused also threatened to kill the victim. The FIR has been registered under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-22-year-old-man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-girl/story-SCFkguFzU6i4wcXE0KC5sJ.html
07-10-2020||City||HC issues notices on plea over CBSE exam fee||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Delhi government on a plea, contending that EWS children appearing for Class 10 and 12 board examinations cannot pay the exam fees. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Union education ministry, CBSE and the Delhi government seeking their stand on the plea by a society which has contended that CBSE “arbitrarily” increased the exam fees in 2019-20 and was charging the same this year too when people are undergoing financial distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The court was hearing a plea filed by Parents Forum for Meaningful Education, a registered society of parents and educationists.The petition said the Delhi government had paid the fees last year and had assured the parents that the issue would be solved.During a hearing on a separate petition on the same matter last week, the Delhi government had told the high court that it had written to CBSE asking for an exam fee waiver due to the pandemic. Last year, the examination fee of class 10 and 12 students belonging to the general category in Delhi government schools was increased from ₹375 and ₹600, respectively, to ₹1,500 for five subjects. For SC/ST candidates in class 10, the examination fee was increased from ₹375 to ₹1,200 and for class 12, from ₹600 to ₹1200 in Delhi government and government-aided schools. If practical and additional or optional subjects are to be taken into account, the fee comes to around Rs 2,750 for class 12 students and to Rs 1500 for class 10 students.The petition also sought creation of an empowered committee to examine the fixation of exam fees by CBSE for students in schools run by the Delhi government.The matter would be now heard on November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-issues-notices-on-plea-over-cbse-exam-fee/story-iTTIur7BFUPUyg8eSLql2J.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai breast cancer patient recovers from Covid-19, returns home after 34 days||A 62-year-old patient of breast cancer and obesity, who had contracted Covid-19, was able to combat the infection despite a host of comorbidities. She spent 34 days in hospital and says her recovery is a miracle. Bandra resident Mahnaaz Lokhandwala, who is a first-stage breast cancer patient, underwent a mandatory test for Covid-19 in end-August, before a scheduled surgery as part of her cancer treatment. On August 26, she tested positive for Covid-19. Initially, Lokhandwala was asymptomatic but had to be admitted to Bombay Hospital on August 28 when she developed breathlessness. Her doctor, Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant general physician at Bombay Hospital, said that in addition to being a cancer patient and weighing 172 kilograms, Lokhandwala’s comorbidities include asthma, diabetes, hypertension and severe sleep apnoea. “She had all the underlying health issues that make an individual most vulnerable to Covid-19. It was a really tricky case for us,” said Dr Bhansali. Lokhandwala’s oxygen saturation had also fallen below 70%. “Considering her health condition, we didn’t want to put her on a ventilator. Plus, due to her acute obesity, her neck was extremely short. So we kept her on non-invasive ventilation,” said Dr Bhansali. Other doctors in the team treating Lokhandwala were intensivist Dr Sanjay Wagle and chest physician Dr Sujit Rajan.Dr Shashank Shah, bariatric surgeon with Hinduja Hospital said that a patient with obesity along with cancer has suppressed immunity which makes them the easy target of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “Obesity is a low grade inflammatory disorder. It also leads to respiratory disorders just like Covid-19. Often, they have other underlying health issues like diabetes and hypertension which make them more susceptible. Their health condition may worsen if they develop diseases like cancer,” he said. “But with timely inversion, they can be cured,” he added. Lokhandwala tested negative for Covid-19 after 16 days, but due to her underlying health issues, her condition remained critical. On October 2, she was finally discharged from hospital. “I am still on one litre of oxygen support daily. It is a miracle that I survived. My movement is still restricted so I am undergoing physiotherapy,” said Lokhandwala. She said her message for the public was to be cautious but not scared of Covid-19. “If I can survive, you can survive too with timely intervention. Trust your doctors and take all required precautions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-breast-cancer-patient-recovers-from-covid-19-returns-home-after-34-days/story-0F8fqOzHOuTN9qStf9snGO.html
07-10-2020||City||Balongi man arrested for raping neighbour||A man in his mid 30s was arrested for allegedly raping his 17-year-old neighbour repeatedly, police said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as a resident of Balongi.As per the police, the accused also threatened the girl with dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. The victim, however, told her mother about the sexual assault following which the police were informed. A case has been registered against the accused under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 4 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at the Balongi police station. “The accused was nabbed by our teams and produced in a local court today, which sent him to two-day police remand. Further investigation is on,” said Balongi station house officer (SHO) Amardeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/balongi-man-arrested-for-raping-neighbour/story-GMvpUL7DzyF4DODUoaMAlN.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus infections drop in Haryana, fresh wave likely during festival season||For the second consecutive week, the number of coronavirus infections in Haryana continued to decline with the state reporting 2,429 less cases from September 28 to October 4 as compared to the week before i.e September 21 to 27. A decline of over 5,000 infections was recorded between September 21 and 27. The health department statistics show that 10,096 new cases were reported across the state between September 28 and October 4 as against 12,525 infections between September 21-27. A week before between September 14-20, the state had reported an all time high of 17,616 infections. While the continuous decline has raised hopes of a gradual bend in the infection curve, health officials are worried over the possibility of a fresh wave of infections during the festival season. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said a fresh wave of infections is expected in light of resumption of more activities by the Union ministry of home affairs in its latest unlock guidelines. These include opening of educational institutions, cinemas, multiplexes, entertainment parks, allowing social, religious and political congregations. “It is a phase where the infection rate is stabilising. We expect per day fresh infections to come down to about 800-1,000. However, once people lower their guard and stop following safety measures, the infection rate will increase,” Arora said. Decline in testing Since the health authorities have also decreased the number of rapid antigen tests (RAT) and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in the last two weeks, it has also reduced the infection rate to a certain extent. Health officials have maintained that the decline in infection rate has outnumbered the reduced testing. As per the data, the number of RAT and RT-PCR tests last week (September 28-October 4) came down to 1,70,217 as compared to 1,70,309 the week before (September 21-27) and 1,91,420 between September 13-20. The ACS said the reduction in sampling was mainly because of a decrease in the number of infections reported. “Once the infection rate is on the decline, so is the number of primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons. Thus a logical decrease in testing,” he said. Officials said they will again step up testing, including the RAT, which was deliberately reduced in view of indiscriminate testing. Bad and good news Statistics show that 10 districts—Karnal, Faridabad, Panipat, Panchkula, Ambala, Rewari, Gurugram, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Hisar—now have more than 6% sample positivity or confirmation rate, a critical value as per the ministry of health and family welfare parameters. The overall positivity rate is 6.57%.Also, 18 of the 22 districts have now more than 200 active cases and more than 15 active cases per lakh population, both critical values as per the parameters. The infection doubling rate which is calculated over a seven-day period is more than 28 days for each of the 22 districts, a desirable value and the case fatality rate in seven districts—Charkhi Dadri, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Mahendergarh, Palwal, Rewari and Sonepat—is less than 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-infections-drop-in-haryana-fresh-wave-likely-during-festival-season/story-7gUluTXJBi4oLd3JAp9tuM.html
07-10-2020||City||3 bookies held for online betting on IPL matches in Palghar near Mumbai||The local crime branch (LCB) of Palghar police arrested three bookies, Jinesh Punamiya, 34, Irfan Shaikh, 34, and Shahbaaz Khan, 36, for their alleged involvement in an online cricket betting racket in Dahanu on Tuesday night.“We acted on a tip-off and raided a medical shop in Dahanu belonging to Punamiya. We found that the accused had been allegedly accepting bets for the Tuesday night T-20 cricket match between Mumbai Indians and Rajasthan Royals in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL),” said Ravindra Naik, inspector, LCB, Palghar.The three accused had been accepting and placing bets on apps and websites on their smartphones. Police have seized the phones and numerous SIM cards from them. The three accused were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1985 and Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act, 1987. A total of ₹1.25 lakh in bets were placed for the IPL match using the app which the trio had downloaded after paying ₹1 lakh for the user ID and password, said Naik. In Dahanu and Palghar, bookies have adopted high-tech means to place bets and settle accounts in a cashless mode via mobile applications and websites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-bookies-held-for-online-betting-on-ipl-matches-in-palghar-near-mumbai/story-IVXx58gbwYjKWDjXXtDOXK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray bats for women self-help groups in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has warned the state government to rein in micro-finance companies which are harassing women self-help groups to pay back their loans.He said that these groups, which have played an important role in the empowerment of women, are unable to repay the loans as they are badly affected by the Covid-19 lockdown.Raj warned that if the state fails to rein them in, MNS workers will have to step in.Raj in his letter to his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the representatives of micro-finance companies were insulting the women when calling them for repayment. He said that till now these groups have never defaulted, but today the situation is different due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raj-thackeray-bats-for-women-self-help-groups-in-maharashtra/story-AjmyYmrNCkidToZ1SNzLXN.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Only state has power to de-notify acquired land: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that it is the state that has the power to de-notify the land acquired under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.The high court bench of justice Daya Chaudhary said Section 101-A inserted by Haryana government in Central law is an enabling provision and gives discretion to the state government to de-notify the land acquired for the public purpose under Land Acquisition Act, 1894, if the purpose has become unviable or non-essential.It is the discretionary power vested in the state which can be exercised in respect of the ‘entire acquired land’ and not just a parcel of land and thus an individual landowner does not have any right to seek de-notification of his individual parcel of land and the court cannot issue direction to exercise the discretion, the bench said.“This provision has been interpreted for the first time.Individual land owners were approaching courts for release of their land which was resulting in undesired litigation. It will help in curbing that,” said, Ankur Mittal, additional advocate general, Haryana, who appeared in this case. The order came on a plea from a landowner, who was seeking release of his land notified for an acquisition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-state-has-power-to-de-notify-acquired-land-hc/story-NPFqnkOQEoDYwrEt20RFBJ.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai students may face academic hurdles due to SC stay on FYJC admissions: Experts||With the admissions’ process for junior colleges on hold, over 2.42 lakh students in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are faced with uncertain futures. While some coaching classes have started online classes, experts and parents have flagged concerns about the far-reaching consequence of delaying the opening of junior colleges in the state. On March 21, Nimisha Pawar, 15, wrote her last paper for her secondary school certificate (SSC) examination and went on to score an impressive 91%. However, she is yet to begin her first-year junior college (FYJC) classes. In line with the Supreme Court’s (SC) interim stay on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, Maharashtra’s education department stayed the admission process for FYJC on September 9. Following this, the second merit list for admissions, scheduled to be released on September 10, has not been released and the admission process is yet to restart. “The last few months have been really stressful. First, the results of SSC exams came out late due to Covid-19. Now the delay in colleges reopening has added to our stress. I was really hoping to get the college of my choice in the second merit list, but the stay on admission has now led to a lot of uncertainty,” said Pawar, a resident of Worli. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) released the SSC results in July and the online admission process began in August for Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Amravati. Across the six divisions in the state, nearly 4 lakh students have applied for admissions. In the zero rounds for admissions under various quotas – including management, minority and in-house – and the first admission round, over 78,000 students were admitted to colleges in the MMR out of the 2.32 lakh students who submitted applications this year. Of the total applicants, 2,923 students applied for the 17,844 seats under the Maratha quota. Colleges warned that this delay could have far-reaching consequences. “Students are already under a lot of psychological stress due to the delay in admissions. While syllabus completion seems to be a key challenge in the days to come, we are more worried about students not being able to cope academically,” said the principal of a South Mumbai school, requesting anonymity. SL Dixit, a retired chemistry teacher from SK Somaiya College and the president of the Mumbai Regional Junior College Teachers’ Organisation (MRJCTO) said, “Especially for subjects like physics and chemistry where students get to do practicals in order to understand key concepts, this delay is dangerous. Class 11 is the base for concepts that are taught in Class 12 and it cannot be ignored. Even if colleges begin now, colleges and students are going to be under immense stress.” Subhash Joshi, trustee of city-based coaching chain Science Parivar, pointed out that realigning the state’s academic year requires coordination with other academic calendars. “A large number of FYJC students will appear for other competitive exams like JEE, NEET etc. Since these exams will happen as per their schedules [next year], pushing the academic year further will put Maharashtra students in a spot.” Joshi said that while coaching classes have started teaching online from August, students can’t attend practicals, which are conducted by colleges. “Classes are not equipped to teach [practicals] but it forms the very basis of concepts in science. We hope the government allows a hybrid model where some students are allowed to visit colleges on a rotational basis,” he said. Ahana Seth, a Borivali-based parent whose son wants to study in the Arts stream, said, “Most Arts students do not go to coaching classes and college is the only place where they learn things. Subjects like psychology, sociology are completely new for students and the delay in reopening colleges effectively means losing out on time to understand these subjects well.” Colleges say they are awaiting a directive from the government. “We cannot start classes for those who are admitted because it would be unfair to the others who are still waiting,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal of VG Vaze College, Mulund. While state education minister Varsha Gaikwad remained unavailable for a comment despite calls and messages, a senior official from the education department said that the state is exploring options to start classes soon. “We have yet to receive advice from the law and judiciary department on how to proceed. Meanwhile, the education department is trying to start free online classes for FYJC to prevent further delay,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-students-may-face-academic-hurdles-due-to-sc-stay-on-fyjc-admissions-experts/story-OIByLBcXtCnVBfQJxwanaN.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||2010 murder case: Submit probe report before Gurugram court, HC tells CBI||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to submit its probe report before a Gurugram court in the 2010 murder case of Kid Zee Play School director Nargis Juneja. The high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice HS Sidhu while answering a criminal reference observed that where FIR has been registered by the local police and upon submission of challan court has commenced trial but CBI is roped in, the agency shall submit its report to the trial court where earlier FIR was pending. The bench said the high court while roping in CBI will have to pass a specific order with regard to fate of the investigation already conducted by local police when probe is entrusted to the agency.The division bench was answering a reference made by a single bench to decide on the legal question on fate of Haryana police probe in the case as the CBI had submitted its probe report before the designated special court in Panchkula. The central agency in its report submitted to Panchkula special CBI court had exonerated her husband Rakesh Juneja and a special judicial magistrate had accepted the closure report. However, in the Gurugram court where trial was stayed by high court in 2012, her husband had been chargesheeted as accused. In December 2010, Nargis Juneja, wife of Rakesh Juneja was killed at her home. Her father Roshan Lal Kapoor had alleged the husband’s involvement along with his ‘paramour’ Rosy Bhasin. In 2011, Haryana police SIT had filed an untraced report, exonerating both, but the Gurugram court did not accept it and named Juneja as accused. In April 2012, the high court roped in CBI and stayed the trial. While Gurugram court trial remains pending, the CBI filed the report in designated court, which accepted closure report in January 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2010-murder-case-submit-probe-report-before-gurugram-court-hc-asks-cbi/story-nA5z7ySBKfaBw2gOTkAQQJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal detention: HC awards Ropar woman, daughter ₹1-lakh each||The Punjab and Haryana high court has awarded ₹1-lakh compensation each to a Rupnagar woman and her daughter, who in 2019 were illegally detained by the district police for two days without making any entry in official records. The high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice HS Sidhu while awarding the compensation ordered that the amount may be recovered from the erring officials. “If such an action is condoned, it would be prone to grave misuse. The requirements of law and the procedures have to be strictly complied with,” the bench observed, terming the detention illegal.The division bench was answering a criminal reference made by a single judge on the plea of Parneet Kaur, who on September 4, 2019, approached the HC with a plea, seeking release of her mother Harvinder Kaur and sister Rupinder Kaur from the detention of Rupnagar police.The HC appointed a warrant officer, who visited the police station the same evening and found both the woman, but not in the lockup. The warrant officer did not find any entry in the police station’s records, and on enquiring from the two, he was told they were kept there for “protection”.The single judge taking note of these facts had referred the matter to the division bench for appropriate orders, observing that even if it is accepted that some persons had tried to cause harm to them, the women could not be kept in the police station for two days without even making an entry and without informing the district/area magistrate.Were kept there in good faith: PoliceAccording to police, the women had complained of a theft at their house on September 2 and named some individuals of the village. When police reached there, some villagers started abusing and beating them, and cops had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the crowd. Some cops were also injured. The women were then taken to the police station, where they were permitted to stay back until the situation got normalised, police had argued. However, there were allegations from the women’s family that police were also making enquires about Harvinder Kaur’s husband, Parvinder Singh, who is at large and wanted in a murder case.The division bench did not accept the argument of police that it was not a case of illegal detention and both were rescued by police from their village and kept in “good faith to protect their lives” from an angry mob.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-detention-hc-awards-ropar-woman-daughter-1-lakh-each/story-yHjlOTnyk7nJ21QvZIWwlJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid testing rates at private labs slashed by 40% in Chandigarh||Seeing a dip in Covid-19 testing numbers, the Chandigarh health department on Wednesday slashed the rates set for private labs and is also planning aggressive surveillance in micro-containment zones in the city.Health secretary Arun Gupta said the move aims to encourage people to get tested, especially if they are contacts of positive patients or live in containment zones.The rate for RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test has been reduced from ₹2,000 to ₹1,200, while for rapid antigen tests, it has been fixed at ₹650. The Haryana government had recently fixed the same rates.According to the order issued under the Epidemic Disease Act 1897, the rates are “inclusive of GST/taxes if any, cost involved in pickup, PPE packing transportation of samples, documentation and reporting in the city of Chandigarh”. The tests are conducted for free at government labs.Drop in testing cause of concernTesting has plunged from an average of 1,500 a day in September to around 700 in the first week of October, raising serious concerns among experts. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the PGIMER’s community medicine department, cautioned that any laxity in testing and contact tracing could lead to another surge. “Delhi is a fine example. It saw another surge after witnessing a peak once. The reason could be the drop in testing numbers and surveillance,” he said.“There is a dip in the number of tests being conducted in private as well as government labs,” said Arun Gupta, adding that it could be due to various factors. “As positive cases have decreased, the number of contacts has gone down too. However, it is a cause of worry if even those with mild symptoms or those who have come in contact with positive patients are not coming forward. There is a limit to which we can push people to go for testing.” Gupta said the administration will also increase surveillance and go for aggressive testing in the notified containment zones. “There is no target to achieve as far as testing is concerned, but in the present scenario, we need to test around 1,000 people a day. We are working towards that by increasing testing of asymptomatic people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-testing-rates-at-private-labs-slashed-by-40-in-chandigarh/story-CXrR3z5Nk4u5uW90FaoH8L.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP MLA stages dharna to highlight farmers’ plight during paddy procurement||The political blame game in Haryana over paddy procurement took a new turn on Wednesday after the ruling BJP’s Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel held a dharna in front of the Vidhan Sabha secretariat here to highlight the plight of farmers. The two-time BJP legislator targeted additional chief secretary (ACS), food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, PK Das for mismanagement at the mandis (grain markets), leading to the procurement delay and insisted that his protest wasn’t against the government. Goel’s surprising stance not only left the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government red-faced but the sit-in dharna also gave the much-needed ammunition to the opposition to further corner the government on emotive issues concerning the peasantry. The leader of opposition and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda was quick to train guns at the state government. “The farmers have been bringing in paddy and other crop for past many weeks, but it is not being procured. The procurement in comparison to arrival is negligible,” Hooda claimed. “The farmers are being harassed in the name of gate pass and registration...taking advantage of the situation, now private agencies are fleecing the hapless farmers,” he added.Earlier, at the dharna site, the MLA repeatedly said he was not protesting against the state government. “This protest is against the ego and dictatorship of an officer, who has been working against the interests of the state government,” Goel said, reiterating that farmers, labourers and traders were being harassed due to delay in paddy procurement. “When my people are suffering, it is my duty to voice their problems,” Goel said while lifting the dharna that lasted near an hour. He threatened to hold a bigger protest on Monday if the situation at the mandis does not improve.Wrong to blame ACS Das: KhattarHis remarks evoked strong reaction from chief minister Khattar, who without mincing words, said the MLA is himself an ahrtiya (commission agent), who have been facing some teething problems with the transparent procurement policy. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function here, Khattar also rebuffed Goel’s vitriolic remarks against senior bureaucrat Das. “It is wrong on his (MLA’s) part to blame PK Das. The officers work as per the direction of the government,” Khattar said. It is learnt that Khattar spoke to Das and asked him not to feel hassled with what the MLA had said. According to Khattar, barring one demand regarding transportation of the produce, the government had accepted all other demands. “The ahrtiya have some problems about the steps taken, including direct transfer of money to the accounts of farmers. He (MLA) himself is a ahrtiya...I will speak to him,” he said. ACS PK Das said, “The procurement process is going fine and progressing in an orderly fashion...farmers interest are uppermost for the government. The state government has taken numerous measures to ensure transparency in procurement and to eliminate ghost purchase that hurts vested interests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-mla-aseem-goel-holds-dharna-against-acs-food-and-civil-supplies-for-delay-in-paddy-procurement/story-nsNYETRJEZnEUTG9uKglxJ.html
07-10-2020||City||Navi Mumbai auto driver arrested for raping 12-year-old girl||Navi Mumbai police, on Tuesday, arrested a 30-year-old auto rickshaw driver from Osmanabad for allegedly raping a minor girl and fleeing the city. The accused had deliberately told his friend that he was going to Pune to throw the police off his scent.The accused, identified as Vijay Rathod, a resident of Turbhe, raped a 12-year-old girl staying in his neighbouring chawl on Sunday at around 6.30pm. Rathod’s wife was not at home during which time he lured the minor into his house and sexually assaulted her, said police.After raping the girl, Rathod immediately fled the area, leaving the girl traumatised. When the girl’s mother found her sitting aloof, she inquired about her health. The minor broke down and confided in her mother about Rathod. The girl’s family then informed Turbhe MIDC police.Knowing that the police would inquire his friends and family, Rathod told his friend that he was taking a bus to Pune to send the police on a wild goose chase. Searching for him in the city limits, police did not find him. They sent an alert at Sukapur toll booth in Panvel and another at Pune borders to look out for buses while circulating Rathod’s pictures.When Rathod could not be traced, police figured out that it was merely a false lead. The accused had also switched off his phone to go incognito. But, based on technical analysis, police found an unknown number calling Rathod’s wife between Monday and Tuesday. Rathod is originally from a village on the outskirts of Osmanabad. As the number was also calling from the same district, police dispatched a team to Umarga in Osmanabad, tracing him there.“By the time our team reached Umarga, he fled to Holi village in Lohara. We followed him outside the village and found him hiding in a sugarcane field. After a brief chase, our constables apprehended him and brought him back to the city,” said Pawan Nandre, assistant inspector at Turbhe MIDC police station.Rathod has been booked for rape under sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.Police said they were looking for Rathod’s criminal records, if any. Officials will also interrogate him to check if he had attempted to molest or rape the girl in the past. Police will also check if he had targeted any other children in his residential area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-auto-driver-arrested-for-raping-12-year-old-girl/story-2ueq0wX6oB5e02pTDauJxN.html
07-10-2020||City||2 lure Navi Mumbai resident into buying piece of comet, dupe him of ₹1 lakh; arrested||The Navi Mumbai crime branch has arrested two men for duping a Panvel resident of ₹1 lakh by trying to sell a metal ball claiming it to be a piece of comet that crashed on the earth. One of the accused posed as a scientist with a trick of stopping a wristwatch and a smoke chemical reaction ‘authenticated’ the comet to con the man.James George, 49, who works at a Mumbai-based logistics service, got acquainted with the accused, Popat Khomane, 51, around two months ago. Khomane kept in touch with George regularly, gaining his trust and confidence until September 10, when he asked George to meet him.An officer from the crime branch said, “Khomane met George at Airoli bus depot and showed him a picture of ‘the comet’. The ball was actually a copper piece covered in an aluminium foil and a coloured cotton cloth.”Khomane told him he knew a man who was trying to sell the ‘comet’ piece that would fetch ₹25 crore in the international market. Khomane asked George to buy it after which they would sell it in the international market as the rock was highly sought-after by cosmology scientists.He claimed that the original seller was unaware of the real price and was selling it for only ₹20 lakh.Promising to get a seller for ₹25 crore, Khomane asked George to give him ₹3 crore from the profit. Finding the deal lucrative, George agreed. To further convince him, Khomane introduced him to his accomplice, Afsar Sayyed, 35, who posed as a scientist.The men showed him the ‘comet’ and placed a wristwatch on it. The watch stopped working on it. Khomane then paid him ₹1 lakh as an instalment. While showing the stone to George, Sayyed sprinkled a whitener like chemical to authenticate it.“When the ball released smoke like fumes, Sayyed claimed that the comet was releasing radiation and will take four days to cool down after which he can collect it. We arrested them after laying a trap on October 3. They have been remanded in custody till Thursday,” said Subhash Nikam, senior inspector, unit 1, crime branch. After George told his friend about his latest purchase, the latter warned him it could be a con. He asked Khomane to return the money as he was not interested in the deal any longer. The man refused to return the money. Sayyed is a Bhiwandi resident while Khomane is from Nerul. While police have not found any registered offences against the duo, police are still verifying if they have duped people in a similar con or other dubious schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-lure-navi-mumbai-resident-into-buying-piece-of-comet-dupe-him-of-1-lakh-arrested/story-s1CJWDlTMQrmQsUNx36VZJ.html
07-10-2020||City||Investment scam: Couple dupe people of ₹80 lakh in Thane||The Naupada police have booked a couple for allegedly duping several people to the tune of ₹80 lakh by assuring them better interest on their investments compared to banks or other financial institutes. The accused Manoj Pawar and his wife Monica, are absconding. The complainant Nirmala Rajput, 47, a teacher said that the accused lured investors and operated a ponzi scheme by the name Ganesh Fund. The scheme promised people good returns in exchange for their hard-earned money. According to Rajput, in 2018, she got in touch with Pawar through some common friends to explore more business opportunities and investment benefits. She decided to invest in the scheme told suggested by Pawar along with a few of her friends. Naupada police officers said, “More than 42 residents from Thane have invested in the schemes suggested by Pawar, the total fraud is worth ₹80.35 lakh. Recently when people started asking their money back, the accused couple fled from their residence in Thane. Their office is also closed. We have registered a case under IPC section 420, 406 and further search has been started for the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/investment-scam-couple-dupe-people-of-80-lakh-in-thane/story-SGp1mjoAmh9phbmSwkIAJL.html
07-10-2020||City||Accused wanted in bank robbery case in UP arrested from Thane||The crime branch unit 1 on Thursday arrested an accused wanted in HDFC Bank robbery case which occurred in October last year. The robbers had fled with cash ₹13.20 lakhs from the bank. The accused identified as Salman Abdul Kudus, 22, was involved in the robbery of an Uttar Pradesh-based branch of HDFC, where four of his teammates threatened the bank officials and looted ₹13.20 lakh, in the month of October last year. The case has been registered in Pharenda Police station of UP under Indian Penal Code sections, 394, 411, 506, 120. An officer said, “Uttar Pradesh police received information that the accused is hiding near Bhiwandi. We have formed a team to help the UP police. With the help of his photo, we have started the search in every godown and residential places of migrants when we have received a tip-off that he will be coming near Kunja Vihar shop in Thane to meet someone so we laid a trap and arrested him. we have handover him to UP police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-wanted-in-bank-robbery-case-in-up-arrested-from-thane/story-oHgXkDwwCmV3ZiSKGEOYdI.html
07-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Youth nabbed due to mistaken identity released after 18 days||Wrongly arrested due to mistaken identity in a case of abetment to suicide, a 23-year-old man was released after spending 18 days behind the bars.Sumit Kumar, a factory worker, was absolved after a police inquiry marked by commissioner of police Rakes Agrawal found him to be a namesake of the actual accused and unjustly arrested due to this.The inquiry was marked on the complaint of Sumit’s parents Seema and Sunil Kumar, who maintained that their son was innocent and falsely implicated.Sumit was arrested on September 19 after the husband of one her cousins ended his life a day before. The deceased had named his wife and her paramour, also named Sumit, and the latter’s mobile number in his suicide note. The deceased had blamed the duo for driving him to suicide.After being arrested, the deceased’s wife gave a false statement that the man caught by them, who was actually her cousin named Sumit, was the person mentioned in the suicide note.But during the inquiry marked by the police chief, the woman was questioned and admitted to have falsely implicated her cousin, who was the namesake of her paramour to protect him.Thereafter, police submitted the inquiry report in court, which led to the release of the 23-year-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-youth-nabbed-due-to-mistaken-identity-released-after-18-days/story-6zdUKw49j3oqIR8ydE9agP.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Can declare OBE exam results only by Oct 20, DU tells high court||The Delhi University (DU) on Wednesday informed the Delhi high court that it would not be able to declare the results of final-year undergraduate students by October 12, as sought by the court on September 23, as a few of its officials on the South Campus have tested positive for Covid-19, following which the varsity had to shut its examination branch till October 1.In an affidavit filed before a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, the varsity said after taking a stock of the situation, it will be able to declare the results only by October 20 for BSc (Hons) students (17 courses). The results of vocational courses can be expected tentatively by October 29, while those of BA (Programme) courses may be delayed due to the large volume and combination of papers involved.The court is hearing a petition filed by law student Prateek Sharma and the National Federation of the Blind, who wanted better facilities for physically disabled students during examinations.Delhi University had conducted the final-year examinations for undergraduate students from August 1 to 31 in the online open-book mode and later in the blended method (online and physical examinations) from September 14.On September 23, the court had expressed its unhappiness on the extended schedule of the DU in declaring the results of examinations. It had said the varsity should take all steps to expedite the results as many students have to secure admissions in universities in the country and abroad.The court had also sought to know if the varsity could declare results by October 12. In response, DU said, “After taking stock of the situation, it is most respectfully submitted that the university reiterates the tentative dates to declare results as submitted before the court on September 23.”The DU counsel, advocate MS Rupal, also told the judges that it has hired 10 more data entry operators, in addition to the 40 already hired from the National Informatics Centre, to expedite the work on tabulation of results. “The university has undertaken efforts to maintain the timeline to declare results, while maintaining social distancing at the workplace,” he said.DU further told the court that the tentative schedule for results declaration can be met only once all answer scripts are emailed to the respective examiners. “This is a time-consuming process. A fair and proper evaluation of answer scripts requires that no undue pressure is imposed on examiners,” the affidavit said.Following these submissions, the court posted the matter to October 12 and asked the varsity to furnish a fresh status report. on that day.A member of the University’s examination branch, requesting anonymity, said, “The university has started releasing results and the results of some courses have already been declared. It will take some more weeks to wrap up the remaining evaluation process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-declare-obe-exam-results-only-by-oct-20-du-tells-high-court/story-uhFpjd0mp4UAfWe9WXc4YP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Seven mobile phones recovered from 5 inmates||Police on Wednesday booked five inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail after seven mobile phones were recovered from their possession during a surprise check last week.The accused have been identified as Hardeep Singh, his namesake, Swarnjit Singh, Jatin Hans and Gurmukh Singh. All accused are facing criminal charges and currently lodged at the central jail located on Tajpur Road.Jail’s deputy superintendent Jagraj Singh complained to the police that seven mobile phones of various makes were recovered from five inmates during a surprise check carried out on the jail premises on October 2 and 3.After the recovery of the mobile phones, the Division Number 7 police were alerted and a case under Section 52-A of the Prisons Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-mobile-phones-recovered-from-5-inmates/story-e7a5IyREePQjXSQITgImqK.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||PIL seeks to do away 30-day notice under Special Marriage Act, HC seeks govt response||The Delhi high court Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea by an interfaith couple, challenging provisions of the Special Marriage Act (SMA) that mandate a 30-day public notice, inviting objections to the marriage being registered under the Act.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued a notice to the ministry of law and the Delhi government, seeking their stand on the petition which contends that the 30-day notice period “discourages interfaith couples from getting married”.Appearing for the petitioners, their counsel Utkarsh SIngh told the court that there is no such provision under personal laws with regard to same faith marriages. He contended that the 30-day notice period inviting objections to the marriage directly impinges on the fundamental rights of the petitioners.“The issue of whether either party has a living spouse, which can be raised as an objection under Section 4 of the Act, is not a condition imposed on same faith marriages,” the petition said.The petition also sought the court to declare as “illegal, null, void and unconstitutional” the provisions of the Act which lay down the procedure for the 30-day notice.Singh also sought a direction to the Centre and Delhi government to decide on the objections, under the Act, on the basis of undertakings and certificates, issued by any government hospital or any other competent authority. However, opposing the plea, Central government standing counsel, Monica Arora, told the court that similar pleas have been filed by an NGO, Dhanak for Humanity, and it appears to be behind the present petition as well.The court said since the petition raises legal issues which need consideration, the government should file a reply mentioning the objections. It asked Arora to file a reply and posted the matter for further hearing to November 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pil-seeks-to-do-away-30-day-notice-under-special-marriage-act-hc-seeks-govt-response/story-QyzQnfEJe8ZbaawvcuEG3K.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for bigamy||A Doraha man has been booked for bigamy and cheating.In her complaint, Baby, a resident of Gopal Nagar in Haibowal, told the police that she married Sunny in April. Since then, he had been beating her up frequently. On September 11, while cleaning the house, she found a photograph of Sunny’s marriage with another woman named Sonia. When she confronted him, he beat her up again. Baby said thereafter, she went to her parents’ house and approached the Haibowal police station. Investigating officer Narinder Singh said Sunny had been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-booked-for-bigamy/story-geN4XEdXLr0UoRerYF7xcL.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC urges shrines to make premises plastic-free zones||As part of its ongoing 15-day campaign ‘My waste, my responsibility’, the municipal corporation (MC) conducted meetings with the management committee of various religious places including, temples and gurudwaras, on Wednesday, and urged them to make their premises plastic-free zones. The civic body asked the management committees to use steel utensils instead of disposable ones for the distribution of langar. Further, they were asked to make announcements urging the residents to stop using plastic carry bags and single-use plastic. MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said that the MC is involving religious organisations, NGOs, and residents’ welfare associations in its campaign to keep the city clean and plastic-free. “The management committees gave a positive response and made announcements to spread awareness among the public. The corporation is also conducting regular cleanliness and awareness drives in different parts of the city,” said Tiwana. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The state government has already banned plastic carry bags and, the MC is also issuing challans regularly. Meanwhile, the residents should also understand their duty to keep the city and environment clean. Religious organisations and residents’ welfare associations can play a major role in instilling values among the residents and, should extend their support to the MC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-urges-shrines-to-make-premises-plastic-free-zones/story-Rrw5hbppIYKYj4X3WgwxeP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Register for National Talent Search exam from October 8||Students of Class 10 can register online for the National Talent Search Exam from Thursday onwards.Students can register on www.epunjab.gov.in and the last date to fill the form is November 2. The exam is scheduled to be held on December 13.Students who pass the exam become eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs 15,000 (Rs 1,250 per month) for two years (Classes 11 to 12) and Rs 2,000 per month at the undergraduate level.The exam will be conducted in two stages. Stage 1 will be conducted by State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and Stage 2 will be conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).There is no prescribed syllabus for the Stage 1 examination. However, the standard of questions will be similar to the levels of Classes 9 and 10. There will be 200 multiple choice questions of one-mark each and no negative marking. The Stage 2 exam will be conducted in two parts––mental ability test and scholastic aptitude, each comprising 100 multiples choice questions (MCQs).The mental ability test will consist of logical and analytical reasoning-based questions and scholastic aptitude will consist of questions from science, mathematics, social science and English. District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “The school principals have been asked to inform students of Class 10 regarding the examination date and they can start registering online from Thursday.”Last year, 5,322 students appeared for the scholarship exam and 25 students cleared the NTSE Stage 1, of which two were from government schools.BOX: Start of online registration process: October 8Last date to apply: November 2Exam date: December 13||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/register-for-national-talent-search-exam-from-october-8/story-moZJdKGjQNodjT3MDU4gBO.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shopkeepers in Ludhiana protest against serving of CLU notices||Shopkeepers of the Ghumar Mandi area kept their shops shut from 10am to 2pm on Wednesday in protest against the serving of change of land use (CLU) notices by the municipal corporation (MC).As per information, the civic body had sealed two shops on Monday after their owners failed to pay the CLU charges. Following this, the shopkeepers held a protest from Aarti chowk to Bhai Bala chowk. The shopkeepers of the National road area had also closed their shops on the call of the protesters. The shopkeepers rued that CLU charges do not apply to shops that were established decades back and are supposed to be collected before the establishment of shops. Pawan Batra, president of Ghumar Mandi market association, said, “Why should the shopkeepers pay the CLU charges when the registry of the properties has been done at and property tax is paid at commercial rates. We are already reeling under losses due to the ongoing pandemic and the civic body is adding to our woes.”“Most of the shops in Ghumar Mandi were established even before the CLU norms came into existence. We had also conducted a meeting with mayor Balkar Sandhu and area councilor-cum- Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation chairman Gurpreet Gogi in the mid of September. The mayor had assured us that no action would be taken before the discussion of the issue in the meeting of the MC general house. But MC has started sealing the shops,” said Batra. The shopkeepers said that if the corporation fails to roll back the notice, they will raise an agitation in the entire city. Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal also extended support to the Ghumar Mandi market association.Sunil Mehra, general secretary of Beopar Mandal, said, “We will stand by the Ghumar Mandi shopkeepers and MC will have to roll back notices.” As per MC officials, around 1,600 notices have been served to shopkeepers across the city. Many have already submitted the fee. Earlier, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra had also objected to the notices served by MC. MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said, “Shopkeepers will have to pay the CLU charges as per the norms. For facilitating them, we are also providing the chance to submit the amount in installments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shopkeepers-in-ludhiana-protest-against-serving-of-clu-notices/story-9RCil6ANHrmfyrWqT94paJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||242 fresh cases, 4 deaths due to Covid in tricity||Two people died of Covid-19 in Chandigarh while one each succumbed in the neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula districts on Wednesday.The toll has climbed to 182 in Chandigarh, while the number of infections reached 12,820 with 127 people testing positive.Those dead have been identified as a 60-year-old woman from Sector 33 and a 70-year-old man from Manimajra.With 155 people being discharged, the number of recoveries and active cases reached 11,190 and 1,448, respectively. In Mohali, a 63-year-old man from Boothgarh died, taking the toll to 202. Also, 62 fresh cases were reported, including 26 from Mohali city. As many as 11,088 have tested positive so far, of whom 9,659 have recovered, including 151 discharged on Wednesday, and 1,227 are still hospitalised or in home isolation. The death of a 65-year-old Kalka man took the toll to 98 in Panchkula district. Meanwhile, 53 people, including three health workers, tested positive.The infection tally stands at 6,371, of which 479 cases are active while 5,794 patients have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/242-fresh-cases-4-deaths-due-to-covid-in-tricity/story-WzS0z8jQlI7KcCRXogP1RM.html
07-10-2020||City||621 fresh cases, 14 deaths reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 621 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which was the lowest daily count in 36 days, taking the tally of positive cases in the UT to 81,097.For the past one week, daily Covid-19 cases are, by and large, decreasing in the UT.Fourteen more people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 1,282, officials said. They added that 361 people have tested positive in Kashmir and 260 in Jammu.October is witnessing a decrease in the number of daily cases. From 1,093 cases on October 1, the numbers fell to 1,090 on October 2, 975 on October 3, 878 on October 4, and 632 on October 5. It increased to 738 on October 6 before again showing a slump on Wednesday.The slump comes after September recording the highest 37,372 cases at a daily average of 1,245.As many as 2,188 people recovered from the virus, the highest daily recovery so far, taking the overall recoveries to 67,684 which account for a recovery rate of 83.4%, which again is the highest so far.Since September 21, the recovery rate has improved. From September 21 to 30, as many as 15,132 patients have been discharged against 11,080 fresh infections. Similarly in October so far, 10,730 patients have been cured as against 6,027 fresh infections.A government spokesperson said 1,629 people were discharged in Jammu division and 559 in Kashmir. Of total, 41,553 people have recovered in Kashmir and 26,131 in Jammu so far. At present, there are 12,131 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT so far have reached 17.61 lakh.Meanwhile, officials said 14 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT — seven each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. With this, the number of total deaths has reached 1,282 — 880 in Kashmir and 402 in Jammu.In comparison to August which reported 326 deaths, there was a 64% increase in the number of deaths in the UT in September, taking the month’s tally to 478.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 83, followed by 36 in Rajouri.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 143 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 51.Srinagar tops the case tally with 15,978 cases and 310 deaths. Jammu is at number two with 14,861 cases and 209 deaths.Till date, 6.05 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 25,458 in home quarantine, 12,131 in isolation, and 48,308 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.18 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/621-fresh-cases-14-deaths-reported-in-j-k/story-rMi7OGezg7JBwrlY0LSYgP.html
07-10-2020||City||Haryana BJP chief Dhankar slams Congress for politicising farm bills||Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar on Wednesday slammed the Congress for using the newly enacted farm bills for their political advantages. While interacting with mediapersons after a meeting of party workers in Panipat, Dhankar said, “The Congress is opposing the promises it made in its election manifesto. The farmers are being misled over the farm bills by the Congress as its leaders have lost the confidence of people.”He said the minimum support price will continue and these bills will help the farmers to sell their produce outside the mandi without any taxes. “It will also help the growers of onion and potato as these vegetables have been exempted from the list of essential commodities and the farmers will get good and remunerative prices,” he added.‘Will announce BJP candidate for Baroda by poll after Oct 10 meet’Dhankar said the BJP will announce its candidate for the Baroda by poll after a meeting of election committee on October 10.“The Baroda voters know that the BJP is in power and their nominee can bring development projects in the constituency in the next four years. Our candidate will register a thumping majority in the by poll scheduled to held on November 3,” he said.Slamming Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh, Dhankar said he is misguiding farmers by touring on a tractor with sofa. “ Captain sahab’s supporters burnt the same tractor twice at Haryana –Punjab border and in Delhi. This shows that the Congress is trying to make headlines,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-bjp-chief-dhankar-slams-congress-for-politicising-farm-bills/story-3EXLf68cGY8WO2giQDHbkM.html
07-10-2020||City||Hoteliers rejoice as tourists flock to Himachal in large numbers||Some of the districts in the state have been witnessing a large number of tourists for the past few days amid a surge in the number of coronavirus cases.In September, the Himachal Pradesh government had allowed the entry of tourists into the state, and ever since the restrictions were lifted, nearly one lakh tourists have visited the state bringing much relief to the tourism industry that was badly hit due to the Covid-19 enforced lockdown.Popular stations such as Shimla, Manali, Kullu, Dalhousie and Dharamshala are being thronged by visitors. As per the state tourism department, around 21,400 people have visited Shimla and nearby areas during the last month. While more than 7,000 vehicles entered the summer capital last week on weekend.Tourism is gradually picking up in Manali which witnessed 15,000 touristsSince Himachal opened doors for tourists, the occupancy at hotels has considerably increased during weekends. So far only, around 90% of hotels have started operations. The places of tourist interest, particularly in Shimla including the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies, Army Museum, amusement parks in Kufri, were still closed.“The main concern is that tourists stay for a short duration due to the lack of publicity of places in and around each popular destination. We have requested the tourism department to publicise the places that may interest tourists in and around each destination,” said M K Seth, president of Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association. There are 3,300 hotels registered with the government with a bed capacity of nearly 12,000.Tourism stakeholders are dismayed as the tourist visiting Shimla and other tourist destinations are preferring short stays instead of booking package tours. “Many tourists visiting Shimla prefer to book hotels for a day. However, there are many places to visit around Shimla such as watersports at Yatra Pani, Tulip Garden, Jakhoo temple, museums which are not explored by the tourists. The stakeholders have asked the department to publicise these places through social media or by putting up hoardings in popular stations,” said Sanjay Sood, president of Shimla Hotels and Restaurateurs Association. He said that many tourists do not follow Covid guidelines such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing which needs to be checked by the administration.Meanwhile, tourism has also picked up in the Dharamshala region, especially on weekends. However, hoteliers say that high-end tourists are still not keen to visit the state due to Covid-19 fear. Tourists who were arriving in the region mostly prefer to stay in cheaper accommodations.“We did good business last week with many tourists arriving in the region,” said Vijay Inder Karan, a hotelier in Dharamshala.Another hotelier Prem Sood said that tourists, especially those from the neighbouring states, have started coming to the state in large numbers.He said that hotels have reduced prices of accommodations in order to attract domestic tourists in the coming days.The state had barred the entry of tourists in March to check the spread of Covid-19 and this had badly hit the tourism sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hoteliers-rejoice-as-tourists-flock-to-himachal-in-large-numbers/story-fodoER5JX3tcrqpQJGhaLM.html
07-10-2020||City||No one with political background will contest SGPC polls: Dhindsa||Chandigarh President of the newly formed Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Wednesday asked his party cadres and leaders to start preparation for the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) polls, expected to take place early next year. Dhindsa was addressing workers after opening a party office in Mohali on Wednesday. “This is a very laborious process and we have limited time. If we are successful in convincing voters, no one can stop us from victory in the polls,” he said. “Now, the real Akali Dal will take over Sikhs’ prestigious institution,” Dhindsa said, adding that he will reach out to all Akali factions, Sikh organisations, Sant Samaj and all like-minded Sikh leaders to join hands for a common cause. He added that Sikhs with political background will not be made to contest the SGPC polls. “Sikhs with religious bent of mind will contest the polls,” he added. Lashing out at the SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, Dhindsa said he was called the messiah of farmers, but he failed the peasantry by “siding with the Centre” on the new farm laws, and took a U-turn under pressure. Bir Devinder Singh, Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, Sewa Singh Sekhwan also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-one-with-political-background-will-contest-sgpc-polls-dhindsa/story-AH2HnoPGnCY8WtaW1rkvwL.html
07-10-2020||City||526 incidents of farm fires in 12 days in Haryana||Keeping a complete check on farm fires remains a challenge for the Haryana government as the state reported 526 incidents of crop residue burning from September 25 to October 6.The number of Active Fire Locations (AFL) is more than double the last year’s 200 during the same period. As per figures of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Kurukshetra district tops with 118 cases followed by 98 in Karnal, 65 each in Ambala and Kaithal, 48 in Fatehabad, 42 in Yamunanagar and 24 in Jind. The government had spent a whopping amount of ₹ 1,300 crore for setting up custom hiring centres to provide machinery to farmers for management of crop waste. This year, the state government had also divided the villages into red, orange and green zones, as per the previous records of the incidents of farm fires. A local-level committee was formed to keep an eye on the erring farmers with a special focus on red zones to ensure immediate action.Officials of the agriculture department and district administrations claim that the rise in incidents of farm fires is due to harvesting, which began a week earlier than last year. It is also learnt that strict action was not taken this year due to the ongoing protests by farmers against the agriculture bills and tardy paddy procurement. In Kurukshetra, which has reported the highest number of incidents of AFLs, deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Barar has issued strict directions to officials of the agriculture department to register FIRs against the erring farmers. The DC has also deputed concerned agriculture development officer, patwari and panchayat secretaries to keep an eye on farmers of 31 villages in red zones. Officials say the number of farm incidents may go up following an increase in area under parmal varieties. The parmal varieties are harvested by combine harvesters and the machines leave about 20 quintals of unmanaged crop waste every acre. Meanwhile, a difference has been noticed between the AFLs identified by Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) and incidents of stubble burning reported on the ground. The HARSAC reported 118 active fire locations in Kurukshetra district by October 6 but the district administration claimed that only 11 incidents of stubble burning were registered after physical verification. Deputy director of Haryana agriculture department Karam Chand said, “There are reports that AFLs recorded by HARSAC were not found after physical verification in Kurukshetra as well as Kaithal district.” Reacting over the increase in incidents of stubble burning this year, S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “We have been vigorously taking up the matter with farmers so that they could use eco-friendly harvesting equipments provided by the government to prevent stubble burning.” “Since the poor air quality caused by farm fires may intensify the impact of Covid-19, there is a need to keep a check on incidents of stubble burning,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/526-incidents-of-farm-fires-in-12-days-in-haryana/story-FlgN98KeDFLyiSZgp35jPJ.html
07-10-2020||City||Back to village helping in development, restructuring of J&K: L-G||Continuing his consistent outreach programmes as part of the ongoing ‘Back to Village-3’, lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha visited Kud in Udhampur district on Wednesday.“Back to Village is a revolution for implementation of maximum governance on ground. Under this, public is the planner and executor while the government and officials are merely facilitators,” the L-G said.He called upon the public to participate in the programme and ‘be a part in the development and restructuring of J&K’.Taking cognisance of long-pending demand of Chenani-Patangarh Bridge over Tawi, Sinha assured that a double-lane modern steel superstructure bridge will be built by July next year, benefiting about 15 panchayats.“Back to Village and Jan Abhiyan are steps towards more transparent and accountable governance. Funds, functions and functionaries are now available at your doorstep. At the same time, awareness needs to be created about people’s rights and welfare schemes that Centre and the UT administration have already approved,” he added.He said that each district has been provided Rs 2.5 crore funds and additional Rs 10 lakh for ‘Back to Village’ works. “There is a need to work with honesty and dedication for utilisation of these funds and execution of works,” he added.Sinha said there is need to modernise, industrialise and diversify the agriculture sector to strengthen village economies and provide ample livelihood resources to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-to-village-helping-in-development-restructuring-of-j-k-l-g/story-XstiKZg0SUaNTlUzZUjSyM.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Six members of family hurt in cylinder blast in Delhi||Six members of a family were injured in a cooking gas cylinder blast that took place in a house in South Delhi’s Bhati Mines on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The mishap occurred when the house owner, 50-year-old Mansoor, was preparing snacks to sell on a cart, said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). While a woman and a seven-year-old boy received 70% burns each, a toddler boy sustained 20% burns, said the officer. Others received relatively minor injuries and have been discharged from Safdarjung Hospital after treatment. The officer said that prima facie the blast and the subsequent fire were caused by leakage in cooking gas cylinder’s pipe. A first information report (FIR) has been registered at Maidangarhi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-members-of-family-hurt-in-cylinder-blast-in-delhi/story-yzxbFARNK7HHKjzaMHx7pJ.html
07-10-2020||City||Three farmers booked for burning crop residue in Fatehabad||Police on Wednesday registered an FIR against three farmers for burning crop residue in Haryana’s Fatehabad.A police official said the cases were registered on a complaint lodged by the district agriculture department.The Fatehabad agriculture department had lodged a complaint against eight farmers for setting crop residue on fire in the district. District agriculture department, deputy director, Rajesh Sihag, said the HARSAC imagery indicates 25 instances of stubble burning in the district. “Our teams visited the locations traced by the HARSAC, of which eight cases of stubble burning were detected and other locations were found wrong. So far, police have registered a case against three farmers under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and cases against the remaining farmers will be lodged soon,” he said.He said the deputy commissioner have formed a team of officials from the agriculture department, patwari, village secretary and policemen to tackle the menace.“With farmers continuing to flout the orders by burning stubble, the deputy commissioner has invoked Section 144. We have deployed teams to check stubble burning and a campaign has been launched to spread awareness about its consequences on the environment,” Sihag added.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti president Mandeep Nathwan said the action taken against farmers on the basis of HARSAC images is unfair. “Many times the farmers burn grass in their fields and the HARSAC gets hold of those images on the basis of billowing smoke. Can farmers be held responsible for such act?,” he said.He said the Supreme Court had asked the state government to pay farmers ₹100 per quintal to dispose of stubble but they have failed to implement the initiative. “We used to set the residue on fire as stubble burning is a cheaper way of getting rid of crop residue rather than weeding it though the prescribed process, which is costlier. If the police will lodge an FIR against us, we will lodge a protest against them,” said Ramandeep Singh, a farmer from Jamalpur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-farmers-booked-for-burning-crop-residue-in-fatehabad/story-3OIjCDYFqipGSuxrS8we3N.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gram sabhas should pass resolution to stop stubble burning: Haryana chief secretary||Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Wednesday directed deputy commissioners (DCs) to achieve the zero stubble burning goal and said every gram sabha in the state should pass a resolution asking farmers to refrain from stubble burning. During a video conference with the DCs held to prevent burning of crop residues as per the Supreme Court order, Vardhan said panchayats coming in the red zone will be rewarded with ₹10 lakh, ₹5 lakh and ₹3 lakh at the state-level if they perform well under the crop residue management.He also directed the DCs to ensure availability of crop residue management machinery to small and marginal farmers on a priority basis. The vice-chancellor of Haryana agricultural university and member secretary of Haryana Pollution Control Board also attended the meeting.The chief secretary also asked officials to organise an awareness campaign at the district, block, and village-level to spread awareness about the menace of stubble burning.According to additional principal secretary to chief minister, V Umashankar, a system has been developed to closely monitor and control the incidence of crop residue burning. He said under this system, based on the satellite image, if stubble is found burning in the range of 100 to 115 metres, a text message will be sent twice a day to sarpanches, village secretaries, tehsildars and DCs to take necessary action including a visit to the spot. Additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, Devender Singh said crop residue management machines have been distributed to custom hiring centres and farmers. He said adequate availability of equipment will be ensured to small and marginal farmers at 851 custom hiring centers set up at the panchayat-level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gram-sabhas-should-pass-resolution-to-stop-stubble-burning-haryana-chief-secretary/story-XyY2QiBqyDL0dWIQ3UqPxN.html
07-10-2020||City||Kaithal CMO suspended after MLA’s complaint||The Haryana government on Wednesday suspended Kaithal chief medical officer (CMO) with immediate effect following a complaint by local BJP MLA Lila Ram Gurjar. As per the orders issued by additional chief secretary, health department, Rajeev Arora, during the suspension period, Dr Jai Bhagwan’s headquarter will be the office of Director General Health Services Haryana. The reason for his suspension was not mentioned in the letter but it has been learnt that the CMO was suspended after Gurjar had written to state health minister Anil Vij accusing him of corruption and not disclosing the list of candidates hired under the outsourcing policy. The MLA claimed that he was getting complaints of corruption against Dr Jai Bhagwan and that his behavior with elected public representatives was not appropriate. “He even told his staff not to respond to the phone calls of MLAs,” Gurjar said.He said there were also allegations of irregularities in the appointments made through the outsourcings policy. The MLA said he took up the issue with the health minister and also filed a written complaint with his office. The CMO could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kaithal-cmo-suspended-after-mla-s-complaint/story-5pvWZ38WbbiwqRNO942RRP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Justice Rajiv Sharma of Punjab and Haryana high court retires||Justice Rajiv Sharma of the Punjab and Haryana high court retired on Wednesday. He was the third senior-most judge at the high court. Born in Shimla, he completed his studies at Himachal Pradesh University and entered legal profession in 1982. He was elevated as a judge in the Himachal Pradesh high court in 2007 and was transferred to the Uttarakhand high court in September 2016. He assumed charge in Chandigarh in November 2018, where he also served as the acting chief justice for two months. Known for expeditious disposal of cases, justice Sharma has delivered landmark judgments such as granting living entity status to the Ganga and the animal kingdom. He has also delivered important judgments such as deletion of caste from FIRs, abolishing age-old system of solitary confinement for death penalty convicts and lately many reformist orders in the arena of environment, against drug menace and illegal mining issue in Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/justice-rajiv-sharma-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-retires/story-Of6wLHxvbbWfWSEOxErgEL.html
07-10-2020||City||Leh Hill Council polls: Anurag Thakur intensifies campaign, Naqvi to reach on October 9||After Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM) relented and withdrew its poll boycott call, Union minister Anurag Thakur reached Leh on Wednesday to intensify BJP’s campaign for ensuing elections to Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh.Elections for the 30-seat council will be held on October 22. Anurag is on a three-day visit to the region. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will also reach Leh on October 9.“Thakur has kick-started poll campaign, in favour of party candidates, here on Wednesday. He held a series of meetings with party organisational secretary Ashok Koul and other leaders to ensure that BJP romps home with full majority,” a party leader said.Two more Union ministers, Kiran Rijiju and G Kishan Reddy, will also visit Leh and will be accompanied by party general secretary and MP Arun Singh.In the last elections conducted in 2015, BJP had won 18 of total 26 seats. On October 3, BJP had claimed that people are in its favour and it will make a clean sweep in the LAHDC-Leh polls.The polls are being held amid resentment over Centre’s failure in ensuring constitutional protection for Ladakh’s resources and cultural identity.“People are in favour of BJP and the issue of Sixth Schedule is over because the Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM), comprising of older leaders, recently went to Delhi and met Union home minister Amit Shah. Shah assured to fulfil their demand,” said LAHDC chief executive councillor and BJP leader Gyal P Wangyal.Former BJP lawmaker Thupstan Chhewang has formed ABPM to seek constitutional safeguards under the Sixth Schedule on the lines of north-eastern states. Following Shah’s assurance, the body withdrew its call for a boycott of the council polls.Chering Dorjay, a member of the apex body, said, “After Ladakh was given UT status without legislature on August 5 last year, locals wanted safeguards under the Sixth Schedule for their land, jobs, language and culture.“Within 15 day of the culmination of the hill council polls, Shah has assured to provide us safeguards under the Sixth Schedule. However, the exercise has to be preceded by participation of the representatives elected in the polls. Further, we have to take people of Kargil on board,” he said.LADAKH WILL GET MUCH MORE THAN SIXTH SCHEDULE: THAKURUnion minister Anurag Thakur said people of Leh will get much more than just Sixth Schedule. He assured that their land, culture, ethnic values, etc will be safeguarded.Addressing a press conference in Leh, Thakur said, “It was a long pending demand of Ladakh to get UT status. It happened only when Narendra Modi became Prime Minister.”“I am a four-time MP from Himachal Pradesh and my father was a three-time MP, two-time CM, and two-time leader of Opposition. Yet we cannot purchase land in tribal areas of Himachal because Section 118 gives protection to the natives of Himachal for their land holdings,” he assured.“And this is when we don’t even have the Sixth Schedule there. People of Ladakh so not need to worry about this,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leh-hill-council-polls-anurag-thakur-intensifies-campaign-naqvi-to-reach-on-october-9/story-raxjEskicEs15haY1LkbUJ.html
07-10-2020||City||No rehabilitation, jobs for terrorists under Modi govt: J&K BJP chief||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina, on Wednesday, said, “There can never be any rehabilitation policy for terrorists and they will be paid back in the same coin.”Raina was reacting to lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha’s recent appeal to local militants to shun the path of violence. Sinha had promised to help them get jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities.“A terrorist is a terrorist. Pak-sponsored terrorism has bled Jammu and Kashmir for the past 30 years. They (terrorists) go to Pakistan for arms training, come back with arms and ammunition and kill innocent people and security forces personnel. They can never be given jobs,” he said.“Our army, police and paramilitary forces are combating them 24x7. In Modi government, there can never be any rehabilitation for terrorists,” he said.On selection list of the fire and emergency services department, Raina said the list has many irregularities and is discriminatory.“I brought the matter to the notice of L-G Sinha and have urged him to scrap this list and conduct recruitments afresh. Graduates and postgraduates have been excluded while Class 8 and 10 pass candidates have been selected in the current list. It is a big scam and probe should be ordered,” he said.Raina added that if the list was not revoked then BJP will move court for an interim stay on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-rehabilitation-jobs-for-terrorists-under-modi-govt-j-k-bjp-chief/story-rk6Xp8HqZcu2UeBk3RwVUO.html
07-10-2020||City||Pak army fires mortars across LoC in Uri||Pakistani Army fired mortars and small weapons across the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri on Wednesday which was retaliated, army spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said.Col Kalia said Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Uri, Baramulla. “They fired mortars and other weapons. A befitting response was given,” he said.“The exchange of fire continued for around 15 minutes,” said Baramulla SSP Abdul Qayoom.This year has seen a number of ceasefire violations by Pakistan, especially in north Kashmir. The army says unprovoked ceasefire violation is mainly aimed to facilitate infiltration of terrorists.India and Pakistan, who have fought at least three wars since 1947, had agreed in 2003 to maintain peace along the border, but the violations intensified after bilateral relations plummeted in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-army-fires-mortars-across-loc-in-uri/story-TsARfC6vHEGWmlV44OtbWP.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC on whether offences under NDPS Act are non-bailable: Read full text||The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted bail to actor Rhea Chakraborty whoc was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drugs case linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.But the court did not accept the argument put forward by Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde that the offences involving small quantities of contraband are bailable under the NDPS Act.In a lengthy judgement, Justice Sarang V Kotwal delved deeper into the issue and highlighted two important judgements of the Supreme Court.“This issue is important and, therefore, I am examining this issue in detail. In support of his contention that the offences involving small quantities are bailable, Mr Maneshinde relied on a judgment of a single judge of this court in the case of Stefan Mueller vs State of Maharashtra. In this case, it was held that the offences involving small quantities of contraband were bailable offences,” Justice Kotwal observed.“The language of Section 37 itself mentions that every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable, but, there is no such similar sentence mentioning that every offence punishable under NDPS Act shall be non-bailable,” the judge further said.Here is the observation made by Justice Kotwal in deciding Chakraborty’s bail (from the court order):Since this is an application for bail in respect of offences punishable under the NDPS Act, the provisions of that Act are required to be considered carefully. The bail provisions under the NDPS Act are mentioned under Section 37 of that Act. Section 37 reads thus:Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable-(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)--(a) every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable;(b) no person accused of an offence punishable for offences under section 19 or section 24 or section 27A andalso for offences involving commercial quantity shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless--(i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release, and(ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail.(2) The limitations on granting of bail specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being in force, on granting of bail.”As per requirements of this Section, the Court has to give opportunity to the Public Prosecutor to oppose the application for such relief. Such opportunity is given in the present case as I have heard learned ASG extensively. He has opposed this application. The second requirement is that, the Court should be satisfied about the two conditions. There should be reasonable grounds for believing that the Applicant is not guilty of such offence and the Applicant is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Therefore, the Court will have to consider whether these two conditions are satisfied. However, these requirements are applicable only where the rigours of Section 37 mentioned in Clause (b) of Sub-Section (1) of Section 37 are applicable in the case. This view is consistently taken by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India Vs. Rattan Mallik alias Habul2 has dealt with this aspect in Paragraphs-12, 13 & 14. They are as follows:It is plain from a bare reading of the non obstante clause in Section 37 of the NDPS Act and subsection (2) thereof that the power to grant bail to a person accused of having committed offence under the NDPS Act is not only subject to the limitations imposed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, it is also subject to the restrictions placed by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. Apart from giving an opportunity to the Public Prosecutor to oppose the application for such release, the other twin conditions viz. (i) the satisfaction of the court that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence; and (ii) that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail, have to be satisfied. It is manifest that the conditions are cumulative and not alternative. The satisfaction contemplated regarding the accused being not guilty, has to be based on “reasonable grounds”.The expression “reasonable grounds” has not been defined in the said Act but means something more than prima facie grounds. It connotes substantial probable causes for believing that the accused is not guilty of the offence he is charged with. The reasonable belief contemplated in turn, points to existence of such facts and circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence (vide Union of India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari, (2007) 7 SCC 798). Thus, recording of satisfaction on both the aspects, noted above, is sine qua non for granting of bail under the NDPS Act.We may, however, hasten to add that while considering an application for bail with reference to Section 37 of the NDPS Act, the court is not called upon to record a finding of “not guilty”. At this stage, it is neither necessary nor desirable to weigh the evidence meticulously to arrive at a positive finding as to whether or not the accusedhas committed offence under the NDPS Act. What is to be seen is whether there is reasonable ground for believing that the accused is not guilty of the offence(s) he is charged with and further that he is not likely to commit an offence under the said Act while on hail. The satisfaction of the court about the existence of the said twin conditions is for a limited purpose and is confined to the question of releasing the accused on bail.”Based on these guidelines and observations, I am deciding the present application.I need to decide following questions in this application.I. Whether the offences alleged against the Applicant are bailable. This question needs to be decided because theApplicant is claiming her release on bail as a matter of right.II. If the offences are non-bailable, then, as to whether rigours mentioned in Section 37(1)(b) of NDPS Act are applicable.III. If such rigours are not applicable and if the offences are non-bailable then whether the Court should exercise its discretion to grant or refuse bail.WHETHER ALL THE OFFENCES UNDER NDPS ACT ARE NON-BAILABLEThe applicant has vehemently contended that the allegations, at the highest, show that the offence is a bailable offence and the Applicant could not have been detained in custody since the Applicant was ready and willing to furnish bail.This issue is important and, therefore, I am examining this issue in detail. In support of his contention that the offences involving small quantities are bailable, Mr. Maneshinde relied on a judgment of a Single Judge of this Court in the case of Stefan Mueller Vs. State of Maharashtra. In this case, it was held that the offences involving small quantities of contraband were bailable offences.. This judgment in the case of Stefan Mueller was relied on by a Division Bench of High Court of Delhi in the case of Minnie Khadim Ali Kuhn Vs. State NCT of Delhi and others. The learned Single Judge Bench of this Court in Stefan Mueller (supra) has observed that the heading or the marginal note of Section 37 reads as “Offences to be cognizable and nonbailable”.However, the language of Section 37 itself mentions that every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable, but, there is no such similar sentence mentioning that every offence punishable under NDPS Act shall be non-bailable.. The learned Single Judge referred to a few judgments explaining that marginal note, heading or title of a Section has a limited role to play in the construction of statutes. In cases of conflict between the plain language of the provisions and the meaning of the heading or title, the heading or title would not control the meaning which is clearly and plainly discernible from the language of the provision thereunder.The learned Judge has observed that since the Legislature has not declared specifically under Section 37 that all the offences under the Act shall be non-bailable, the provisions of CrPC are required to be looked into to find out whether the offences under NDPS Act are bailable or not. The learned Single Judge thereafter referred to Part-II of the Schedule to the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘CrPC’), which gives classification of offences against other laws declaring them to be bailable or non-bailable. This classification under Part II of the Schedule to CrPC mentions that the offences in other laws are bailable if they are punishable with imprisonment for less than three years or with fine only. Therefore, according to the learned Judge, since the offences involving small quantity of the contraband were punishable for sentences less than three years, these offences would be bailable. In the same judgment, it was further held that in bailable offences, even conditions cannot be imposed on the accused in view of provisions of Section 436 of CrPC.The judge then went on the describe the amendments brought in to the sections of NDPS Act in 1985 and 2001.“The situation has not changed since 1999 when these observations were made by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. In fact, the situation has become worse. Therefore, these observations apply to today’s scenario with more force,” the judge said.Further examining the provisions of Section 27A, Justice Kotwal said in his observation, “The allegations and material against the present applicant are that on some occasions she had used her own money in procuring drugs. She facilitated procuring of drugs through her brother. For that purpose employees of Sushant Singh Rajput were also used. As discussed earlier, her acts would not fall under Section 27A of the NDPS Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-on-whether-offences-under-ndps-act-are-non-bailable-read-full-text/story-EYhOiManU0j4RqkSwn5qlK.html
07-10-2020||City||Pune district reports over 2,343 fresh Covid cases, 40 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 2,343 fresh Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths related to the infection, in 24 hours, as per data released by the state health department on Wednesday. The district has reported 3.08 lakh Covid-19 cases till date, of which 2.44 lakh have recovered, and currently, 57,926 is the active case count. The death toll in the district stands at 6,074. Pune rural reported 851 new cases taking its total case count to 67,224. Fourteen deaths reported on Wednesday puts the rural death toll at 1,312, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 966 new cases, taking its total to 1,62,096; 13 deaths reported on Wednesday, put the death toll at 3,662. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 526 new cases, taking its total count to 79,114; 13 deaths reported on Wednesday moved the death toll to 1,099. The state health department reported that 16,715 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the final discharged count to 11,96,441. The recovery rate in the state is 80.81%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.64%. Currently, 22,48,741 persons are under home quarantine and 25,655 are in institutional quarantines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-over-2-343-fresh-covid-cases-40-deaths/story-0GST3SY41BXtuDYYR7viFO.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Gurudwara Bangla Sahib to open a diagnostic facility for the needy||Compassion is divine, indeed. Delhi’s Gurudwara Bangla Sahib is slated to open a diagnostic facility for the poor and underprivileged in the first week of December. For the MRI, the needy will have to pay ₹50 and others will be required to pay ₹800, whereas a dialysis will cost about ₹600. The news came as a pleasant surprise when Dr Arvinder Singh Soin Tweeted: “After a low-cost dispensary, Gurdwara Bangla Sahib is now slated to open a cheap diagnostic facility...(sic).” Congratulatory messages poured on the social media platform immediately. “Very good initiative taken by Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, it will help those people who can’t afford the expenses,” wrote one user @iamvivekpandey97. “Inspirational. Blessed are those who get a chance to give back to society,” another user @AmrapaliDixit wrote.  After a low-cost dispensary, Gurudwara Bangla Sahib is now slated to open a cheap diagnostic facility. An ultrasound will cost Rs. 150 & an MRI Scan Rs. 50! 🙏 pic.twitter.com/oZLKQblUTaThe news has certainly come as a blessing in the time of pandemic. “Everyone should be helped,” says Bupinder Singh Bhullar, chairman, Guru Harkishan Polyclinic, Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, adding, “Jo pay kar sakte hain unke liye ₹800. Jo bando ka iss time corona ki wajah se rozgar nahin rahe, karobar khatam ho gaye hai, lekin ghar mein koi nah koi problems rehti hai, unko yeh na mehsoos ho ki jab tak diagnose nahin hota toh tab tak ilaaj nahin hota. We want to extend our maximum help to one and all.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8 Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gurudwara-bangla-sahib-to-open-a-diagnostic-facility-for-the-needy/story-C1gQpvabavyAet5l2n6ItL.html
07-10-2020||City||Agitating farmers demand meeting with PM||AMRITSAR The agitating members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), the farmers’ body which is spearheading the agitation in Punjab against the central government’s three contentious farm laws, on Wednesday demanded a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after turning down the invitation for talks from Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Hundreds of farmers, under the banner of KMSC, have been laying siege to Amritsar-Delhi railway tracks for the last 13 days.“The Union agriculture minister had invited the farmers for a meeting but he does not hold any power to revoke the new laws. If the government wants to explain the new laws to the farmers then they should know that we understand all the three farm laws. The BJP leaders are not serious and their motive appears clear that they would not revoke the new laws. The PM should conduct the meeting because only he has the power to revoke the laws,” Sarvan Singh Pandher, the state secretary of the KMSC, said.“If any farmers’ union wishes to meet the Union minister, they are free to do so,” Pandher said.He also took cognisance of no such invite to the farmers of Haryana. “Since the farmers of Haryana were assaulted, we should not meet the Union minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agitating-farmers-demand-meeting-with-pm/story-QXckB8oq8q6UKDFtxLpkpO.html
07-10-2020||City||HP Congress chief leads tractor march to protest against farm bills||The Kangra District Congress Committee (DCC) on Wednesday held a protest against the new farm bills enacted by the Centre. Led by state Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, protesters took out a march on tractors and foot from Industrial Training Institute to the sub-divisional magistrate’s office.Kangra DCC president Ajay Mahajan, former minister Sudhir Sharma, former MP Chaudhary Chandra Kumar, Kangra MLA Pawan Kajal, former MLAs Sanjay Ratna, Jagjivan Pal, Rajvindra Goma, Kishori Lal, District Congress treasurer Karn Pathania and Dharamshala mayor Devendra Jaggi participated in the demonstration.Addressing the protesters, Rathore termed the bills passed by the Centre as ‘anti-farmer’.He alleged that the new laws were meant to benefit the corporate.“The state government is also implementing anti-people decisions on the lines of the Centre,” said Rathore adding that people of will give a befitting reply to the BJP in the elections.He said that in 2022, Congress would free the state from BJP’s misrule.Speaking on the occasion, Ajay Mahajan said that the Centre has brought ‘black laws’ against farmers.He said that anger was brewing up against the Centre among the farmer community. He also raked up the Hathras incident to hit at the central government.All India Congress Committee secretary Sudhir Sharma said that farmers will be hit adversely hit by the new farm laws.“It is feared that this may eventually lead to the end of the minimum support price (MSP)-based procurement system and lead to increased exploitation by private companies,” he said. Sharma said that its negative results were already visible as the prices of maize and rice have fallen after the laws came into effect.State Congress general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania said that the bills were passed in haste that too amid the Covid-19 pandemic and were intended to benefit the corporate houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-congress-chief-leads-tractor-march-to-protest-against-farm-bills/story-pNpMvjNXO3x2wKytFfaShM.html
07-10-2020||City||HP minister Suresh Bhardwaj among 60 test positive for Covid||Himachal Pradesh urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj was among the 282 persons who tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, a health official said.With the new infections, the state’s overall case count stands at 16,565.Bhardwaj is the third Himachal minister to have contracted the virus. His wife has also tested positive for the virus.In a statement issued here, Bhardwaj said that he has self-isolated on October 2.He said that his elder son tested negative while the younger one tested positive on October 5.Bhardwaj said that the doctor had advised him to self-isolate after his younger son had tested Covid-19 positive. The doctor also asked him to get tested in case any symptoms appear.Earlier, power minister Sukhram Chaudhary and jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur had tested positive for Covid-19. Both the ministers have recovered from the virus.Of the new cases, 66 in Mandi, 55 were reported in Solan, 47 in Kangra, 31 in Shimla, 24 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kullu, 13 in Chamba, 10 in Una, 6 in Hamirpur and five in Kinnaur.Among the infected 36 were Himachal Pradesh police jawans including trainees from Police Training College, Daroh.The death toll has mounted to 226 as two more people succumbed to the infection. One fatality each has been recorded in Mandi and Kullu.Active cases have come down to 2,996 as 418 more people were discharged today, taking the number of cured to 13,316.Solan is the worst-hit district with a maximum of 3,244 cases, followed by Kangra where 2,512 people have been infected to date. Mandi has 1,946 cases, Sirmaur 1,927, Shimla 1,516, Una 1,386, Hamirpur 985, Bilaspur 944, Chamba 932, Kullu 791, Kinnaur 206, and Lahaul-Spiti 176.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suresh-bhardwaj-becomes-third-himachal-minister-to-test-covid-19-positive/story-BNfqbdQBsNX2nuuBaQBlBL.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh employees’ housing scheme: Urban planning dept raises further queries||The meeting between Chandigarh Housing Board and the UT urban planning department held on Wednesday remained inclusive as the latter raised further queries on the proposed twin design options for the government employee housing scheme.CHB, through a consultant, has designed two options, a seven-storey and a 10-storey apartment project. The aim is to lower the cost of the project so that it comes more affordable for the employees.“Once the planning department gives it nod, we will be submitting the price assessment. Earlier it had raised certain objections to designs, particularly the towers being higher than what is general allowed in the city. On Wednesday, the planning department officials sought more clarifications, and we will be responding to them within a couple of days,” said a senior CHB official, who did not wish to be named.CHB was to build around 4,000 flats for government employees in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 as part of a scheme launched in 2008. The delay in construction has led to a sharp rise in prices of flats, which has been strongly opposed by employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-employees-housing-scheme-urban-planning-dept-raises-further-queries/story-wMAIDIYDqFLnqUPMjD6fbM.html
07-10-2020||City||Residents of Rohru Forest Division to get employment under JICA project||Residents of the Rohru Forest Division will now be provided employment opportunities under the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) project of the forest department run by the Centre in collaboration with Japan which is also working in forest conservation in the area.The scheme has already been implemented in the Saraswati Nagar range under Rohru Forest Division, while under the Khashdhar range, the scheme is being launched in view of geographical compatibility in Rohla, Goskwadi, Gaonasari, Sidasali, Kidari Khopatwadi including Dakgaon and Dali wards.Rohru forest divisional officer Shahnawaz Ahmad Bhatt said that this scheme will benefit about 120 people in each selected ward. Forest Development Committee will be constituted at the village-level in these selected wards which will include residents of the ward including the forest block officer, forest guard and ward member of the forest department. Under the JICA Project, there is a provision of financial arrangements to spend ₹40 lakh in every selected ward for eight years. At the same time, ₹5 lakh will be spent in the developmental work in the respective wards under the supervision of the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-rohru-forest-division-to-get-employment-under-jica-project/story-XUdwMcHsfxifGYllDYg3UN.html
07-10-2020||City||Kullu DM announces new regulations to check traffic violations at Atal Tunnel||To check traffic-related incidents at Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, Kullu district administration on Wednesday issued traffic regulations.Any kind of violations will attract penal action under the Motor Vehicle Act, 2019. A notification to this effect was issued by Kullu district magistrate Richa Verma under Section 116 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 and also under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Within three days of inauguration, three accidents were reported inside the tunnel besides several instances of rash and negligent driving.Atal Tunnel, Rohtang has become one of the major attractions for tourists and local people since its inauguration, and a large number of public gatherings and some incidents of a nuisance like overspeeding, unnecessary stoppage, outrageous driving has been reported, reads the notification.It said that the Kullu superintendent of police vide a letter on October 6 has requested to issue necessary remedial measures in the interest of the safety of commuters.“Therefore, unnecessary stoppage, overspeeding (more than the speed limit mentioned in signboards), rash driving, wrong overtaking, etc. inside the tunnel shall be strictly prohibited and strict action shall be initiated under new Motor Vehicle Act, 2019 for any violation,” states the notification.There shall be a complete ban of unnecessary movement in emergency exits tunnel and any violation shall attract action under Section 144 of the CrPC.“There shall be a complete ban on photography and videography for the area starting from 200 meters before the south portal up to the end of the tunnel. Any violation of this order shall attract strict action under prevailing provisions of the act,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-dm-announces-new-regulations-to-check-traffic-violations-at-atal-tunnel/story-dzlh0pxPubtOtPSEr3Tl5N.html
07-10-2020||City||Congress demands FIR against Banjar MLA for ‘hiding’ Covid-19 positive status||Congress workers on Wednesday demanded the government to register a First Information Report (FIR) against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Surender Shourie who despite being tested positive for coronavirus attended the inauguration function of the Atal Tunnel on Saturday. First-time legislator from Banjar, Shourie had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 2 and had accompanied dignitaries including chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and attended the inaugural function.Shourie was also amongst those VIPs who had gone to welcome defence minister Rajnath Singh at the SASE helipad. Shourie, on his Facebook post, said that he was asymptomatic and had got himself tested on the directions of the Special Protection Group (SPG), and as soon as he came to know about the status of his Covid-19 test report he along with his staff went into isolation. Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee’s general secretary Rajneesh Kimta on Wednesday accused the state government of openly defying Covid safety protocol and said that the way rules were violated during the Prime Minister’s programme in Manali proves that Covid norms are only for the opposition parties and public and not for the BJP.Kimta said that the incident of Banjar BJP MLA meeting people at the function is a serious issue and an FIR should be lodged against him for violating Covid protocol as he has intentionally tried to spread the infection amongst the people“A stern action should also be taken against officials of the health department who did not place Shourie under isolation,” he said.The state government had claimed that everyone who will be the part of this ceremony will have to undergo the Covid-19 test, but no tests were conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-demands-fir-against-banjar-mla-for-hiding-covid-19-positive-status/story-DGb4yJFrUpL4oAuGgcgc7M.html
07-10-2020||City||Misappropriation of saroops: Probe report finds CA, former SGPC chief secy delinquent||AMRITSAR The Akal Takht-appointed panel that probed into the misappropriation of 328 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib points out that timely computerisation of the accounts by the private firm hired for the purpose could have averted the incident. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) uploaded the 1,100-page report on its website on Wednesday. The SGPC had hired SS Kohli and Associates on a monthly fee of ₹3.5 lakh in January 2009 for conducting the annual internal audit. The probe penal found that the firm was allotted four key works — internal audit (pre/concurrent audit on daily basis), including stores etc. at all locations, computerisation of accounts on regular basis of all the location, implementation of internal control system as suggested by a renowned consultancy firm, and implementation of online system proposed and designed by the consultancy firm — at the time of the hiring. “Chartered accountant (CA) Satinder Singh Kohli did only one work, but he was given the fee for all the four works. One of the works was computerisation of the printing press’s accounts. Had the timely computerisation been done, the misappropriation (of the saroops) could not have occurred,” reads the report. It further says: “It was the responsibility of former SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh to get all the works done from the CA. The money which was paid to the CA was the donation of the devotees. Roop Singh had irresponsibly gave the money to the CA. So a departmental and criminal action is needed against Roop Singh.” Roop Singh had quit on “moral and ethical grounds” and his resignation was accepted by the SGPC executive on August 27. The report that was partially made public by the SGPC on August 27 had held Roop Singh and 13 other officials and staff members of the publication and allied departments responsible for the missing saroops. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had also taken departmental action against the erring officials, besides promising criminal action against some officials, barring Dr Roop Singh. The SGPC later took a U-turn on criminal action. The probe panel in its report also pre-empts resignations from accused officials. “Despite their resignations, the executive committee should take appropriate action against them, otherwise it will leave a leave a bad precedent for other employees,” says the report. A year after being picked by the SGPC, the audit firm’s monthly fee was increased by ₹75,000 per month in 2010. The probe team found that the SGPC increased the fee of the firm even as it did little to computerise the SGPC accounts and other records. “The SGPC had been paying the audit firm for the last 10 years for no work. If the mistake was committed by an official or an employee, he or she would have been sacked, but it is very unfortunate that the SGPC’s executive committee, which has supreme rights, had been increasing the contract of the firm without reviewing Kohli’s work,” reads the report. It further says, “The money of the sangat and the misappropriation of the saroops of Guru Granth Sahib could have been stopped, if the printing press’s record had been put online, besides conducting a regular audit. The firm is also a partner in the crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/misappropriation-of-saroops-probe-report-finds-ca-former-sgpc-chief-secy-delinquent/story-cDvIVvn2KI2yeix7kOoQiP.html
07-10-2020||City||CPI(M) urges Himachal government to form task force to deal with Covid||Expressing serious concerns over the rapid increase in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in the state, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday demanded the state government to establish a task force under efficient leadership and work with a war-based strategy by adopting a scientific approach to deal with the infection.CPI(M) has demanded the state government to immediately take concrete steps to improve health services in the state and ensure proper treatment of patients suffering from Covid-19 and other diseases in hospitals by recruiting doctors, paramedical staff and other employees. Due to the process of unlocking the state, rules should be fixed keeping in mind the concessions provided and the government should work with utmost care for them, party workers said.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that due to this poor functioning and irresponsible behaviour of the state government, Covid-19 cases have crossed the 16,000-mark in the state and more than 200 deaths have been reported so far. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is in isolation, ministers and their family members, officers and employees of the CM’s office, leaders of the ruling party and doctors, paramedical staff, police and other employees are getting infected and some of them have even lost their lives. This has exposed the state government’s preparations to deal with the pandemic, he said.“It has become clear that the preparations were not made after the government had imposed lockdown and curfew in March, rather the state government was engaged in irrational work and politics,” he added.He said that a movement will be launched if the state government fails to take effective steps to deal with the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-urges-himachal-government-to-form-task-force-to-deal-with-covid/story-hToLEVfx07C7i5Si8kQ05K.html
07-10-2020||City||Covid patient suicide case: Magisterial probe indicts Shimla’s DDU Hospital administration||A magisterial probe into a suicide committed by a Covid-19 patient admitted in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital here, has found serious lapses in the Covid ward of the hospital.Shimla additional district magistrate has submitted a 27-page report to deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap which has been sent to the government for action. The inquiry also pointed towards serious lapses in hospital management. The woman, 54, from Chopal had tested positive for coronavirus on September 18 and was admitted to DDU Hospital. The incident had raised questions on the functioning of the hospital that how a patient in a ward where 20 to 25 other patients are also present could commit suicide in the presence of the hospital staff.The family members of the woman said that she had been suffering from hypertension and was not given her routine doses at the hospital.The inquiry report has indicted the hospital administration for lapses and stated that the patient was not administered medicines for hypertension for four days. It further revealed that the hospital staff did not attend to the Covid-19 patients and treat them well. The hospital staff left the food for patients at the doors of the Covid ward and they had to carry their food themselves, it added. Elderly and critically-ill patients found it difficult to pick up their meals from the door. Several patients said that there was no intercom facility at the ward to communicate with hospital staff in case of emergencies. The report also pointed serious lapses on the part of senior doctors who did not attend to the patients. The magistrate recorded statements of the hospital staff and the patients who were hospitalised at the time when the woman committed suicide. “The report has been forwarded to the government for consideration,” said DC Amit Kashyap.Meanwhile, the government took few steps to improve the conditions at the hospital after the incident rocked the state. The government decided to install televisions at the hospital ward and the provided communication facility for patients. Besides, it has now become mandatory to supply newspapers to patients. The government has ordered to improve the quality of food provided to patients admitted in Indira Gandhi Medical College in Shimla and DDU Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-suicide-case-magisterial-probe-indicts-shimla-s-ddu-hospital-administration/story-jo2FgxS0B1EXvIYe2thhgP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking to resume bus service to Uttarakhand this week||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking will start interstate bus service to Uttarakhand this week. The decision was taken after the UT transport department received consent from the Uttarakhand government.Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport, said: “We are planning to start bus service to Dehradun in a couple of days. We are also planning to start service to Himachal Pradesh by next week. The consent from HP government is expected by the end of this week.”CTU had resumed interstate bus service to Punjab and Haryana on September 16.The destinations included were Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Una up to Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dinanagar and Bathinda in Punjab; and Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi up to Kundli border in Haryana.The decision to resume the interstate services was taken in the September 4 war room review meeting chaired by UT administrator VPS Badnore. It came following the central government’s Unlock 4 guidelines rolled out from September 1.There are 153 CTU buses plying on various interstate routes. The tickets can be purchased online at http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in, via the mobile app “CTU Musafir” or through the conductor. The buses will be operated with 50% occupancy to adhere to social distancing guidelines issued by the Chandigarh administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-to-resume-bus-service-to-uttarakhand-this-week/story-0kD6Mf6e4gcjfkEA5ZO02O.html
07-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee says trucks originating from other states could be potential carriers of Covid-19||Expressing concern over the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengal’s Jhargram, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during an administrative meeting in the district on Wednesday, said trucks and lorries originating from other states might be carriers of coronavirus.Banerjee also said that there was no clear idea yet over the modes of virus transmission, and it was necessary to conduct “forensic tests” on truck tyres to ensure they were not infected.“We should not forget that Jhargram shares border with Jharkhand. There are trucks from Mumbai, Chennai and other states passing through the district. We can conduct forensic tests on the tyres of a couple of lorries that pass through the toll plaza to see if the virus is spreading through these,” she maintained.The chief minister further claimed that it cannot be said for sure if the virus spreads from the clothes people wear and the bags we carry.“I think this (Covid-19) is also air-borne. We actually do not have a clear idea how it is spreading, if it can get transmitted from the bag we are using in the market or from the clothes... The only thing that we can do is take appropriate precautionary measures. And since cases are on the rise in Jhargram, we have to take measures in advance,” Banerjee explained.She said that truck drivers coming to the state from elsewhere should carry own food.“People coming in lorries from other states, such as Delhi, Mumbai or Chennai, must carry own food. The virus might be spreading when these people sit in dhabas to eat food.“If they want to eat in dhabas, proper sanitisation and health protocol should be followed there,” she said asking the administration to chalk out a plan in this connection.Urging people to strictly follow safety guidelines, the chief minister said her government would distribute masks to the poor free of cost.“I saw people moving around without masks here. If needed, they should be given masks by the police during Durga Pujas through community development programmes,” she said.Of the 79 gram panchayats in Jhargram, 10 has been affected by the disease, a senior official said.The district currently has 209 active cases, while 10 people have succumbed to the infection so far, according to the bulletin released by the state health department.The CM, during the meeting, also asked the district administration to identify a piece of land, where a press club could be constructed.She highlighted various welfare schemes initiated by her government, and enlisted policies beneficial for the scheduled caste and tribal population.Banerjee asked the district officials to ensure all beneficiaries receive their dues without any hassle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-says-trucks-originating-from-other-states-could-be-potential-carriers-of-covid-19/story-ahCLSlHRCCfIUH03Xm2q1H.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces guidelines for timings of restaurants, bars||Restaurants and bars in Maharashtra have been allowed to remain open from 8 am to 10 pm or as directed by the municipal commissioners or district collectors, the state government said on Wednesday.The government has conveyed this in a letter sent to the bodies representing hotels and restaurants.Hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars in the state have been allowed to resume their operations from October 5 with capacity not exceeding 50 per cent or as prescribed by local authorities.“It is hereby informed that the restaurants and bars will remain open from 8 am and close at 10 pm sharp, or as directed by the respective municipal commissioners or district collectors (depending on the prevalent situation of Covid-19 pandemic),” Dr Dhananjay Savalkar, joint director (tourism), said in the letter issued on Wednesday.He also said that all the stakeholder restaurants and bars from the state need to follow the timings mandatorily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-guidelines-for-timings-of-restaurants-bars/story-cA5t7GeRFpWopPySQYqBPK.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal announces further relaxations for weekly markets, cinemas to reopen from October 15||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced further relaxations for weekly markets i the nationla capital. He said on Twitter that all such markets will be opened from earlier restriction of two markets per day per zone.“Now, all weekly markets in Delhi will be opened. Till now, only 2 markets per day per zone were allowed. Cinema halls in Delhi will also be opened from October 15. They have to follow all the guidelines issued by the central government,” Kejriwal tweeted.अब दिल्ली के सभी साप्ताहिक बाज़ार खुल सकेंगे। अभी तक केवल 2 बाज़ार प्रतिदिन प्रति ज़ोन की इजाज़त थी। गरीब लोगों को इस से काफ़ी राहत मिलेगी। 15 अक्तूबर से दिल्ली के सिनेमा हॉल भी खुल सकेंगे। उन्हें केंद्र सरकार द्वारा जारी सभी दिशा निर्देश पालन करने होंगे।The chief minister said that the reopening of weekly markets will give huge relief to the poor section of the society. The restrictions were put in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covie-19).Kejriwal also announced the reopening of cinema halls from October 15. However, the halls have to follow social distancing guildelines and will open with 50 per cent seating capacity.Earlier, the weekly markets in Delhi were allowed to open on a trial basis by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The markets were closed since March after coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed to contain the pandemic.Meanwhile, the national capital recorded 35 fresh casualties due to Covid-19 on Wednesday and the death toll mounted to 5,616, while 2,871 new cases took the tally to over 2.98 lakh, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-announces-further-relaxations-for-weekly-markets-cinemas-to-reopen-from-october-15/story-waNpG4VHyhPSuo7dO2EmIN.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Fall in containment zones count in Delhi after steady rise since August last week||After rising steadily for over 40 days, the number of containment zones in the national capital fell to 2,697 on October 6, a marginal dip compared to the figures the previous day, according to official data. Since last week of August, there has been an upward trend in the number of containment zones till October 5 when the count stood at 2,707. However, on Tuesday, it slipped to 2,697, the fall being registered after a gap of more than 40 days. The national capital recorded 39 Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, as the death toll mounted to 5,581 while 2,676 fresh cases took the tally to over 2.95 lakh, authorities said. Both the number of fresh cases and containment zones recorded a gradual rise in September, with September 16 reporting 4,473 cases, the highest single-day spike till date. On that day, the containment zone figure had climbed to 1,637. Except September 14, the number of cases from September 9-19 were reported in excess of 4,000 per day, while the containment zones count and home isolation cases steadily increased. On September 5, the home isolation cases had jumped to 9,822 while the containment zones count stood at 946. On September 6, the total number of containment zones had crossed the 1,000-mark. Prior to that, Delhi had seen a big surge in cases in the month of June, but the spike had come down in July. The home isolation figures on July 1 stood at 16,703 with 437 containment zones marked in the city. On July 31, while the home isolation cases count had come down to 5,763, the containment zones had risen to 692, according to official data. On August 3, the number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation, and containment zones count, both came down to 5,577 and 496, respectively. On August 25, however, there were 5,949 home isolation cases and 654 containment zones or localised areas from where infections were reported. It rose to 6,850 with 763 zones on August 28; and then to 7876 home isolation cases with 833 containment zones on August 31; and 8,407 home quarantined cases with 894 zones on September 2. The positivity rate on Tuesday stood at 4.99 per cent while the recovery rate was crossed 90 per cent, the Tuesday health department bulletin said, adding that the case fatality rate stood at 1.89 per cent. According to the bulletin, 2,66,935 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The first Covid-19 case in Delhi was reported on March 1. In the last week of March, a nationwide lockdown was imposed in view of the Covid-19 situation across the country. While the economy has slowly been allowed to reopen, since June, there have been an increase in cases in Delhi since Unlock 1.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fall-in-containment-zones-count-in-delhi-after-steady-rise-since-august-last-week/story-Wt5TK1ROEIgGZZJGyzRiTM.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||HSIIDC alots 140 acres to Flipkart in Manesar||The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has allotted 140 acres to e-commerce company Flipkart for setting up its largest fulfilling centre in Asia with a covered area of 3 million square feet at Manesar’s Patli Hazipur. The allotment was approved by the executive empowered committee on Wednesday under the chairmanship of principal secretary to chief minister, Rajesh Khullar. Khullar said in view of increasing demand of warehousing from e-commerce companies, the HSIIDC has set up a warehousing hub on 285 acres in Patli Hazipur, Manesar. “The land has been allotted at bare shell cost of ₹3.09 crore per acre and all infrastructure facilities will be laid by the Flipkart Group. This project shall give impetus to further investments in the region,” he said. The e-commerce company plans to set up a logistics park in the next 3-5 years. “The first phase of the project will be operational by 2022. The sustainable development of the park is expected to cost more than 3,500 crores in capital investment and will create more than 12,000 jobs,” Khullar said. Flipkart already has 12 supply chain assets in Haryana, including supply chain infrastructure for large appliances, non-large (including mobiles, apparel), grocery and furniture. The company currently employs more than 10,000 people in Haryana across its supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hsiidc-alots-140-acres-to-flipkart-in-manesar/story-1H3IiolKQiNxNq56wE6qQL.html
07-10-2020||City||BJP strong enough to go it alone in Punjab: State chief||Hoshiarpur Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Wednesday said that his party is strong enough to contest all 117 assembly seats in the state in 2022. Addressing the media in Hoshiarpur, he said the BJP played a significant role in the formation of the coalition government with the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2012 and now it’s all ready to form the government on its own. “We put our candidates on 23 seats and made them (SAD) contest the rest but it does not mean we do not have the requisite organisational strength to fight the elections on our own. We will contest all 117 seats and form the government,” Sharma said. Declining comment on the chances of rapprochement with the SAD or prospects of fresh alliances, he said that at present the party is focused on contesting all 117 seats. Union minister Som Parkash, who was also present in the press conference, said that the SAD’s departure had not caused any loss to the BJP. He said that its president Sukhbir Singh Badal was convinced with the farm ordinances but later took a U-turn. The minister said that the Congress should have welcomed the new farm laws as it had envisaged the same agriculture reforms in its election manifesto. “The bills should have been unanimously passed in Parliament but the Congress and other political parties played foul. They are misleading farmers on the issue whereas experts such as SS Johal have endorsed the bills,” Parkash said. He said that the BJP would clear farmers’ misconceptions and convince them that the Narendra Modi government is actually working for their uplift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-strong-enough-to-go-it-alone-in-punjab-state-chief/story-4bYcabw4kvyIzyfbJcNtPN.html
07-10-2020||Pune||Covid positivity rate dips to 15% in PCMC||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) witnessed a dip in Covid-19 case positivity rate from 21.59% between September 21 and 27 to 15.90% between September 28 and October 4. The reduced positivity rate has brought respite to the civic administration though officials say they are cautious given that restaurants and bars are resuming operations and residents are eagerly awaiting the Navratri festival. Positivity rate reflects the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. The dip in ratio was noticed since mid-September while August saw the massive rise in positive cases with daily figures crossing 1,000 on numerous occasions. “Everywhere around the state, the positivity rate has been declining. Currently every week we are conducting 26,000 tests. Prior to last week, the number was 26,500 per week and before that it was 28,000 per week,” explained Santosh Patil, additional commissioner PCMC. On Tuesday, 444 fresh positive cases were added to the tally while four deaths were reported, which takes the total number of positive cases so far to 78,588 and death toll to 1,086. Post Ganesh festival, PCMC saw a huge rise in the positivity rate, however, it continued to fall as September ended. “Positive rate dipping down has no relation with testing. All over Maharashtra, Pune, even in rural areas, the cases are decreasing which is a good sign. We have not put our guard down and tests are conducted on priority. Focus is on reducing the positivity rate and also mortality rate,” added Patil. With the upcoming Navratri festival, PCMC is making sure cases do not increase like it happened after Ganesh festival, added officials. “We are taking stringent action against people not wearing masks and are also conducting mass awareness programmes among people to celebrate festivals at home and avoid coming out of their homes,” added Patil. Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer, Symbiosis Hospital, said, “I am cautiously optimistic about the situation. It is a good sign, but people should not think that the pandemic is over. They need to maintain social distancing and follow all the norms. We have seen the surge during the Ganesh festival and with hotel and bars now open, during Navratra festival, I hope people follow all the regulations.September 28-October 4: 4,135 total cases Tests per week: 26,000 Positivity rate: 15.90 per cent September 21-27: 5,722 total cases Tests per week: 26,500 Positivity rate: 21.59 per cent Day-wise data showing decline in Covid numbers Date: Daily positive cases October 5: 421 October 4: 496 October 3: 592 October 2: 599 October 1: 603 September 30: 712 September 29: 628 September 28: 505 September 27: 763 September 26: 1,138 September 25: 806 September 24: 745 September 23: 835 September 22: 780 September 21: 655||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-positivity-rate-dips-to-15-in-pcmc/story-ysKmBT0ke5mRqThMeq00dM.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||National and international companies in fray for Mumbai Monorail rake bid||After scrapping the last bid in which two Chinese companies had shown interest in manufacturing rakes for the Mumbai Monorail, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has received a good response from national and international companies in its revised tender.MMRDA had widened the scope of the tender to suit the Central government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Abhiyan’ or self-reliance policy. According to a senior official, national companies like Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Titagarh Wagons, Medha and ABB Group, and international companies like Cosmos, Intamin and Chinese companies CRRC Corporation Ltd and BYD Co Ltd have shown interest in manufacturing the 10 rakes. CRRC and BYD were the two companies that had participated in the last bid. However, MMRDA scrapped it, stating that the firms were asking for too many changes. This is MMRDA’s third attempt at procuring rakes. The first bid was floated in early 2019. The 10 additional rakes are crucial to improve the frequency of the monorail and attract more commuters. “The tender document has been modelled in line with Atmanirbhar Abhiyan and Make in India policy, and also the government order of July 2020, where countries sharing land borders with India have to register with the government,” said the senior MMRDA official.In July 2020, the Centre said that companies from nations that share a border with India will be barred from bidding for government contracts for goods and services until they register with the industry department. It said the decision was taken to “strengthen the defence of India and national security”.The official, who did not wish to be named, said that MMRDA has received more than 150 queries on technical, financial and contractual clauses of the tender document. The last date for bid submission is November 3. The Mumbai Monorail is a 19.5-km corridor between Chembur and Jacob Circle. It is India’s first monorail that was inaugurated in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/national-and-international-companies-in-fray-for-mumbai-monorail-rakes/story-O85JlKt4r5gOjWQdogElLP.html
07-10-2020||Pune||No night flights at Pune airport from October 26||All 13 flights scheduled between 8:00 pm and 8:00 am at Pune’s Lohegaon airport will now be rescheduled to during the day, because the Indian Airforce will re-carpet the runway from October 26. Airport director Kuldeep Singh did say that none of the flights will be cancelled. “There are a total of 13 flights which were scheduled at night and all of which have been shifted to the day time. We have 12 hours with us and with social distancing norms we can operate about four flights in an hour. So currently, we have 42 flights and the capacity to run 48 flights. We cannot squeeze in more flights since we have to follow social distancing norms. Flight operations will continue only from 8am to 8pm.” At the Lohegaon Airport authority committee meeting held on Tuesday, chaired by Pune’s member of parliament (MP), Girish Bapat of the BJP, expanding cargo capacity emerged as a top priority. Bapat said, “We are trying hard to acquire the land for a cargo facility. Currently, local industries, not just from Pune, but nearby districts including Satara and Ahmednagar, transport their goods to Mumbai airport. If Pune’s cargo facility is improved we can tap into a daily business of about Rs 2.5 crore in freight. The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, which was also part of the meeting, said that with an increased cargo facility there can be a trade increase of about 500 tonnes.” Bapat also said that it is crucial to improve cargo from Pune airport given the fact that Pune could be supplying a Covid-19 vaccine to the world in the future.Stating that Covid-19 has impacted air travel drastically, director Singh said, “In 2018-19 we had a passenger footfall of 9 million at the peak, but in Jan-Feb 2020 we saw a footfall of only 2,000-3,000. Until September, we saw about 1.63 lakh passengers and 1,948 flights operated from Pune.” Bapat added, “We are trying to get to more land acquired from the air force to increase the parking facility. Currently, only seven planes can be parked, which will be increased to 14 flights, which will benefit travellers and flight operators.” Bapat further said that land acquisition talks are on with the defence ministry, but after the pandemic struck, meetings could not be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-night-flights-at-pune-airport-from-october-26/story-YkMVllwNSZw8EXRfZ5lJ6I.html
07-10-2020||Pune||Four booked for realtor’s murder; police widen probe||The Pune police have booked four people in the case of the murder of a realtor who was shot dead in broad daylight on Monday. The deceased man was identified as Rajesh Haridas Kanabar (64), a resident of Sopanbaug Ambience Emperial, Ghorpadi, Pune. While the police have not revealed the names of the three people who are being questioned, they are suspected to be related to the land dispute that the deceased man was fighting for several years. The identity of the assailant, however, has not yet been established, according to an official. “We are investigating multiple angles. We are interrogating some people at the moment but it will not be right to reveal their names yet,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police. Senior police inspector Shrikant Shinde of Bund garden police station who is investigating the case remained tight-lipped about the investigation. The dispute was regarding a piece of land spread across 10 acres and located at survey number 348 of Bavdhan Budrukh area of Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the driver of the deceased man Vishwas Gangawane (32), a resident of Yerawada who saw the shooting while he was waiting for his employer. Kanabar had come to the collector’s office for a hearing about a land dispute. While he was making his way towards his car, he stopped to buy fruits from a nearby vendor and turned around to enter his car when a pedestrian ran towards him, shot him, and fled the spot, police officials said. The driver has told the police that he suspects the other party in the land dispute to have commissioned the murder as the dispute was about to land in favour of the deceased realtor. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of the Arms Act was registered at Bund garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-booked-for-realtor-s-murder-police-widen-probe/story-mvCztMN6C40zkB76aXynwK.html
07-10-2020||Pune||State government grants 7th extension to Bhima Koregaon Commission till December 31||The Maharashtra home department granted the final extension to Bhima Koregaon Commission to complete its task and submit its report before December 31. It is the seventh extension granted to the two-member commission probing the January 1, 2018, riots at Bhima Koregaon near Pune. The previous extension ended on April 8 when the Centre had announced a nationwide lockdown, bringing the commission’s work to standstill. “Through this government order, the commission has been given the seventh and last extension till December 31, 2020. The commission should file its report within the extended period,” stated the order issued by VM Bhat, deputy secretary, home department. According to the commission registrar VV Palnitkar, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the commission and its staff are likely to face some problems especially while conducting hearings. “It has become difficult for advocates and witnesses to attend the hearing due to the fear of infection. The staff members have also expressed their fears about contracting the virus. The commission does not want them to come to office in such a situation and moreover, they are not government employees. Earlier, we had to postpone hearings during the lockdown and now the situation has aggravated further. We are finding it very difficult to conduct the hearing. We will have to think about the safety measures. We had requested for the Sahyadri guest and require more space to accommodate people based on social distancing measures and health guidelines,” said Palnitkar. The two-member Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission, headed by retired Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Jay Narayan Patel, also includes former chief secretary and the present chief information officer of Maharashtra, Sumit Mullick as its member. VV Palnitkar is serving as the registrar of the commission. The commission functions with the powers of a civil court in two locations: the Public Information Office at Madam Cama road, Mumbai and the Zilla Parishad building in Bund garden, Pune. The commission had approached the state home department after the last extension ended, but received no response from the government. During its last submission to the government, the commission has stated it was yet to examine 40-50 witnesses. The people who are scheduled to appear before the commission before the lockdown were NCP Supremo Sharad Pawar; former Pune rural SP Mohammad Suvez Haque; former district collector Saurabh Rao; senior IPS officer Ravindra Sengaonkar and Rajendra Gaikwad, descendant of Govind Gopal Mahar whose tomb was allegedly desecrated at Vadhu Budruk. Details of the commissionFebruary 2018: Maharashtra government constituted the judicial commission to probe the Bhima-Koregaon violence which took place on January 1, 2018, during the event held to mark the 200th anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle in Pune district. One person died in the violence. The commission is also probing who, or which organisation, is responsible for the violence, and has to identify measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents. May 2018 : The two-member committee visited the Vijay Stambh memorial and Vadhu Budruk village. So far, 400 affidavits have been filed.Activists of various Dalit outfits, Hindutva organisations and a few registered NGOs; residents of Koregaon Bhima, Vadhu Budruk and Sanaswadi; victims from Thane, Mumbai and other districts; suspects arrested by Pune rural police, including Milind Ekbote; accused in Elgar Parishad case have filed affidavits before the commission 110 affidavits have been filed by government by advocate Shishir Hiray, who is representing the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-government-grants-7th-extension-to-bhima-koregaon-commission-till-december-31/story-a27reBMYpZjzNejSyXBt5M.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Rhea Chakraborty, who got bail in drugs case, released from Mumbai prison||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was given bail by the Bombay high court, walked out of Byculla prison in Mumbai on Wednesday. The court granted her bail earlier in the day in a drugs case in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, but with strict conditions - appearing before Mumbai Police for 10 days and before the NCB once in a month for next six months.The court also directed Chakraborty to submit a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and not to tamper with evidence while out on bail.The high court also granted bail to Rajput’s aides Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda. However, the petition of Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty, who is also an accused in the case being probed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), was rejected.Watch: Rhea Chakraborty exits jail in car with covered windows | Drugs caseAll these accused were arrested by the NCB last month.The court said Rhea Chakraborty could not be said to have financed or harboured illicit drug trafficking as alleged by the central agency.The court also observed that she did not have any criminal antecedents, and it was unlikely that she could affect the probe or tamper with evidence while out on bail.The NCB has charged Rhea under the stringent Section 27-A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act that pertains to the offence of financing andd harbouring illegal drug trafficking.Rajput, 34, was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra area on June 14 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rhea-chakraborty-who-got-bail-in-drugs-case-to-walk-out-of-jail-shortly/story-q5qTCVMU9XNmtbJKBqmOaL.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wrestler Babita Phogat resigns as deputy director in Haryana govt’s sports department to pursue politics||Wrestler Babita Phogat on Wednesday resigned from the post of deputy director in the Haryana government’s sports department. Babita and kabaddi player Kavita Devi were appointed deputy directors in the sports department on July 30. Babita said she had resigned as she wants to devote full time to active politics. “I have decided to campaign for the BJP in the Bihar assembly elections and Baroda bypoll in Haryana. Politics is not new for our family. My mother had served as the village sarpanch and I learnt politics and wrestling during my childhood,” she said. According to sources, Babita is likely to meet Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday evening. She had contested the assembly election on the BJP ticket from Dadri and stood third behind Sombir Sangwan, a BJP rebel, and JJP’s Satpal Sangwan. Before the assembly elections, Babita had resigned from the post of sub-inspector in Haryana Police and joined the BJP with her father, Mahavir Singh. She had been appointed in Haryana Police under the sports quota by then chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wrestler-babita-phogat-resigns-as-deputy-director-in-haryana-govt-s-sports-department-to-pursue-politics/story-bitZ60WAw0tPIDxFCJz28M.html
07-10-2020||Lucknow||UP Congress farmers’ wing to empower women with ‘Gandhi Ki Lathi’||The Uttar Pradesh Kisan Congress has launched a week-long programme called Gandhi Ki Lathi, as a symbolic gesture to promote self-defence and empowerment of women amid increasing incidents of crime against them in the country’s most populous state.“We have launched the week-long Gandhi Ki Lathi programme to distribute lathis among women for self-defence and to empower them against crime amid the recent incidents such as the Hathras gang-rape case,” said Tarun Patel, president, Uttar Pradesh Kisan Congress (central zone).Also read: Congress, farmers stage protest in Muzaffarnagar against farm billsA token distribution of lathis was made to around 20 women at a programme organised at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters in Lucknow to mark the birth anniversary of farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait on Tuesday.The Uttar Pradesh Kisan Congress put up a banner with Mahatma Gandhi’s picture in the backdrop of the dais. The banner carried the slogan “Gandhi Ki Lathi Betiyon Ki Aatm Raksha Ke Liye” (Gandhi’s lathi for the security of women)’.Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra, who was the chief guest at the programme, garlanded the pictures of Tikait and Mahatma Gandhi on the dais before lathis were distributed.“Gandhiji’s lathi gives the message of self-defence and self-reliance,” Mishra said.Patel said both Mahatma Gandhi and Tikait carried lathis with them.“We value the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and Tikait. We also value the items they used. They carried a lathi with them and it (the lathi) shows us the way. Holding a lathi adds to inner strength. It makes one feel strong for the purpose of self-defence. We need Gandhiji’s lathi in this day and age for self-defence and self-reliance. It’s not for any aggression,” said Patel.“We will organise similar Gandhi Ki Lathi distribution programmes until October 11 in different districts of the state,” he added.A political analyst said there were apprehensions that the distribution of lathis among women might not send the right signal to the society, despite the UPCC’s assertions.“Lathi may be used for self-defence, as well as for aggression. Lathis are being misused for aggression these days. There are contradictory reports on the Hathras gang-rape case. The opposition should be constructive in its approach and must not indulge in any gimmick,” said SK Dwivedi, a former head of the political science department at the Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-congress-farmers-wing-to-empower-women-with-gandhi-ki-lathi/story-0DHV4bsyyLcLbBs8W0z2UM.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||CPCB writes to Delhi govt over air pollution, lists out pending tasks||Expressing concern over the menace of air pollution in Delhi during winters, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Wednesday asked the Arvind Kejriwal government to take immediate action on major pollution sources like construction and demolition activities and open garbage dumping.Listing out a series of tasks to be accomplished across Delhi, the central pollution watchdog has asked in a letter to the Delhi government to take early action on dumping of mixed municipal solid waste at three dump sites in Bhalswa, Ghazipur and Okhla.“It is observed that construction and demolition activities and open dumping of waste/garbage continue to be the major concern in most of the areas and therefore, special efforts are needed to curb these activities,” the CPCB said.It said some tasks to curb air pollution in Delhi have been accomplished but “more needs to be done”.Pointing out the shortcomings in action plans of 13 pollution hotspots in the capital, it said the updated status of Wazirpur hotspot has not been received while the target of greening and paving in the hotspot areas is not mentioned.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cpcb-writes-to-delhi-govt-over-air-pollution-lists-out-pending-tasks/story-dnVwGNFFKJoEwqVcLlt8kM.html
07-10-2020||Dehradun||Need to focus on pilgrimage, tourist spots: Uttarakhand migration commission||A report on migration in Uttarakhand’s mountain district of Rudraprayag has revealed that at least 22,735 and 7,835 people have migrated temporarily and permanently, respectively, between 2011 and 2018. The report has found that about 10% of the district’s population had migrated from 2011 to 2018.State Rural Development and Migration Commission (SRDMC) authorities have compiled the report, which was presented to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who is also the chairman of the panel, on Tuesday.“As per the 2011 census, the total population of Rudraprayag district was 2.42 lakh. In our study we found that 22,735 people living in the district had migrated temporarily from one place to another within Uttarakhand. While another 7,835 people had migrated permanently from the district to other places. About 10% of the total district population had migrated between 2011 and 2018,” said SS Negi, vice-chairman, SRDMC. Also read: Kedarnath chief priest, health staff to be tested every 15 days for Covid-19“About 40% of the people, who were in the age group of 26-35 years, had migrated,” he added. The report suggested various measures to curb migration, including providing livelihood opportunities to the people such as a focus on local products.“A framework is needed to be implemented at a block level in a bid to curb migration from the district. The focus should be on pilgrimage and tourist spots in the district, which will help increase livelihood opportunities,” said Negi. He also suggested a “women-centric plan for socio-economic development”.He added: “A concerted effort is needed to be made to boost micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) units, ready-made garment, small agriculture and service sectors, which will help increase livelihood opportunities in Rudraprayag district. We need to increase the number of nurseries and cultivation of fruit bearing trees along with promotion of local products,” he said. Migration from rural areas in Uttarakhand has been a discernible trend through the years. A comparison between the 2001 and 2011 census data showed a slow decadal growth of population in most of the mountain districts of the state, according to the SRDMC. The SRDMC data showed a positive rate of decadal increase in the population in districts such as Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar. But in the mountain districts of Pauri, Almora, Tehri, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh, there was a negative rate of decadal increase in the population. Uttarakhand has around 700 ghost villages and over 3.83 lakh people had left their homes in 10 years prior to 2018. Around 50% of them had left in search of livelihood, according to a report released by the SRDMC in May last year. Uttarakhand has around 16,500 villages, of which 734, which are mostly located in mountainous areas, are deserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/need-to-focus-on-pilgrimage-tourist-spots-uttarakhand-migration-commission/story-O0b4BXgS0xsCcViVl7EecP.html
07-10-2020||Pune||Danve voices support for farmers’ bill in Pune||Union minister of state for food and drug administration Raosaheb Danve spoke in favour of the farm bill approved by the parliament and blamed the congress party for its opposition to the bill. Danve on Tuesday interacted with the media at the Pune union of working journalist office. He said, “Contract farming would help the farmers to get good prices for their produce. It will also give the farmers an idea of the demand for his crops. Farmers would produce a crop which would be in demand.” According to Danve, traders and farmers would be able to do direct business and there would be no middle man in it. “Why is the Congress party supporting the middle man who unnecessary gets a share in trading and the farmer loses out?” Danve asked. Danve claimed that this bill would change the market for farmers and bring prosperity for the marginal farmers. “Congress is opposing this bill as marginal farmers will benefit from this bill,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/danve-voices-support-for-farmers-bill-in-pune/story-UmmF5KcTiXLtjun7Xn8dVN.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||SGPC chief leads panel members in sweeping Heritage Street leading to Golden Temple as punishment||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal led interim committee members in sweeping Heritage Street that leads to the Golden Temple on Wednesday as part of the punishment for failing to detect the 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib that went missing in 2016. On September 19, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had asked the members of the incumbent SGPC interim committee and that of the executive committee in 2016 to sweep the street from Saragarhi Sarai to Ghanta Ghar Chowk as a punishment. They were also asked to hold an Akhand Path Sahib at the Akal Takht secretariat. The jathedar banned the office-bearers and executive panel from addressing any public gathering for a month. “The incident of the missing saroops has brought shame to the SGPC. It has hurt the sentiments of the Sikh sangat the world over. Though our executive body was not summoned at Akal Takht, it was a load on our minds. We presented ourselves before Akal Takht and apologised to the jathedar and the Sikh sangat,” Longowal said. “Following the direction of the Akal Takht jathedar, we organised an Akhand Path Sahib at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, the bhog of which was held on Wednesday. Another Akhand Path has been initiated at Akal Takht Sahib, the bhog of which will be held on Friday. Till then, as per the Akal Takht’s direction, we will perform the sewa (sweep Heritage Street) daily,” the SGPC chief said. He said those indicted in the probe conducted by the Akal Takht-appointed panel regarding the misappropriation of 328 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib have already been given strict punishment by the SGPC. The services of some employees have been terminated, while some have been placed under suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sgpc-chief-leads-panel-members-in-sweeping-heritage-street-leading-to-golden-temple-as-punishment/story-rQYB88DLaw9N4QbEQWsIYI.html
07-10-2020||City||Hizb behind attack on BJP leader in Ganderbal, says J&K DGP||Hizbul Mujahideen was involved in the Tuesday evening attack on a BJP leader in Ganderbal in which a police personnel and a militant were killed, J&K DGP Dilbag Singh said on Wednesday.Singh also led the wreath-laying ceremony for constable Altaf Hussain who died after killing a militant during the attack outside the home of BJP leader Ghulam Qadir at Nunar Ganderbal.The DGP said that the attack was on a protected person, someone who was accompanied by two personal security officers, including Hussain. “They were going somewhere when they were fired upon. Our brave colleague Altaf Hussain retaliated and he was injured in the exchange of fire. He managed to kill the militant,” he said.Also read: Top Lashkar commander, involved in major attacks, gunned down in Kashmir’s SambooraHussain, a resident of Eidgah Srinagar, had joined the police department in 2011 and was posted with Qadir for the past three months. He is survived by his parents, wife and a toddler son. A large number of people gathered for his funeral. The slain militant has been identified as Shabir Ahmad, a resident of Awantipora, Pulwama. “At one point, he was a close aide and over the ground worker (OGW) of (then Hizb commander) Riyaz Naikoo. He was especially prepared to be sent to Ganderbal for the attack and we are proud of our colleague’s response,” he said.Riyaz Naikoo, 35, a top Hizbul militant, was killed in an exchange of fire with the security forces at his village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district in May. Police suspect that another militant might have been also involved in Tuesday’s attack. “There are indications that another militant was injured in the Ganderbal attack. A trail of blood was detected there and we suspect there may be more than one militant involved,” Singh said.Blaming newly formed outfit, The Resistance Front (TRF), for this spurt in attacks on political leaders and panchayat members in the Valley, Singh said, “The TRF is a mouthpiece of Pakistan which threatened 39 journalists here, those who are working honestly, and then targeting those who work for peace and development.” He was alluding to a recent viral blog post that named journalists, many of them working for national media outlets, and threatened them for “working for India”.Unidentified gunmen shot dead a vocal Kashmiri lawyer, Babar Qadri, in Hawal area of Srinagar on September 24. A day before that, Khag BDC chairman Bopinder Singh was shot dead at Dalwach Khag in Budgam. Police suspect the involvement of LeT in his killing.Assuring that each of these cases will be worked out, Singh said the police were investigating Monday’s militant attack on the national highway in which two CRPF personnel were killed and three wounded. “We will soon take it to court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hizb-behind-attack-on-bjp-leader-in-ganderbal-says-j-k-dgp/story-wnupHMANqdFiJCEKwnJCdL.html
07-10-2020||City||LPG tank at petrol station near Odisha Guv house catches fire, 9 injured||Nine persons received major burns and other injuries after an auto LPG tank in a petrol pump in Bhubaneswar near the Governor House caught fire, triggering a massive explosion around Wednesday noon.Police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi said people were queuing up in the Indian Oil petrol pump near Governor House at around 1.12 pm when the LPG tanker caught fire while gas was being unloaded from it to gas canisters underground. The incident left 9 persons with major burn injuries on their face and back, out of them 2 were rushed to the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack after their condition turned critical.“The explosion and the fire was so massive that it damaged several buildings nearby. It took us over two hours to control the fire. Many people who were injured also received injuries due to flying debris. A bigger disaster was averted as two underground petrol and diesel tanks did not catch fire,” said the police commissioner. The blast left not only injured all the employees of the pump, but also customers and commuters in the periphery.Soon after the blast, severed limbs and chunks of flesh were found near the site. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced free treatment for all the injured. Officials said the blast was too severe.Police started an investigation into the blast incident after registering a criminal case. Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan also ordered officials to probe the fire accident.An eyewitness said soon after the explosion, a huge column of fire leapt towards the sky that kept burning and spewing black smoke all over. “The fire blinded us for quite sometime after which we felt a massive earthquake. I just ran for my life and received injuries on my head and hands. I was lucky to escape the explosion,” said the youth.Another youth who had queued up to refill his bike also said he felt a massive earthquake followed by a massive explosion. “All that I could do was run for my life. The sound was so intense that I am unable to hear properly, even two hours after the blast,” he said. As the petrol pump is just next to the Odisha Governor’s House, several window panes there were broken. People living in several other houses in the area too reported broken windows and falling debris. The impact of the explosion was felt within 3 km of the petrol pump’s area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-injured-as-cng-tanker-in-bhubaneswar-filling-station-catches-fire/story-2QvKUiSzhjdD4cB840ijOL.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Choose BJP or farmers’: Yogendra Yadav, farmers protest near Chautala’s house, detained||The Haryana police on Wednesday detained activist Yogendra Yadav and several farmers, protesting near the houses of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala in Sirsa, seeking resignation of the duo from the Manohar Lal Khattar led government.The civil lines police took Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav and nearly 100 farmers in custody alleging violation of Covid-19 rules.Yadav said they were sitting on an indefinite strike at Bhuman Shah chowk since Tuesday night and will continue their protests until Dushyant and his granduncle resign from the Khattar government.Also Read: Farm laws row: Punjab farmers’ body rejects govt’s invitation for talks; says ‘govt not serious’“The farmers have clearly asked the duo to choose whether they want to stay with them or the BJP government in Haryana. They can enjoy power for four years if they opt for the BJP, but the upcoming generations of farmers will never forgive them for supporting these death warrants,” said Yogendra Yadav, referring to the farm bills passed by the Centre and opposed by a big section of farmers, who are calling the three laws, ‘death warrants’ for the community.Not dissuaded by the detentions, several farmers resumed the protest at Bhuman Shah chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/choose-bjp-or-farmers-yogendra-yadav-farmers-protest-near-chautala-s-house-detained/story-omfs3dHZgoZBEiyIlQN3LL.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Mumbai Police to take action against journalists who chase vehicles||Soon after actor Rhea Chakraborty was granted bail by Bombay high court, Mumbai Police warned journalists that strict action will be taken against media representatives if they chased the vehicle of any celebrity, advocate or a person they wanted to interview. Chakraborty, who was arrested on September 9 after being questioned for three consecutive days at Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office for over 21 hours in a drug case linked to the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s untimely death, is expected to be released from Byculla Prison once the court’s order has been served. Also Read: ‘She has no criminal antecedents’: 5 things Bombay high court said while granting bail to Rhea ChakrabortyDeputy commissioner of police Sangramsinh Nishandar (Zone 1) said, “Media persons cannot chase the vehicle of any celebrity, advocate, or any person they want to interview. You cannot endanger the life of a person or of any person walking on the road or travelling in another vehicle. You cannot endanger your life during the chase either; it is an offence.” “If such things happen, then we will take strict action not only against the driver but also against the person instigating them,” added Nishandar. “We decided to take action after Rhea [Chakraborty] and a few other persons who were called for questioning by NCB in Sushant Singh Rajput death case were mobbed by media persons and their vehicles were chased by representatives of the electronic media from their residence to NCB’s office in south Mumbai,” said a senior IPS officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-mumbai-police-to-take-action-against-journalists-who-chase-vehicles/story-wzK03EWYxWHvkpvcdGtcuI.html
07-10-2020||Kolkata||Kin of victims killed by elephants to get jobs as Home Guards in Bengal||The West Bengal government will provide jobs to kin of victims killed by elephants in the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Tuesday. “Till date villagers killed by elephants used to get a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakhs from the government. We have taken a policy decision that henceforth we will provide a family member of the victim with a job of Home Guard,” said Banerjee. At least 433 people have been killed by elephants across West Bengal between April 2014 and September 2019. In Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, the death toll was 447, 391 and 329 respectively during this period. “There are around 200 elephants in south Bengal and around 500 elephants in north Bengal. Man-elephant conflict is common in both south Bengal and north Bengal,” said a forest official. Also Read: High viral load Covid patients are part of Bengal’s latest containment planThe chief minister, who was attending an administrative meeting of West Midnapore district in south Bengal, also promised a job for one family member of any person who was abducted by Maoists more than a decade ago and has remained untraceable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kin-of-victims-killed-by-elephants-to-get-jobs-as-home-guards-in-bengal/story-MqIQX49GwDscWQCXGLkpeK.html
07-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC bars coercive action against wife of BJP MLA, accused of rape||Uttarakhand high court has directed the state government not to take any coercive steps against Rita Negi, wife of rape accused BJP MLA Mahesh Negi till November 18, provided she cooperates with the investigation. November 18 is the next date of hearing in the case. A woman had filed a case against Mahesh Negi and his wife Rita Negi in August, accusing the MLA of raping her and her wife of trying to hush-up the matter by allegedly offering her money. The HC order said that Rita Negi had sought quashing of the FIR filed under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against her in Dehradun by the woman. The order was issued on October 1, but its copy was made available on Wednesday. Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP MLA rape case: Survivor writes to PM demanding CBI probeThe court order said according to the FIR, the husband of the petitioner (MLA Mahesh Negi) sexually exploited the informant (woman) on multiple occasions.“Resultantly, she delivered a child from the husband of the petitioner. When the informant claimed right for her child, it is the petitioner who tried to hush-up the matter by offering money to the informant and she is trying to pressurise the informant. The informant is being threatened. The FIR is quite in detail”, the order said citing the FIR. Ayush Negi, counsel of the petitioner said the court has sought counter-affidavit from the state government on the matter within four weeks and posted the case for next hearing on November 18. “Till the next date of listing no coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioner provided she cooperates with the investigation,” the order said. Also Read: With 338 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand crosses 52,000-mark, 8 more dieOn August 14, Dehradun police filed an FIR on the complaint of BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi’s wife, accusing the woman of blackmailing her husband and trying to extort Rs 5 crore from him. The accused woman, later on the same day, released a video on social media in which she accused the MLA’s wife, Rita Negi, of lodging a false complaint and alleged the MLA had been sexually harassing her for the last two years. She also claimed that the MLA had fathered her daughter. She also demanded a DNA test to prove her claims. On August 16, the woman filed a counter-complaint against the MLA, accusing him of raping her on several occasions, fathering her child and his wife for trying to hush-up the matter by offering her money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-bars-coercive-action-against-wife-of-bjp-mla-accused-of-rape/story-iFq1JDKtBK4DjTXWJ0dPuL.html
07-10-2020||Lucknow||New Agra-Lucknow e-way toll collector to pay 82% more to UP government||A new agency has been selected for toll tax collection on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway following the Uttar Pradesh cabinet’s approval. M/s Sahakar Global Limited has been selected through a tender for tax collection at two main toll plazas and 15 ramp plazas set up on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway. The company will deploy five ambulances and 10 patrolling vehicles on the expressway, said a spokesperson of the U.P. Expressways Industrial Development Authority or UPEIDA. Seven toll agencies participated in the tender process and submitted higher bids than Rs 274 crore—the reserve amount for toll collection fixed by UPEIDA. Among the seven bidders, the highest amount of Rs 402.39 crore worth of toll collection was committed by Sahakar Global Limited, following which, the council of ministers gave its approval to the company. The company has been given the tender on the basis of the decision taken by the tender evaluation committee and secretary committee in the meetings held in September. The company will pay UPEIDA Rs 402.39 crore in the first year and a 10% hike will be affected in the second year. In comparison to the company selected in 2018, the new firm will make 82% more payment to the state government. The 2018 tender was awarded against an assured payment of Rs 274 crore against toll collection on the highway. The company will operate and collect toll tax at two main and 15 ramp plazas for two years that can be extended by a maximum of six months, the spokesperson said. Also Read: Jewar airport: Yamuna airport body signs agreement with Zurich enterprise in Greater NoidaBank consortium for expressway project Punjab National Bank will lead the consortium of banks to be formed for funding the Gorakhpur Link Expressway project. Union Bank of India, Canara Bank, Indian Bank, UCO Bank, Bank of India and Bank of Maharashtra will also be part of the consortium. PNB, which has approved a loan of Rs 750 crore for the project, will lead the consortium. Also Read: Yogi alleges opposition propaganda against UP govt, gives cadres a taskConstruction work for Gorakhpur Link Expressway is continuing at a rapid pace, said officials. 13.47% soil work and 73.56% CNG work has been completed, they claimed. The expressway will start from Jaitpur in Gorakhpur and end in Azamgarh on the Purvanchal Expressway. The 91.352 km long expressway would benefit people in Gorakhpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Sant Kabir Nagar and Azamgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/new-agra-lucknow-e-way-toll-collector-to-pay-82-more-to-up-government/story-cm0ZlFiePs1LmNFtaSNwHI.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Increase local train services on Central and Western railways to 700 per day: HC to Maharashtra||The Bombay high court has directed the Centre and the state to ensure that train services under Central and Western Railways are increased to 700 per day. It said though the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions have been relaxed, trains services have not increased.The court asked the state about the measures taken to ensure social distancing norms are followed on trains.Also read: Covid-19 pandemic isn’t ground to relocate abroad child involved in custody battle, says HCIt was hearing a bunch of petitions filed of lawyer groups and the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa seeking inclusion of lawyers as essential service providers to allow them to travel on local trains. It was informed that there a large number of lawyers wanting to attend lower courts were unable to do so. The court directed the bar associations to provide a list of lawyers who want to travel by local trains to attend courts. Dr Milind Sathe, who appeared for the lawyers, submitted out of the 25,000 registered lawyers with the Bar council, only 1000 lawyers require to travel by local trains on a daily basis. He said the apprehension of the state that allowing them to travel by local trains would increase over-crowding is invalid.Sathe said there were no video conferencing facilities in lower courts, and lawyers had no option but to attend court hearings physically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/increase-local-train-services-on-central-and-western-railways-to-700-per-day-hc-to-maharashtra/story-UxUm7ULJsb10FCR5fvMjbL.html
07-10-2020||Noida||Jewar airport: Yamuna airport body signs agreement with Zurich enterprise in Greater Noida||The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) on Wednesday signed a concession agreement with Zurich Airport International AG to allow the latter to start work for the development of an international airport at Jewar, around 100km from Delhi in the National Capital Region.The signing was delayed as the Swiss company’s officials could not travel to India for it in view of the ban on international flights because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre on May 19 granted Zurich Airport International AG the security clearance for the singing of the concession agreement. The agreement was supposed to be signed by July 2 as per the earlier schedule. But on June 10, the Uttar Pradesh government postponed the agreement signing date to August 17 in view of the pandemic. On August 14, Zurich Airport International AG was given time till October 15 for the signing in view of restrictions on air travel.Also Read: Due to pandemic, Yamuna authority keeps land allotment rates unchangedYIAPL was formed as a special purpose vehicle in January this year for the development and the operations of the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar. Authorities have acquired 1,334 hectares of land under phase 1 out of the total 5,000 hectares required for the airport project.Zurich Airport International AG is the owner of Switzerland’s biggest airport. It emerged as the top bidder to design, build and develop the Jewar airport along the 165-kilometre Yamuna expressway in November last year. The airport would be spread over 5,000 hectares and will be the biggest in India with eight runways. It is estimated to cater to 70 million passengers annually by 2040-50. The first phase of the project will be completed in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/jewar-airport-yamuna-airport-body-signs-agreement-with-zurich-enterprise-in-greater-noida/story-2Nv0vV1JsrifjkDO1V671M.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 no ground to relocate abroad a child involved in custody battle: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to accept that the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country is a valid ground to allow a Thai national and a person of Indian origin (PIO), who is engaged in a legal battle with her estranged husband, to relocate her son (12) to Bangkok.“This ground of Covid-19 pandemic for relocation does not appeal to us at all,” said the two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Amjad Sayed and Abhay Abuja, on October 1, while dismissing the petition filed by the woman, who is married to a Mumbaikar.The woman, who has been estranged from her husband since 2012, had moved the HC in June, seeking urgent orders to allow her to relocate her son to Bangkok until the time the petition for his custody was decided by the family court at Bandra.The petitioner had contended that “in view of the rapid spread of Covid-19 pandemic in India, we (the mother and the son) urgently want to relocate to our home country, Thailand, where my parents live, until the time the family court at Bandra decides on my son’s custody”.She had stated that she and her son were leading a lonely life in India without any basic medical and financial assistance, maintenance and insurance.She had claimed that the Covid-19 curve had flattened in Thailand and the South-east Asian country had become “one of the safest places on the earth amid the pandemic crises”.She had drawn a parallel between the viral outbreak in her native Thailand and India and also had given the example of June 18 in a bid to bolster her argument. She had pointed out that on that day Thailand had reported 3,290 Covid-19 and 58 deaths. On the contrary, India had reported 1.44 million and 32,063 Covid-19 cases and deaths, respectively, on the same day, she had added.However, the contentions failed to impress upon the court. The bench noted that the boy is studying in a reputed international school in Mumbai. “In our view, it would not be proper to disrupt the studies of the boy in the middle of the academic year, classes of which are being conducted online,” said the bench.The bench also thought it improper to uproot the teenager at this stage in his life because he has lived in Mumbai all along.The bench also rejected the petitioner’s contention that courts had allowed her nine times earlier to travel to Thailand along with her son. It said previous concessions would not work in her favour. “It certainly cannot be equated to relocating the boy to Bangkok pending disposal of the Bandra family court’s proceedings,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-pandemic-isn-t-ground-to-relocate-abroad-a-child-involved-in-custody-battle-hc/story-mSAE0rnnyQUDfmJD7CwpyK.html
07-10-2020||Jaipur||Minor raped in Rajasthan’s Barmer, hunt on to nab accused||A 14-year-old minor girl was raped in Rajasthan’s Barmer district on Tuesday, said police. The incident took place when the rape survivor’s parents and other family members had stepped out of home to cast their vote for panchayat election. After the incident, the two accused fled the crime spot, leaving the survivor lying unconscious at the roadside, police said.The survivor’s father told police that when they returned home after casting their votes, they didn’t find their daughter at home and started searching for her. The father said they took her to hospital and informed the police after locating her.Barmer district collector (DC) Vishram Meena and superintendent of police (SP) Anand Sharma reached the hospital and took details of the case. Also Read: 142 drug syndicates, heroin trade under NCB’s scannerThe survivor told police that she was abducted by the accused, who were riding a motorcycle, about a few meters away from her home. She was, however, unable to identify the accused.Police have lodged a case under relevant sections of POCSO act, IT act and sections of IPC. A manhunt had been launched to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/minor-raped-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-hunt-on-to-nab-accused/story-Aazq0AyWrxljUiZ0CTiHyO.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Dabbawalas, consulates staff allowed to travel in local trains||Mumbai’s dabbawalas and staff of foreign consulates and high commissions have been allowed to travel in local trains which are currently being run only for essential services staff, officials said on Wednesday.Dabbawalas, the famous lunch-box carriers in Mumbai, last month said there was never a six-month break in the “130 -year-old history of the tiffin services”, and demanded access to local trains to resume their services in full capacity.Currently, in view of the Covid-19 restrictions, only the dabbawalas who could reach the south Mumbai area on their cycles were able to deliver food to office-goers.They have now expressed happiness on being allowed to board local trains with effect from Tuesday.Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer of the Western Railway, said based on the unlock guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on September 30, they have allowed the dabbawalas to travel in local trains.“The staff of foreign consulates and high commissions have also been permitted to travel in local trains, as per the directives received from the Ministry of Railways,” he said.Over 5,000 dabbawalas run the tiffin delivery business in the metropolis.Before the outbreak of Covid-19, they used to deliver over two lakh tiffins to office-goers on normal working days.They use suburban trains to ensure lunch boxes are delivered at the destination on time.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, said QR-coded ID cards issued by the state government will be mandatory for them to travel in local trains, but dabbawalas have requested that they be allowed to travel on their identity cards.“If the Maharashtra government agrees to their demand, we will permit them to travel on their ID cards,” he said.Subhash Talekar, spokesperson of the Mumbai Dabbawala Association, expressed happiness on being allowed to travel in local trains.“Finally, after more than six months, we can resume our service,” Talekar said, adding dabbawalas will now contact their customers and request them to resume the tiffin service.He was, however, skeptic about resumption of services in full capacity amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Before the pandemic, every dabbawala had on an average 20 to 22 customers, but I doubt all customers will resume the service immediately as many people are still working from home,” he said.Another issue is that many housing societies are still not allowing outsiders into the premises, he said.Talekar said the dabbawalas will start tiffin delivery even with four to five customers initially as they know it will take some time for things to normalise.“We are going to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols like wearing masks and gloves, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance and will also ensure our customers about it,” he said.Most of the dabbawalas hail from Maval area of Pune in western Maharashtra.Following the enforcement of lockdown in March this year, many of them returned to their native places in Junnar, Ambegaon, Rajgurunagar, Maval, Haveli, Mulashi and other talukas in Pune district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dabbawalas-consulates-staff-allowed-to-travel-in-local-trains/story-aa5DhohQgxc4K2elBLR7RN.html
07-10-2020||City||Tripura scribes write to PM, home minister about CM’s statement against media||The media persons in Tripura have sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah and the Press Council of India (PCI) regarding chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s controversial statements about the press fraternity. Deb, who had attended a programme at Sabroom in the state’s South district on September 11, had said that some “overexcited” newspapers are trying to confuse the public over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation and he would not forgive them. Also read: Tripura scribes wear black badges to protest against CM’s ‘threat’ over reporting of Covid-19 situationTripura Assembly of Journalists (TAJ), an apex organisation of the media persons in the state, drew the attention of the PM, Shah and the PCI authorities that at least six journalists were assaulted across Tripura since Deb’s controversial remarks.Though complaints were lodged, there has been no progress in investigation of any of the cases, the media persons said. “...even during the Emergency in the 70s, the media didn’t face such a demoralising situation. The media is an independent body of newspapers, electronic channels and news portals, which follow their own in-house policy and guidelines ...The attack on journalists and creation of undue pressure on the media are undemocratic,” stated the TAJ’s letter.Subal Kumar Dey and Sekhar Datta, chairman and convener of TAJ, respectively, signed the letter. Earlier, the media persons had given a three-day deadline to CM Deb to withdraw his controversial remarks. The CM said he did not want to hurt anyone in his September 11 speech after the deadline expired. “I didn’t hurt anyone in my speech. I am dedicated to work for the interests of Tripura people, keep them healthy and safe and also prevent them falling into conspiracies. The people should know the truth and I have tried to present the truth before them,” Deb said later.The media persons also met Tripura Governor RK Bais regarding the issue and had protested wearing black ribbons on the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on October 2.Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) didn’t comment on the complaint letter written to the PM, though earlier it had claimed that Deb’s comments were taken out of context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-scribes-write-to-pm-home-minister-about-cm-s-statement-against-media/story-mgj83u3TBw8gg6vlWW4NRN.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality hits ‘poor’ category, first time since June 2020||Delhi’s air quality entered the poor zone on Wednesday morning for first time since June this year. The air quality index (AQI) reading at 10 am was 207 (in the poor zone), as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Till Tuesday, the air quality was in the higher end of the moderate category. Government agencies had warned of deterioration in air quality due to the change in weather conditions and fumes from farm fires in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab contributing to pollution in Delhi. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, PM 2.5 is usually the main pollutant during winter. “The nighttime calm surface wind condition prevailed yesterday and is likely to do so for the next two days. Further deterioration in air quality is expected by October 9 and 10 but the AQI reading will remain in the poor category. An increase in stubble-burning was observed on Tuesday around Punjab, Haryana, and the neighbouring border regions. The boundary-layer wind direction and speed are favourable for the transport and accumulation of pollutants in Delhi, and the worsening of air quality in the coming days is expected,” the Safar bulletin read. Also Read: Supreme Court summons chief secretaries in stubble-burning caseAs per Safar, on October 6, synergised fire count was 336. After January and February, which had several ‘poor’ category days, only two ‘poor’ category days were recorded each in March, May and June. April, July, August and September had only ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ days. August was the cleanest month since 2015 when four ‘good’ air days were recorded. According to scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD), there has been a consistent dip in the night temperature over the last few days and the wind speed has also slowed down. Besides, the wind (whose direction changed to north-westerly) is bringing fumes from neighbouring states where stubble-burning has started. On Tuesday, the night temperature was recorded at 18.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal while the maximum temperature settled at 36 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-enters-poor-zone-for-the-first-time-since-june/story-oFp4cgeyv6Fs57zhhlYP3J.html
07-10-2020||Lucknow||Congress, farmers stage protest in Muzaffarnagar against farm bills||Thousands of Congress workers and farmers teamed up in Muzaffarnagar on Tuesday to protest the controversial farm laws and to raise other issues linked to farmers. The protest was led by Uttar Pradesh Congress committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, former MP Harendra Malik and former MLA and Congress state vice president Pankaj Malik.Party workers and farmers arrived at the ground of Government Inter College in Muzaffarnagar in tractors, on two-wheelers and even on foot. While passing through the streets, they rent the air with anti- government and anti-farm laws slogans.Ajay Kymar Lallu explained his opinion that the recently passed farm laws were against the farmers and called upon them to oppose the legislations with their full strength. He also raised the issue of pending sugarcane dues and targeted the state government alleging the law and order in the state had deteriorated.Also Read: 11 RLD leaders booked for protest against lathi charge on Jayant ChaudharyFormer Congress MP Harendra Malik and ex-MLA Pankaj Malik also described the laws as anti-farmers which would only help corporates to exploit the cultivators. They also raised the issue of manhandling of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, as well as RLD leader Jayant Choudhary and blamed the state government for doing so to silence the opposition leaders.“Cutting across party lines, we are united in opposing the autocratic attitude of the ruling party against opposition leaders,” said Harendra Malik. The leaders called upon the crowd to raise their voice against the state government’s atrocities and oppose the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/congress-farmers-stage-protest-in-muzaffarnagar-against-farm-bills/story-IM4Rw8hjqmllqFoA3QmMnJ.html
07-10-2020||City||Three militants killed in overnight operation in Kashmir’s Shopian||Three militants were killed in an overnight exchange of fire with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday, police said. They said that the exchange of fire began on Tuesday evening at Sugan area of Shopian after police, army and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jointly cordoned off the area. The gunfight continued through the night; the two men were killed early Wednesday and the third one later in the morning. “ Two unidentified terrorists were killed. The operation is going on,” the Kashmir Police tweeted. Later it said that one more unidentified militant was killed, taking the country to three. “Search is going on. Further details shall follow,” it said. #SuganShopianEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/rHEjHGHvKgA Hizbul Mujahideen militant was killed in retaliation in Ganderbal on Tuesday evening when he attacked a BJP worker. The worker’s personal security officer was also injured in the attack and later succumbed. Two CRPF personnel were killed and three wounded in a militant attack at Pampore on Monday. On September 27, two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police officials said.On September 25, two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commanders were killed after a night-long exchange of fire in Sirhama area in Bijbhera. The militants were identified as Adil Ahmad Bhat of Pulwama and Abu Rehan alias Towheed, a Pakistani national.On September 22, a militant was also killed in an encounter with security forces in an overnight gunfight in central Kashmir, officials had said. The slain militant was identified as Asif Shah resident of Samboora Pulwama. He was said to be affiliated with Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).On September 17, three Hizbul Mujahideen militants were killed in an exchange of fire with forces in Batamaloo area of Srinagar. According to the police, a woman was also killed in the crossfire during the gunfight.So far, around 184 militants have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-militants-killed-in-overnight-operation-in-kashmir-s-shopian/story-In0ThWmkdun1PdLqxwn3SL.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Centre appoints Justice (retd) SS Saron chief commissioner of gurdwara elections||The Centre has appointed Justice (retd) SS Saron as the chief commissioner, gurdwara elections. His appointment has been approved by the appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, according to an order issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on Tuesday. The appointment is for two years, extendable by one year. Justice Saron retired from the Punjab and Haryana high court three years ago. The appointment is being seen as an important step in the direction of holding elections to the mini-parliament of Sikhs, the Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). Its members were last elected for a five-year term in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-appoints-justice-retd-ss-saron-chief-commissioner-of-gurdwara-elections/story-ttCJlWoJuDXEbrBJidGcrI.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Master Plan of Delhi-2041: Villages need time-bound implementation policies||Planned areas have benefitted from the provisions of the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD)-2021, but planned growth has given a miss to the rural areas and urban villages in the national capital for years. Several villages, which come under the MPD-2021, lack basic civic infrastructure because of an absence of adequate planning measures.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has prepared MPD-2041, but questions are being raised for a time-bound implementation of its policies for all the 365 villages that come under the rural and urban categories. The DDA will hold public consultations with the residents of urban and rural villages on Wednesday.“The public consultations are a way to understand the issues faced by various groups of people. This will help us plan the strategy for future development better,” said a DDA official.The DDA and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which comes under the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and has been entrusted with the task to prepare MPD-2041, is planning a discussion with the villagers as part of its consultative process. A delay in the implementation of MPD provisions and government policies has led to unplanned development, unauthorised construction and rampant commercialisation in most of these villages.MPD-2021, which was notified on February 7, 2007, has provisions for Low Density Residential Area (LDRA) and land pooling for planned developments in villages as urban extensions. The land pooling policy is aimed at providing 17 lakh dwelling units to meet the affordable housing requirements of the national capital, which has an estimated population of two crores. Though the LDRA is yet to see the light of the day, the land pooling policy was notified in 2015 and the work for its implementation had started in 2018.Bhupinder Bazad, president, MPD committee, Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, said, “These policies have been a non-starter. The civic facilities in the villages has gone from bad to worse due to an inordinate delay in the implementation of these policies. The number of unauthorised colonies has also increased over the years. There should be a time-bound implementation of these policies.”Of the 365 villages, 200 belong to the urban category, including 95, which were recently earmarked for the implementation of the land pooling policy.Residents living in urban villages said they lack basic civic infrastructure such as parks, schools, community centres etc. Paras Tyagi, president of Centre for Youth Culture and Law and Environment, who works on issues related to villages in Delhi, said, “The previous MPD had provisions for preparing a village development plan. The aim was to provide infrastructure to the public. A lot of development has happened in the villages over the years. Now, these areas need to be regularised.”In Mundka, which has emerged as one of the leading pollution hotspots in Delhi, residents said that the government should focus on creating more green spaces. Environmentalist Diwan Singh, who is also a member of Mundka village resident welfare association (RWA), said, “Our area is known for commercial activities. But the government should focus on developing green spaces instead of putting up more industrial units.”Sabyasachi Das, an urban planner and a former planning commissioner of the DDA, cited problems in the execution of such elaborate development plans for Delhi’s villages. “The DDA has prepared a detailed plan for four villages in Dwarka. But it could never be implemented. Land is the biggest problem, as very little of it is available in these villages to provide basic infrastructure. Besides, the villagers often don’t agree to give up their land for development. New areas are being planned for land pooling. Planning should be done for essential services in these neighbouring villages, especially those that have pooled land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/master-plan-of-delhi-2041-villages-need-time-bound-implementation-policies/story-SwqN9GeeI7Bo9kO8QlHNUJ.html
07-10-2020||Kolkata||MHA to hold meeting on Gorkhaland Territorial Administration issue today||G Kishan Reddy, minister of state (MoS) for the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), will hold a meeting at 11am on Wednesday to discuss issues related to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The meeting will be attended by Darjeeling’s district magistrate (DM) S Ponnambalam, principal secretary of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and the president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s (GJM) Bimal Gurung faction. HK Dwivedi, who was appointed as the home secretary by the Bengal government last week, has also been invited for the meeting, but people familiar with the development said that he would skip it. Also Read: Darjeeling parties surprised as Centre changes Delhi meet’s agenda from Gorkhaland to GTAThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 by forging an alliance with the GJM. In 2019, the BJP had an alliance with the GJM (Gurung faction), the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and other small political parties in the Darjeeling hills. The BJP has all along promised to find a permanent political solution to the demand for a Gorkhaland, which has been raised by the Nepali-speaking Gorkhas living in the Darjeeling hills and adjoining Siliguri, the Terai and the Dooars region in north Bengal. Earlier, in its election manifestos in 2014 and 2019, the BJP had promised that it would find a permanent solution to the Gorkhaland demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mha-to-hold-meeting-on-gorkhaland-issue-today/story-45XmNAy6krN9GDZRnblMDK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Citizen organisation seeks implementation of city’s development plan||A Mumbai-based citizen group has launched a movement demanding the implementation of Mumbai’s Development Plan (DP) 2034. The group, RoadMarch, has created a 3D model highlighting the roads, part of DP 1967 and 1991, still lying incomplete. DP of a city is a 20-year urban plan where reservations are made for roads, gardens and social amenities after inviting suggestions and objections from the citizens. Mumbai has had a poor record with regards to implementation of the DP. For instance, only 33% of the 1991 DP while only 18% of the 1967 DP was implemented. Since the previous DPs were also not fully implemented, most of the reservations were repeated in the 2014-2034 DP. Also read: How much of Mumbai’s salt pans can be developed? Master plan in the worksRoadMarch founder Gopal Zhaveri said, “We did a study of the road reservations between Bandra and Dahisar and found that approximately 35% of it is yet to be implemented.” The model was displayed on October 2, when the organisation launched its movement. “We are looking at displaying it again in South Mumbai by the end of this month and also to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner. We will continue this movement till Mumbaikars don’t get good public infrastructure,” Zhaveri said, adding that the group has highlighted missing patches between Dahisar-Dindoshi, in Juhu and also Borivili, which are increasing the traffic woes in the city. Mumbai is one of the worst cities in India when it comes to traffic congestion on roads. According to the TomTom Index 2019, Mumbai is the fourth most traffic congested city in the world where citizens spend 65% longer on the roads during peak hours. It states that Mumbaikars spend 209 hours or 8 days and 17 hours in traffic each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-citizen-organisation-seeks-implementation-of-city-s-development-plan/story-sZsZEtnYvl5GNEwKPZsdLL.html
07-10-2020||Lucknow||Missing nephew of Unnao gangrape, murder victim still untraceable||A six-year-old nephew of the 24-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly burnt alive for pursuing her gangrape case in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao in December last year, remained untraceable four days after his disappearance on Friday. The nephew was last seen playing near a pond in his village.“Fourteen police teams of Unnao, Lucknow and Rae Bareli districts have been deployed... [to trace the boy],” said Unnao police superintendent Anand Kulkarni.The missing child is the son of the woman’s brother.Also Read: Hathras fallout: Uttar Pradesh leader of Opposition urges Governor to recommend President’s rulePolice have questioned several people and detained five whom the boy’s family named in their complaint. The five suspects are relatives of the men accused of gang-raping and murdering the woman. They were present in the village when the boy disappeared, investigators said citing their phone call details.Kulkarni on Saturday suspended three policemen posted at the woman’s house for laxity. He said the security for the family has been further tightened with the deployment of more personnel.Inspector General (Lucknow range) Lakshmi Singh visited the village on Sunday and met the boy’s family and assured them of all possible help.The boy disappeared amid protests across the country over a 19-year-old Dalit woman’s alleged gang rape and murder in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and the manner in which she was cremated in the dead of the night last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/missing-nephew-of-unnao-gangrape-murder-victim-still-untraceable/story-60I2aHeoh6mIK3SY8U1R4H.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra reaching a plateau, says health minister Rajesh Tope||As Maharashtra recorded a comparative decline in daily Covid-19 cases, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the curve is “stabilising”. In the first six days of October, the state has recorded 82,619 new cases, down from 114,360 during the corresponding period last month. The minister added that the number of Covid-19 cases in the state is reaching a plateau.Over the past nine days, the state has recorded a relatively lower number of cases, compared to previous weeks. However, the number of tests conducted between September 28 and October 5 has seen a substantial dip in figures compared to its previous week between September 20 and September 27. Tope said that though the average testing has seen a dip, the positivity rate has remained around the same.“We have asked the [districts] to increase testing. Some of the districts are testing a lower number [of samples]. We will ask them to increase tracing and testing. Our intention is to take it up to 1.50 lakh tests daily. Even if the testing has reduced, the positivity rate has remained the same,” Tope said. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe minister added, “We are seeing lower cases daily. The situation is stabilising here and we are reaching a plateau.”Between September 28 and October 5, according to the health department data, 604,238 samples were tested. The previous week — between September 20 and September 27 — 779,502 samples were tested. Between September 12 and September 19, 713,626 samples were tested. The average number of tests conducted between September 28 and October 5 was 75,529, while it was 97,437 the previous week.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 12,258 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, taking the tally to 1,465,911 in the state. The state also reported 370 deaths, pushing the toll to 38,717. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,625 fresh infections in the city, taking its tally to 217,113. Mumbai also reported 47 fatalities, taking its death toll to 9,202.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-reaching-a-plateau-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope/story-iQc0baPn5kGuA6D9n01vvJ.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Daring Cities 2020: Kejriwal to participate in summit on climate change via video conferencing||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will participate in the Daring Cities 2020 summit on climate change in Germany through video conferencing on Wednesday.Kejriwal will attend a session titled ‘Dialogue on Multilevel Action to Tackle the Climate Emergency’, said a Delhi government official.Daring Cities is a global forum on climate change for urban leaders tackling climate emergency, especially in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government said in a statement.“The Delhi CM has been recognised as one of the five top leaders across countries who are going beyond the limits to take bold climate action. He will elaborate on the efforts of the Delhi government in reducing significantly the level of air pollution in Delhi, especially over the last five years.”In October last year, Kejriwal spoke about Delhi’s fight against air pollution at the C40 Cities Climate Summit in Copenhagen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/daring-cities-2020-kejriwal-to-participate-in-summit-on-climate-change-via-video-conferencing/story-6m9cCJKp9e2IbtIo1ylvGK.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two crushed to death after container truck topples onto car||Two men driving to the airport to catch a flight to Kolkata were crushed to death after a container truck carrying rice bags toppled on their Honda City car in South Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar early Wednesday, the police said. The two occupants of the car, Ankit Malhotra and Ranjan Kalra, worked for an event management firm and were both 35 years old. According to RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), removing the container truck from the car required the services of two private hydra cranes and three cranes of the traffic police. By the time these machines could lift the rice bag-laden container from the car, the two occupants were already dead. The accident took place around 3.45 am at a tri-junction under the Lajpat Nagar Flyover.“The errant driver fled the spot,” said the DCP. While Malhotra was a resident of east Delhi’s Karkardooma, Kalra lived in Lajpat Nagar.The circumstances of the mishap are still being probed, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-crushed-to-death-after-container-truck-topples-onto-car/story-eEzWbT2lsapOo9ek9MEmSO.html
07-10-2020||City||Project Dolphin: Maharashtra develops action plan for conservation of oceanic dolphins||Maharashtra has chalked out an action plan for the conservation of oceanic dolphins along its 720 kilometres (km) coastline in line with the Centre’s proposed Project Dolphin programme.On the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on August 15, Prime Minister Narenda Modi had launched the Project Lion and Project Dolphin endangered species conservation programmes in a bid to replicate the success of Project Tiger. Also read: My Ganga My Dolphin campaign launched at six sites across river GangaThe Maharashtra government’s mangrove cell submitted a proposal on the implementation strategies and a synopsis of previous research on oceanic dolphins to Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF-wildlife), earlier this week coinciding with the Wildlife Week, which is being celebrated from October 2 to 8. “The proposal is being examined at the moment. The state government will send it to the Centre soon,” said Kakodkar.“We will be looking into conservation-based research projects associated with the rich aquatic biodiversity. A special focus will be on oceanic dolphins over the next few years along the Konkan coast as part of the state’s action plan for Project Dolphin. Mangrove Foundation will be the nodal authority for the upcoming projects,” he added. The plan suggested measures such as a monitoring network, population estimation, habitat conservation for dolphin hot spots, strengthening marine stranding network, and developing livelihood by building eco-tourism projects around protection of the species.“Similar to the pan-India tiger estimation programme, we intend to develop a large population estimation exercise in Maharashtra to determine the oceanic dolphin count,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), (mangrove cell), Mumbai.Manas Manjrekar, deputy director, Mangrove Foundation, said, “This project opens up the possibilities of studying and monitoring these cetacean populations on a long term basis. It will lead to the implementation of effective conservation measures for oceanic dolphins.”According to the mangrove cell authorities, four dolphin species – Indian Ocean humpback dolphin, spinner dolphin, pan-tropical spotted dolphin, and striped dolphin – have been found in Maharashtra’s coastal waters along with several sightings of the Indo-Pacific finless porpoise.“Our plan entails conducting an initial baseline survey first along each district followed by identification and selection of dolphin congregation areas, where monitoring is carried out annually,” said Tiwari.Kakodkar said dolphin watch has become a money-spinner for the local population. “The idea is to expand the programme. It will also help understand and implement dolphin tourism at feasible areas of specific coastal villages to promote community-based conservation and develop livelihood programmes for the locals,” he said.Under a 2016 Cetacean Population Assessment Project, which was undertaken in Sindhudurg district by the Konkan Cetacean Research Team appointed by the mangrove cell along with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), a statistical analysis had showed a minimum of 661 Indian Ocean humpback dolphins in the region, of which 572 had dorsal fins and another 15.5% of the population were juveniles. The study had covered a total area of 4,086 square (sq) km and had showed an estimated encounter rates for Indian Ocean humpback dolphin and Indo-pacific finless porpoise at 0.0348 and 0.0152 per km, respectively. Porpoises have smaller mouths and spade-shaped teeth, as compared to dolphins that have prominent, elongated beaks and small cone-shaped teeth. Dolphins have a curved dorsal fin, while a porpoise has a triangular dorsal fin. All species of oceanic dolphins are protected under the Schedule I of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.“Occurrence and genetic studies related to Indian Ocean humpback dolphins are in progress along other coastal districts as well. It is being scaled up by pooling in research into other dolphin species for a wider conservation approach,” said Tiwari.The Konkan coast has also reported 107 cases of marine mammal stranding, including dead and alive, along beaches and coastal zones between 2015 and 2017. However, a sharp decline in their population was reported after 2017, which led to the formation of a marine respondents’ group involving forest department, citizens, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), veterinary doctors etc. Between November 2019 and September 2020, 25 cetaceans, including nine Indian Ocean humpback dolphins, seven baleen whales, five finless porpoise and two striped dolphins were washed ashore along the Konkan coast.“We plan to strengthen our marine stranding network for easy response and management of such incidents and equip groups with DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) sample collection and morphometric kits for authentic data collection for genetic studies and to understand causes of offshore deaths and stranding,” said Tiwari.Independent experts said the Project Dolphin must adopt a simple approach. “We need to know the exact abundance of various dolphin species. We have to study their mortality rate. If the difference between annual mortalities versus abundance is small, stringent conservation measures have to be implemented. Maharashtra has taken a lead with its plan,” said E Vivekanandan, emeritus scientist at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), in Kochi, Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/project-dolphin-maharashtra-develops-action-plan-for-conservation-of-oceanic-dolphins/story-4JHyRE6HnaZKJVGhvx2DjJ.html
07-10-2020||Bangalore||‘Explain discrepancy of Rs 50.22 lakh’: DK Shivakumar, his brother ask CBI||The Karnataka pradesh congress committee president D K Shivakumar and his younger brother D K Suresh, who represents Bengaluru Rural constituency in Parliament, have disputed the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) claim that Rs 57 lakh in cash was seized during raids on 14 locations linked to Shivakumar and others across the country on Monday.CBI in a statement on Monday evening had said that “Searches were conducted today at 14 locations including Karnataka, Delhi, Mumbai at the premises of said MLA and others which led to recovery of cash of Rs 57 lakh (approx) and several incriminating documents including property documents, bank related information, computer hard disk etc...Investigation is continuing.”However, Shivakumar speaking at a press conference in Bengaluru said that CBI had seized Rs 1.5 lakh in cash from the Delhi residence of his brother D K Suresh, Rs 1.77 lakh from his residence in Sadashivanagar, Rs 3.5 lakh from his home office as well as Rs 50,000 from Sachin Narayan (a business associate) from his Hassan residence.“When I asked my mother, she said nothing had been taken from our Ramnagara residence. Even Davanam builders (business associates) said that only some papers were taken. I am even ready to release the panchnama,” Shivakumar said. A panchnama is an inventory of all seized assets and documents.Also Read: Bengaluru police raid residence of former underworld don Muthappa Rai in drugs probeHitting out at Union parliamentary minister Prahlad Joshi, who has asked the brothers to release the details of the assets they held before entering politics and the assets gained after entering politics, Shivakumar said “Before asking that of us, let him do so for leaders in his own party.”Asserting that the raids were politically motivated, Shivakumar claimed, “When the preliminary enquiry was conducted, FIR filed? When did I become party chief? All this will clearly indicate political vendetta.”Also Read: 142 drug syndicates, heroin trade under NCB’s scanner Meanwhile, his brother D K Suresh who said that he had gone into self-quarantine after testing Covid positive on Tuesday, also hit out at the CBI, saying, the agency has to explain the discrepancy of Rs 50.22 lakh in the claim it has made. In a series of tweets, he said that while they are ready to cooperate with the authorities and furnish any documents sought, the CBI should explain the discrepancy in the claim made.Meanwhile, the Karnataka Congress has announced holding a state-wide farmers’ meet on October 10 to protest against the recent farm bills passed by both the Centre and the state. The event, originally scheduled in Davangere, has now been shifted to Mandya due to the election code of conduct in force for the bypolls at the earlier venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/explain-discrepancy-of-rs-50-22-lakh-dk-shivakumar-his-brother-ask-cbi/story-Aqt1ROSrdYzHHRe46w9qzO.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana-based Kesra Ram’s Zanani Paud wins $25,000-Dhahan Prize for Punjabi fiction||Sirsa-based writer Kesra Ram has won the $25,000-Dhahan Prize for excellence in Punjabi Literature, 2020, for his collection of short stories, Zanani Paud (Female Flower). The Dhahan Prize promotes Punjabi literature on a global scale by awarding $25,000 (in Canadian dollars, Rs 13.8 lakh) annually to the best book of fiction published in either Gurmukhi or Shahmukhi scripts, along with two additional finalist prizes of $10,000 (Rs 5.5 lakh) each. Lahore’s Zubair Ahmad won $10,000 for Panni Di Kandh (Wall of Water), a collection of short stories in the Shahmukhi script, while Harkirat Kaur Chahal of Chilliwack, BC, Canada was selected as the finalist of the Gurmukhi script for her novel, Aadam Grehan (Humanity’s Eclipse). “These Dhahan Prize winning books touch upon the themes of memory, loss, pain, trauma from abuse and violence, and the long journey of hope and healing. Dhahan Prize is thrilled to be making history in awarding for the first time a woman author for her ground-breaking novel Aadham Grehan,” Barj S Dhahan, the founder of the awards, said in a release from Vancouver on Wednesday. “This novel is a gripping account of human longing for intimacy, belonging and acceptance by those who are marginalised and oppressed due to their ambiguous gender identification,” he said. BRIDGING PUNJABI COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD The Dhahan Prize, which aims to inspire the creation of Punjabi literature across borders, bridging Punjabi communities around the world, and promoting Punjabi literature on a global scale, was established in Vancouver, British Columbia, where Punjabi people, language, and culture have a rich history. The prize has been established by the Canada India Education Society in partnership with the department of Asian studies in the faculty of arts at the University of British Columbia, and is funded by Barj and Rita Dhahan, and family and friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-based-kesra-ram-s-zanani-paud-wins-25-000-dhahan-prize-for-punjabi-fiction/story-Hiexvmaoq5QrJLkWy3qFqJ.html
07-10-2020||Kolkata||Pandemic protocol should not be violated during Durga Puja, says Bengal CM||Cautioning the people about the rising number of Covid-19 infections in the state, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that the pandemic protocol should not be violated during the coming Durga Puja.She said that the marquees should be made open and airy and the pandal hoppers should avoid jostling and maintain proper physical distancing.“People should go for shopping. Shops will remain open. Otherwise, how will they do business? But while shopping for the pujas people should not forget about the protocol,” she said.Banerjee, who was speaking at an administrative meeting at Kharagpur, asked the police to disburse the one time grant of Rs 50,000 to each puja committee in West Midnapore district.“Police must ensure that all the puja committees in the district get the grant. I have entrusted you (police) to disburse the money but not the panchayat department or my party. Do not listen to what a panchayat member tells you about the grant,” she said.Banerjee said the cycle threshold (CT) value of an RT-PCR test which can give useful information to doctors treating a coronavirus patient, of the affected people should be noted to ascertain the degree of risk.Those diagnosed with CT value above 20 could be in home isolation but everyday monitoring should be done by the district administration, Banerjee said.“A person who has a CT value below 20 is considered critical as the viral load of such patients will be maximum. I think we can segregate and create a list of patients who are diagnosed with CT value below 20. They are those who spread the virus.“Those who are above CT 20 can be in home isolation.But they must not forget to wear masks and maintain physical distance,” Banerjee said. “We have to provide the right treatment to those with comorbidities. They should be called every day to find out about their health condition,” she said.The chief minister urged the West Midnapore district officials to work so that the death rate in the area due to the pandemic is below one per cent.Announcing a slew of sops ahead of next year’s assembly elections, she directed officials in the district to clear all the necessary work so that funds meant for ‘Kanyashree’, ‘Sikhasree’, ‘Sabuj Sathi’ schemes and pension meant for the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are disbursed on time.The chief minister also stressed on monitoring the public distribution system, Swasthya Sathi scheme and said, “People belonging to the scheduled caste, will get the Joy Bangla pension immediately after reaching the age of 60 years.“We are paying pension to over a lakh of people. Clear it for the month of October, November,” she said.The ‘Maatir Sristi’ scheme was also launched to improve the financial condition of the villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pandemic-protocol-should-not-be-violated-during-durga-puja-says-bengal-cm/story-AZH5CavJsZrAY0grw8GPaN.html
07-10-2020||Bhopal||FIR against ex-MP CM Kamal Nath, 8 others for violating Covid norms during public meet in state||An FIR has been registered against Madhya Pradesh’s former Chief Minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath and eight others, under multiple sections of IPC and Disaster Management Act, for violation of Covid-19 norms during a public meeting in the state.The FIR was registered on Tuesday at Bhander police station in Datia district against Nath and eight others on the basis of a written complaint by Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Arvind Mahor on Monday.According to the FIR copy, applicant Nahar Singh Yadav, district Congress chief has sought permission for holding a meeting at Mandi premises in Bhander on October 5. Permission was granted for the gathering of 100 people with the condition of adhering to Covid-19 norms.The party held a poll meeting at Bhander in Datiya where Nath, party candidate Pool Singh Baraiya and others were present. The police in the FIR copy said after seeing footage from the poll meeting, “it was evident that 2,000-2,500 persons were present as against permission of 100 persons allowed, which violated Covid-19 safety guidelines and Section 144 of CrPC.”Voting on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh by-polls will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10, the Election Commission of India had announced. The last date for filing the nomination papers is October 16. Scrutiny of nomination papers will take place the next day, while nomination papers can be withdrawn by October 19, according to the bypoll schedule.By-elections are due on 28 seats which fell vacant following the resignations of 24 Congress MLAs and the death of two legislators earlier.In March, 22 Congress MLAs resigned from the state Assembly paving the way for BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan to take over as Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister for the fourth time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/fir-against-ex-mp-cm-kamal-nath-8-others-for-violating-covid-norms-during-public-meet-in-state/story-QjERVRtQpsv3RqHScZNVML.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trader found dead in burnt car in Haryana’s Hansi after Rs 11 lakh looted from him||A 35-year-old trader was allegedly burnt alive by three unidentified men after he was robbed of Rs 11 lakh near Bhatla village at Hansi in Hisar district on Tuesday night, police said on Wednesday. The victim, Ram Mehar of Datta village in Hisar, ran a factory in Hisar’s Barwala town. Sadar Hansi station house officer Kashmiri Lal said that they received a call that two motorcycle-borne men and a car occupant were following the trader near Bhatla village. “When we reached the spot minutes later around midnight, we found the driver was burnt alive and the car was gutted. His relatives told us that he had called them up also to say that three men were chasing him and he was carrying Rs 11 lakh,” the SHO said. A case was registered under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The victim’s nephew said that he had given Rs 9.9 lakh to his uncle on Tuesday after withdrawing the amount from a bank. Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said that “maha jungle raj” prevailed in Haryana. “A trader was burnt alive in the middle of the road after looting Rs 11 lakh from him. There is maha jangalraj in the state under the Manohar Lal Khattar government. There is no law and order. Criminals are ruling in the state. Traders’ lives and goods are being looted. How long will we survive? Where is the government?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trader-found-dead-in-burnt-car-in-haryana-s-hansi-after-rs-11-lakh-looted-from-him/story-5riBCvcT3nD7dJ7W0cPpSK.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 testing down from high; antigen dominates||Testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi in recent weeks appears to have again dropped from peak levels, shows Delhi government data.Delhi conducted 59,368 daily tests at an average for the week ending September 20, what has been the city’s highest recorded rate of testing till date. Since then, this number has seen a near-consistent drop. Two weeks ago, the city conducted an average of 54,629 tests per day, and this has further dropped to 50,116 in the past week — down by around 16% from the peak.This drop in testing has largely coincided with the drop in new cases in the city. The seven-day average of daily cases has dropped from 4,174 for week ending September 17 (the peak so far) to 2,702 in the last week — a drop of 35%.In late August, taking note of persistently rising Covid-19 numbers at an emergency meeting, the Delhi government had decided to massively scale-up testing in an effort to catch and isolate more infections. As a result, the number of tests during this period had gone up from under 20,000 to over 60,000 by the third week of September.Experts said the government should not lower its guard on testing and should be conducting as many tests as possible. “Even if there are fewer cases, the number of tests should not be reduced. You should do as many tests as possible; there is no upper limit. If a large number of tests are being done and very few cases are detected, then the government will know for sure that there are very few cases in the community. However, if only a small number of tests are done there is a possibility that we might be missing the cases,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Experts also questioned the Delhi government’s strategy of relying heavily on rapid antigen tests to increase testing numbers instead of the gold-standard RT-PCR test.Rapid antigen tests were introduced Delhi in mid-June to scale up testing when the number of cases had started shooting up. The downside of antigen tests is that they tend to give anywhere between 50-80% false negatives, or in other words, they can miss positive cases. This is the reason, anyone with symptoms such as fever, cough and sore throat who tests negative using the rapid test is asked to undergo an RT-PCR test.“Rather than the rapid antigen test, the government needs to scale up RT-PCR test that are more accurate at picking up infections. There are clear ICMR guidelines on where the tests should be used and the same strategy should be followed. Currently, very few of the rapid tests are being re-checked using RT PCR; all the people who have any symptoms should ideally be retested using RT-PCR,” said Dr Kant.This will help in monitoring the increase and decline in the cases that might happen over the next few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-testing-down-from-high-antigen-dominates/story-sZW4hR3GJ0VR9RwIOGXCzM.html
07-10-2020||City||6th Mega Job Fair: Mohali admn facilitates 10,000 jobs for youth||For the second consecutive year, the Mohali district has successfully facilitated the maximum number of jobs in the state, at the 6th Mega Job Fair that concluded here on Tuesday.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that despite Covid, 10,800 youth were provided jobs during the fair through interviews, virtual, on the employers’ sites and in the premises of District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE).“Our special focus this year was jobs for the poorest of the poor, and we managed to provide 3,000 jobs for youth belonging to underprivileged families,’’ said Dayalan.To cover this segment, ten poorest households were identified in every village of the district and skill and qualification of the youth from these families were uploaded on the employment portal. “We will continue our efforts so that the state government’s promise of jobs in every household fructifies,” he added.Last year, against the district target of providing 6,000 jobs, Mohali had facilitated 13,369. This year, the target was reduced to 3,000 owing to the pandemic.The job profiles range from high-end managerial jobs to basic helper-level jobs.Jaswinder Singh, son of a MGNREGA worker, who acquired a mechanical diploma and had been struggling for a job, was finally placed through DBEE in Akxo Nobel Mohali (a chemical factory for paints), with a salary of ₹10,000 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6th-mega-job-fair-mohali-admn-facilitates-10-000-jobs-for-youth/story-Yhp3K9MT3hzUJLjg1f5WFI.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dowry case: Punjab and Haryana high court allows NRI to join probe through videoconferencing||The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed an Australian NRI to join a probe through videoconferencing.The petitioner, Sher Partap Singh, is being probed in a dowry and criminal conspiracy case by the NRI wing of Mohali police.The petitioner had approached the high court seeking the quashing of the FIR. After the plea had not found favour with the court, Sher Partap’s counsel Saurav Bhatia had requested that the summoning order issued to his client in June 2020 to join the probe be stayed, as international flights were suspended. Bhatia had told the court that his client would join the probe as and when flights between India and Australia resumed.The high court, while restraining the police from taking any coercive steps till January 31, 2021, said that if by then flights resumed between the two countries, the opposite party could file an application for his summoning. However, he (Sher Partap) may also join the probe through videoconferencing with the police in India, the court said, asking Bhatia to supply Sher Partap’s mobile number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dowry-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-allows-nri-to-join-probe-through-videoconferencing/story-wxd2pp1cC2DckpEikrAbgJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University reopens portal for online registration of CET (PG)||Panjab University has reopened online registration for admission in postgraduate courses through the Common Admission Test [PU-CET (PG)], which was scrapped earlier this year due to the pandemic. As per an official communique released on Tuesday, the last date of registration for PU-CET (PG) is October 9, the last date of submission of online fee through net banking is October 10, and the last date for the completion of form is October 12.All registered candidates have been advised to fill the admission form on http://onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in by October 15, and to keep on visiting the concerned website http://cetpg.puchd.ac.in for more information and for the schedule.BDS exams at PU dental college from October 17The examination for undergraduate dental students at Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and Hospital will be held from October 17 onwards.According to a notice issued by the college, the last date for online submission of examination forms and fee is October 12, which can be submitted till October 14 with late fee of ₹2,075.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-reopens-portal-for-online-registration-of-cet-pg/story-QT4XVzPuH7xJt7UWUP1y4K.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER, Chandigarh health department to conduct city’s first sero survey||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the UT health department are planning to conduct the city’s first sero survey to determine the spread of Covid-19 infection in the Union Territory.Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said the department of community medicine had sought support from the UT health department for conducting the survey and received a positive response.“We are in the planning phase: the survey will be conducted among the urban and rural population of the city. Sample size and other modalities will be decided by the community medicine and virology departments. We have communicated to the health department that we will provide assistance in terms of analysis and testing, too, and they have responded positively,” the director said.Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana governments have already conducted sero surveys in Mohali and Panchkula districts, respectively.Sero surveys involve testing of blood samples of healthy people for anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies. The results are an estimate of the proportion of people who have been infected in the past. This information gives a wide-angle picture over time of how the virus has spread in a particular area.Recently during the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials, 7.6% of the volunteers were found to have antibodies even though the active infection was not detected prior to their screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-chandigarh-health-department-to-conduct-city-s-first-sero-survey/story-Y7MsDlLU944n5okNn4WUiO.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Judicial custody of actor Rhea Chakraborty, others extended till October 20||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and 18 others were remanded in judicial custody till October 20 on Tuesday. The Bombay high court (HC) is expected to deliver its order on their bail pleas today. Chakraborty, Showik and 18 others have been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as part of its probe into allegations of drug abuse in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The term of their judicial custody ended on Tuesday and the arrested accused were produced before a magistrate court via video conferencing. The court extended their judicial custody till October 20. The arrested accused have been charged under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. A special court turned down Chakraborty and Showik’s bail pleas on September 11, after which the two moved HC for bail. According to NCB, Chakraborty and Showik financed the deceased actor’s drug habit. Advocate Maneshinde, who is representing both Chakraborty and Showik, has maintained section 27 A (financing illicit trafficking of drugs or harbouring offenders) of the NDPS Act are not applicable to his clients. He has argued that Rajput was known to have consumed drugs before making Chakraborty’s acquaintance in April 2019. Also, according to Maneshinde, NCB’s allegations are on the basis of a solitary incident from March 17, when Chakraborty gave Miranda her credit card and the latter withdrew Rs 10,000, allegedly to purchase some contraband material for Rajput. Maneshinde has said Chakraborty’s card was not directly used to pay any alleged drug peddlers and therefore she cannot be considered associated with a drug syndicate. Advocate Taraq Sayed, who represents arrested accused Abdel Basit Parihar, has submitted that Parihar is a student of architecture who had to miss an examination, due to being in judicial custody, and cannot be termed drug peddlers or suppliers. Since the alleged transactions involve small quantities of drugs, Sayed has also argued that Parihar, Chakraborty, Showik and Miranda are entitled to bail along with arrested accused Dipesh Sawant, who was part of Rajput’s household staff. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who opposed the bail applications on behalf of NCB, had submitted that the NDPS Act does not state that offences are bailable based on the quantity of drugs involved. Justice Sarang Kotwal had agreed with his submission on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-judicial-custody-of-actor-rhea-chakraborty-others-extended-till-october-20/story-r0sKiLqro89l1jQ7aLfujL.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singht Rajput’s sisters petition to quash FIR against them adjourned to October 13||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday posted a petition filed by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, sisters of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, for further hearing on October 13. Priyanka and Meetu Singh have sought to quash the first information report (FIR) registered against them by Bandra police, following a complaint by actor Rhea Chakraborty. The bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik adjourned the hearing as neither Chakraborty’s legal counsel nor any one for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) appeared to respond to the petition. In her complaint, Chakraborty has alleged Priyanka got Dr Tarun Kumar of New Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi to prescribe to Rajput medication that is prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. Chakraborty has alleged that the medication may have caused chronic anxiety and contributed to Rajput taking his own life. Rajput’s sisters have responded in a petition filed through advocate Madhav Thorat that not all the prescribed medication is banned and guidelines issued by the Medical Council of India in April this year allow medication to be prescribed to patients even at the first consultation. The petition also questions the timing of Chakraborty’s complaint, pointing out that she lodged it on September 7 while the medication was prescribed on June 8 (which is the date that Chakraborty and Rajput parted ways). Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. Chakraborty was arrested on September 8 by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as part of its probe into allegations of drug abuse in the case of Rajput’s death. Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde issued a statement on Tuesday, alleging Rajput’s family and their legal team are “are interfering and tampering with the investigations”. Advocate Satish Maneshinde’s statement, issued on Tuesday: The SC on 19th Aug 2020, to ensure public confidence in the investigation and to do complete justice in the matter (of Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) death case) considered it appropriate to accord approval for the ongoing CBI investigation into the case registered at Patna and directed transfer of any case registered on the death of SSR into the circumstances of his unnatural death to CBI. The Bandra Police registered a case on the allegations of Rhea Chakraborty against the sisters of SSR in relation to illegal administration of medicines on the basis of forged prescription which could be the cause of SSR death and transferred it on 9th Sept 2020 to the CBI as per the orders of the SC. Therefore the family also stand to face investigations in the case. The CBI is independently and impartially investigating both the cases. The CBI is supposed to be an insulated and free from any interference. It is disturbing to learn that the family of SSR and its lawyers are interfering and tampering with the investigations by bringing pressure on the AIIMS team of doctors by speaking to them during investigations and releasing purported audio recorded conversations and information to the media in order to bring pressure and tamper with potential witnesses. The SSR family lawyer is supposed to have said that he is going to meet the CBI director to get the family’s pre-determined path of investigations in SSR death. It is very disturbing to read such information in the media as attempts are being made to get a pre-determined result in the case. Any further attempts to interfere and tampering in the investigations would be brought to the notice of the appropriate courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singht-rajput-s-sisters-petition-to-quash-fir-against-them-adjourned-to-october-13/story-3YbS8CO2Ya1UYs9J55Lj1N.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra police to probe Sushant Singh Rajput case conspiracy||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday announced a probe into what he called a “conspiracy hatched by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra Police in the Sushant Singh (SSR) case”. Seeking an apology from the party and its leader Devendra Fadnavis, Deshmukh alleged the links were found in the University of Michigan, US’s study of the social media campaign. The BJP has rubbished the allegations, saying the state government should punish the culprits by investigating the case thoroughly. Fadnavis, who is in Bihar for the Assembly polls, was not available for a comment. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra home on June 14. Deshmukh said: “The report stated the SSR case study reveals the BJP’s hand in the conspiracy theories. A few people outside the state were used as puppets by the BJP to defame Maharashtra. The electronic media and a few channels were at the forefront of the conspiracy for the past three-four months. The crime branch of Mumbai Police and cybercrime department of the state police will conduct a probe.” Citing the recent report by AIIMS Hospital in New Delhi, which said Rajput was not poisoned, Deshmukh said, “The Supreme Court, during its hearing, had applauded Mumbai Police’s investigation. A few BJP leaders, however, were targeting Mumbai Police for political gain in Bihar elections. They even called the Mumbai police mafia. Fadnavis, too, had targeted Mumbai Police, doubting their competence.” Deshmukh also asked if Fadnavis will participate in the Bihar campaign along with former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey who is in the fray. “Will Fadnavis, who has been appointed as poll in-charge in Bihar by his party, share the dais with Pandey who played a key role in defaming Mumbai and Maharashtra police?” He also attacked CBI, which has taken over the SSR case investigation from Mumbai Police, saying he was eagerly waiting for the outcome of the probe. BJP leader and leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar said the home minister should wait for CBI to reveal the findings from the probe. “Why is Deshmukh in a hurry to jump to a conclusion? Is he trying to mount the pressure on CBI and the Narcotics Control Bureau? Instead of raising questions, Deshmukh should first reply whether he wants to support the drug mafia active in the film industry,” he said. Another BJP leader Ram Kadam said they are not against the probe into fake accounts created on social media to discredit Mumbai Police. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The BJP used three central agencies for gains in the Bihar Assembly polls. Selective information was leaked by the agencies on a daily basis. We will hand over more information on the fake social media accounts and their misuse to Mumbai Police on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-to-probe-sushant-singh-rajput-case-conspiracy/story-kXlPbYUOajLJYFznt4APqK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Mumbai Police registers two FIR’s against trolls||Mumbai Police has registered a first information report (FIR) against those who created fake accounts on social media to troll Mumbai Police commissioner and orchestrated a campaign to discredit Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government over the investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.At least 80,000 fake social media accounts were created across nine countries as part of an orchestrated campaign, a report by the force’s cyber unit had stated. “Several social media account holders are trolling the Mumbai Police commissioner on different platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and are using abusive language against him and the force. Hence, an FIR has been registered against those account holders under 67 of the Information Technology (IT) Act. Most of these accounts are fake and we will be taking action against all those account holders,” said deputy commissioner of police (Cyber), Rashmi Karandikar. “Another FIR has been registered against the culprit who used a morphed image of the official Twitter account of Mumbai Police commissioner recently. We have started the probe in both matters,” added Karandikar.The internal report, submitted by the unit to city police commissioner Param Bir Singh, said it found posts were uploaded on social media platforms from different countries, including Italy, Japan, Poland, Slovenia, Indonesia, Turkey, Thailand, Romania and France. Singh has now issued an order asking joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe to monitor the probe and has also sanctioned additional manpower for the cyber unit.Singh, on Wednesday, said, “We have written to Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, and sought the detailed report of such fake accounts. Once we procure details, we will start taking action against those who are behind this act.”“There are many fake accounts and for that analysis, the unit needs more manpower as I have asked Bharambe to monitor and provide manpower as much as they need for their investigation,” Singh said.“The campaign was run against Mumbai Police to demoralise us at a time when 84 personnel had died due to the pandemic and over 6,000 were infected with Covid-19. This was a motivated campaign with a vested interest to malign the image of Mumbai Police and derail our line of investigation,” Singh had said. He added that all found violating the law would be prosecuted under relevant sections of the IT Act. “Multiple fake accounts on social media were created to target Mumbai Police in abusive tones,” he added. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Mumbai home on June 14, setting off speculation about the cause of death. Mumbai Police called several members of the film industry for questioning before the actor’s family filed a police complaint in Bihar alleging a conspiracy behind the death and blamed his girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, and her family. The case is being probed by several agencies, including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Chakraborty, her brother Showik and some other associates are currently in jail on drug charges. The cyber unit’s report revelation came days after a medical team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) ruled out the possibility of murder in the case – a development the Maharashtra government claimed as a vindication of its stand in the sensitive case. “We had investigated this case very professionally. The CBI had set up a panel of AIIMS doctors who have justified our investigation, the findings of Cooper Hospital and the forensic laboratory. Except for a few people, nobody else was aware of our investigation, but still, many have criticised it,” Singh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-mumbai-police-registers-two-fir-s-against-trolls/story-3onyb8BPQZBneQ88abUFGK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Wilson College management gets ₹10 crore extortion call||An office bearer of John Wilson Education Society that runs Wilson College has filed a first information report (FIR) after a person claiming to be an official from the office of undersecretary, home ministry, New Delhi, demanded ₹10 crore extortion for settling up various police and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) complaints against him. The accused claimed that the trust was involved scams worth ₹10,000 crore and also threatened to kill the complainant if he refuses to pay the amount.The complainant Prem Masih, 68, a resident of August Kranti Marg (Kemps Corner), is also managing director of United Church of North India Trust Association. Masih in his statement to the Gamdevi police has stated that on July 21 he received a call from a person who identified himself as Udaybhan Singh, told him that he is calling from the office of undersecretary, North block, Home Ministry, New Delhi.Singh told Masih that their department has received various complaints against him and his trust. He asked him to come to Delhi and to carry trust’s original documents, for inquiry. Masih, however, told him that he cannot come to Delhi due to spread of Covid-19. This didn’t go well with Singh who yelled at him over phone saying that United Church of North India Trust Association and Church of North India (CNI) do not exist and you (and your associates) have done scams worth ₹10,000 crore under the name of trusts. Singh also threatened saying if he wants to settle the matter or lose life. He also threatened Masih if wouldn’t come to Delhi then CBI officers would arrest him from Mumbai and throw him in jail for life term, said the complaint (a copy of which is with HT).Masih told the accused (Singh) that he wouldn’t be able to come to Delhi as his trust have not indulged in any illegal activities and have records of all government and court documents.“Later Singh also offered to settle the matter and demanded ₹10 crore - ₹5 crore to be given to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and ₹5 crore to the CBI. Masih then suspected that Singh is not from any government office and is a private person trying to extort money. Later he stopped answering Singh’s calls,” said an officer requesting anonymity.On July 27, a man tried to meet Masih, but was stopped at the society gate by the guard. When Masih enquired, he told him that he is Thakur and has been sent by the department from Delhi. The person threatened Masih and his son and asked them to comply with their demands, the officer added.Later, Masih learnt that his trust’s chairman Premchand Singh and his nephew Navdeep Gill also received threat calls for extortion.Masih then registered an FIR with the Gandevi police.The police have registered a case under sections 384 (extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and 34 (common intention) Indian Penal Code.Police sources said that two people have been arrested in the case, but they are just henchmen. The main accused is yet to be arrested.Masih was not available to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-wilson-college-management-gets-10-crore-extortion-call/story-9HL7I9v0oanBUCqxCJsIRP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Panjab University Teachers’ Association to hold elections on October 8, 9||The elections of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) will now be held on October 8 and 9 with the due permission of UT deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar.The polls were earlier scheduled for September 25 and 26, but had to be postponed after teachers had raised concerns regarding the pandemic.Returning officer Vijay Nagpal had proposed new dates of October 8 and 9 to the DC, who on Monday granted permission. The DC had sought details of the PUTA elections regarding fresh dates, venues for polling, gathering limit, and mode of elections.More than 600 teachers of the university are eligible to cast votes this year. The Mritunjay-Naura group, which is backed by the PU syndicate’s Goyal group, will go up against the Khalid-Sidhu group.SOPs for electionsThe polling schedule will be staggered over two days, with time slots for voting groups of teachers. Wearing masks will be mandatory and every individual will undergo thermal screening at entry points.Two different venues have been selected for polling and voters are advised to bring their own pens; gloves will be provided to all. The voters will need to comply with social distancing norms.The services of professional consultants had been procured for complete sanitisation and other precautions at venues. Those who tested positive for Covid-19, or are awaiting reports, or have been quarantined have been requested to refrain from voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finally-panjab-university-teachers-association-to-hold-elections-on-october-8-9/story-iQWTUC1jX4YvUD6Q0PGAlK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Cyber attack on server delays Mumbai university’s IDOL course exams||For the second day in a row, exams for the distance education wing of the University of Mumbai had to be postponed. In a statement released by the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), authorities explained that the technical glitches were a result of a cyberattack on the examination server.Close to 9,000 students of IDOL had their third-year Bachelor of Commerce and Arts exams scheduled, however, more than 90% could not access the exam link on Tuesday.After receiving flak from students, many of whom also gathered at the university’s Kalina campus on Tuesday evening, IDOL released a statement postponing the day’s exam. It added that due to the trouble with the examination server, they have postponed the exams scheduled to take place on Wednesday as well.“I had logged on the exam app 15 minutes before the paper was scheduled to begin, but I received an error message instead. An hour after logging in also the question paper was not available,” said a Commerce student.In a statement released on Tuesday evening, examination authorities said the error was due to technical glitch.“We are in touch with the software company and they are still trying to find out the exact reason behind this error. We are sure the remaining papers will be conducted smoothly,” said Vinod Malale, deputy registrar (public relations). MU this year has opted for a Singapore-based software company called LittleMORE Innovation Labs to conduct exams online. This same problem occurred on Saturday as well, when IDOL conducted its first paper and several students ended up missing the exam due to similar technical glitches. The same exams have now been rescheduled to the second week of October. For exams postponed on October 6, a rescheduled timetable is yet to be announced.By Tuesday evening, members of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) objected to the continued problems faced by students during the examination and demanded that all exams be postponed until the technical glitches resolved. “Firstly, the university should postpone all IDOL exams until the software problem is solved. The varsity should also consider terminating services of the software company for creating so much confusion and anxiety among the student community,” said a statement released by MNS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyber-attack-on-server-delays-mumbai-university-s-idol-course-exams/story-LQSsJwiw5w1F0gNgrpAtgM.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College mulls virtual convocation this year||The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) this year may hold its annual convocation for the graduating students virtually.PEC in its last senate meeting had decided that the dean, alumni, will conduct a survey of graduating students on their willingness to attend a virtual convocation, and in case a majority agrees, the date will be decided by the chairman of senate.The members had observed that amid the pandemic, it was not possible to hold a physical event to award degrees to 850 students—630 graduates, 200 postgraduates and 20 PhD scholars.Earlier this year, PEC had also decided not to conduct examinations for the UG outgoing batch (semester eight), and instead of grading them, to declare them ‘pass’ or ‘fail’ on the basis of their performance till March. The deadline for thesis submission for PG students was also extended.Director of PEC, Dheeraj Sanghi, said, “Students have different perspectives; some are of the view that a virtual convocation should be held this year. A survey of graduating students will be conducted to know their opinion.”In the PEC senate meeting, it was also proposed that degrees may be distributed to those students who are in urgent need of them or in very special circumstances, with the approval of the dean, academic affairs, and with a forward date of November 7, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-mulls-virtual-convocation-this-year/story-AxNA5L9AucQAmhvKAW9BoI.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: ED arrests two senior officials of Cox & Kings||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested Anil Khandelwal, chief financial officer (CFO) and Naresh Jain, internal auditor of global tours and travel company Cox and Kings Group (CKG) in connection with alleged money laundering linked to Yes Bank case and its founder Rana Kapoor. Confirming the development a ED official said that the two have been arrested under section 19 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). Both accused were produced before the special judge (PMLA) and were granted seven days of ED custody.”Earlier in June, the ED had raided five premises belonging to senior management of CKG.On March 8, ED had arrested Yes Bank’s founder Rana Kapoor, who is currently in judicial custody. The agency has been scanning the transactions made by the bank to its borrowers. “During the investigation, irregularities were also noticed in relation to the loan sanctioned to CKG. The group had created multiple layers of onshore and offshore subsidiary across the globe, through which the monies were siphoned off,” said an ED officer.According to ED statement, during investigation, it surfaced that Yes Bank had total outstanding of ₹3,642 crore in respect of Cox & Kings Group of Companies. CKG forged it’s consolidated financials by manipulating the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries. In addition, some board resolutions submitted to banks for sanctioning the loans were also found to be forged. The investigation also revealed that the loan sanctioned from Yes bank was driven by then CMD Rana Kapoor and was given bypassing the norms. ED gathered the evidence regarding clear instructions of Rana Kapoor to the concerned bank officials to get the said loan continued and not to take efforts to recover it.The probe has also revealed that during the fiscal year 2015 to the fiscal year 2019, sales of ₹3,908 crore was made to 15 non-existent/fictitious customers. Majority of the collection shown in ledgers from Ezeego (another group entity of CKG ) was not found in the bank statements. Also, there are fictitious 15 high-value debtors reflected in the books of accounts. Another 147 sets of customers also appeared to be suspicious and not existent. The Cox & King Limited (CKL) has diverted ₹1,100 crore to another stressed company without any approval of board which has no business relationship with the company, the agency said in a release.Khandelwal and Jain also acquired the mortgaged property amounting to ₹63 crore in their business entity Reward Business Solutions without paying a penny from their pocket.The investigation further revealed that Khandelwal and Jain purchased various immovable properties from the funds diverted from CKG. It further revealed that from Ezeego, ₹150 crore were diverted to Redkite Capital Private Limited which was promoted by family members of Khandelwal and Jain. Investigators have found that the bank transactions of Cox and King Group are not matching with the books of accounts and Khandelwal & Jain creating disparities between the books of accounts and the bank statements to camouflage the fraud.During the seven-day custody, ED officials intend to grill the two in relation to the irregularities and collect more evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-ed-arrests-two-senior-officials-of-cox-kings/story-FX9Ji2zHyddE31j3wRQVQN.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets India’s first wood anatomical database for mangrove tree species||Maharashtra has become the first state in India to undertake forensic timber identification of mangrove tree species for enhanced conservation of the salt-tolerant coastal trees.The Institute of Wood Sciences and Technology (IWST), Bengaluru, has come up with a first-of-its-kind study for developing an inventory of wood anatomy of mangrove species along the Maharashtra coast. The Mangrove Foundation and state mangrove cell of the forest department sanctioned the report this week. Stem and branch wood samples from 17 species from 12 genera belonging to nine families collected from Mumbai (Daravali, Madh), Navi Mumbai (Airoli), Panvel and eight locations at Sindhudurg along the state’s coastline were studied for various anatomical and physical properties.“Owing to lack of information on mangrove wood anatomy, identification of the cut wood or those spotted on encroached forest land poses a real challenge to the mangrove cell and other enforcement agencies. However, with this database, we will now have a strong tool and proof to verify the type of trees up to the species level,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell).N Mohan Karnat, former director, IWST and co-investigator of the project said, “This is exactly like the forensic analysis or DNA fingerprints for humans wherein even a small piece of wood can now be easily traced back to which species it is.”Maharashtra is home to 20 mangrove species spread over 320 sq km across six districts with close to 50% mangrove forests under government land declared as reserved forests while remaining areas fall under private land. Though mangroves are protected under various forest laws and the Bombay high court’s 2018 order banning the destruction of the trees, isolated cases of mangrove hacking, illegal transportation of timber, and encroachment on mangrove land are regularly reported.“Mangrove woods are illegally cut and used as fuelwood in many coastal areas,” said Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell) adding, “Due to limited information on wood anatomy of mangrove species, it becomes difficult to identify and differentiate them from non-mangrove species or mangrove associates in case of legal issues or during the basic investigation.”Apart from firewood, they are used for boat building, brick-burning and to make poles for various purposes including aquaculture among other uses. Tree barks are used in tanning industries since mangrove tree barks are rich in tannin.S Shashikala, project investigator, IWST explained that the wood structure varies for different species depending on the proportions, size and distribution of various cell elements like vessels, fibres, parenchyma and rays. “Our study not only helped to build an identification tool database but also helped to understand how the woody material could be used for value-added utilisation based on physical properties,” she said.For example, the wood of grey mangrove (Avicennia marina) and Indian mangrove (Avicennia officinalis) were anatomically inseparable except for different ray (cellular structures) heights. “Similarly, river mangrove (Aegiceras corniculatum) can be distinguished from other species by its small vessel size and higher vessel frequency, and woods of the Rhizophoreacea family (Rhizophora, Bruguiera, Ceriops) can be distinguished from other mangrove species by the presence of scalariform perforations in vessels,” said Shashikala adding that samples collected from Sindhudurg showed higher wood density and lower shrinkage (by volume) compared to wood from Thane or Mumbai districts.Data generated through this project is being summarised in the form of a book - Hand Book of Mangroves of Maharashtra: Morphology and Wood Anatomy – which is under publication. “Apart from identifying the cut mangrove wood, this study also provides a base for several researchers to understand the internal changes in the cell structure of mangrove wood due to changes in several environmental factors such as high salinity, lack of oxygen in sediment, diurnal tidal inundation etc.,” said Sheetal Pachpande, assistant director (projects), Mangrove Foundation and co-author of the book.Along with wood anatomical studies, other tools like molecular, DNA and chemical marker database are also to be used in forensic discrimination of timber species. “Following Maharashtra’s approach, other coastal states need to implement this in the advent of climate change and mangroves being the first line of defence,” said Karnat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gets-india-s-first-wood-anatomical-database-for-mangrove-tree-species/story-7oArPFseldatOvbQNv0A2I.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Cheating case: HC stays criminal proceedings stayed against Oyo top management||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed criminal proceedings against the Oyo management. The court acted on the plea of Oyo Hotels and Homes Private Limited (OHHPL) after an FIR was registered against them at the Dera Bassi police station on September 11 on the complaint of a Chandigarh businessman.Complainant Vikas Gupta had alleged that the OHHPL top management wriggled out of an agreement with him illegally and with criminal intent. The police had booked Oyo founder Ritesh Agarwal and Sandeep Lodha, CEO of OHHPL’s brand Weddingz.in, for alleged fraud and conspiracy. In court, they had argued that the dispute is purely civil in nature and the criminal case is an abuse of the process of law. While Gupta had alleged that fearing losses amid Covid, OHHPL ended a contract, Oyo is arguing in court that differences with the other party were over the appointment of an arbitrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cheating-case-hc-stays-criminal-proceedings-stayed-against-oyo-top-management/story-xl3K1f1HXu35CdPQz7mlsI.html
07-10-2020||City||Graft: Mohali SSP suspends Lalru SHO||The Mohali police department on Tuesday suspended the Lalru station house officer, who has been accused of seeking ₹3.28-lakh bribe from a trader.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said that after receiving a written complaint, he had called SHO Gurcharan Singh to his office, but he failed to turn up, following which the suspension orders were issued.The complainant stated that he makes garlands of currency notes for weddings, and gets new notes from Delhi through government bus drivers. On Monday, the SHO stopped a bus and detained the driver and conducter carrying the consignment, even as they had valid receipts. Later, the cop allegedly demanded ₹3.28 lakh to release them.“We have initiated a departmental inquiry,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graft-mohali-ssp-suspends-lalru-sho/story-9dG5PPb7WuXGbOB1Q1iLTN.html
07-10-2020||City||People who sought farmers’ votes are signing their death warrants: Abhay||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Tuesday staged a protest against the newly enacted three farm legislations across its 14 headquarters in Haryana. INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala led the protest march in Sirsa and Fatehabad, while his son Arjun Chautala remained at the forefront in Bhiwani. The INLD leaders submitted memorandums to deputy commissioners in the name of President Ram Nath Kovind and Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya.Interacting with mediapersons in Sirsa, Abhay said the central government imposed three bills on farmers without their consent.“These three bills were introduced to hand over the farmers’ land and agriculture market to few crony capitalists. Instead of implementing the recommendations of Swaminathan Commission, the Union government forced these three farm laws on farmers. Those (Dushyant) who had sought the votes from farming community are now favouring these death warrants,” he added.The Ellenabad legislator said the ruling BJP-JJP state government cannot underestimate the anger of the farming community and people will teach them a lesson at the right time.“In coming days, the ruling party leaders will have to visit any village with cavalry, otherwise people will not allow them to enter. I am surprised few persons, who claim to be well-wishers of the farmers, are standing in the favour of these bills,” Abhay added.He urged his party workers to start canvassing for the Baroda bypoll. “People want to elect our nominee to save the state from the Congress and the BJP-JJP government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-who-sought-farmers-votes-are-signing-their-death-warrants-abhay/story-6yRFRgQSCvbMIk7XpCgTyO.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh employees’ housing scheme: CHB, urban planning dept to iron out differences||To break the deadlock over the new design proposals for the government employees’ housing scheme, Chandigarh Housing Board and the urban planning department will hold a meeting on Wednesday.The urban planning department has so far not accepted the fresh architectural proposals for the scheme, it has been learnt, the main objection being to the planned high-rise buildings.In order to reduce the rates of flats for the scheme, CHB hired a consultancy, which prepared new architectural plans for all possible options. Costing will be done once the design is finalised. Currently, CHB is working on two options: a seven-storey or a 10-storey housing block. “The latter will reduce the land needed for the scheme. As major cost of the project is because of the high price of land, reduction in land requirement will bring down the flats’ cost for applicants. But, so far, the planning department hasn’t agreed to it,” said a CHB official, requesting anonymity. The process to reassess and revise the cost of the project started after the August 19 meeting between the UT administration, employee representatives and the ministry of home affairs officials. The meeting was chaired by the Union home secretary. It was decided that the calculation of rates be made again for different categories of flats by applying various factors, such as floor area ratio, collector rate and plotted area, in consultation with the petitioners in the court case filed by the affected employees.Dr Dharminda, the representative and petitioner on behalf of the employees, said: “We have written to the UT adviser, requesting him to direct CHB to speed up the process of assessing revised prices. CHB had sought two weeks, but even after more than a month and a half, no information has been provided to us.”THE PROJECT: A LONG WAIT CHB was to build around 4,000 flats for government employees in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 as part of a scheme launched in 2008A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around ₹57 croreLater, the scheme was shelved, but revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher But with the ministry of home affairs telling the administration to transfer the land to the CHB at the current collector rates, the prices shot upFrom ₹5.76 lakh to ₹34.7 lakh, depending on the flat category (A-D), the prices reached ₹50 lakh to ₹2.08 croreThe employees then moved the HC alleging that the CHB was charging multiple times the initial price||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-employees-housing-scheme-chb-urban-planning-dept-to-iron-out-differences/story-hjADK6w8GBGW0v5QRpwaAO.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC to mark boundaries of 13 fishing villages in Mumbai’s development plan||In a move that will benefit Mumbai’s fishing villages or koliwadas, whose residents are among the oldest inhabitants of the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to give them representation in the city’s development plan (DP) 2034. The civic body will mark boundaries of 13 koliwadas – Versova, Juhu, Charkop, Chimbai (Bandra) Gorai, Khardanda, Madh, Mahul, Malvani, Manori, Turbhe, Borivli, Bhatti – in DP 2034. Residents of koliwadas and gaothans (erstwhile villages) across Mumbai have been demanding special status for their villages by demarcating their boundaries in DP 2034, since it was sanctioned by BMC and sent to the state government for approval in 2018. Godfrey Pimenta, a city-based lawyer who has been following up with BMC, said, “As BMC had not marked boundaries of gaothans and koliwadas, they were considered slum settlements and could be redeveloped under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) schemes. With our follow-ups, now all gaothans and koliwadas will be marked in DP.” Koliwadas have characteristically small houses with narrow winding lanes. Without special mentions in DP, redevelopment would be challenging. If categorised as slum settlements, developers would get a higher floor space index (FSI) of 4, which determines how tall a building can be built on any land. BMC’s move comes a few months after it created Special Development Control Rules (SDCR) for gaothans and koliwadas, which gives them the freedom to decide what to do with their settlements, whether to preserve them, or opt for self-redevelopment or tie up with a developer, in which case they also have the option to sell excess inventory of flats in the market. BMC has now called for suggestions and objections for demarcating boundaries of these 13 koliwadas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-mark-boundaries-of-13-fishing-villages-in-mumbai-s-development-plan/story-KKdlEG3zvUr1u6SP9zxQ4L.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll: Screening panel to clear proposals for EC nod||The Haryana government has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary Vijai Vardhan to screen government proposals before sending them to the Election Commission (EC) in view of the imposition of model code of conduct. The model code of conduct came into force on September 29 in the entire Sonepat district following the announcement of bypoll for Baroda assembly constituency. The code of conduct is applicable to both the state and central governments, besides all political parties and candidates. The screening committee will consist of administrative secretary of the department concerned to which the proposal relates and principal secretary, general administration. The committee will examine each proposal before sending it to EC through the chief electoral officer. The proposals cleared by the screening committee will be submitted through cVIGIL app along with full details and a note on why the proposal can’t wait till completion of the bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baroda-bypoll-screening-panel-to-clear-proposals-for-ec-nod/story-IFdWEqgJKasljBWii0zsKK.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP corporators pulled up after their votes for Mumbai civic panel polls turn invalid||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to two of its corporators, Bindu Trivedi and Yogita Koli, seeking an explanation, after their votes to elect the chairperson of the education committee on Monday became invalid. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP’s group leader in BMC, confirmed the development. Both the corporators, who are members of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s education committee, raised their hands in support of the BJP candidate Surekha Patil, but signed against the name of Sena’s Sandhya Doshi, owing to which their votes were counted as invalid. When any member takes a dual stand, their vote is considered invalid during the counting. Trivedi and Koli said the error happened as their masks created moisture on their spectacles and hence they could not see the ballot paper clearly. Before the voting for committee elections takes place, the group leader of each political party issues a whip to the party corporators about voting, which every member is expected to follow. In the 26-member committee, Sena bagged 13 votes, while BJP managed to get only seven for the post. The BJP, which has nine members in the education committee, was expecting to get all the nine votes, but lost two of them after their candidates signed against the Sena candidate’s name. Four members of the Congress abstained from voting after their candidate Sangeeta Handore withdrew her candidature, while one member each of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) voted for the Sena to keep the BJP away from the power. When contacted Trivedi, BJP’s corporator from Ghatkopar, she said, “I am a party worker from the past 25 years. I had raised my hand for the BJP candidate, but there was a mistake on my part while signing. This was because a lot of moisture had developed on my spectacles, as I was wearing a mask.” Patil, BJP’s Malad corporator, also had the same explanation. “It was not done deliberately, but was a genuine mistake and I will submit my reply over it,” she said. On Monday, Sena also won the post of the standing committee chairperson after Yashwant Jadhav won the seat for the third time. On Tuesday, Sena’s Sadanand Parab won for the elections for the chairperson’s post for the 26-member improvement committee after securing 13 votes. BJP’s Vinod Mishra bagged nine votes. Congress’s Javed Juneja withdrew his candidature and three members of the Congress abstained from voting, even as one BJP member was absent. Meanwhile, in the 17-member Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), Shiv Sena’s Pravin Shinde received eight votes for the chairperson’s post, while BJP candidate Prakash Gangadhare bagged eight votes. Congress’s Ravi Raja withdrew his candidature and abstained from voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-corporators-pulled-up-by-party-after-their-votes-for-mumbai-civic-panel-polls-turn-invalid-duo-claim-they-were-unable-to-see-names-because-of-masks/story-z4eL6xiuJwwam7MLvl3gyL.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Six succumb, 246 test +ve in Chandigarh tricity||Six more people died of Covid-19, while 246 tested positive in the tricity on Tuesday.In Chandigarh, three men, aged 31, 61, and 76, from Ram Darbar, Sector 44 and Sector 21, respectively, died, taking the toll to 180. The number of infections reached 12,707, as 129 people tested positive, with the maximum 12 in Sector 46.As 238 patients were discharged, the number of recoveries and active cases reached 11,035 and 1,492, respectively. Two women, in their early 60s, from Sector 20 and Raipur Rani died in Panchkula, while 54 people tested positive. The district has reported 6,318 cases so far, of which only 525 remain active, as 5,696 patients have recovered and 97 succumbed.In Mohali district, a 70-year-old man was the lone casualty. Meanwhile, 63 fresh cases were reported, including 42 from Mohali city.As many as 11,026 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 9,508 have recovered, including 176 discharged on Tuesday, and 201 have died, leaving 1,317 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-six-succumb-246-test-ve-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-F1MZ8DFIHRAQWUyozYCyTN.html
07-10-2020||City||Police turn water cannons on protesting farmers in Sirsa||Police on Tuesday resorted to using water cannons and tear gas to disperse the farmers heading towards the houses of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and his grand uncle Ranjit Chautala in Sirsa, seeking their resignation from the Manohar Lal Khattar government over the recently enacted three farm legislations. Situation turned tense when few protesters sustained injuries after some ‘unidentified’ persons pelted them with stones. A stand-off continued for three hours between the police and protesters. “A former BJP leader, who fought election as an Independent from Sirsa, tried to break the barricades and defame our agitation. The police failed to take any action against him,” said Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, who in the evening sat on an indefinite dharna near Dushyant’s house. Bharatiya Kisan union (BKU) state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Baljit Singh Daduwal also took part in the daytime march, which was stopped by the police near Dushyant’s house in the heart of Sirsa city. Heavy force was deployed in Sirsa city and 12 deputy commissioners were tasked with maintaining law and order. Few protesters also said that they were canecharged, a claim denied by the police. Swaraj India chief said farmers from two dozen organisations had taken part in the protest to seek the resignations of Dushyant and Ranjit, who is also the state power and jails minister in the BJP-JJP government. “The farmers have clearly asked the duo to choose whether they want to stay with them or the BJP government in Haryana. They can enjoy power for four years if they opt for the BJP, but the upcoming generations of farmers will never forgive them for supporting these death warrants,” he added.Meanwhile, Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, also reached Sirsa, but the farmers’ unions urged him not to share the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-turn-water-cannons-on-protesting-farmers-in-sirsa/story-spS4Se2eqXDg5HlsA6B9oJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Transportation of grains from Punjab comes to a halt as farmers continue blockade of railway tracks||The transportation of foodgrains from Punjab to other states has come to a standstill with the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agriculture laws blocking nearly all the major rail routes in the state. The situation is such that grain stocks in the state are piling up with the stock of rice and wheat touching 215 lakh tonne. It would be a tough task for the state agencies to manage the pile-up as fresh paddy crop, for which the procurement has already begun, is already reaching the storage points. Nearly 170 lakh tonne paddy is expected to arrive in the mandis for procurement in October and November. Currently, 147 lakh tonne wheat and 68 lakh tonne rice is stored in the state’s godowns. “Since the farmers are blocking 35 major rail routes in the state, it is tough for us to reach the storage points,” said an officer of Food Corporation of India (FCI). “Before the farmers’ protests began on September 24, the FCI was booking 35 freight trains carrying wheat and paddy from Punjab to other states daily. One train carries 2,600 tonnes. But now, not more than 2-3 trains are moving out. At times, there is none,” he added. “Hopefully, the movement of grains will resume once the protests are lifted,” said director (food and civil supplies) Anindita Mitra. PSPCL raises an alarm over depleting coal stockThe Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has raised an alarm that the coal supply in three privately owned thermal power plants at Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib would last only 5 to 6 days. “The PSPCL-owned plants at Lehra Mohabbut and Rupnagar have sufficient supplies,” said Jatinder Goyal, who holds charge of director generation. “A large number of trains carrying coal are in transit and are parked outside Punjab. These trains would reach the thermal stations once the farmers remove blockade from the railway tracks,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/transportation-of-grains-from-punjab-comes-to-a-halt-as-farmers-continue-blockade-of-railway-tracks/story-s9ObzA0QvLo8ExFInb6KAO.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Qualifying criteria lowered this year, more students to aim for IITs||With the cut-offs in the Joint Entrance Examination Advanced (JEE Advanced) lowered across categories, more students have become eligible for admissions to premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) this year. Registrations to Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) 2020 begin at 10am Tuesday, and the first seat allotment list will be released on October 17, 2020.As per information shared by IIT-Delhi, the organising institute for 2020, the total number of students who qualified for admissions this year stands at 43,204 as compared to 38,705 students who qualified for admissions last year.The cut-off for the general category has been reduced to 17.5% from last year’s 25%, while that for scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) is 8.75%, down from last year’s 12.5%. The qualifying score for the general-EWS and OBC-NCL categories is at 15.75% this year, lower than the 22.5% last year.This year, the total intake capacity of 23 IITs has risen by 2,500 seats. From 13,583 last year, the intake capacity stands at 16,053 this year. In 2018, the intake capacity across IITs stood at 11,279.Last year too, the qualifying criteria was lowered by 5-10% in every category. A senior official from Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) 2019 has confirmed that the reason behind lowering cut-offs in 2019 was a request from the Centre to qualify at least twice the number of students than the number of seats. “Every year seats in IITs go vacant even after seven-seat allocation rounds, so for the past two years, IITs have been trying to include more students in the seat allocation rounds to give more students a chance at vying for the same seat,” said the official on condition of anonymity.In a press statement released on Monday, IIT -Delhi confirmed that of the 1.5 lakh students who appeared for the exam on September 27, around 43,204 had qualified. This includes 18,028 in the general/open category, 9,349 in the other backward class-non creamy layer (OBC-NCL) category, 5,140 in general economically weaker section (GEN-EWS) category, 7,869 and 2,818 in scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) categories respectively.Of the total students who qualified for the exam, 36,497 are male candidates and 6,707 are female candidates.“Criteria for inclusion in the rank list depends on the aggregate marks of a student calculated on the basis of marks obtained in mathematics, physics and chemistry. Candidates have to satisfy the subject-wise as well as the aggregate qualifying marks to be included in a rank list,” highlighted the statement released by IIT-Delhi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/qualifying-criteria-lowered-this-year-more-students-to-aim-for-iits/story-7Cvsvx2haCzE5RwUJQsTQP.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Hathras case: Women leaders ask Maharashtra home minister to bring law similar to Disha Act||In the backdrop of the horrific rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, and the recently released data by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), politicians and organisations have demanded for more proactive steps from the government to bring down the crime rate. Apart from enactment of the much-promised law to fast track justice in cases of crimes against women within 21 days on the lines of Andhra Pradesh’s Disha Act, the stakeholders, during a meeting with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday also demanded for installation of CCTVs, a dedicated police force at local level and speedier action in cybercrimes. Deshmukh met elected women representatives, officer-bearers of women cells of ruling parties and organisations representing women on Tuesday to discuss steps to be taken to keep cases of crime against women in check. During the meeting, the home department made a presentation and stated that Maharashtra ranked eighth in the country in crimes against women, though it was the second largest populous state. “According to the presentation made by the police department before us, the recently released NCRB data has revealed that Maharashtra has the third most number of rape cases in the country, but in overall cases of crimes against women, the state ranks eighth. The conviction rate in these cases has improved in the past few years and the number of cases has reduced. The number of the women police personnel and officials deployed is on the rise, the department said during the presentation. The women representatives gave their suggestions and demanded that they be implemented in a time-bound manner,” said an official from the department, who was present at the meeting. Some of the prominent politicians who attended the meeting were Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) parliamentarian Supriya Sule, legislative Council’s deputy chairperson Neelam Gorhe, Congress’s women wing chief Charulata Tokas and Shiv Sena legislators Manisha Kayande and Yamini Jadhav. In response to the demand for a law on the lines of the Disha Act, Deshmukh said that the draft is ready and being studied by the sub-committee appointed for it. He said that the bill would be introduced at the earliest. Gorhe demanded for suo motu action by the police in cybercrimes against women. “The police should take suo motu action on objectionable materials on social media hurting the dignity of women. Section 66A of the Information Technology Act dealing with cybercrimes should be made non-bailable. Immediate assistance and guidance in cases of rape, domestic violence and molestation is important and dedicated contact numbers and email ids of the senior officers should be published for such cases,” she said. Some of the leaders called for the constitution of protection committees in local bodies and more recruitment of women in the police force. “We were told that there are 29,000 women in the state police force of 2.33 lakh personnel. Deshmukh said that their endeavour is to take the percentage of the women personnel to 30% to match the reserved positions meant in recruitments. We were also told that police help can be reached within 10 minutes on complaints made to the dedicated helpline – 112,” said Vidya Chavan, former legislator from NCP. Tokas said that she has called for the inclusion of the information about the legal remedies in the crime against women in school and college syllabus. During the meeting Vishwas Nangare Patil, joint police commissioner (law and order), Mumbai, shared his experience of how police’s special squads in plain clothes were deputed to nab offenders, at spots with high cases of eve-teasing in Nashik, where he served as commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hathras-case-women-leaders-ask-maharashtra-home-minister-to-bring-law-similar-to-disha-act-call-for-speedier-action-in-cybercrimes-more-cctvs/story-lTB0wIfOAEr35iLsgUmnYN.html
07-10-2020||City||320 Punjab gram sabhas, panchayats pass resolutions against Centre’s new farm laws||More than 320 gram sabhas and panchayats in Punjab have passed resolutions against the new agriculture laws enacted by the Central government, reveal the official figures till October 5. While a gram sabha is an assembly of the village voters to discuss the local governance and development issues, a panchayat is an elected body headed by sarpanch and panchayat members. The 31 farmers unions and labourer unions leading the agitation against the Centre’s move had urged the village panchayats to pass such resolutions. There were more than 13,000 panchayats across the state. The maximum resolutions were passed in the Ludhiana district (80), followed by Kapurthala (50), Sangrur (40), Mansa (24) and Faridkot (10) among othersBut not many gram sabhas passed resolutions in the Majha region.In the resolutions, the gram sabhas termed the agriculture laws as anti-farmer as growers will be forced to sell their produce to private traders who will pay them less.In its resolution, the Dhurkot gram sabhas in Faridkot district said they will intensify the stir if the Centre does not repeal the laws and also urged to boycott the Reliance Group fuel stations. It announced to impose Rs 2,000 fine on those not adhering to the diktat.Gurmail Singh, sarpanch of Gharanchon village in Sangrur district, said they will send the resolution to the Central government to convey their displeasure over the new legislations. Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said people have the right to express their sentiments against the new laws. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said these resolutions will motivate those protesting against the Narendra Modi government. “There have been instances when the higher courts took suo moto cognisance of resolution passed by the panchayats,” Jagmohan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/320-punjab-gram-sabhas-panchayats-pass-resolutions-against-centre-s-new-farm-laws/story-YN3B7Unt2QOutX6JH2szVK.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Coversion of parks into residential complex: Citizens have fundamental right to fresh air, says HC||Slug: ‘Right to fresh air’ The Punjab and Haryana high court, while observing that citizens have fundamental right to fresh air, stayed Haryana government’s approval to Faridabad municipal corporation to convert two public parks measuring 7.5 acres into residential complexes. The HC bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice HS Sidhu observed that the ecology and environment of the area would be affected drastically if the parks are converted into residential area. “The residents of the society have a fundamental right to free air and enjoy the public amenities. It was expected from the respondents to evict the illegal encroachers from the public land instead of nullifying the orders passed by this court from time to time by converting the park into residential areas. The respondents are bound to preserve and save the open spaces. Every citizen has a fundamental right to fresh air,” it said. The bench was responding to a plea by Jan Kalyan Samiti, a local society from the town, which had alleged that two public parks in NIT Faridabad were encroached upon and slums, houses, and workshops came up in an unauthorised manner. In 2006, the HC was approached, which directed to clear the area. However, instead of that, the government decided to build residential complexes in that area, the counsel, Deepender Singh, said. The HC, while seeking response by November 19 and asking authorities not to proceed further, observed that it is evident that parks were carved out as per the master plan. However, with the passage of time, these were encroached upon and authorities, instead of clearing it as directed by the court, opted to convert parks into residential areas. With this, both government approval to convert park into residential areas and further action of local MC inviting objections, have been stayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coversion-of-parks-into-residential-complex-citizens-have-fundamental-right-to-fresh-air-says-hc/story-gFL4a7ghWzUOh75t96m3uJ.html
07-10-2020||City||Technical snag at Nallasopara delays Mumbai local train services on western line||A snag in the overhead equipment (OHE) near Nallasopara resulted in the disruption of local train services on the Western line on Tuesday morning.The snag occurred on the pantograph of the Jammu Tawi-Bandra Terminus parcel express heading towards Mumbai, Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer of Western Railway said.The incident was reported at 6.30am and the snag was resolved by 1.50pm.As the problem in the overhead wires occurred on the fast line, train services were diverted to the slow lines. There were no cancellations of suburban local trains but several services witnessed a delay.“Due to the OHE problem on fast line between Nallasopara and Virar, trains are running on up local line between Virar and Vasai Road railway stations. The other three lines are fully operative. Restoration work is in full swing and the up line is expected to be restored in 3 hours,” the Western Railway tweeted.A long-distance train, Ghazipur- Bandra Terminus (BDTS) was held up at Nallasopara on platform 4 from 6.35pm owing to the glitch. The other long-distance parcel trains were diverted on the slow local lines’ route and passengers were informed about all diversions through announcements, said Thakur. The zonal railway has formed a committee to determine the cause for the snag.Western Railway operates 506 local train services for employees working in essential services everyday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tech-snag-at-nallasopara-delays-mumbai-local-train-services-on-western-line/story-NVahGwuVWJYolG0Og4MRRK.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Stray dog attacks pensioner outside DC office in Chandigarh||A 74-year-old man was attacked and bitten on the leg by a stray dog outside the deputy commissioner’s office in Sector 17 on Tuesday.Identified as Kabool Chand, a retired employee of the UT health department, the victim was getting an affidavit prepared when the incident took place.The city has been witnessing a rapid increase in stray dog population from 7,847 in 2012 to 12,900 in 2019. The number of dog bite cases has also gone up by 35% in the last five years, according to data available with the MC.The victim’s daughter, Nisha, who was accompanying him, said: “We were getting an affidavit prepared at a notary near the DC office. A pack of half a dozen stray dogs was sitting nearby. Suddenly, one of them attacked my father and bit him on his leg. He fell on the ground and started to bleed profusely from the deep wound in his leg. I rushed him to the dispensary in Sector 22, but he kept bleeding.”Notably, on Tuesday, the MC started stray dog sterilisation drive after a gap of more than a year. The contract with the previous firm had ended in September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stray-dog-attacks-pensioner-outside-dc-office-in-chandigarh/story-XmacJYOWMW5F37yTV48KzJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure 100% waste segregation by Oct 31: NGT panel to Chandigarh MC||A panel set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the municipal corporation to fully implement the segregation of waste collected from door to door in Chandigarh by October 31.The panel has also directed the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) to submit a compliance report on the issue.Confirming the development, Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCC, said, “Directing the MC to implement door-to-door waste segregation in all wards by October 31, the panel has asked us to submit a report in the first week of November on whether the civic body has done so or not.”The NGT, earlier this year, had entrusted the Justice Pritam Pal panel with reviewing solid waste management in Chandigarh and overseeing compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules 2016.Also, the MC had been directed to ensure 100% waste segregation in the city by June 2020, which could not be implemented amid the pandemic.Poor track recordNotably, Chandigarh failed to break into the top 10 in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings mainly because of poor waste management.The MC has a poor track record in waste collection, segregation and processing. More than 5 lakh tonne legacy waste is dumped at the Dadumajra dumping ground, and an additional 25,000 tonne is lying at the processing plant there. The lack of waste segregation at source was one of the major disputes between the MC and the private firm that was earlier running the plant.The civic body had drawn a lot of flak after a report of the Centre for Science and Environment on Solid Waste Management released by the Swachh Bharat Mission revealed that the MC had claimed 100% waste segregation at source in 24 of the 26 wards in the city.The report stated that against 479 tonne waste produced in the city in a day, 455 tonne was processed daily. However, in reality, only 120 tonne is being processed.‘Segregation to start soon’MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “Our plan is to start segregation by the end of this month. As soon as we get 390 additional waste segregation vehicles, we will begin 100% segregation at source. A meeting of the Chandigarh Smart City Limited board has been scheduled for October 15 to finalise it.”Currently, the civic body has 100 waste segregation vehicles, but many of these couldn’t be used because the segregation drive failed to kick off in many sectors.“The NGT panel has its own deadlines, but if we face practical problems, we explain the situation to them,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ensure-100-waste-segregation-by-oct-31-ngt-panel-to-chandigarh-mc/story-9144dfLUSYZWiWYIx0D7VK.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land acquisition case: CBI asked to withdraw lookout notice for ex-Haryana officer’s son||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to withdraw the lookout notice issued for Kartik Tayal, son of a former Haryana bureaucrat who is being probed in infamous Manesar land acquisition case. The notice was issued in 2017. Kartik is son of Murari Lal Tayal, who, along with former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, has been named by CBI in the scam. Allegations are that their action caused wrongful loss of nearly ₹1,500 crore to the land owners in four villages, including Manesar in Gurugram, while availing a windfall gain for themselves and several real-estate builders. Kartik, too, was named in the FIR as accused. He had told the court that he had to go abroad for medical treatment and the lookout notice is ‘fettering’ his right to travel abroad. It was also told that he has not been arrested till date and has joined the investigation whenever called to do so. The court observed that the conditions for lookout notice, such as preventing arrest, are not met in the case in hand and Kartik has gone abroad and returned on six occasions. The continuation of a lookout notice for more than three years against the petitioner is a violation of his fundamental right to life and personal liberty, the court said, asking CBI to withdraw the same. However, Kartik was asked to furnish an undertaking before the investigating officer concerned that he would present himself whenever required by the investigating agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-acquisition-case-cbi-asked-to-withdraw-lookout-notice-for-ex-haryana-officer-s-son/story-2G2ESYiJccHar6kKipx3YI.html
07-10-2020||City||Thane teacher dies of Covid-19, relative alleges school forced her to report to work despite she being unwell||A 46-year-old teacher from a private school in Naupada, Thane, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday morning. Her family has alleged that her health deteriorated because the authorities of the school where she was employed forced her to report to work despite the woman being unwell. In August, the teacher was tested positive for the virus. After she recovered, the school principal insisted her to report to work, owing to which she fell ill again in September and died of Covid-19 said her relative. “She is survived by her husband and three children – the youngest being a 15-year- old. Her husband conducts private tuitions, which is not running well since the lockdown was imposed. For the family, she was the sole earning member. Due to the insistence of the school to report to duty, she could not recover completely. She was also on Covid-19 survey duty for three months and had hardly received any rest or care,” said the relative. Despite various attempts, the school principal was not available for comment. However, one of the teachers from the school said, “As soon as the authorities came to know that she was tested positive, they put up a notice that the school will remain shut for 10 days. As per the announcement, we have to report to work from October 12. But there is no pending work in school and we can conduct online classes from home.” The Maharashtra Shikshan Kranti Sanghatana, a group for school employees, has requested the state to register a case of culpable homicide against the school authorities for the teacher’s death. “Despite the work-from-home guidelines, the teachers, who had completed the Covid-19 survey duty, was forced to go to school regularly. Even if they did not have any official work, the teachers had to be present in schools for conducting online classes. These teachers would make travel by public transport to reach their respective schools, posing a health risk for the entire staff. Hence, we demand a case of culpable homicide against the school,” said Sudhir Ghagas, secretary of the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-teacher-dies-of-covid-19-relative-alleges-school-forced-her-to-report-to-work-despite-she-being-unwell/story-BLmyLA0ZWEdwpZPoEWNgGP.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||Child marriages in Maharashtra surge by 78.3% amid lockdown as families reel under poverty||The Covid-19 pandemic has had an adverse repercussion on the lives of hundreds of teenage girls across Maharashtra. Data from the state’s women and child development (WCD) department has revealed that child marriages in the state have increased by 78.3% until September this year as compared to the same period in 2019. Last year, WCD had managed to stop 120 child marriages in the state. This year, the department has rescued 214 teenage girls from marriage. Experts have attributed the spike to the growing poverty owing to the lockdown imposed to control the spread of the virus, which has forcing girls out of schools and into work or marriage. “Child marriage is considered as one of the reasons for early pregnancy and malnutrition among children. We have instructed the child protection committees to be more vigilant about such incidences,” said the state WCD secretary IA Kundan. Activists believe that the numbers are just the tip of the iceberg, as numerous ceremonies have gone unreported owing to the strict lockdown measures, limitations on gatherings and law enforcement bodies such as the police being busy on Covid-19 and lockdown-related duties. According to the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, child marriage is illegal in India and the marriage of girls below 18 years and boys below 21 is a punishable offence. The maximum number of cases has been reported from 17 districts of the state – Beed, Jalna, Aurangabad, Parbhani, Hingoli, Nanded, Ahmednagar, Latur, Buldhana, Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, Solapur, Osmanabad, Kolhapur, Sangli and Washim. In June, the state government imposed a 50-people cap on wedding receptions, which made ceremonies extremely economical for poor farmers. It has been observed that since then, the incidents of child marriage have surged. Until June, there were 76 child marriage cases that were reported, but in the following three months, 138 new incidents were reported. “Though farmers are poor, they spend most of their savings on marrying off their daughters as per social demands. As it became less expensive [owing to the cap on members who can participate in gatherings], farmers are taking advantage of it,” said Sudhir Tupe from non-governmental organisation (NGO) Lokkalyan Charitable Trust in Satara district. He also works with Childline, a pan-India NGO that works for the welfare of children. Since June, Tupe’s organisation alone has received more than 50 tip-offs about child marriages. According to the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), almost half of all child brides worldwide live in South Asia, with one in three being from India. “In India, the median age at first marriage is 19.7 years for women in the richest quintile compared to 15.4 for the poorest women,” states a UNICEF report. This month, another NGO, Save the Children, published a study which stated Covid-19 would globally put 2.5 million more girls at risk of early marriage by 2025. Sanjay Sharma, deputy director-programme management (West) of the NGO, said that due to the lockdown, thousands of migrant workers have gone back to their native places. This has given a wide opportunity to the girls’ families to find prospective grooms. “Due to the fear of spreading the infection, the central government has instructed to close down orphanages. Thus, we had to hand over the girls to their distant relatives who often consider them as unwanted. To shy away from their duties, they are marrying off the girls discreetly,” he said. Maharashtra has a large number of sugarcane factories where many unemployed migrants look for jobs. But factory owners prefer couples over single individuals. “This has become one of the reasons for migrant labourers getting married the girls,” said Sharma. Advocate Varsha Deshpande from the National Commission for Women, who works in Marathwada region, said as migrants have returned, the girls’ fathers are getting them married for their safety and to avoid their daughters falling in love against their wishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-child-marriages-in-maharahtra-surge-by-78-as-families-reel-under-poverty/story-fo3hE2V72YiIj4Gn6wUs0N.html
07-10-2020||City||Farmers of Hindustan know how to fight: Rahul in Kurukshetra||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the newly enacted farm laws will take away the jobs of lakhs of people associated with the mandi system. Terming the new laws a ‘direct attack’ on farmers, the Wayanad MP, during his ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ that reached Haryana’s Kurukshetra in the evening, said, “By enacting these laws, the Prime Minister wants to enable the big corporate houses to take the entire agriculture business over.”“Modi ji, if you think that farmers cannot fight due to the pandemic, you are mistaken. You do not know the farmers of Hindustan. They know how to fight,” said Rahul, who was joined by Haryana’s former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and state Congress unit president Kumari Selja. “Procurement, MSP and food security are interlinked. Entire system will collapse and lakhs of people will be left jobless if this chain is broken,” he added. “If the BJP is to be believed, these bills are supposed to help farmers. Then why the farmers of this country are out on roads, agitating over these bills? Why were these bills introduced during the Covid-19 crisis and why there was no discussion in the parliament?” he asked. ‘Modi is a coward’Firing his final and sharpest salvo before wrapping his visit up, Rahul dubbed PM Narendra Modi a ‘coward’ while attacking him over the India-China standoff in the Ladakh theatre. “India is the only country in the world where army of another country entered, encroached upon its land, and killed its soldiers, but our coward Prime Minister says that there was no infiltration...” he said at a Kurukshetra grain market. “Desh ki zameen hadpi gayi hai aur yeh (prime minister) apne aap ko deshbhakt kehte hain,” he quipped. The former Congress president, who also visited Jyotisar and offered prayers, said, “This PM didn’t even know the strength of Indian Army, Indian farmers and labourers. He only focuses on building his image.” ‘Will repeal these laws within 10 days of coming in power’Rahul assured the farmers that these three laws will be abolished within 10 days of formation of the Congress government. He said during six years’ rule, Modi government not only failed to do anything for the poor, “but also inflicted several wounds in the form of demonetisation, GST and now, these farm bills”. Earlier, Rahul accused PM Modi of wasting taxpayers’ money. He said that PM Modi bought the Air India One because he saw that his friend US President Donald Trump has the Air Force One. Convoy stopped at Haryana borderHigh drama was witnessed on the Haryana-Punjab border from where Rahul Gandhi’s convoy was set to enter the state. Haryana Police stopped the Congress leaders and supporters, citing the ban on gathering of more than 100 people. “They have stopped us on a bridge on the Haryana border. I’m not moving and am happy to wait here. 1 hour, 5 hours, 24 hours, 100 hours, 1000 hours or 5000 hours (sic),” the former Congress president posted on Twitter. A small contingent was, however, allowed to enter Haryana after a protest and sloganeering by Congress workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-of-hindustan-know-how-to-fight-rahul-in-kurukshetra/story-8Jk76SyVjh8mwGICf8C7TM.html
07-10-2020||City||Sero survey: 41-60 age group in Mumbai most exposed to coronavirus||City residents in the age group of 41-60 years have been most exposed to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to results of the second round of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) serological survey conducted in Mumbai in August. The age group is followed by those above 60 years living in slums. Meanwhile, exposure has been the least in case of those older than 60 years who live in non-slums. A sero survey is a study of how many people have antibodies (Immunoglobulin-G) against Sars-Cov-2 in their blood, indicating these people may have been silently infected and recovered, helping map the trend and spread of infection. BMC tested 3,022 slum residents and 2,174 non-slum residents from all age groups, selected randomly from three wards – R-North (Dahisar, Borivli), M-West (Chembur), F-North (Dadar, Matunga, Wadala) – in the second half of August, under round two of the survey. This round revealed that 45% of slum residents and 18% non-slum residents who were tested were exposed to Sars-Cov-2. The earlier round too was conducted in the same three wards in July. The idea is to understand the trend over the months. A civic officer from BMC’s health department said, “Senior citizens living in non-slum areas are hardly venturing out to buy groceries or interact with the community and hence are more protected. Whereas senior citizens who live in slums have shown considerable exposure to the virus, as their homes are small, and people interact with each other. Overall, the age group of people who work, or are more likely to step out for chores, go for a walk, meet friends, is 41-60 years. Also, 25-40 age group has shown increased exposure. In non-slum areas, even those who are less than 24 years of age have shown exposure maybe due to fluidity of movement in the community.” According to the report on results of round two (HT has a copy), the positivity rate of exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in the 41-60 age group in slum residents is the highest at 50.3%. Similarly, in case of non-slum residents, the highest positivity rate is in the same age group, at 18.6%. In case of slum residents, second-highest exposure is seen among those above 60 years (48.2%), followed by 25-40 years (42.2%) and 12-24 years (40.8%). In case of non-slum residents, people in the 41-60 age group are followed by 12-24 age group (18.5%), and 25-40 (16.6%). The exposure in case of senior citizens living in non-slums is 13.2%. Moreover, women have shown marginally more exposure than men – 46.2% of the 1,405 women in slums showed exposure, while 44.4% of the 1,619 men were positive. In case of non-slum residents, 17.6% of the 721 women showed exposure, while 16.7% of the 1,452 men showed exposure. Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 1,625 new cases and 47 deaths due to Covid-19. The total number of cases has now gone up to 217,113, and total deaths to 9,202. Mumbai has 26,003 active cases as of Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sero-survey-41-60-age-group-in-mumbai-most-exposed-to-coronavirus/story-UnLcJdRLPFVLuwOiXpeQ6I.html
07-10-2020||Mumbai||12,258 new Covid cases in Maharashtra; tally 1,465,911, toll 38,717||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 12,258 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, taking the tally to 1,465,911 in the state. The state also reported 370 deaths, pushing the toll to 38,717.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,625 fresh infections in the city, taking its tally to 217,113. Mumbai also reported 47 fatalities, taking its toll to 9,202.The state now has 247,023 active cases. With 17,141 patients discharged on Tuesday, the tally of recovered went to 1,179,726. The state’s recovery rate improved to 80.48%.State health minister Rajesh Tope told HT that the Covid-19 situation in the state is “stabilising” and that the state is reaching a “plateau”. Over the past nine days, the state has recorded a relatively lower number of cases, compared to previous weeks.However, the number of tests conducted between September 28 and October 5 has seen a substantial dip in the figures in comparison to its previous week between September 20 and September 27. Tope said that though the average testing has seen a dip, the positivity rate has remained around the overall rate.Between September 28 and October 5, according to the health department data, 604,238 samples were tested. The previous week — between September 20 and September 27 — 779,502 samples were tested. Between September 12 and September 19, 713,626 samples were tested. The average number of tests conducted between September 28 and October 5 was 75,529, while it was 97,437 the previous week.“We have asked the [districts] to increase testing. Some of the districts are testing lower [samples]. We will ask them to increase tracing and testing. Our intention is to take it up to 1.50 lakh tests daily. Even if the testing has reduced, the positivity rate has remained the overall rate,” Tope said. A total of 7,241,376 tests have been conducted till date and the positivity rate recorded is 20.24%.The minister said, “We are seeing lower cases daily. The situation is stabilising here and we are reaching a plateau.” A health department official said that the decline in cases is a “positive” sign. He added that areas such as Nagpur, Nashik, Pune have been recording fewer cases compared to a fortnight ago. “With further unlock and the upcoming festive season could create some spike in daily cases, but it is not expected to get out of control,” the official said. Tope, meanwhile, added that they are “hopeful” that the surge would not be big during the festive season.Even as there is a gradual decline in fresh cases, deaths are mounting in the state. Maharashtra is inching towards the grim landmark of 40,000 deaths due to Covid-19, and could breach it this week. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 2.64%.Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai) reported 1,915 fresh infections and 41 deaths. Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Pune rural saw 674, 444 and 620 new infections, respectively. Pune saw 17 deaths, while its rural areas reported 10 deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported four fatalities.Nagpur city reported 537 new cases and 17 deaths, while its rural area reported 217 new cases and seven fatalities. Nashik city saw 515 fresh infections and 14 deaths, while its rural areas reported 154 new cases and 15. Satara district crossed 40,000 cases with 774 fresh cases, taking its tally to 40,529. It reported 21 fatalities, taking the toll to 1,144.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-258-new-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-tally-1-465-911-toll-38-717/story-y0M3QWW1xeges4uWtwZ7UJ.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Ashram Chowk: Snarls, noise, now dust||Residents near Ashram Chowk, already forced to live with vehicular emissions, snarls and noise pollution round the clock, are now being choked by dust pollution, which they say has gotten worse over the past five months. Naseema (55), who has lived near the busy intersection on the Delhi-Mathura Road -- one of the busiest arterial roads in the national capital -- for over 18 years, said she is finding it difficult to breathe these days. Since the past five months, a thin patina of dust has settled on every corner of her house and remains impervious to her attempts to clean it. “It is difficult to breathe and it will only get worse. There is so much dust that I have to clean my house three times a day,” said Naseema, while adding that winter is coming -- a season when Delhi’s air quality touches alarming lows owing to local emissions, weather conditions and stubble burning in neighbouring states, among other factors.Much of the dust, residents say, is due to the ongoing underpass construction at the intersection that started in January this year. The public works department (PWD) is building the underpass to ease traffic at this junction, which is an important link between central and south Delhi and the satellite towns of Noida and Faridabad. The Delhi Police estimates that at least 11,600 vehicles cross the intersection every hour. Work on the underpass was moving at a snail’s pace since it started -- first due to the Delhi assembly elections, then the north-east Delhi riots and then the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. But once the restrictions were eased in May, work is on in full swing, a senior PWD official said.Lokesh Kumar, a security guard deployed at the gate of NAFED’s building, said hardly any measure is being taken to control the dust at the underpass site.“I shudder each time a bus crosses the intersection as it throws up a plume of dust. There are only a few mounds of debris and sand kept covered there. Everything else is open and strewn about. Even water sprinkling does not happen regularly,” Kumar said.A senior PWD official, on condition of anonymity, said the contractor of the project has been asked to ensure all dust-control measures are undertaken. “Last week, we received complaints of high dust pollution in the area. So, we directed the contractor to comply with all norms or face action. A slew of measures was taken after that and debris along the intersection were covered up,” the official claimed.Also Read | Ashram crossing descends into chaos; commuters, residents sufferAnumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said with measures already being taken to contain pollution hot spots, there are several stretches whose condition is similar to that of Ashram Chowk -- heavy dust pollution has been reported from these places, either owing to unpaved roads or from ongoing construction work. “Dust-control norms are the most basic of measures that agencies need to take while undertaking any work. The government needs to make construction agencies accountable by making it mandatory in the contract itself to take dust control and soil stabilisation measures as well as having a post-construction restoration strategy. Also, there has to be strong surveillance and monitoring to ensure that norms are not flouted. A system has to be put in place for this,” she said. Roychowdhury said instead of building more roads and flyovers, what the government needs to focus on is the reduction of traffic volume. “It is a global experience that any capacity enhancement for traffic ( new roads, bridges) will quickly be saturated. This means that it is a losing battle. The government has to work on reducing traffic volume by scaling up public transport, putting in place a parking policy and creating pedestrian and cycling spaces on an urgent basis,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ashram-chowk-snarls-noise-now-dust/story-kDJQ4yHqX1JctH3ZGMKIeP.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Fire erupts at Dadumajra dumping ground in Chandigarh||A fire broke out at the dumping ground in Dadumajra on Tuesday leaving the surrounding area choked with foul smell and smoke.After receiving a call around 4pm, the fire department rushed two tenders to the spot following by four others, which made more than 20 rounds in all.The cause of fire was not known, but fire officials on the ground said some waste material caught fire, which was spread further with the winds.Though the fire was brought under control within five hours, thick plumes of smoke engulfed the area, leading to poor visibility, and the affect could be felt at night even up to Sector 17.“The fire had started around 2pm,” claimed Pankaj Gupta, president of the Sector 38 West resident welfare association. “Smoke was constantly billowing out of the dumping ground. It became difficult for us to breathe, and the smoke is still visible at 10:30pm.”Gupta said every few months, fire breaks out at the dumping ground, and the authorities need to look into the reason. Similar incidents were reported in 2016, 2017 and 2018 as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fire-erupts-at-dadumajra-dumping-ground-in-chandigarh/story-7SdtOJYjza6Az5VlE41X2L.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Traffic to be restricted at Ashram Chowk towards Bhogal for two nights till Thursday||With the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) carrying out urgent repair works on a pipeline leak at the Ashram Chowk, the Delhi traffic police has restricted vehicular movement from Ashram Chowk towards Bhogal on the Delhi-Mathura Road between 10pm and 6.30am from Tuesday until Thursday. The restriction will be in effect for two nights (Tuesday and Wednesday). “These restrictions will be in place from 10pm to 6.30am, Tuesday to Thursday,” said SD Mishra, additional commissioner of police (southern traffic range). While the stretch will be shut to traffic during this period, all commercial vehicles and buses going towards Ashram flyover from the Badarpur side of the Mathura road, will be diverted from CRRI to the Modi Mill flyover and onwards, police said. From there, vehicles are expected to take a U-turn below the Kalkaji flyover, go on to Captain Gaur Marg and then onto the Ring Road to cross the Ashram flyover. “If the traffic at the Ashram Chowk is not high during these hours, we may even allow commercial vehicles up to the intersection,” said Mishra. Private vehicles, Mishra said, can take a right from Ashram Chowk to go on to the Barapullah flyover and from there to Lala Lajpat Rai Marg. They can, alternatively, take a left turn from Ashram Chowk to Moolchand and from there a right to get onto Lala Lajpat Rai Marg, the officer added. The traffic officer said diversions were required to repair a pipeline leakage on Mathura Road as part of the ongoing work on the underpass there. The Delhi Jal Board is working to fix the leak, he said. “The leakage is causing a portion of the road to slowly cave in, and that is further causing more potholes. All these are hindering the smooth flow of traffic. To prevent further deterioration of the road, the DJB will be carrying out urgent repairs,” Mishra said. A senior DJB official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The PWD, which is doing construction work here asked us to shift the water and sewer lines in the area this August. Now that the PWD has started digging work and some traffic is also plying on the road, the lines get damaged every now and then and need to be repaired urgently, which is why the stretch has to be blocked. Ideally, the shifting of lines must be done before starting the digging work, but it was delayed due to Covid restrictions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-to-be-restricted-at-ashram-chowk-towards-bhogal-for-two-nights-till-thursday/story-sRmQoBXGjU0ZsJmBDIaanO.html
07-10-2020||Gurugram||3 sharpshooters held after shoot-out in Sohna; 2 policemen injured||Three sharpshooters of a gang were arrested by the crime branch after a brief chase and alleged crossfiring in Sohna on Tuesday evening. At least 25 bullets were exchanged during the chase in which two gang members and two policemen suffered gunshot wounds. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Sohna for treatment, where their condition is stable, said the police. Two pistols, two revolvers, a countrymade gun, 110 live cartridges, a backpack, and a motorcycle were recovered from the possession of the suspects. The police said two more policemen were shot at but they escaped injuries since they were wearing bulletproof vests. According to the police, the crime branch of Sector 39 received a tip-off that three sharpshooters of Sube Gujjar’s gang would arrive in Sohna to allegedly murder a property dealer in Dhunela on Tuesday. Following this information, two teams were formed. The police noticed three suspects arriving on a motorcycle on Nangli road in Sohna. Upon spotting police presence, the rider reversed the motorcycle, arousing suspicion and the police started chasing them in a car. During the chase, one of the pillion riders fired several gunshots at the police car. In retaliatory fire from the police, one pillion rider was shot in the leg and, as a result, the motorcycle lost balance and fell on the road. The second pillion rider’s foot got caught underneath the motorcycle. Both the suspects were caught while they were trying to flee. The motorcycle driver escaped on foot and fired several gunshots at sub-inspector(SI) Raj Kumar, who was leading the raid, and his team. Two policemen, head constables Suneel and Abhilash, were hit on their arms respectively in the crossfire and were taken to civil hospital. Two bullets hit SI Kumar on his chest while one bullet hit ASI Adesh, but both escaped unhurt since they were wearing bulletproof vests. The third suspect was asked surrender but when he continued to fire at policemen, the police returned fire and he was shot in the leg, following which he was nabbed. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “The suspects — Rajesh alias Fauji, Kamal alias Kamli and Aman — are sharpshooters of Sube Gujjar’s gang. The police had received an input that they would be targeting a property dealer in Dhunela. Rajesh alias Fauji is a bad character — a person with a history of crime — of Sadar police station and is accused in at least 18 criminal cases, including murder, robbery and dacoity. The other two are also accused in several criminal cases in Nuh, Palwal and Gurugram.” The suspects have been admitted to civil hospital in Sohna and would be questioned after they are taken into custody. The nature of injuries is not serious, said police. Sube Gujjar, a gangster who is accused in several cases, is on the run since 2018. He has a reward of ₹5 lakh for information leading to his arrest. Police commissioner K K Rao has announced a cash reward of ₹2 lakh and a certificate of appreciation for the crime branch unit of Sector 39. A case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sohna City police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-sharpshooters-held-after-shoot-out-in-sohna-two-policemen-injured/story-AihPsoMPF0YwADMz2j6vLL.html
07-10-2020||Gurugram||Housing sales sees slight recovery, but long way to go for normalcy||Real estate markets that have been reeling under the effects of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown have started showing green shoots of recovery in the third quarter of the calendar year (July, August and September). Housing sales and new launch figures, as per a report released by real estate consultancy Anarock, were better in the third quarter as compared to previous three months of the lockdown. The recently released report by Anarock also says that the top seven cities in the country saw the sales of 29,520 housing units between July and September of 2020 as compared to 12,730 units in the previous three months. However, in comparison to last year, the sales are still quite muted and experts admitted that it would take a few more quarters before things become normal.As per data, saleS in July, August and September, 2019, stood at 55,080 units across the top seven markets of Delhi-NCR, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune.The report said that Delhi-NCR saw the sale of 52,00 units from July to September this year as against 9830 units sold in the same period in 2019. The supply of new residential units, however, increased during this period in NCR and stood at 6,810 units as compared to 5,790 units during the same period of 2019.Compared to last year, the sale of residential units from January to September stood at 15,450 units in 2020, which is less than half of 36,210 units that were sold in the same period in 2019.Realtors and brokers based in Gurugram said that they received more queries in the last few months and more sales were converted as buyers finally decided to take the plunge. Prashant Solomon, managing director, Chintels, said, “End users and serious buyers with capacity to invest are coming back to the market and this augurs well for the industry,” he said.The report further said that despite the steep rise in Covid-19 cases, periodic local lockdowns imposed across states and the ‘shradh’ period during which many people avoid new purchases, sales of residential units and new launches have seen reasonable momentum. The April-June quarter was more of an outlier with most activity at a standstill, it added.Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock property consultants, said, “MMR, Bengaluru, NCR and Pune together accounted for 84 percent sales in the July-Sept quarter. MMR saw maximum sales of 9,200 units, followed by Bengaluru with 5,400 units, NCR with 5,200 units and Pune with 4,850 units.”City-based developers said that incentives offered by them and rock-bottom home loan interest rates are a major attraction for homebuyers. “The figures indicate that sales during the festive season are likely to be higher as the sentiment is improving with opening of the economy and people are returning to their jobs in cities,” said Pradeep Aggarwal, CMD, Signature Developers. He said that a large number of new buyers are those who stayed in rented properties and now want to buy their own houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/housing-sales-sees-slight-recovery-but-long-way-to-go-for-normalcy/story-c0l2BfbGy68wJdyCipnzVJ.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s second Covid wave has already peaked: Arvind Kejriwal||With the number of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city dropping consistently since its mid-September peak, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the “second wave” of the infections had already peaked, and the situation in the Capital was under control.“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is under control now. The peak of the second wave of infections was witnessed on September 17, when around 4,500 cases were recorded. With time, the number of fresh cases have gone down even with the high number of tests being done. Similarly, the occupancy of hospital beds that had gone up to about 7,200 has dropped again to 5,500. The occupancy in ICUs has reduced too. I hope we are past the second peak,” said Kejriwal during his visit to a manufacturing plant of crop stubble decomposer in Najafgarh. On September 17, 4,432 cases of Covid-19 had been reported. Kejriwal had earlier mentioned the possibility of Delhi already having moving past the peak of the “second wave” of Covid-19 on August 24. The number of cases of the infection had shot up during the second and third weeks of September. As per data shared by the Delhi government, an average of 4,001 cases were being reported each day during the second week of September, 3,960 during the third week, after which the number came down to 2,780 during the previous week.The Capital added 2,676 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, when 53,591 tests were conducted.“The number of cases is definitely coming down, as per the data available in the public domain. However, to say whether this was the second wave of infection and whether we are past it, we will need more detailed data. In epidemiology, a second wave will be when the first wave has subsided to the baseline and has remained low for some time before going up,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Mishra said it is likely the cases will keep going up and down until herd immunity is developed. When asked about the outcome of the latest sero-survey (which showed lower prevalence rate of antibodies among people), Kejriwal said the survey was done in a “decentralised” manner and the outcome is related to change in “sample collection method”. He, however, did not elaborate further on this. The sample collection for the third round of sero-survey conducted in the first five days of September was ward-wise instead of district-wise as in the previous surveys. The samples were also collected according to the places of residence such as whether the participants were living in planned colonies, unauthorised colonies, or slums. The prevalence dipped to 24.8% from the previous 29.1%. “The dip could have been because of the change in the sample collection method. There are also some reports of the antibody titers (concentrations) going down over time. However, even if antibody levels go down, people are likely to still have innate immunity from the infection with very few cases of re-infection. This means Delhi might develop herd immunity soon,” Dr Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-second-covid-wave-has-already-peaked-kejriwal/story-49BM6MDwCySbDCaAuwCceL.html
07-10-2020||City||Production of anti-stubble solution starts, trial from October 11: Kejriwal||New Delhi: The mass production of a bio-chemical solution to convert crop stubble into compost began at a centralised plant at Najafgarh in southwest Delhi and the first set of trials at the fields will be conducted on October 11, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said after inspecting the site on Tuesday.The Delhi government said it has received applications from farmers for the solution to be sprayed over 1,300 acres of farmland in the city’s rural belt growing paddy (non-Basmati) varieties where stubble burning is practised. The total area under paddy cultivation in the city is around 2,000 acres (800 hectares).The solution is being prepared at a centralised plant at Najafgarh’s Kharkhari Nahar village by mixing jaggery and gram flour with bio-decomposer capsules developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa.The solution once sprayed on paddy fields converts stubble into compost over a period of 20 days, which can be used to test the fields, IARI scientists say.“The entire process of creating the liquid solution and spraying it across 800 hectares of farm fields costs just Rs 20 lakh, which proves it is a cheap and effective alternative and can be adopted by neighbouring states where massive stubble burning takes place and the fumes of which travel to Delhi, contributing to air pollution in winter,” Kejriwal said.He said if the experiment is successful in Delhi, it will create a model for other states to adopt the technology. The Delhi government will make available the spray to farmers free of cost.The peak harvest season is during October-November when air pollution spikes because of a combination of stagnant weather conditions, falling temperature, local emissions and fumes from stubble burning in neighbouring states such as Haryana and Punjab.K Annapurna, head of the microbiology department at IARI, who leads the team that developed the solution, said, “It is a simple solution and besides converting stubble into compost, it will also improve the quality of farmlands. Within seven days from now, 50 litres of the liquid solution will be ready, which mixed with 1,000 litres of water can be sprayed across 2,000 acres of farms.”Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said 1,200 farmers have registered for the scheme. Farmers can start sowing rabi crops within three days of spraying. “Though stubble burning was almost zero in Delhi, we want Delhi to become a role model for other states where stubble burning is a major issue. Stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states contribute nearly 45% of air pollution in Delhi. We have approached the state governments to adopt this policy,” Rai said.Farmer unions, meanwhile, raised concerns that if some varieties are harvested in mid-November, the window for sowing the rabi crop will be just about one week and spraying at that time can delay the process.Birender Dagar, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, Delhi Pradesh, said the area under paddy cultivation is very less and burning is also not significant. He said the government should have rather focused on real issues of farmers not being able to sell their produce at mandis at the minimum support prices (MSP) fixed by the Centre.Dagar said the solution can be sprayed and tested for varieties being harvested now but for those harvested later in November. “The sowing of rabi crops begins in the first week of November. Farmers switching from paddy to rabi won’t have enough time to wait for officials to spray the solution and then wait for three more days to begin sowing. However, it is an experiment and if it’s beneficial to the fields, we will support the initiative,” Dagar said.However, Rai said that farmers can start sowing within three days of spraying and hence it will not cause them any delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/production-of-anti-stubble-solution-starts-trial-from-october-11-kejriwal/story-IiXvgjhTxOOX5xa0haAV1K.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police file supplementary charge sheet, name 9 for promoting religious enmity||Delhi Police have filed a supplementary charge sheet against nine people in connection with one of the north-east Delhi riot cases and added sections of promoting enmity between different groups in the name of religion. Police have cited messages that the nine arrested people had shared on a WhatsApp group -- “Kattar Hindu Ekta”-- that was created during the riots to attack members of the other community. HT has seen the supplementary charge sheet that police filed before chief metropolitan magistrate Purushottam Pathak on September 26. The charge sheet is related to the murder of Hashim Ali during the riots in Gokulpuri area. Earlier, in June, the police had filed their first charge sheet in the case against nine accused — Lokesh Kumar Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal, Rishabh Chaudhary and Himanshu Thakur. The nine were allegedly active members of the WhatsApp group in which they had plotted the violence during the riots. They were then charged under sections of murder, unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon, rioting, causing disappearance of evidence, among other sections of the Indian penal Code (IPC). In the supplementary charge sheet, police have added sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc) and 505 (public mischief) for targeting victims on the basis of their religious identity.” Also Read: How the Delhi riots probe polarised society | Analysis“During the investigations and data retrieved from seized mobile phones has revealed that in the Whatsapp group ‘Kattar Hindu Ekta’, there were averments for promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion and acting in a way that is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony,” the charge sheet read. According to the charge sheet, some of the messages sent by the group members were “Do not give them flats on rent” and “we will burn everything of theirs like we burned the madrasa today”, “Do not leave them, kill them.” “As per the chat of Whatsapp group, the accused persons... conspired to teach Muslims a lesson for attacking the Hindus. They equipped themselves with sticks, swords, firearms etc and killed nine innocent Muslims, including Hashim Ali and his brother Aamir Khan. It is prima facie revealed that there was a well-hatched conspiracy among the accused persons,” the charge sheet said. “The group members lost their individuality and started working with a mob mind,” police said in their charge sheet. Another chat that police have attached in the charge sheet was by a man, who has claimed that some people from the “RSS” had come to support them. Also Read | Delhi riots case: Police file over 17,000-page charge sheet, name 15 peopleIn their charge sheet, police have told court that they applied for obtaining sanction from concerned authorities to charge the arrested persons under sections of promoting enmity on basis of religion. The court will take cognizance of charges and proceed to start trial only when the state government gives its sanction. Under section 196 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , the police have to take prior sanction from the department of prosecution, Delhi government for prosecuting anyone under section 153 A. According to the chargesheet, the WhatsApp group was allegedly created on February 25 to take revenge from the other community. Riots between Hindus and Muslims had broken out in different parts of north-east Delhi earlier this year, which left 53 dead and over 400 injured. The riots had started after a clash between supporters and protesters of the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-file-supplementary-charge-sheet-name-nine-for-promoting-religious-enmity/story-oBhxGie9gYNltbJSUxHYEI.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health department directs private hospitals to put up notices if they don’t offer Covid treatment||Private nursing homes in the city have been directed to prominently display notices in case they do not offer Covid-19 treatment and move their patients testing positive to designated Covid facilities.An official health department spokesperson said the decision was taken at a meeting between Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, and Dr Vanita Gupta, president, Chandigarh Chapter of the Indian Medical Association.Private hospitals were directed to display a notice prominently indicating they were a non-Covid hospital and refer their patients testing positive during treatment to designated Covid facilities for better management. “This must be implemented with immediate effect by all nursing homes. It would be made sure that the patient is aware of this advice.” It could be done by mentioning the same as a stamp on the patient card, read the release.Dr Gupta said as a majority of private hospitals in Chandigarh did not have adequate infrastructure to manage Covid-19 patients, those who tested positive and their attendants will be guided to another facility for treatment and management.“It was also important that the patient was not left in the lurch in case such a situation arose,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-hospitals-asked-to-put-up-notices-if-they-don-t-offer-covid-treatment/story-8lomS4TYfxykl23GQfqD1M.html
07-10-2020||Delhi||No penalty until glitches in HSRP system are fixed, says Delhi transport minister||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday directed officials to ensure that motor vehicle owners are not penalised for failing to have upgraded to high-security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded stickers until further orders, at least as long as glitches in the system are fixed.The direction was issued at a meeting of the Delhi government with stakeholders – also including the National Informatics Centre (NIC), vehicle manufacturers and HSRP manufacturers – which was held on Tuesday for discussions on increasing complaints of applicants not being able to avail the registration plates and fuel stickers from the 236 authorised dealers in the city, said a senior government official.The minister also said that no new application should be entertained until the backlog is cleared and the current problems are resolved.A statement issued by the transport minister’s office on Tuesday evening said, “The minister instructed (the) original equipment manufacturers to put a system in place for addressing the grievances of the vehicle owners. He also instructed them not to book any new appointment for HSRP fitment until a proper system is in place and also instructed the transport department to delay enforcement until further orders.”Gahlot said, “Our objective is public convenience. It was misinterpreted by a section of people that we are immediately enforcing the HSRP rule. This created panic among vehicle owners. We have asked dealers and HSRP manufacturers not to take any further appointments until a proper system is in place. Plus, we are clear on our part that we will give sufficient time to vehicle owners to get the HSRP and colour coded stickers installed before enforcing the HSRP rules.”A spokesperson of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited – a manufacturer of HSRP – said, “As instructed by the minister, we are putting a system in place addressing the grievances of the vehicle owners and not taking any new appointment for HSRP fitment till further notice… We are submitting the standard operating procedure, (and develop) mobile application and (a) doorstep home fixation system this week. Further, vehicle owners who have booked the plates till today will get them in the next few days.”On September 23, the Delhi government had issued a public notice asking vehicle owners to avail HSRP and colour-coded stickers at the earliest in order to avoid being penalised under existing laws but it did not mention any deadline in the notice.Between September 23 and October 5, around 40,000 vehicle owners in the city have applied for HSRP and stickers and around 32,000 of them have so far succeeded, leading to a backlog of at least 8,000 at this point, said a senior official in the transport department. The official added that for the past few days there have been numerous complaints about dealers turning away applicants on time slots booked by them and refusing fresh applications.The official said there are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi — commercial and private — which are supposed to have high-security registration plates. These include around 1.1 million four-wheelers and 1.9 million two-wheelers, while the rest include auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, buses, trucks, and others. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, as vehicles registered after that date are mandatorily equipped with HSRPs and stickers, the official said.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor on Tuesday said that he has written to lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal urging him to involve more authorised dealers and petrol pumps in order to expedite the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-penalty-until-glitches-in-hsrp-system-are-fixed-says-delhi-transport-minister/story-ueSdzk46DkbEgXaLYZf1SL.html
07-10-2020||City||Number of tests, daily Covid cases and positivity rate go down in Pune||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has lowered the number of tests it is conducting daily to detect Covid-19 cases in the city. The number of fresh Covid cases and the city’s positivity rate have also subsequently dropped, data released on Tuesday shows. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We have not brought down the number of tests, We are testing all those required. You must see that the positivity rate has also gone down which indicates clearly that the number of new cases are going down. Also, the absolute number of deaths which was around 40 deaths daily due to Covid has now gone down to 30. Fewer new cases are coming up and so eventually the number of tests down for contacts is also coming down.” While the positivity rate between September 19 and September 25 was an average of 27.97%, the number of tests carried out was 38,145. The positivity rate for the week from September 29 to October 5 is 20.38%, but the number of tests carried was 34,019. BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole took to Twitter to question the civic body for bringing down its testing. He tweeted, “Pune City has reported that 4334 Total Tests. I sincerely hope that this daily decrease in testing is due to drastic decrease in symptomatic patients & not some smokescreen to artificially reduce the number of positive cases reported daily. While citizens of #Pune maybe happy about the drastic drop in daily #COVID19 infections reported, I am deeply concerned that the drop is more to do with the decrease in number of tests being conducted and not an actual indicator of Pune flattening the curve of Covid19. By reducing the no. of tests & consequently reducing infection nos, we risk misleading #Pune into a false sense of security & normalcy. I fear that this deceptive flattening of the curve will lead to laxity in following protocols and bring about a 2nd wave of infections.” Dr Avinash Bhondwe, IMA president (Maharashtra) while reacting on dip in cases said, the reasons will be known only after seven days. “Whether it is herd immunity or reduced testing or temporary flattening of curve? We will know the exact situation only after seven days.”The state government scheme, “My Family My responsibility”, has found a prevalence of 10% positive, in those tested based on symptoms in the city. From September 15 to October 10, of the 18.31 lakh people screened in the city, 7,343 were referred to flu clinics, of which 872, or close to 11.87% were found to be positive. This is part of a door-to-door survey conducted in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/number-of-tests-daily-covid-cases-and-positivity-rate-go-down/story-QIw7GiSI0qn5EGe4tqfrxH.html
07-10-2020||City||MCCIA survey: 68% workforce back in industry, real estate reports return of 60% migrant labour in Pune||PUNE: In its recent survey conducted by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), the industry body has found that 68% workforce has returned to work in over 150 industries in and around Pune. The real estate body Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has also reported over 60% migrant labourers back while Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) claims that 90% workers have resumed work. Many sectors had to down shutters after lockdown was announced in March. The survey conducted by MCCIA during September involved 150 small, medium and large industries from Pune district. Regarding the current level of production, the survey states that on an average, the surveyed companies said that their current level of production has gone up from 50% in August to 55% in September 2020. On an average, the surveyed companies said that the number of employees working has gone up from 56% in August to 67% in September 2020. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to be the same as January 2020. As compared to 15% of respondents in August, 22% of the respondents said that they expect their production levels to go back to the pre-Covid levels in less than three months. About 55% of respondents said they expect it to take between three to nine months and 24% said they could not comment on it at the moment. A few of the companies who had said their recovery back to pre-Covid levels would take more than nine months in August, said that it would now take between three to nine months. The distribution of organisations surveyed ranged from micro, small, medium and large scale organisations was 33%, 33%, 17% and 17% respectively. About 63% of the organisations surveyed were from the manufacturing sector, 24% from the services sector and the rest were involved in both manufacturing and services, according to the survey. Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA, said, “We are glad to see the month-on-month growth in production levels and employee strength. We hope that these figures go back to the pre-Covid levels by the end of this calendar year, or in the worst case by the end of this financial year.” The real estate sector too is returning back to normalcy in the city. CREDAI president Suhas Merchant said that the construction industry is also limping back to normalcy as most sites have resumed work.“About 45,000 workers or 60% of those gone back to their native place have returned to Pune. Most developers have restarted their construction sites though they are facing fund crunch,” said Merchant. After lockdown was announced, around 80% workers, mostly from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, returned home as government allowed special trains. During unlock, as trains began operations, workers too have started coming back, said another developer. CREDAI hopes that with more trains restarting soon in Maharashtra, more workers will return to city. Earlier last week, Maha-Metro also claimed its workforce back to full strength in the city. Currently, according to Maha-Metro public relations officer Hemant Sonawane, 4,500 labourers are working on Pune metro sites. “This is double the strength as compared to July-August, when Maha-Metro resumed work, post lockdown,” Sonawane said on Thursday.Fifty per cent of security guards back on duty in PuneAround fifty per cent of security persons who had left the city during the Covid situation are back on duty and the figure seems to rising each day. Industry experts cite financial crunch faced by security persons as the reason for their resuming work. A large number of private companies, cinema halls and hotels had terminated private security guards as part of layoffs during the lockdown in the city.Experts believe that the sector will take another two years and more to revive as the commercial sector is badly affected. Arun Waghmare, office-bearer, Pune Mahanagar Security Association, said that a large number of security staff still await jobs. “The situation is still not stable and many security guards are unwilling to return. We appeal to the government to declare some sops for the sector,” he said.Manoj Kumar, a security guard posted at a construction site said, “I left for home during lockdown and returned last month. There is no income source at home. I have been accepted by the previous employer at half the salary,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/68-workforce-back-in-industry-real-estate-reports-return-of-60-migrant-labour-in-pune/story-si4CD7wrcMFBy17TxHCFyH.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid forces exodus of students from private to government schools in Chandigarh||More than 50% students from Classes 1 to 8 who joined government schools in this year of upheaval due to the Covid-19 pandemic have made the switch from private institutes, UT education department data shows.Of the 9,233 students admitted to government schools between Classes 1 to 8 this year, 4,985 (54%) were from private institutes.They had sought admission during online counselling held between July 31 and August 14.Economic impact of Covid Rubinderjit Singh Brar, UT director, school education (DSE), said the students were opting for government schools “due to the economic effect of the Covid pandemic and the lockdown.”Education in government schools is free up to Class 8 in government schools under the Right to Education (RTE), so people going through an economic crisis or those who have lost their jobs have chosen such institutes, Brar added.The influx was unlikely to add pressure on these schools, which had enough resources to accommodate students even as social distancing was required, he said.Acknowledging the fact that students were moving out, Anuja Sharma, principal of DAV Model School, Sector 15, said parents were playing smart by getting their wards transferred after studying in private schools till September. “Parents are asking for transfer certificates and I received over ten such transfer requests on Tuesday. They are of the opinion that a large part of the academic year is over and by shifting to a government school, their children will be promoted under RTE even if conducting physical exams is not viable in these times.”It was a double whammy, Sharma said, as “private schools are already reeling from the effects of the Covid lockdown and this has made things worse for us.”Not all private schools reporting exodusNot all private schools, however, are reporting an exodus. HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association , said, “In the association as a whole such a trend hasn’t come up, although a few students leaving from some of the schools is possible.”The need of the hour was to assess whether government schools will be able to teach better. “The government schools should also hire more teachers to ensure the teacher to student ratio doesn’t suffer,” Mamik added.Attributing “the shift” to private schools demanding fees from students even during the lockdown, Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents Association, said: “Some students were removed from online classes and many others were threatened over non-payment of fees. The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights had to intervene and prevent this, but the damage was done and students and their parents could have ended up feeling humiliated.”Goyal added that the education department needed to analyse the trend and safeguard the interests of private school students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-class-1-8-students-joining-govt-schools-this-year-in-chandigarh-are-from-private-institutes/story-z69U5U5CztUG84za4CNheI.html
07-10-2020||Pune||Education minister visits SPPU campus; final year exams begin from Oct 12||Over two lakh students have opted to take online and 50,000 will appear offline for the final year exam conducted by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) beginning October 12. To review the exam preparation, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant visited the university campus on Tuesday and met the officials. Samant said that there will be no more delay in the examination schedule, which was postponed in light of other exams and strike by non-teaching staff. Samant, who was tested Covid positive a few days back, made his first official visit after completing the quarantine period. “All the arrangements are in place and we hope that the exams will be conducted smoothly. For offline students, 113 centres have been identified by SPPU in three districts and instructions have been given to follow Covid prevention measures. The police commissioner and district collector of all the three districts — Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar — have been instructed by our department to coordinate for these exams,” said Samant. Several students have complained about internet connectivity and other issues for online exam. Gurudev Somani, director, Mastersoft Erp, which is working with various city-based colleges for online exams, said that students have reported about facing internet connectivity and devices/browsers competency issues. “Using mobile phones with different application versions, different data plans, created certain compatibility issues. It is advisable for students to settle down 10 minutes prior to the exam, go through mock tests conducted by the college, watch training videos and follow instructions. Following these steps will help address 99 per cent issues,” said Somani. For the final year examination, a total of 2.5 lakh students of SPPU and its affiliated colleges are going to appear. The written exams will start from October 12, while the mock test and question paper sets for practice will start from October 8. These exams will be of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. SPPU faculty are preparing question paper sets for around 3,300 different subjects. Fees and reopening of colleges Talking about the college fee issue, Samant said, “We had instructed colleges earlier that there should be no increase in fees this year due to Covid-19 pandemic and students should not be forced to pay fees immediately. Development and gymkhana charges which are included in annual fees should not be charged this year. Action will be taken against colleges found not following the instructions.” “We have got the guidelines from the Union home ministry about re-starting colleges, but our stand is still the same that we will not allow colleges to reopen until the Covid situation normalises,” he said. Issues faced by students “Students are facing a lot of problems due to Covid-19 pandemic. Colleges are demanding full fees and students, mainly those coming from rural background, are unable to pay fees now. We requested the minister to reduce fees by 50 per cent,” said Sandhya Sonawane, Pune division head of Nationalist Congress Party students’ union. Kuldeep Ambekar, president of students helping hand organisation said, “There are various issues which students are facing today due to Covid situation, right from paying fees, hostel or accommodation to appearing for the final year exams. Our demand is that the state education department should cancel the backlog exams for first and second-year students or else take their exams through MCQ method. The syllabus should be reduced by 25 per cent looking at the current online system of taking lectures. As most of the students come from rural part, there is connectivity issue and they cannot attend lectures regularly. College fees should be reduced by 50 per cent for this academic year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/education-minister-visits-sppu-campus-final-year-exams-begin-from-oct-12/story-4Cnbtqi00uxr0QoMsqS1lK.html
07-10-2020||Pune||Flying squads to monitor bars, restaurants in Pune; testing facility for staff||The district administration has decided to slap fines on bars and restaurants found flouting coronavirus prevention norms. Flying squads have been appointed to carry out random checks and violators will be fined up to Rs 50,000. Speaking to the media, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The city had reported a surge in Covid-19 cases as the police did not impose fines for violation of prevention norms during the Ganesh festival. The rise in Covid cases after 18-22 days after the festival had put pressure on the healthcare system. Against this background, we conducted a meeting with the police, excise and hotel association representatives and decided to form flying squads to monitor bars and hotels.” Rao said, “Our intention is not to badly impact the hotel industry, but ensure that these establishments function within the 50 per cent customer capacity. The flying squads will also have members from the hotel association.” He said, “Police officers, excise department personnel, PMC and PCMC staff, and hotel association representatives would be part of the team. In the rural parts, revenue department officials would be part of the squads. If the same establishment violates the norms repeatedly, if necessary, the administration would suspend the licence for running bars.” The commissioner said the squads would mainly monitor customer capacity, waiting areas, disposal system, ventilation, and entry and exit facilities. Rao said that the virus positivity rate has stabilised in Pune city and adequate oxygen supply stock and hospital beds are available. “Though it is a positive sign, the administration is alert and improving bed capacity every day. Special teams have been formed to increase bed capacity in the city and district. More than 600 beds have started functioning in jumbo Covid facility.” Testing facility for hotel and bar staff Divisional commissioner has announced free Covid-19 testing facility for staff working in hotels and restaurants. The circular issued by the commissioner states that staff need to come forward to avail the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flying-squads-to-monitor-bars-restaurants-in-pune-testing-facility-for-staff/story-m7odw7ddPjHhKyMOhSqqAN.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Success of National Education Policy depends on General Education Council||The public education system entails regulation and monitoring to ensure excellence in achieving goals in policy documents. But, it generally encounters scepticism in the esoteric circles of academicians who believe in the doctrine of absolute individuality in professional life. As such, regulation are viewed as excessive and restricted. It is in this context that the extant regulatory regime of higher education in India is restrictive rather than facilitative.Besides, the reforms envisioned in the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, need reforms in the regulatory mechanism to ensure its implementation. Four verticals under the Higher Education Commission of India will be set up, which will function in synergy. These verticals are the National Higher Education Regulatory Council (NHERC), National Accreditation Council (NAC), Higher Education Grants Council (HEGC) and General Education Council (GEC).EMPOWERING GRADUATES TO BECOME GLOBAL CITIZENSThe GEC is the most crucial vertical for the success of the NEP, 2020, and thus is its soul. The council shall be responsible for framing graduate attributes (GA) – the qualities, skills and understandings that students should develop while pursuing degrees. Intended to empower graduates with competencies and 21st-century skills to become global citizens and contribute to the nation’s economy, GAs shall also provide for content mapping, suggest pedagogical pathways and effective evaluation tools for measuring attainment levels prior to award of the degrees. In essence, the basic mandate of the GEC shall be to prepare learners with skill sets. The GEC, through the National Higher Education Qualification Framework (NHEQF), will ensure a departure from certifying educational qualifications on the basis of duration, entry qualifications and other criteria to a system of quantifying and certifying predefined competencies. It is supposed to provide a framework for translating competencies into credits and/or hours, seamless amalgamation of the formal and non -formal modes of earning credits and fixing minimum credits for certification, and finally, a framework for the academic bank of credits.INTEGRATING VOCATIONAL INTO HIGHER EDUCATION The NHEQF will work with the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) for the integration of vocational into higher education. The NSQF focuses on qualifications in accordance with levels of knowledge, skills and aptitude. These levels are defined in terms of learning outcomes irrespective of whether these are acquired through formal or informal learning opportunities. Professional bodies such as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Veterinary Council of India, National Council for Teacher Education, Council of Architecture and National Council for Vocational Education and Training will act as professional standard setting bodies (PSSBs) and shall set standards for professional courses.Traditional skills such as carpentry, pottery and other forms of craftsmanship abundantly available in rural India need to be institutionalised. As such, NHEQF should also devise standards and mechanism for certifications of such skills informally imparted in rural homes that craftsmen traditionally inherited from previous generations. This will help preserve the traditional skill base of rural India, and also will provide impetus and recognition to craftsmen.CONVERTING CHALLENGES INTO OPPORTUNITY The challenge and opportunity before the nation is to help the GEC to translate its mandates into ground realities. The GEC will accomplish its mandate through a panel of experts. The moot question is, whether the GEC can have the luxury of enough expertise to develop programmes and course-wise GAs and a broad framework for course contents in commensuration with GAs along with corresponding pedagogical pathways – a Herculean task. More importantly, are the teachers trained and equipped to engage with the type of personalised, experiential, flipped and similar student-centric pedagogies to mentor the learners to achieve targeted GAs and to develop the required level of competencies matching with international standards? Devising measurable evaluation tools and putting those into practise will be another challenge. Making the education system learner-centric with focus on how and what to learn and inculcating in them the desire for lifelong learning will be another challenge. All this can be possible provided the teaching community decides to come out of the comfort zone and imbibes the spirit of the guru shishya tradition to rise to the occasion and convert challenges into opportunities. Initially, the quality of students entering higher education may also be a cause of concern, but quality will improve once school students trained under the new education system start pursuing higher education. A tight but light and facilitative regulatory framework, sufficient grant for developing world-class infrastructure, recruitment of quality teachers and tangible accreditation mechanism will be crucial for the GEC to meaningfully discharge its responsibilities. This quadrant under the Higher Education Commission of India can function and meet the objectives of the NEP if all verticals work in coordination. COMMITMENT FROM STAKEHOLDERSThe Union education minister demonstrated commitment in sensitising stakeholders, including civil society, with all aspects of the NEP. The same level of commitment is a must on the part of the nodal ministry, the University Grants Commission and vice-chancellors in actualising the reforms. Students, teachers, institutions and civil society should work in tandem to ensure that the GEC fulfils its mandate for developing 21st century competencies in youth and adults alike to enable them to become global citizens with critical and rational thinking in the socio-economic and cultural contexts of the nation. The GEC can help realise the prime minister’s vision of making Bharat atmanirbhar (self-reliant). This way, it can become the soul of the NEP.The writer is vice-chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, and a member of University Grants Commission. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-general-education-council-the-soul-of-nep-2020/story-VhqdtYDNqqEi08UvJSULwJ.html
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus, adding that he was asymptomatic and feeling alright.Chautala, a JJP leader, urged people who had met him during the past week to get themselves tested.“My Covid-19 test report has returned positive. There are no symptoms like fever, but as the report is positive, I am self-isolating,” he said in a message on Twitter.Earlier, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, some ministers, assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta and a few legislators and MPs from the state had also contracted the infection and later recovered. Haryana, meanwhile, collected samples of 38,983 people in last 24 hours during which, 18 people succumbed to the viral disease and 1,206 new infections were recorded, as per the medical bulletin. The doubling rate improved from 33 on Monday to 34 on Tuesday, while the recovery rate also improved from 90.13% to 90.57%. The death toll in the state reached 1,509, while the tally of cumulative positive cases stood at 1,36,115. The bulletin said 1,690 more patients have been cured, taking the overall recoveries to 1,23,286. Four people each succumbed in Hisar and Yamunanagar, two each in Gurugram, Panipat and Sonepat, and one each in Jind, Kaithal, Fatehabad and Sirsa. The number of active cases case came down to 11,320. Gurugram again recorded the maximum new cases (266), while Faridabad logged 148 infections, Hisar 96, Rohtak and Kurukshetra 84 each, Ambala 57, Panchkula 53, Nuh 51, Karnal 50, Rewari 45, Mahendergarh 37, Sirsa and Sonepat 33 each, Panipat, Bhiwani and Palwal 32 each, Jhajjar 23, Yamunanagar 19, Charkhi Dadri 17, and Kaithal 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-wl78THkci8urJGdTNDPddO.html
07-10-2020||Dehradun||30 glaciers in Karakoram range in Ladakh, J&K have potential to burst: Scientists||Scientists from Dehradun’s Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) have identified 30 glaciers in the Karakoram range in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir, where the intensity of glacial lake outbursts is likely to increase. In the last few decades, 146 outburst floods have taken place in the range due to obstruction of rivers passing through the valleys by these advancing glaciers, they said.WIHG is in the process of identifying the glacial lakes that can burst and creating a mechanism for their regular monitoring.Kalachand Sain, the institute’s director, said the scientists have identified many advancing glaciers, which form ice dams due to obstruction of passing rivers in these valleys.Ice dams are created when ice from upper parts of glaciers fall and block passing rivers, giving rise to glacial lakes, which lead to glacial lake outburst floods.Ice dammed lakes are different from moraine dam glacial lakes (one of them led to burst during the Kedarnath flash flood in 2013). Moraine dam glacial lakes are formed due to the retreating of glaciers, which leave behind soil and rocks and lead to an increase in capacity of a lake, making it prone to bursting.“These ice dam lakes pose a threat of bursting anytime because as melted water and debris from glaciers get accumulated in mountain depressions or valleys, then the lakes will have more water than their capacity. This, in turn, can break walls of lakes and when they suddenly get released downstream, they can create flash-floods,” said Sain.The Karakoram mountain range is around 500 km long. It has 18 mountains over 7,500 metres high and four over 8,000 metres, including the second-highest peak in the world-- K2 (8,611 m). The range starts in the Wakhan Corridor in Afghanistan in the west and passes through Gilgit-Baltistan and Ladakh including the Aksai Chin area.Karakoram range is the most heavily glaciated part of the world outside the polar regions. The 74-km long strategically important Siachen Glacier between India and Pakistan and the second-largest glacier in the world’s non-polar region is also located in the Karakoram range.WIHG’s ongoing study named ‘Ice-dammed Lake Outburst Floods in Karakoram’ aims to form an updated inventory of ice dams and related glacial lake outburst floods, combining historical sources and remote sensing data. Scientists from Waterloo’s Wilfrid Laurier University, and Chandigarh’s Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment are also involved in the research.Rakesh Bhambri, a WIHG scientist working on the project, said 146 glacial lake outburst floods have taken place in the Karakoram region in 30 advancing glaciers. He said the scientists first started working in 2013 for this project.“...we need to study more about these areas and find out if there is a connection with climate change or not. And if there is, how it might affect the surroundings in the future,” said Bhambri.He added the inner part of Ladakh’s Shyok Valley, which has been in the news over ongoing India-China border tensions, can get flooded. “We do not have many settlements in these areas and only security personnel stay there. If these places get flooded, then border areas can get affected.”Sameer Tiwari, another senior scientist from WIHG working on the project, said if the lakes outburst, then major damage can occur in the Indus river basin, mainly covering Shyok and Nubra Valleys of Ladakh.“We are continuously studying the satellite data to understand where all rivers are being blocked due to surging glaciers leading to the formation of lakes that can outburst. We can only collect data and form an inventory so that this information can be used by the local administration to prevent a disaster,” said Tiwari.He said in 2019, a lake outburst was reported from Shispare Glacier in the Gilgit-Baltistan area. Shispare Glacier is one of the 30 identified glaciers.After studying the glaciers of the Karakoram region, scientists say that one of the outcomes has been an urgent need to identify which glaciers are of concern, and initiate frequent, if not continuous monitoring of their activity.Sain said as they study more and more glaciers and glacial lakes, they will be able to know what measures to take to prevent a disaster. “During the 2013 Kedarnath flash floods, mass destruction took place due to a cloudburst along with debris accumulation and a similar situation can arise here too. From our studies, we will be able to collect data regarding weather conditions, the number of lakes formed, whether they have reached their capacity. An early warning system can be generated to predict a lake outburst.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/30-glacier-lakes-in-karakoram-range-in-ladakh-j-k-have-potential-to-burst-scientists/story-SjvW30KlsnTyBzN4eYUjCP.html
