09-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: 11, 750 challans issued against illegal hoardings in 13 months||Officials of the Ludhiana municipal corporation have stated that as many as 11, 780 challans were issued against illegal hoardings in the city between January 1, 2019 and February 29, 2020.This was revealed following a Right to Information (RTI) plea moved by activist Rohit Sabharwal. The authorities said that the drive against illegal hoardings was interrupted by the Covid-19 outbreak in March, however, the officials are planning to start it again soon.Sabharwal, however, slammed the authorities, stating that no action was taken against the hoardings and illegal advertisements outside the MC headquarters near Mata Rani Chowk. Superintendent, advertisement branch (headquarters), Harvinder Dhalla said that regular action was being taken against the illegal hoardings and advertisement but the process got hit due to the pandemic. He added that they will so be tightening the noose around printers too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-11-750-challans-issued-against-illegal-hoardings-in-13-months/story-2ZIjGZlSh71ED9jdOFWOjJ.html
09-10-2020||City||Ludhiana man’s bike robbed at gunpoint||Two miscreants entered a developer’s office on Jassiyan road on Friday afternoon and robbed an employee’s motorcycle at gunpoint.The victim, Sukhjit Singh, 28, said two masked men barged into the office and demanded money at gunpoint. When he said he had none, they snatched the keys for his motorcycle that was parked outside, and escaped with the vehicle.The victim said he had bought the motorcycle five months ago for Rs 2 lakh.Inspector Gopal Krishan, station house officer at Salem Tabri police station, said that an FIR has been lodged against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-s-bike-robbed-at-gunpoint/story-EbQcM0Hz9wxb5YCJTRxirJ.html
09-10-2020||City||Soaring veggie prices disturb household budget of Ludhiana residents||The shortage of supply, coupled with unfavourable weather conditions, has lead to a massive increase in vegetable prices, disturbing the household budget of city residents. The rates of vegetables such as capsicum, cauliflower, potatoes, green chilli and cucumber have increased by Rs 15 to 50 in the last one week. The price of potato has increased from Rs 25 to Rs 40 per kg, capsicum from Rs 80 to Rs 120, cauliflower from Rs 70 to Rs 100, green chilli from Rs 70 to Rs 100, onion from Rs 30 to Rs 50 per kg.Rakesh Bhatia, a wholesale dealer at the vegetable market, said, “The price hike is due to the scarcity of supply. Vegetables such as capsicum and cauliflower come from Himachal Pradesh, onion and other vegetables from other regions due to which the prices will remain same at least for the next 10 days.” He added that the prices are likely to come down after that. Meanwhile, residents say they are cutting down on vegetable consumption.Ruchi Anand, a housewife, said, “The hike in vegetable prices has totally affected our household budget. I have cut down on the consumption of a few vegetables and prefer buying paneer instead of cauliflower or capsicum.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soaring-veggie-prices-disturb-household-budget-of-ludhiana-residents/story-ICILSr3siWQvG1L3AjBRlM.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Sharp spike in Mumbai’s air pollution, worst AQI since March||With reduced rain activity and an increase in human-induced emission, the city recorded its worst air quality since before the Covid-19 lockdown on Friday while also recording the hottest day this season so far.The pollutant-measuring indicator — air quality index (AQI) — was recorded at 118 (moderate) for PM2.5 pollutant (small pollutant particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments). A thin layer of smog was witnessed across the city’s skyline, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). On March 19, it was 130 (moderate), which means this was the first time since March 19 that Mumbai’s AQI breached the ‘moderate’ (101-200) category. On March 17 the AQI was 272 (poor) and on March 18 it was recorded at 172 (moderate).The maximum temperature on Friday was 35 degrees Celsius at the Santacruz weather observatory and 34.6 degrees Celsius at Colaba, both 2.3 degree Celsius above normal.On Friday, the concentration for PM10 (larger coarser particles) was 115 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³), against the safe limit of 100 μg/m³ for 24 hours. PM2.5 levels were 65 μg/m³ against the safe limit of 60 μg/m³ for the 24-hour mark.Researchers said the rise in pollution levels was associated with the retreating southwest monsoon season. “This was expected as when conditions become favourable for monsoon withdrawal, there is a sharp drop in wind speed and rise in temperatures, especially for a coastal city like Mumbai. This allows pollutant particles to get suspended close to the surface and form a layer of haze,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.Also read: Covid-19 cases spike again in Kerala, experts say infection may peak by October endFriday’s AQI, however, was an average from nine locations rather than 10 because the AQ monitoring station at Bandra Kurla Complex is under maintenance, said Beig. The highest pollution level was recorded at Navi Mumbai at 186 (moderate) followed by Andheri at 156 (moderate), Malad at 152 (moderate), Chembur at 149 (moderate), Worli at 128 (moderate). The remaining areas recorded ‘satisfactory’ AQI levels.SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. An AQI of 97 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Monday. An AQI of 104 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Saturday. “Pollution levels are likely to be in the moderate category for at least two to three days. However, with a low-pressure weather system over the Bay of Bengal, the possibility of rain even around the Mumbai region could allow a marginal rise in wind speed,” said Beig.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a ‘yellow alert’ for the next five days for Thane and all other districts in south Konkan. However, only light rain has been predicted for the city and suburbs over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharp-spike-in-mumbai-s-air-pollution-worst-aqi-since-march/story-qhRaFdmIennJrMbSMyoglK.html
09-10-2020||City||Future prospects of egg industry discussed during webinar at GADVASU||The department of livestock products technology of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University, organised a national webinar on the theme ‘Eggcellent ways to promote health’ under the aegis of ICAR- Institutional Development Plan of National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) to mark World Egg Day. Two expert lectures were delivered during the session.Narinder Singh Sharma, head of the department and chairman of the webinar, highlighted the importance of the day. Nitin Mehta, assistant professor, department of livestock products technology, presented a link between economic development and malnutrition in India.Ganesh Kumar Saini, head, international business, Natural Remedies Private Limited, gave a talk on the global prospects of the egg industry and future opportunities. Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education and principal investigator of the project, said that students should focus on becoming employers rather than employees.Sarvpreet Singh Ghuman, dean, College of Veterinary Science, appreciated the efforts of the department for choosing such topics of interest for students and industry.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU, applauded the efforts of the scientists for highlighting such a pertinent issue linked to human health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/global-prospects-of-egg-industry-discussed-during-webinar-at-gadvasu/story-ei9C9PI2cETge4XfePyIEL.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Why it’s urgent that we connect senior citizens to care and safety||Religious institutions, police can helpElderly people need looking after, so police, NGOs and socially active people as well as religious institutions should keep an eye on them by registering their contact numbers and getting details of their relatives. Visits by members of care groups can be a great source of solace for seniors who should also be educated on safety measures such as not divulging their personal details like contact numbers and bank details. SK Gupta, Mohali Set up grievance cellsThe elderly should be educated on safety measures at regular intervals by banks, resident welfare associations (RWAs) and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). A special cell should also be set up to sort out their grievances on priority and they should be informed immediately about any suspicious activity on their bank or online accounts. A 24-hour special help desk must also be set up to assist them at banks and government offices. They should also be given special emergency police numbers.Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliRWAs should play key roleRWAs need to be involved more in drawing up plans to help elderly persons in their areas and ensure their neighbours and acquaintances keep an eye on them to ensure they don’t fall victims to crimes.Madan LallyPolice meetings with seniors a must Police need to be sensitive to the needs of the elderly and help them live with dignity in their twilight age. For this, details of senior citizens in the sectors have to be collected and regular meetings with the police and senior citizens organised. Names of officers and numbers of police stations should also be given to seniors living on their own.SK Khosla, ChandigarhYour safety is your responsibilitySenior citizens should be very careful while handling their finances and understand that the desire to make a quick buck through doubtful schemes and promises has to be controlled. Though many seniors live on their own, they should guard against seeking assistance from strangers in operating bank accounts, especially if it involves cash deposit or digital transaction. Physical exploitation of the elderly by their children or domestic help also should be nipped in the bud. Aged parents must not part with their finances and properties during their lifetime. Drawing up a will is a smart move.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaBanks should helpToll free phone numbers can be provided to assist elderly citizens for online banking transactions as they are not very tech savvy, which is why they fall prey to cyber crimes. RWAs can ask volunteers to help the elderly with electricity bill payment, grocery supplies and medicines. Also neighbours or police should keep an eye on domestic helpers as they tend to exploit elderly who live alone. Vanjula Kaushik, Mohali Easy with the cashMore CCTV cameras should be set up in the city in a concerted effort to stop thefts. Other than that people above 60 should ensure they are not out and about on their own and avoid deserted or poorly lit areas after dark. They should have their keys ready before reaching the main entry door when they come back home from an outing. Pepper sprays should be kept handy too and when out shopping the elderly should make sure their wallets and purses are kept concealed and that they do not take out large wads of cash. Locking doors immediately when getting into the cars should be a priority.Ishita NaraSet up special police cadre Police need to be sensitised and trained in taking care of seniors. Creating a special cadre for dealing with the elderly can pay great dividends. It is also very important for policemen to understand how crimes are committed using technology and how these can be detected and dealt with. The roles of Chandigarh administration and Chandigarh civic society are also very significant. There is a need for establishing “day care homes” for old people in every sector . For this a part of the existing community centres can be used for their entertainment and medical care. The emphasis should be on encouraging their creativity so that they don’t degenerate into a state of dementia. Volunteer groups of young people can be set up in all sectors.Lt Col GS Bedi (retd)Precautions mustThe elderly people should be first taught not to open doors to people they do not know. Chat cameras should be installed at the main gates to enable them to see who is visiting. With this, pictures will be available for incoming/outgoing visitors. Children should stay in regular touch with their old parents.Arun Goyal, Chandigarh More surveysThe administration should conduct surveys with NGOs to find out how many elderly citizens live in the city and get more information on their needs. A new helpline number should be started for their help. Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-why-it-s-urgent-that-we-connect-senior-citizens-to-care-and-safety/story-Mn8W5tSW0iFvKUcUlLnBKI.html
09-10-2020||City||Security guards beat stray dog to death in Ludhiana, FIR lodged||Security guards of the Omaxe Royal residency, on Pakhowal road, have been booked for allegedly beating a stray dog to death. The guards reportedly also threatened a resident when he tried to stop them.The case has been registered following the statement of Sunil Kumar Narula, president of the Animal Protection and Welfare Association, New Lajpat Nagar.Narula said that on Tuesday, Tanuj Jain, a resident of the area, had informed him that the guards had thrashed a dog with sticks and left it to die. Following this, they took the dog to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) for treatment. It died on Thursday after battling for life for two days.On Friday, animal lovers gathered at the Omaxe Royal Residency and staged a protest. Assistant sub-inspector Kulwant Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been lodged against the unidentified security guards. The ASI added that the incident had been caught on closed circuit television cameras installed in the colony and that the guards involved will be arrested soon. Narula meanwhile stated that some of the residents of the colony had told the guards to kill the animal.The punishment as per lawUnder Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc., of any value or any animal of the value of fifty rupees), the culprits shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both.Under Section 11 of prevention of cruelty to animals act the culprits shall be punished with fine which shall not be less than ten rupees but which may extend to fifty rupees, and in the case of a second or subsequent offence committed within three years of the previous offence, with fine which shall not be less than twenty-five rupees but which may extend to one hundred rupees or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guards-beat-stray-dog-to-death-in-ludhiana-fir-lodged/story-yTMGaBA5ZhR5V90d5VWtoK.html
09-10-2020||City||No takers for LIT commercial complex||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has failed to get any bidders for the commercial complex at Rani Jhansi Road, which was put for auction for the fourth time on Friday.The LIT had organised an e-auction for 74 of its properties out of which 35 properties including, shop-cum-flats, plots, and booths, were auctioned for ₹50 crores. The complex at Rani Jhansi road has turned out to be a white elephant for the authorities as the LIT are not being able to attract any bidders for it even after reducing its reserve price from ₹197 crore to ₹157 crores. The complex, spread in around 2.2 acres of land, is one of the prime properties of LIT. It was constructed nearly 13 years back at around ₹16 crores. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said, “The report has not yet been compiled but the LIT has roughly earned ₹50 crores by auctioning 35 properties. The amount will be used for development works.”Speaking of the complex at Rani Jhansi road, the chairman said that the matter would now be discussed with the state government to take the final call on whether to reduce its reserve price even further or sell it in parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-takers-for-lit-commercial-complex/story-wHhfS1DzsijPnHRerFvnRM.html
09-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Row erupts over UCPMA membership fee||A section of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) is up in arms, alleging an increase in the membership fee of the body.Janta Nagar small-scale manufacturers association (JNSSMA) alleged that the UCPMA had arbitrarily hiked the fee from Rs 5,100 to Rs 11,800. They further alleged that the fee of the membership form had also been increased to Rs 1,000, which was earlier free of cost.The matter had come to light when an industrialist went to the UCPMA office to get a membership.JNSSMA president Jaswinder Singh Thukral said, “This way the small manufacturers, who actually require the services of the association, would not be able to become members and the control of the association will ultimately shift to the big manufacturers.”When contacted, UCPMA president DS Chawla, however, said, “The decision to increase the fee was rolled back on October 6 after the association had received a representation from the members who believed that small manufacturers would not be able to pay Rs 11,800. Only Rs 5,000 is charged as the membership fee from new members now and Rs 1,000 for the form. The decision has been taken by all the office bearers and not by an individual.”The official letter of the association stated that the membership fee has been reduced to Rs 5,000 due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-row-erupts-over-ucpma-membership-fee/story-grjz7EyoiJ7GAoCC0NJjPN.html
09-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC seals mobile tower after residents stage protests||With residents of ward number 31 of New Sundar Nagar staging protests against the installation of a mobile tower in their area, the municipal corporation (MC) sealed the tower on Friday. The residents had been raising a hue and cry over the installation of the mobile tower in the area for the last three days and staged protests against the same on Thursday night and Friday morning. They rued that the installation of the tower in the area will harm their health. They had also submitted a complaint with the police against the building owner for threatening them. Leading the protesters, Sandeep Shukla and Krishan Mohan, said, “Owner of the house remained adamant despite objections raised by the residents. He tried to install the tower on Thursday night following which the residents staged a protest from 10 pm to 1 am in the area. The MC has sealed the tower but we have now demanded that it should be removed from the site. We have submitted a memorandum with the MC officials regarding the same.” Assistant town planner (ATP) Satish Kumar said that the mobile tower had been sealed by the MC team and the owner had been asked to present the documents of permission sought for installation of the tower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-seals-mobile-tower-after-residents-stage-protests/story-CJxvL7CDJgLnfSS8XJ7IfP.html
09-10-2020||City||Dengue menace: Ludhiana health department conducts inspection||The health department on Friday initiated a search drive at locations considered to be the breeding grounds of deadly aedes aegypti mosquitoes, to destroy the dengue larvae.Teams of the health department visited the fire brigade office in Sundar Nagar, Punjab Mandi Board Office, Arora Cinema, Dana Mandi, the post office in BRS Nagar Block-J, the fire brigade office near the local bus stand, police station, Daresi, and the commissioner of police’s office.Fortunately, no dengue larvae were found at any of the locations.Anti-larvae teams, led by health inspectors Satinder Singh and Manpreet Singh, distributed pamphlets, posters, and spread awareness on dengue, chikungunya, and malaria in the offices.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga explained the causes, symptoms, and preventive measures that can be taken to contain the spread of dengue and chikungunya fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dengue-menace-ludhiana-health-department-conducts-inspection/story-EtTVc7Xh3jzOnp647cHdwJ.html
09-10-2020||City||40% of level-3 covid-19 patients died during treatment in Jalandar||Jalandhar About 40% of covid-19 patients whose condition was critical and were referred to level-3 facilities in Jalandhar district lost their lives. Data shows that over 960 persons were admitted in level-3. Of them, around 380 (40%) died during treatment. The figures are from the outbreak of the pandemic to date. Level-1 beds are for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients; level-2 beds for mild to moderately symptomatic cases and level-3 is for critical patients needing ICU, ventilator, including pregnant and aged patients.Jalandhar, is the only district in the state that has level-3 beds for critical patients, in the civil hospital, after the three medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot. Data shows that most of those who died were over 40 years and were being treated at private hospitals, as compared to government hospitals. Fifty-eight hospitals offer critical treatment to covid-19 patients, including the civil hospital, the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) and Army hospitals and those in the private sector. Officials said the Jalandhar civil hospital has 54 level-3 beds around 310 patients admitted on level-3 beds of which 120 died. However, in a few private hospitals not even a single patient could survive while undergoing treatment.“In the Arman hospital. seven covid-19 patients were admitted on level-3, None survived. In Gulab Devi hospital, of 37 admitted patients 26 succumbed; 37 people were admitted, of which 28 died in Johal hospital. In Kidney Hospital, 7 of 17 patients died,” data prepared from the department shows.A senior doctor of a private hospital, on request of anonymity, said the reason for the high death rate of patients in level-3 is that most reported late at hospital and in critical condition. Comorbidities in people over 40 years was an additional factor contributing to the death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-of-level-3-covid-19-patients-died-during-treatment-in-jalandar/story-yT0QJ5zhYekLhkywRdHqpJ.html
09-10-2020||Noida||UPPCB recommends ₹50,000 fine on RRTS casting yard in Vasundhara for dust pollution||The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) on Friday said that they have recommended a penalty of ₹50,000 against the dusty conditions allegedly found at the Vasundhara casting yard site of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project. The officials said that they have also recommended other measures to be taken up at the site in order to abate air pollution. The casting yard of the RRTS project, being developed by NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) but being developed by a contractor, is located close to residential area on either side. The UPPCB officials said that they visited the site two days ago and found that dust control norms were violated. “During the visit we found that the vehicles were lined up on the road outside the casting yard and leading to emission of dust during the movement. We asked NCRTC to increase the height of the boundary wall from existing six metres to 10 metres, as per the guidelines of the environment ministry guidelines of January, 2018. We recommended a penalty of ₹50000 against contractor and sent our recommendation to the district administration,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. The sites of RRTS project and the Delhi Meerut Expressway are under scanner in order to keep down the levels of dust emissions which could lead to increase in air pollution this approaching winter season. “It is due to the impact of the projects that our monitoring station at Vasundhara and Indirapuram are recording high pollution levels. As regards to the construction sites, having areas 20,000 square metres and above, we have asked them to conduct a self-audit of the sites and also install CCTV cameras that will be monitored by us. The process is to be completed by October 10,” Sharma, said. He said that in case the process is not completed by October 10, the board will initiate action and a daily penalty will be levied based on pollution index. The officials have identified 35 such sites in Ghaziabad.“In extreme cases, the project may also be stopped on the basis of scale of violation,” he added. The board had alread directed to about 70-80 industrial units in Ghaziabad that used wood and coal as fuel, to install CCTV cameras at their premises facing chimneys for monitoring.NCRTC said that they are unaware of the fine. “Our officials had no information about the penalty or any violation that the UPPCB officials have spoken about. On our part, we are taking every precaution to control the air pollution at the site to minimize the impact of construction dust on nearby areas,” a spokesperson from NCRTC, said. “We have water sprinklers and wheels of the vehicles are being washed every time they move out of the casting yards. Anti-smog guns have been deployed to spray nebulised water which helps in settling down the dust particles.” UPPCB officials, however, once again confirmed to HT that they had recommended the penalty. They said that imposing fines for dust emissions require magisterial powers, for which they had sent their recommendation to the executive magistrate of the district administration.The civil construction works over a stretch of about 50km is presently underway for the RRTS project in Ghaziabad. This involves 17km of the priority stretch from Sahibabad to Duhai and another 33km from Duhai to Shatabdipuram in Meerut. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Friday evening said that he has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the NCRTC to repair any service lanes that may have suffered damages due to the ongoing projects of Delhi Meerut Expressway and RRTS project. “I have directed that committees of officials including locals to be formed at the local level to ensure that the works, if any, are completed in time. A review of pollution abatement measures will also be taken up. Otherwise, the issues lead to resentment among farmers and local population. It is our intent that the works for the two projects get complete in time without any hindrance,” Pandey, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uppcb-recommends-50-000-fine-on-rrts-casting-yard-in-vasundhara-for-dust-pollution/story-MsWkqOIEa0BXgNNHOr7mdK.html
09-10-2020||Noida||Noida pays tribute to Dalit icon Kanshi Ram on death anniversary||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) workers and others gathered at the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal to observe Dalit icon Kanshi Ram’s 14th death anniversary on Friday. Kanshi Ram had founded the Bahujan Samaj Party in 1984.Prerna Sthal is a memorial commissioned by then BSP government and was inaugurated in October 2011. It has statues of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, Kanshi Ram, Mayawati and other Dalit leaders. The memorial, sprawled across 33 acre, also has 24 elephant statues, the BSP’s election symbol, each 18 feet tall.Lakhmi Singh, BSP Gautam Budh Nagar president, said that the traffic police personnel were deployed at the spot to manage traffic flow. “The BSP workers and others came to the Prerna Sthal to pay homage to Kanshi Ram. He had worked for upliftment of Dalit and poor in the country. The UP government has failed to check crime in the state. We hope the BSP will return to power and Mayawati will lead development work again,” Singh said.Ravi Jatav, a Dalit activist, said that Kanshi Ram founded BSP to empower Dalits and to claim fair share in the governance. Meanwhile, Noida traffic police had tweeted at 10.32 am informing that the traffic movement was slow outside Dalit Prerna Sthal due to the programme. Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that a traffic police team was deployed since morning to streamline traffic. “Some people had parked their vehicles along the road side which slowed down traffic movement. We advised people to use alternative routes. Traffic moved slowly but there was no jam. The programme was held from 9 am to 2 pm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-pays-tribute-to-dalit-icon-kanshi-ram-on-death-anniversary/story-MaTPmSETnCfPTzgV1XCtFK.html
09-10-2020||Noida||Two arrested for rape of 12-year-old girl in Greater Noida||Two men were arrested on Friday for alleged rape of a 12-year-old girl in Rabupura’s Falenda village. The suspects were identified as Arjun, 20, and Rakesh, 21, who live in the victim’s neighbourhood, the police said, adding that the incident took place around 9pm on October 7.“The two suspects riding a motorcycle reached the shelter where the victim had gone to bring fodder for cattle. The duo took the girl on the motorcycle to an isolated location. Arjun allegedly raped the girl while his accomplice stood guard. They dropped her to her village and fled,” said Dinesh Kumar Yadav, station house officer, Rabupura police station.The girl reached home and narrated the ordeal to her family. Her family members alleged that the suspects tried to put pressure on them to reach a compromise and had also threatened the victim against reporting the matter to police. On Thursday, the victim’s family filed a complaint at the local police station. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that a case was registered against the two suspects under Section 376-D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 5 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. “The victim was sent for a medical examination. The two suspects had fled the spot after committing crime. They were later arrested from the same village. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Shukla said. On Tuesday, a 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three persons in Dadri. According to the police, the victim’s family informed them on Thursday, following which the police registered a case and arrested the three suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-arrested-for-rape-of-12-year-old-girl-in-greater-noida/story-K6uUAOHW2WtFq7ylY098EI.html
09-10-2020||Noida||Resident of high-rise thrashed by security guards over power bill; five arrested||A 33-year-old resident of a high-rise in Sector 121 was allegedly thrashed by over 20 security guards when he visited the maintenance office of the society to seek clarification on his “inflated” power bill. Shaleen Mathur, a resident of Cleo County, received injuries to his neck, chest and back in the incident that took place on Wednesday afternoon, the police said. An FIR in the case was registered on Thursday. Mathur said he usually receives a power bill for about 550 units per month. “Last month we received a bill for 1,177 units. This was surprising as we had relatively less power consumption in September,” he said.Mathur, an electronics engineer, said that he had sent an email to the maintenance department seeking a correction in the inflated bill. “I did not receive any response from the maintenance department of the society. On Wednesday afternoon, I went there to discuss the issue. But the security in-charge, Arvind Kumar, the project in-charge, Salekh Chand, and one Vinod Das called about 20-30 security personnel who thrashed me and ousted me from the office,” he alleged. Mathur also alleged that his clothes were ripped apart during the incident. “Some society residents reached the spot and rescued me,” he said. The maintenance office is on the society campus.According to Mathur, a number of residents had gathered and protested against the incident. He filed a complaint against the maintenance department and security guards at Phase 3 police station.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said a case has been registered against three named persons and 20 to 30 security guards under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “Police have arrested five security guards involved in the incident. We will also recommend licence cancellation of the security agency,” Chander said.Arvind Kumar, security head at the society, claimed that Mathur had first manhandled the maintenance officials which led to the incident.A spokesperson for ABA Corp, the developer of Cleo County, said that the company has terminated the services of Chand and Arvind. “We have also given instructions to facility management and security agency to identify all the staff members involved in the incident and terminate their services with immediate effect,” the spokesperson said in a statement. Mathur also alleged that a few days ago a maintenance department staffer had visited him to offer a deal. “He had asked me to pay ₹2,000 monthly and he would tamper the power meter and fix the bill. To check this, I asked him to fix it for five days. He had fixed my meter and there was no increase in power units for five days,” he said. Mathur said that this is when he suspected he was getting inflated bills on behalf of other residents due to tampering in their meters.However, Deepak Arora, assistant property manager, Cleo County, denied the allegation. “We have digital meters, which are tamperproof,” he said.The society has 2,600 flats in 22 towers, out of them 1,500 flats are occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/resident-of-high-rise-thrashed-by-security-guards-over-power-bill-five-arrested/story-EGl2BNaxzPtzJpwnhSmMvN.html
09-10-2020||City||HP logs 7 deaths, 199 fresh infections||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 199 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 16,977.Death toll mounted to 240 as seven more patients succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, 39 were reported in Shimla, 34 in Kangra, 32 in Kullu, 28 in Mandi, two in Bilaspur, 12 in Solan, 10 in Sirmaur, eight in Chmaba, seven in Una, four in Lahaul-Spiti, and three in Hamirpur.Among the 34 people found infected in Kangra, eight are Himachal Pradesh police jawans and trainees of Police Training College, Daroh. There are 2,856 active cases in the state while 13,861people have recovered with 277 more people discharged today. The recovery rate is above 81%. The state has conducted 3,196,77 tests of which only 5.3% samples have tested positive. More than 2,300 people per million population are infected. The average growth rate of new infections is 1.4 in last one week. With 3,277 cases Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 2,563people have been infected so far. Mandi is on third position with 2,028 cases, Sirmaur 1,962, Shimla 1,592, Una 1,398, Hamirpur 996, Bilaspur 984, Chamba 951, Kullu 835, Kinnaur 207, and Lahaul-Spiti 184.Two people died of the virus in Shimla, and one each in Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Sirmaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Kullu. To date, Kangra district has recorded maximum 54 fatalities and is followed by Shimla with 52 deaths and Solan 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-logs-7-deaths-199-fresh-infections/story-0sWhG4XZLnaZVxq7sREhVK.html
09-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: BJP MLA’s elderly uncle killed by unidentified assailants||Two unidentified assailants, who were riding a two-wheeler, opened indiscriminate fire over the 60-year-old uncle of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Muradnagar before fleeing the spot, the police said. On the basis of a complaint given by the family, the police said they have registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder) at Sihani Gate police station.The incident took place in C-block of the prime locality of Lohiya Nagar, which also has residences of judicial officers. The incident took place near the house of KC Tyagi, a former MP and Janata Dal (United) leader. The incident took place around 5.30am, when victim Naresh Tyagi was on his way to a nearby park for a morning walk.The victim is the maternal uncle of BJP MLA Ajit Pal Tyagi, who rushed to the spot after receiving information. “I, along with my cousin and father, had gone out for a morning walk. Me and my cousin were talking and were walking some distance behind my father. Suddenly, a two-wheeler passed by, the pillion rider fired shots and my father fell down near the park. The man driving the vehicle told his accomplice to fire shots on the head and finish him off,” the victim’s son, Abhishek Tyagi, alleged in his police complaint. “Upon this, the man fired shots to his head. We watched the incident in shock and raised an alarm. By then, the two men had fled the spot. I took my father to Yashoda Hospital but doctors declared him dead,” he added. Doctors at the Yashoda Hospital in Nehru Nagar said the victim was declared brought dead at 6.15am. “The injuries suggested that he suffered two shots each on his head and chest, while one injury was visible on his abdomen. He was brought dead,” said a doctor from the hospital. The police, after reaching the hospital, sent teams to the scene of crime to gather evidence. Officers said that images of the two-wheeler were captured in a CCTV camera installed at one of the houses but it was at a distance, so the faces or the vehicle number could not be identified. They added that the victim took contracts of civil construction works with government departments. “He was going towards the park near his house early morning when two unidentified men arrived on a two-wheeler and fired gunshots at him. He is stated to be a contractor and we have formed teams to work out the case,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad. “So far, we have footage from only one CCTV camera which could be accessed but the pictures are not clear. It seems the assailants had come with an intention to kill. The post mortem was conducted and it indicated five bullet injuries. The five teams working on the case also include a team from the crime branch,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). The police said that they are probing several angles in the case, including any personal or business rivalry with anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-bjp-mla-s-elderly-uncle-killed-by-unidentified-assailants/story-uyVE1XOkgo7ekNbwLPVeWP.html
09-10-2020||Noida||App to improve waste handling in Noida||NOIDA: The Noida authority has developed a mobile application that will assist its health department to monitor the door-to-door waste collection work in the city. The move is aimed at ensuring the waste is collected from each household properly and bringing in more transparency in the system, officials said. According to the officials, the application will help keep a tab on the work of the agency engaged in the waste collection in the city. The authority aims to improve the waste handling as it wants to score better in the Swachh Survekshan than this year when Noida was adjudged the 25th cleanest city with a population between one and 10 lakh in the country.“Our motive is to collect waste daily from each house. And the mobile application will enable us to understand the gaps if there is any. The application will help us in improving the system for better results,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. A private agency hired by the authority collects the waste from at least 165 sectors and 65 villages from across the city. The agency also transports the waste to the landfill site in Sector 145 for remediation. Residents in some areas keep complaining to the authority’s health department that the waste collection needs improvement. “If any resident complains that garbage is not being collected from a particular location, then we can check with the help of application. It means how and when the work was done will be verified via application immediately, and the issue will be resolved,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority. Each person involved in the waste collection will use this application, and it will be monitored from a control room set up in Sector 58, the officials said, adding that once the garbage is picked up from a particular location, the site will turn green from red immediately.“The application will also show the time, when the garbage is picked up from a location or house,” said Mishra.As per official data, Noida produces 900 metric tonne of waste daily. In 2018, the Noida authority started collecting waste from door to door with the help of 250 vehicles and 21 compact machines that crushes the waste to transport it easily.Residential bodies said that residents should be allowed to give feedback through the new app. “The Noida authority should make some changes in the mobile application and modify it so that residents can also download it to give feedback or file a complaint about garbage issue,” said NP Singh, president of Gautam Budh Nagar District Development Residents’ Welfare Association (DDRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/app-to-improve-waste-handling-in-noida/story-W3DtyVTHNqSOEpDsYCfQSI.html
09-10-2020||Noida||UP issues SOPs for upcoming festivals season, events to be curtailed||A detailed plan of the venue, proper markings for social distancing and isolation rooms for those detected with Covid-19 symptoms are among the protocols issued by the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday for holding events during the upcoming festival season. All event organisers must take the prior permission of the district administration. No event will be allowed in containment zones.Other protocols include thermal scanning and regular sanitisation.“The venue should have separate entry/exit and more numbers should ideally be provided. The air conditioners will adhere to temperature setting of 24-30 degrees while the humidity levels should be maintained in range of 40 to 70% besides proper ventilation should be provided. Installation of CCTV cameras at the venue is recommended to keep watch on visitors whether they are adhering to protocols or not,” read the order by UP chief secretary R K Tiwari.The SOPs have also advised that the event venues should also have details of a nearby hospital and that all payments should ideally be “contact less”.“The idols (in case of Durga Puja celebrations) should be small and to be placed in the open. No idols or Tazias should be placed on roads or crossings. Small vehicles and minimum number of persons should be present for the idol immersion event. For this, entire plan should be prepared in advance. If any rally or immersion involves long distance, an ambulance should accompany,” the order read.The orders gave clarity to organisers across the state. Most said that they had, in any case, planned a curtailed event during the festivities. “We will be adhering to the SOPs and ensure that all health protocols are followed. We have planned to hire a farmhouse where only our members will be allowed. The Durga idol is small in size this time and only limited number of people will go for immersion. Food items will be sent to homes of our members and cultural programs will be telecast online. The Durga Puja celebrations will be a low-key affair this time due to the pandemic,” said Abhijit Roy, founder member of Prantic Cultural Society, Indirapuram.The members of the Shri Dharmik Ralila Samiti in Kavi Nagar said that the events will not be held this time due to the pandemic.“We approached artistes for preparing three hours or Ramlila which could be staged at an auditorium but they were not ready. Now, we have planned that we will hold recitation of Ramcharitramanas or Sunderkand for two days before Dussehra. Thereafter, on the day of Dussehra we have planned to prepare 5 to 7 feet effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad which will be lit in presence of members. So, this time there will be only small symbolic event,” said Lalit Jaiswal, president of the Samiti.For Dussehra and Ramlila events, the chief secretary has limited the number of persons up to 50% of the capacity of the closed venue/hall, subject to maximum of 200 persons. For open spaces, the number of those attending will be defined locally subject to wearing of masks, hand washing facilities, sanitation, thermal scanning and social distancing norms.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “We have distributed the SOP guidelines to our officers and different meetings will be held soon at tehsil level with different associations to tell them about the guidelines to be followed. Anyways, the events which are forthcoming will be curtailed to extent as lot of precautions are needed to prevent any spread of infection.” Box: list of guidelines in SOP Site plan for the venue is to be chalked out and prior permission from respective district authorities is needed Mandatory isolation room should be identified at the venue in order to isolate any person having Covid-like symptoms A nearby hospital should be mapped to the venue in order to get healthcare facilities ACs at the venue should be run between 24-30 degrees temperature and humidity levels should be in range of 40-70% with proper ventilation CCTVs may be installed at the venue to monitor adherence to health protocols No events would be allowed in containment zones The idols should be smaller in size and should be placed in open space Immersion activities should have minimum number of people and only small sized vehicle should be used Persons allowed in closed hall should not exceed 50% of the capacity subject to maximum of 200 persons||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-issues-sops-for-upcoming-festivals-season-events-to-be-curtailed/story-KLIDrHtcCVi441PIakLVHO.html
09-10-2020||City||Ludhiana shopkeepers urge CM to intervene over serving of CLU notices by MC||With the municipal corporation (MC) continuing to tighten the noose around the shopkeepers for their failure to deposit the change of land use (CLU) charges, the shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi have now approached the chief minister’s office for intervention. The shopkeepers wrote a letter to the CM Captain Amarinder Singh urging him to direct the MC to roll back the CLU notices otherwise, they would be forced to raise an agitation against the civic body and the government.The shopkeepers rued that the CLU charges do not apply to shops that were established decades back and are supposed to be collected before the establishment of shops.Happy Banzer, president of the Ghumar Mandi malls and shopkeepers’ welfare society, said,” Most of the shops had been established even before the CLU norms came into existence. The MC is harassing the shopkeepers and, we will not let them claim the CLU charges. We have written to the CM seeking his intervention.”Earlier, the shopkeepers and Gurpreet Gogi, area councillor-cum-chairman of Punjab State Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), had conducted a meeting with mayor Balkar Sandhu in mid of September and had opposed the move. The shopkeepers had also staged a protest in the market on Wednesday and, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had decided to move the court against the civic body in this regard. As per MC officials, around 2,300 notices have been served to shopkeepers across the city. Many have already submitted the fee.MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said that the notices had been served after discussing the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu and senior officials. The shopkeepers have also been given an option to pay the charges in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-shopkeepers-urge-cm-to-intervene-over-serving-of-clu-notices-by-mc/story-iQtJ2DFZHNPwAv1Edm4jqM.html
09-10-2020||City||Punjab post-Covid revival strategy : Ludhiana DTF protests against committee for proposing reduction in posts, salaries||The members of Democratic Teachers’ Front protested outside the deputy commissioner’s office against Montek Singh Ahluwalia, economist, and head of the committee that formulated the Punjab post-Covid-19 revival strategy.The teachers marched from the deputy commissioner’s office to Bharat Nagar Chowk and burnt the effigy of the economist there on Friday. They stated that the government should not implement the suggestions recommended by the 20-member committee headed by Ahluwalia formed for Punjab post Covid-19 revival strategy. They said that the recommendations of the committee are anti-contractual workers, farmers, small traders, and labourers, and, favour corporate houses.As per the teachers, the members of the committee proposed that there was a need to reduce the number of posts in all government departments and said that there might even be a need to cut down the salaries of the employees.President Hardev Singh said, “During these tough times of Covid-19 pandemic, employees need protection but instead of getting any relief, they are living in fear. The recommendations, which include a change in the pay pattern of the state government employees on the lines of the Central government pay pattern, pay cuts, increase in the development tax, among many others, will not be tolerated at all.”To support the DTF, members of ‘5178’ and ‘6060’ unions also joined the march.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-post-covid-revival-strategy-ludhiana-dtf-protests-against-committee-for-proposing-reduction-in-posts-salaries/story-aQlOvheqD0XHNwxd87KhxM.html
09-10-2020||Lifestyle||World Mental Health Day: Students share need to de-stress, experts suggest ways||The Union Ministry of Education has issued guidelines for reopening of schools from October 15. However, the final decision has been left on state governments, to decide when to reopen these. With no confirmation about the dates, school students, as well as their parents, have been undergoing a lot of stress. On World Mental Health Day, October 10, we speak to students to know about their state of mind, and ask experts how can they stay calm. Ojasv Goyal, a Delhi-based class 12 student, says, “Though I’ve been taking online classes that are conducted regularly, but I feel tire at the end of day my parents observe me 24X7. And they keep on pin pointing me to sit straight, pay attention to what the teacher is saying, and all other stuff. I can understand their concern but it’s too much sometimes. I miss that freedom I had in school. My teachers are way more cooler that my parents! It’s really stressful to match their expectations, take tuitions and classes online, and be at peace. I couldn’t even clear competitive exams with flying colours, and feel stressed about my future!” Some are trying to participate in other activities to distract themselves. “I’m in class 12, and wanted to enjoy the last year of my school to its fullest. Everyone says school life is the best, but I’ve missed the most crucial year of this phase of my student life due to the pandemic. There is so much uncertainty right now, and I’m clueless about my future and career prospects. I’ve been talking to a lot of consultants, but there is no one who could give me a satisfactory answer. In such a scenario, stress is bound to takeover, and I’m also trying to distract myself but it hardly works,” says Mridula Sharma, another Delhi-based school student. Experts feel that among the many reasons, constant scrutiny by parents, teachers and inquisitive relatives as well as comparisons is one of the causes that leads to stress among youngsters. “Critics have time and again pointed out that our education system tends to judge widely different students on single line parameters, which is unfair. Some students tend to experience episodes of stress, anxiety and sleeplessness and even nervous breakdowns. This condition is compounded by constant scrutiny, and comparisons with peers,” says Prakriti Poddar, a mental health expert , adding, “It’s also important for parents to not impose the burden of unreasonable expectations on their children. This stress response raises our heart rate and breathing and increases muscle tension, among other things. It’s important, therefore, to learn healthy ways to respond to this elevated stress. Several decades back, Dr Herbert Benson, a cardiologist at Harvard Medical School advocated a phenomenon called a relaxation response to counter the stress response in the body. Breathing exercises, mindfulness and meditation are a few techniques that can help invoke a relaxation response from the students dealing with stress.” According to psychologist Dr Roma Kumar, school and college students need to acknowledge and process their feelings of emotional distress and express them. She says, “Use whatever technology you have available to virtually meet up with your extended family and friends, but at the same time put a limit on how long you will spend on social media every day. Use your psychological defence like humour, which will protect you from emotional overload and will enhance your well-being. Practice good sleep hygiene. You can schedule relaxing activities such as doing puzzles, eating your favourite food, spending time with nature, listening music, exercise, playing with your pet, dancing and any activity that will distribute your physical and mental energy toward self-care and things that are under your control. When you shift your energies from exasperation to rationalisation, it will help you maintain your connection with what’s happening, positivity, and will also reduce the emotional burden.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/world-mental-health-day-students-share-need-to-de-stress-experts-suggest-ways/story-iwp3Gbn2h7FRSm7sx3rFaN.html
09-10-2020||City||15 deaths, 636 fresh Covid cases recorded in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday taking the tally of positive cases in the UT to 82,429.Fifteen more people succumbed to the virus, resulting in the death toll rising to 1,306, officials said. They added that 373 people have tested positive in Kashmir and 263 in Jammu.October has witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. In September, the UT recorded a daily average of 1,245 cases which have gone down to 817 daily cases so far in October.As many as 959 people recovered from the virus on Friday taking the overall recoveries to 69,979 which account for a recovery rate of 84.8%, which is the highest so far.Since September 21, the recovery rate has improved. From September 21 to 30, as many as 15,132 patients have been discharged against 11,080 fresh infections. Similarly in October so far, 13,055 patients have been cured as against 7,359 fresh infections.A government spokesperson said 546 people were discharged in Jammu division and 413 in Kashmir. Of total, 42,341 people have recovered in Kashmir and 27,638 in Jammu.At present, there are 11,144 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT so far have crossed 18 lakh.Of the 15 more deaths due to the disease — 12 were reported in Jammu and three in Kashmir division. With this, the number of total deaths has reached 1,306 — 885 in Kashmir and 421 in Jammu. In comparison to August which reported 326 deaths, there was a 64% increase in the number of deaths in the UT in September, taking the month’s tally to 478. In October so far, 125 persons have lost their lives due to Covid.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 101, followed by 31 in Rajouri. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 167 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 50.Srinagar tops the case tally with 16,331 cases and 312 deaths. Jammu is at number two with 15,051 cases and 219 deaths.Till date, 6.09 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 26,029 in home quarantine, 11,144 in isolation, and 48,084 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.23 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-deaths-636-fresh-covid-cases-recorded-in-j-k/story-iMJEoFsNdOZ8KJQJhSro5M.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Four light intensity quakes in Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti district, no casualty||Four light intensity quakes within 15 minutes jolted Himachal Pradesh’s tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti early on Friday. The quakes, measuring 2.1 to 3.3 on the Richter scale, struck between 2.28am and 2.43am, the National Centre of Seismology said on its official website. The epicentre of the tremors was at a shallow depth of 5km and 70km north-northwest of Manali. The first quake measured 2.1, the second 2.4, third 2.5 and the fourth 3.3. No loss of life or property has been reported in the district. Himachal Pradesh falls in the high seismic zone and tremors are felt in the region frequently. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the 9.02-km Atal Tunnel under the Rohtang Pass, providing all-weather connectivity between Manali and Lahaul-Spiti districts on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-light-intensity-quakes-in-himachal-s-lahaul-spiti-district-no-casualty/story-CQXwdbkyheFb6ET0LumMdM.html
09-10-2020||City||Aim is maximum utilisation of different sectors to create more jobs: Sinha||Lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha, on Friday, said that Rs 25,000 crore industrial investments is in the offing and J&K is soon going to secure this investment after announcement of a historic industrial policy.He was on a visit to the border panchayat Pallanwala in Jammu district under Back to Village 3 programme. He said that the rural-urban divide is being minimised with the J&K government ‘Back to Village’ initiative.“I’m not here to make new promises, but for optimum implementation and utilisation of funds. Let the public and government meet and discuss their priority projects and begin a new era of rapid development,” he said.Being an agriculture-oriented region, it will be ensured that all nine farmer-oriented schemes of the government reach the workforce in J&K, he said.He stressed on the need to reduce monsoon dependency of farmers in the UT and informed the public about installing solar pumps and micro-irrigation schemes initiated by PM Modi.Expressing his resolve of doubling farmers’ income in the coming years, Sinha said that the same could not be achieved without sincere efforts and implementation of government schemes.He said that two entrepreneurs from each panchayat are being identified, provided handholding and monetary assistance to start their business ventures. “Even if 8,500 such youth are supported and they each provide livelihood to at least five others, we can have at least 40,000 jobs under the initiative,” he said.“My objective is maximum utilisation of industries, manufacturing, service sector, village industries, handicraft, tourism, and technology to create more jobs in rural areas,” he said. He called for 100% saturation in four different employment-related schemes of the government, besides all social security schemes including scholarships and pension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aim-is-maximum-utilisation-of-different-sectors-to-create-more-jobs-sinha/story-yWOmeo0UNweBIbx04gYrxL.html
09-10-2020||City||Gulmarg Gondola’s second phase reopens||From this weekend, the second phase of Gulmarg Gondola, one of Asia’s largest and highest cable cars ringed by pine forests and Himalayan mountain peaks in the ski resort of Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir, will also reopen for tourists.On October 3, the Gondola resumed daily operations of its first phase taking tourists to Kongdori mountain, after remaining closed for six months due to the Covid-induced lockdown.“After resuming cable car service for tourists visiting Gulmarg, the government is reopening the second phase of Gulmarg Gondola, from Kongdoori to Apharwat, for commercial operations from October 10,” a spokesperson said.The second phase will be operational only on weekends (Saturday and Sunday) for the time being, the official added.The Gondola was closed after government imposed lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 in mid-March. On normal days, the cable car records a daily footfall of 2,000 to 3,000 people, while these days tourists have started coming back in scores.The first phase takes a person to Kongdori at a height of 8,530-ft costing Rs 740 per person, and the second phase soars to Apharwat at a height of 12,293-ft and costs Rs 950 per person. Government said that all necessary preventive protocols and SOPs regarding Covid-19 are being followed.“Social distancing, sanitization of cabins before and after boarding and de-boarding of passengers, wearing masks, temperature checking, etc are being strictly adhered to,” the official said.Instead of six in normal days, only three tourists are being allowed to ride in each Gondola car.The tourism sector nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked, restrictions were imposed on movement of people, and communication was shut for months. Two days before revocation of Article 370, around 20,000 to 25,000 tourists were present in Kashmir. All of them were asked to leave the Valley along with the Amarnath pilgrims. The situation then aggravated due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Gulmarg (the meadow of flowers), which is located in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas some 50km from Srinagar, is defined as a cup-shaped valley with virgin peaks, dry curry powder snow and meadows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gulmarg-gondola-s-second-phase-reopens/story-4VKhu9nCgUcJZ8sQnd0ABN.html
09-10-2020||City||J&K high court orders CBI probe in Rs 25,000-cr Roshni land scam||In the much publicised case of Rs 25,000-crore Roshni land scam, a division bench of the J&K high court comprising chief justice Gita Mittal and justice Rajesh Bindal, handed over the probe to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday.Jammu-based activist and advocate Ankur Sharma had filed a PIL seeking CBI probe into the multi-crore land scam highlighting encroachment of 20 lakh kanal state land by a powerful land mafia in league with politicians, revenue officials and the police.The division bench observed that investigation be entrusted to SP CBI. It directed the chief secretary, two divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners to provide all details to the CBI. The court further directed the CBI to file status report every eight weeks.On September 23, the division bench had reserved its order for a CBI probe.During the course of the hearing, advocate Sharma said that given the structural problems and political interference crippling the anti corruption bureau, both of which are reflected in its conduct of the last six years of investigation, its time to bring in an independent agency like CBI for investigation.He also brought to the notice of the court CAG of 2014 towards encroachment of 20 lakh kanal state land at an estimated loss of Rs 25,000 crore to the state exchequer by criminal and wrongful implementation of the Roshni Act. He emphasised that given its nature and quantum, Roshni scam is unprecedented in the history of J&K. He further submitted that only the HC should monitor the CBI investigation and bring the culprits to book as nothing has been achieved since 2013.“Accordingly, the court ordered a CBI probe. It also held all Roshni allotments as void ab initio, and declared the Roshni Act as unconstitutional,” Sharma told HT.The HC has also made the chief secretary accountable for uninterrupted investigations. “Investigation have also been ordered against officers in whose time period the encroachments happened. DCs and divisional commissioners will be held guilty of contempt in case they do not cooperate in the probe,” he added.Earlier, the anti-corruption bureau of Jammu (vigilance) was investigating the matter and had registered 17 FIRs so far. “Given the manner in which the bureau was handling the case, the court deemed it appropriate to divest it off the investigation and hand it over to the CBI,” he said. The Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, popularly known as the Roshni Act, was implemented in 2001 by the then chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Ghulam Nabi Azad. It was aimed at “conferring 20.55 lakh kanal of state land to the occupants”.The Act sought to generate resources for hydroelectric power projects and to confer proprietary rights to occupants of state-owned land subject to payment of land cost fixed by the government.However, the Act was later found to be an attempt to change the demography of the entire region and the then J&K governor Satya Pal Malik scrapped it in November 2018. The Act was repealed as “it failed to realise the desired objectives and there were also reports of misuse of some its provisions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-high-court-orders-cbi-probe-in-rs-25-000-cr-roshni-land-scam/story-SgPeBAXVCf1JrLSBQjwB5K.html
09-10-2020||City||Webinar held to mark Wildlife Week in Himachal||About one million wildlife species will become extinct in the next few years, said Wildlife Crime Control Bureau additional director Tilottama Verma here on Friday.She was speaking during a webinar organised by HP ENVIS Hub to celebrate Wildlife Week.“Illegal trafficking is one of the biggest threats against wild animals. In the international market, illegal wildlife and timber trade is a business worth forty billion dollars. India is a prosperous country for flora and fauna and from here many animals are trafficked to Southeast Asia and China. Major species among these include tiger, Tibetan antelope (Chiru), pangolin, snakes, turtles and butterflies,” shared Verma.HP ENVIS coordinator Aparna Sharma hosted the webinar and briefed the audience about the significance of the occasion. Besides Verma, principal chief conservator of forests Dr Savita and IGCMC director Dr Arindran Gopala were the eminent speakers at the webinar.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Savita said the Himachal Pradesh forest department has taken many steps to provide relief to the people of the state from the monkey menace. She added that the steps taken for the rejuvenation of the Ganga have been very effective and now the same will be replicated for nine other major river systems of the country.The webinar with the theme ‘Wildlife and its conservation’ and was attended by 100 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/webinar-held-to-mark-wildlife-week-in-himachal/story-Ik3sjpOecUUUnGlb0oEkDI.html
09-10-2020||City||RPF constable conferred with bravery medal||Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable Purnanand was facilitated with Railway Minister’s Bravery Medal and ₹1,00,000 on Friday, officals said.On August 8, 2019, Purnanand was on night duty at the Shimla railway station when he saw an outsider entering the premises around 2.30am and trying to tamper with and steal antique items. On being confronted, the suspect started to flee from the spot, but Purnanand chased after him for one kilometre and nabbed him. At this point, the culprit stabbed the constable three times in his chest, leaving him severely injured and escaped.Following this, a special RPF team staff showed Purnanand photographs of suspected criminals and he was able to identify the suspect, who was later arrested by the police.Despite being alone and without fearing for his life, the constable guarded the railway property and got recommended for the national award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rpf-constable-conferred-with-bravery-medal/story-IySSdtjE0It8TL9LO8vh8I.html
09-10-2020||City||Himachal schools to open with 100% staff from October 12||In compliance with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by Union education ministry on October 5, Himachal Pradesh government has issued fresh guidelines for reopening of schools amid strict adherence to social distancing norms.As per a circular, the education secretary has instructed the directors of higher and elementary education that all teaching and non-teaching staff will attend schools on a daily basis with effect from October 12.The new guidelines may also be brought to the notice of all the teachers through the Har Ghar Pathshala forum, it said.All educational institutions will prepare micro plans to implement the SOPs relevant to their respective premises by October 17.Also, all the government educational institutions will hold e-PTM with parents from October 15 to 17 to share the precautionary measures to avoid Covid-19 as per the SOPs.“Students’ achievements during the first-term online exams and Har Ghar Pathshala initiatives like the weekly quiz and remedial teaching materials would also be shared with the parents,” the circular stated.The guidelines issued earlier regarding visiting of students of Class 9 to 12 with the written consent of parents would continue till further orders. Online teaching and learning process through Har Ghar Pathshala would continue as usual.Principals, headmasters of the educational institutes will further ensure delivery of offline notes to the students who are unable to join the teaching-learning process through Har Ghar Pathshala or Doordarshan, Shimla.Schools in Himachal were closed in March in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. The schools were reopened for classes 9 to 12 from September with 50% teaching staff. The permission of parents was mandatory for their wards to attend the schools.It is worth mentioning that the state government is considering extending the number of teaching days in the schools so that students’ studies do not suffer amid Covid-19 pandemic. The teaching activities will be conducted in the schools during winter and second Saturday holidays.The Himachal Pradesh school education board has also decided to reduce the syllabus by 30%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-schools-to-open-with-100-staff-from-october-12/story-25Koo7jiZKWElPSe4THzoI.html
09-10-2020||City||Himachal BJP slams Congress over anti-farm bill stance||Hitting out at the Congress against its anti-agricultural bill chorus, BJP state president and Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap on Friday said the former was trying to mislead the farmers and public for gaining political leverage.Addressing a press conference at the BJP’s state headquarters here, Kashyap said the Congress is only protesting for middlemen and is lying that MSP will be eliminated, APMC mandis will be removed and farmers will become weak due to negotiation issues with the corporates and will not be able to decide the price. The two agricultural laws passed by the central government will double the income of farmers by 2022 and both these laws will prove to be very important for them, he said. Congress had itself mentioned these laws in its election manifesto and now is retreating from the same promises, the BJP state chief said.Kashyap said with these laws, farmers dream of one nation one market is being fulfilled. The bill will provide opportunities and arrangements for farmers to sell their produce uninterrupted in most of the notified mandis, within and outside the state.It is clear that the MSP and mandi system has not been abolished. Now, the farmer can earn more profit by selling his crop wherever he wants, the way Congress is talking about Ambani and Adani is concocted, with this law, farmers will have access to state-of-the-art agricultural technology, equipment and improved compost seeds,” he added.This bill guarantees payment to the farmer in three days, while such a law could never find its way during the Congress rule or was implemented, he said.“Congress is only lying about agricultural laws for its political interests. It is a lie that the MSP and mandi system will be ended. Congress is saying that farmers will become weak in contractual agriculture agreement and fixing prices. Today, the farmer knows which law is in his hands and what kind of politics the Congress is doing,” Kashyap held.He said Congress is also making baseless statements and allegations against the state and central governments over Covid-19 management when everyone knows an exceptional job is being done in dealing with the pandemic.Kashyap also described October 3 as historic, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Atal Tunnel. He said the total length of this channel is 9.02km and is made of state-of-the-art equipment, has CCTV cameras, fire hydrant, telephone facility at every 200 metres and an emergency exit after every 500 metres. He said earlier people of the tribal areas had to be taken to the hospital by helicopter in case of serious illness, but that too depended on the weather, but the tunnel will solve this problem.He said Congress is also politicising the Atal Tunnel whereas the maximum credit for its construction goes to the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-bjp-slams-congress-over-anti-farm-bill-stance/story-Sd9IObAJjWsL7judZCNTxH.html
09-10-2020||City||Unlock 5.0: Cinemas, restaurants to open with 50% force in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration issued fresh guidelines for Unlock 5.0 in the Union Territory on Friday.Giving details of the new order during a press conference here, disaster management secretary Simrandeep Singh said the UT administration has permitted opening of cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, swimming pools, bars in restaurants/hotels, entertainment parks and coaching centres from October 15 with 50 percent capacity.He said the number of pilgrims allowed to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine has been raised to 7,000 per day, which was 5,000 earlier.Schools, colleges, higher educational institutions including Anganwari centres shall remain closed till October 31 whereas online/ distance mode studies will continue.Fifty percent teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed in schools for online teaching purposes in areas outside containment zones. Students of classes 9 to 12 can visit schools on a voluntary basis for taking guidance in areas outside containment zones. Skill or entrepreneurship training will be permitted in National Skill Training Institutes, ITls and other such centres.Higher education institutions will be permitted to open only for research scholars (PhD) and PG students in science and technical streams requiring lab/experimental works from October 15.Coaching centres/ institutions outside the containment zones shall be permitted to run classes from October 15 at 50% percent capacity. Shops in malls and in the limits of municipal corporations will remain open from 9am to 9pm.There will be no restrictions on entry of passengers, returnees or travellers coming to Jammu and Kashmir whether by road, rail or air, but Covid-19 antigen tests are mandatory. The travellers will undergo a 14-day home quarantine if they have a valid contactable phone and Aarogya Setu App in their mobile phones. The protocol for management of Covid positive persons will be followed.As per the order, all districts of Kashmir province and nine districts of Jammu region have been declared as orange zones. Kishtwar district has been designated as green zone. However, Lakhanpur containment zone in Kathua district and Jawahar Tunnel area on either side will fall in the red zone category.The UT administration has allowed cinemas, theatres, multiplexes to open from October 15 up to 50% of their seating capacity strictly as per the Centre’s SOPs.Bars in restaurants/hotels, entertainment parks and similar places and swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will also reopen from October 15 as per the SOPs of the concerned ministries. The business to business exhibitions can start from October 15 as per the Union commerce ministry’s SOPs.Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and congregations have already been permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons. The administration has ordered that gathering in closed spaces will be permitted to a maximum of 50 percent of the hall capacity subject to a ceiling of 200 persons from October 15. In open spaces, physical distancing, wearing of masks and use of hand sanitisers are mandatory.All these activities have been permitted only outside the containment zones.The UT administration has raised the limit of pilgrims to Mata Vaishno Devi shrine up to 7,000 per day from October 15. However, it has entrusted the task of fixing the ceiling for pilgrims from outside J&K to the shrine board CEO.Religious processions and large religious gatherings will remain strictly prohibited.Meanwhile, movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited from 10pm to 5am while persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children under 10 years of age shall stay at home, except for health purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-5-0-cinemas-restaurants-to-open-with-50-force-in-j-k/story-kGV4aYeNKhJ54eTz3CuHlN.html
09-10-2020||City||Hisar trader held for concocting his murder bid||Haryana Police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old trader from Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur, whose relatives had claimed that he was burnt alive by three unidentified men after getting robbed of ₹11 lakh near Bhatla village in Hisar district’s Hansi.The police had registered a case of murder and robbery against the unidentified persons. Hansi superintendent of police Lokender Singh said the police had recovered the burnt body from a car on Tuesday night and the relatives of a trader claimed it was of Ram Mehar of Datta village, who runs a factory in Hisar’s Barwala town.“We got suspicious after we found the body from the seat adjoining the driver’s seat. Ram Mehar’s nephew claimed that his uncle had called him half an hour before the mishap. When we traced the location of Ram Mehar’s mobile phone, it was found outside Haryana. We caught him from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh,” the SP said.He said the trader confessed of concocting his own murder to get ₹5 crore from insurance companies so that he could repay his debt. “We are trying to ascertain the identity of the body recovered from his car,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-man-held-for-concocting-his-murder-bid/story-sfCv3C7cA7AKKZ6obl5UAK.html
09-10-2020||Jaipur||‘Pay attention to Rajasthan’: Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore slams Rahul Gandhi over priest’s murder||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore on Friday criticised Rahul Gandhi for conducting ‘political tourism’ in BJP-ruled states even as he said Congress-ruled Rajasthan has been witnessing a rise in crimes. He attacked the Congress government over the death of a priest in the western state’s Karauli and rising crimes against women in the state.Rathore, the former Union minister and BJP MP from Jaipur, asserted that citizens in Rajasthan are not safe. “Nobody is safe in Rajasthan today - neither women nor children, not even priests. A government which stays at a five-star hotel for months can protect only itself, it can’t protect the public. Rajasthan is getting a bad name,” he said, according to news agency ANI.“As per the data of the National Crime Records Bureau, Rajasthan stands at the first position as far as crimes against women are concerned. I urge Rahul Gandhi, who indulges in political tourism to BJP-ruled states, to pay attention to Rajasthan,” the BJP leader said while speaking in reference to the priest’s murder in Karauli.Babulal Vaishnav was set on fire on Wednesday by five people who wanted to encroach lands which were part of the temple. The 50-year-old temple priest died in a Jaipur hospital on Thursday evening. The police have arrested two people in connection with the case.The Ashok Gehlot-led government was also criticised by another BJP leader Vasundhara Raje, who said that women, children and Dalits are not safe in Rajasthan. “The Congress government of the state should now wake from slumber and should get the family justice by getting strict punishment to the culprits,” the former chief minister said in a statement, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/pay-attention-to-rajasthan-rajyavardhan-singh-rathore-slams-rahul-gandhi-over-priest-s-murder/story-Af97hIvKLqNegPxSU1lQbN.html
09-10-2020||City||Will not stage protest as paddy procurement has improved: Ambala BJP MLA||Two days after staging a dharna alleging delay in paddy procurement due to the “ego” of Haryana additional chief secretary (ACS), food, civil supplies and consumer affairs PK Das, Ambala BJP MLA Aseem Goel on Friday said he will not protest again on Monday since the process has improved in the mandis.“Since Wednesday, I’ve spoken to several people who are engaged in procurement in Ambala city and Naneola mandis. I have received a positive feedback. There is no problem getting gate passes at the mandis now and everything is going on smoothly,” he said.Goel’s protest had attracted sharp criticism from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who had said that it was wrong on the MLAs part to blame the ACS and that the officers work as per government directions. However, Goel said, “For the CM, we both (Das and Goel) are part of the government and this is his point of view. It think an official, who is signing and monitoring such work, has to be held accountable if something goes wrong.”A day before the protest, Goel had chaired a meeting of the committee on public undertakings with senior officials and four MLAs in Ambala, to monitor paddy procurement in the state. Goel is the chairperson of this committee.On Friday, divisional commissioner Dipti Umashankar and deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma inspected the New Grain Market in Ambala Cantonment and grain markets in Barara and Saha of the district to take stock of paddy purchase and lifting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-not-stage-protest-as-paddy-procurement-has-improved-ambala-bjp-mla/story-gxirAUWAUzdGGWAYwwqKJI.html
09-10-2020||Election:||‘From chappal to chapatti roller’: Bihar polls and surprising party symbols||Don’t be surprised if you find images of chappal (slippers), chapatti roller, pestle and mortar on the electronic voting machines (EVMs) during the three-phase Assembly elections in Bihar on October 28, November 3 and November 7. These are among 199 symbols the Election Commission of India (ECI) has added to its list of free symbols or common symbols since June 2018. Voters in Bihar will see some of them for the first time on the EVMs during the polls this time. The Aam Janta Party Rashtriya, a registered unrecognised political party, has been allotted ‘chappals’ as its symbol. Similarly, the Aam Adhikar Morcha, another unrecognised political party, has been allotted ‘chapatti roller’ as its symbol. Also read: AAP to not contest Bihar polls, cites flood, Covid-19 situationOther such parties, like the Hindu Samaj Party, has been allotted ‘pestle and mortar’ while the symbol of ‘baby walker’ has gone to the Rashtriya Jan Vikas Party and ‘balloon’ to the Hindustan Sampoorna Azad Party.Similarly, ‘binoculars’ is the symbol for the Republican Party of India (Rashtriya); ‘bat’ has been allotted to the Rashtriya Jan Jan Party; ‘road roller’ to the Bharatiya Lok Nayak Party; ‘carrom board’ to the Loktantrik Jan Swaraj Party; ‘trumpet’ to Bharatiya Sablog Pary, among others. ‘Hand cart’, allotted to the Mazdoor Ekta Party, is from the list of new symbols added in 2019, said a poll officials requesting anonymity. The Election Commission has offered ‘biscuit’ as the election symbol to the Shiv Sena, which has ‘bow and arrow’ as its symbol for Maharashtra. The party will contest 50 assembly seats in Bihar. This has been done to avoid confusion among voters because Janata Dal (United) has ‘arrow’ as its election symbol in Bihar. Former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party Loktantrik has been issued ‘scissors’ as its party symbol this time. Earlier, it had ‘hockey stick and ball’ in 2015 assembly polls. All registered parties contesting elections need to choose a symbol from a list of available symbols offered by the EC. The total number of parties registered with the ECI was 2,598, with eight national parties, 52 state parties and 2,538 unrecognised parties. While 162 symbols were added to the list of free symbols on June 20, 2018, another 37 were added during the last revision on March 9, 2019. A recognised party enjoys privileges like a reserved party symbol, free broadcast time on state-run television and radio, a consultation in setting of election dates and giving input in setting electoral rules and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/from-chappal-to-chapatti-roller-bihar-polls-and-surprising-party-symbols/story-UMeLFN2neZAMlmKzHeRfDM.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cops take first step in probe against Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV||The Mumbai Police has summoned the chief financial officer (CFO) of Republic TV, Shiva Sundaram, the founder, chairman and managing director of Madison World, Sam Balsara, and the CEO of IPG Mediabrands, Shashi Sinha, to record their statements in connection with the TRP-fixing racket they claim to have busted. “They have been called to record their statement under section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code,” said joint commissioner of police (Crime), Milind Bharambe. Calls and text messages to Shiva Sundaram of Republic TV remained unanswered. Sinha and Balsara, both top media planners and buyers, have likely been called as experts. “Mumbai Police has called me to be present at their office. I have no idea regarding what they have called me or what they will ask me. So, I cannot say anything as of now. I will go and meet them tomorrow,” said Sinha. Sam Balsara said: “I am a client of BARC. Mumbai police has requested my help to aid the investigation which I am happy to do.”Also Read: Will sue police chief, says Arnab Goswami on probe naming Republic TV in TRP fraudBARC stands for Broadcast Audience Research Council. On Thursday, Mumbai Police said it arrested a former executive for Hansa Research, contracted by BARC to run its audience measurement service by installing barometers in households across the city. They also arrested three others, including two owners of small local channels. In a press conference on Thursday, Mumbai Police named Republic TV, which denied the charges and said it would sue the police. Republic also showed on its channel a copy of the FIR that names not it but India Today TV. Republic TV said it was being targeted for its pursuit of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The four arrested , Vishal Bhandari, Bompalli Rao Mistry alias Sanjiv Rao, 44, and owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema channels Shirish Shetty and Narayan Sharma were produced before the court on Friday, and remanded to police custody till October 13. Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh said there was no evidence against India Today. “Hansa Research Private Limited conducted an internal inquiry of arrested accused Vishal Bhandari, after they received a complaint stating that he was paying several households to tune into certain channels. India Today’s name came during their internal enquiry based on which an FIR was filed at Kandivali police station on October 6. We took Bhandari’s custody and have recorded the statements of witnesses and we have not found any evidence to substantiate the claim that India Today was involved in manipulating TRPs,” said Singh. TRPs or television rating points are a reflection of how many people watch a channel and is used by media buyers and planners to decide which channels they will advertise in. Bhandari has named only three channels Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema and Republic Bharat TV till now, said a crime branch officer who asked not to be named. According to Hansa Research , approximately 30,000 barometers are installed across India to monitor various channels and programmes based on which BARC awards ratings to channels. Of the 30,000, 2,000 barometers are installed in Mumbai . Nitin Deokar, deputy general manager of Hansa Research Private Limited who filed the complaint at Kandivali police station, said in it that Bhandari was working as a relationship manager with the firm from November 2019 to May 2020. These relationship managers were tasked with overseeing a certain number of households with barometers. Deokar in his complaint stated that during an internal inquiry they found that Bhandari used to pay households to watch India Today. “But during inquiry, we did not find any evidence. And when we visited the residence of Tajal Solanki in Kandivali area where a barometer was installed, we found that India Today was not subscribed at all. During the inquiry, Solanki and a senior citizen in her residence told us that they were asked to watch Republic TV,” added the crime branch officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-take-first-step-in-probe-against-arnab-goswami-s-republic-tv/story-4XBcsgIvsPsCYEXWPlbnnJ.html
09-10-2020||City||BJP takes out tractor rallies in Haryana to support farm bills||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday took out tractor rallies in various parts of Haryana, including Sonepat’s Gohana, Bhiwani and Hisar’s Hansi, to support the Centre’s farm legislations that have triggered widespread protests across the country.Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar led the tractor rally at Gohana, Hisar MP Brijendra Singh at Hansi and Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh at Bhiwani.Dhankar said the Congress and its entire top brass is misleading farmers. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had clarified that the farmers’ produce will be procured at the minimum support price (MSP) and the mandi system is not going to end. Our leaders are exposing the Congress’s lies by visiting villages to apprise farmers about these laws,” he said.He added that the government has streamlined the process of procuring farmers’ goods on the MSP at mandis. “The Congress is telling lies that we are aiming to scrap the mandi system. Why did Rahul Gandhi not bring his brother-in-law Robert Vadra during his tractor rally in Haryana. Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who claims to be farmers’ well wisher had sold farmers’ land at minimal rates to Vadra. During Hooda’s regime, farmers had been struggling to get fertilisers,” Dhankar said.Agriculture minister JP Dalal said his party has geared up for the November 3 Baroda bypoll and people have made up their mind to elect the saffron party candidate. “The farmers are very happy that they got two options to sell their produce. Shouldn’t farmers have the right to get better options to sell their crop. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is speaking China’s language,” he said.Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh said the Union government has shown its intent by announcing the minimum support price of 23 Rabi crops. “After the implementation of these laws, the lives of farmers will change. These laws will be beneficial in increasing their income,” he added.Police detained a few people for showing black flags to BJP leaders during the rally at Hisar’s Hansi. Farmers claiming that these laws are ‘death warrants’ have been protesting at Bhuman Shah chowk in Sirsa. They are seeking resignation of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and jails and power minister Ranjit Singh from the Manohar Lal Khattar government. Meanwhile, the BJP leaders and supporters violated the Covid-19 guidelines by gathering large number of people during their tractor rallies in Gohana, Hansi and Bhiwani. The administration remained mute spectators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-takes-out-tractor-rallies-in-haryana-to-support-farm-bills/story-gpI0qmfu8S7D8coIO8NlPJ.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||In 10,000-page charge sheet, NIA names 8 accused in Elgar Parishad case||One day after the arrest of activist Father Stan Swamy, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday submitted a supplementary charge sheet against eight persons accused of being connected to the Elgar Parishad case.The seven charge-sheeted accused are—academic and activist Dr Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu Musaliyarveetil Tharayil, three members of Kabir Kala Manch (Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor), and Father Stan Swamy. The eighth accused Milind Teltumbde, secretary of Maharashtra State Committee of the CPI (Maoist), is said to be on the run.NIA has said it has reliable oral, documentary and material evidence that establishes the role of Navlakha, Anand Teltumbde, Hany Babu and others in the conspiracy to spread the activities of Maoists. The charge sheet against the eight activists runs into 10,000 pages.After filing the charge sheet, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty said, “A supplementary charge sheet has been submitted against eight accused. The registry will scrutinise it first and later further process will take place.”NIA took over the probe from Maharashtra Police in January. Four months later, the agency arrested Teltumbde and Navlakha. they had to surrender before the agency as the Supreme Court refused to grant them any further protection and relief from arrest.NIA, after the arrest, claimed that Teltumbde delivered a “provocative presentation” and speeches on December 31, 2017, during an event at Shaniwarwada in Pune, which led to the violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018, statewide agitation and loss of life. NIA has alleged Teltumbde was the convenor of the programme and his call data records show he was in touch with the other arrested accused present at the event.The agency also claimed that Navlakha, along with other activists, is accused of having links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad gathering.Navlakha was first arrested by the Pune Police on August 28, 2018, but the Delhi high court had quashed his arrest on October 1, 2018. The prosecution had alleged that till August 2018 he was a member of CPI (Maoist).While arresting Navlakha, Pune Police cited several letters recovered from the computer of one of the accused exchanged between them. It was alleged that Navlakha and some of the other activists (who have also been arrested in the case), had direct access to and communicated with central committee members and senior leaders of CPI (Maoist). Pune Police also alleged that Navlakha was part of the conspiracy and they were probing to check if there was a larger conspiracy of seizing political power via an armed revolution by mobilising the masses.Navlakha surrendered before NIA on April 14 as no court granted him protection from the arrest.After the arrest of Teltumbde and Navlakha, NIA made its first formal arrest—an associate professor in the Department of English with Delhi University—on July 28.The agency claimed that Hany Babu had links with Communist Party of India (Maoist) and was one of the key conspirators. The prosecution also pointed out that there were letters exchanged between the accused which were recovered by Pune Police. The investigating agency found mention of his name and role in those letters. The agency also claimed that Babu was actively involved in raising funds to help Maoists, for their release from prison.Two months later, the agency arrested three members of Kabir Kala munch—Jyoti Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor. Gorkhe and Gaichor were arrested on September 7 while Jagtap was arrested a day later. The agency, in a statement released after their arrest, claimed, “The three were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused. It has also a matter of record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about the urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also it is established that during their (Kabir Kala Manch members) visits to the jungle, they underwent weapons and explosive training and awareness programmes on various topics related to Maoist movement.”The latest arrest by the agency was that of Father Stan Swamy. Father Swamy, an 83-year-old activist suffering from Parkinsons was arrested from his residence in Ranchi. The officials claimed that “he is a member of CPI (Maoist) and is actively involved in its activities. He also received funds through an associate for furtherance of the CPI (Maoist) activities. He is the convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist). The documents related to communications for furthering the activities of CPI (Maoist) and propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and literature were seized from his possession.”On January 1, 2018, riots broke out in various parts of Pune district on the occasion of the 200th commemoration day of the Bhima-Koregaon battle in which the East India Company defeated the Peshawar with the help of Dalit soldiers. One person was killed in these riots.According to the FIR registered at the Vishraumbaug police station on January 8, members of Kabir Kala Manch had allegedly made provocative speeches, sung and performed skits that led to violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018.The police had filed two charge sheets in the case and arrested nine accused—Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Rona Wilson, Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen and Vernon Gonsalves. However, two years later (January this year), the probe was transferred to NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-10-000-page-charge-sheet-nia-names-8-accused-in-elgar-parishad-case/story-id7bH9994yqN7umrYUtxpI.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC asks Navratri mandals to arrange online darshan of idols||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued guidelines for the upcoming Navratri festival, in which it suggested the sarvajanik (community) mandals in the city to arrange online darshan of goddess idols for public in view of the pandemic.The Maharashtra government has already issued guidelines and capped the height of the goddess Durga idols to four feet for the mandals and two feet for the household ones.In its guidelines, the civic body has kept the same height restrictions for the idols.It also appealed to the citizens to follow the Covid- 19 protocols strictly during the Navratri festival, which starts on October 17.In a statement, the BMC said that it has also asked the mandals to sanitise the pandals properly and follow all the social distancing norms strictly.The civic body also asked the citizens to wear masks, maintain at least two feet of distance between each other and wash hands regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-asks-navratri-mandals-to-arrange-online-darshan-of-idols/story-qgvDE7kCQDLAVtlHomcNpK.html
09-10-2020||City||Two independent candidates file nominations for Baroda bypolls||Two independent candidates, a father-son duo, filed nominations for the Baroda byelections on the first day on Friday.Candidates Ramesh Khatri and his son Dixit Khatri from Sonepat have submitted the hard copies of their documents in the office of Gohana sub-divisional magistrate-cum returning officer Ashish Kumar.The SDM said, “The candidates can file nominations online but will have to visit the office for submitting hard copies of documents. A candidate belonging to general category will have to deposit ₹10,000 for security deposit while the scheduled caste candidate will deposit ₹ 5,000.”He said the nominations can be filed till October 16 and scrutiny of documents will be done on October 17. “Withdrawal of papers will be allowed by October 19 and polling be held on November 3. The counting of votes will take place on November10,” he added.The seat was left vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda, who represented the rural seat in 2009, 2014 and 2019. The Indian National Lok Dal won the seat from 1977 to 2005.The saffron party’s nominee has never won from the Baroda constituency since inception of Haryana. The constituency has 54 villages and nearly 50% voters belong to the Jat community.In 2019 assembly polls, Congress nominee Sri Krishan Hooda had defeated wrestler-turned politician Yogeshwar Dutt by 4,840 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-independent-candidates-file-nominations-for-baroda-bypolls/story-6shBpA5yMZiCYFTYH9O7VM.html
09-10-2020||Lucknow||Ram temple construction: Carved stones being moved from Nyas workshop to Janmabhoomi||The shifting of the carved stones (shilas) from Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas Karyashala (workshop) in Ayodhya to Ram Janmabhoomi for the construction of Ram temple began on Friday with full Vedic rituals. Engineers of Larsen and Toubro, the company carrying out the construction of the temple, started the shifting process with the help of cranes and trucks. Earlier, priests performed special puja in the presence of saints and Anil Mishra, member of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. On the first day, four slabs were shifted. Gradually all stone slabs will be shifted to be used in the ground floor of the temple. “Shifting of shilas (carved stones) from Karyashala to Ram Janmabhoomi began today (Friday). These shilas will be relocated to a makeshift workshop at Ram Janmabhoomi where they will be cleaned before being put to use,” said Anil Mishra, member of the Trust. There are piles and piles of carved stone pillars, ceiling and floor slabs, all of red stone, at the Karyashala. Devout Ram-worshippers, who visit the Karyashala every day from all over the country, touch the slabs with their foreheads in reverence. Iron will not be used in temple construction. Also read: PM Modi to launch property cards under SVAMITVA scheme on Oct 11The ‘shilanyas’ for Ram temple took place on November 10, 1989. On August 30, 1990, the Karyashaala was set up, and stone consignments started coming in from Rajasthan. “It is a historic moment for us. For decades we have waited for the construction work of Ram temple to start and shifting these shilas to Ram Janmabhoomi from the Karyashala,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya. The Karyashala has two giant stone cutters to shape stones into slabs of the desired size. There is a shed as a workplace. In the middle of the workshop is a wooden model of the proposed temple and on one side, there are quarters for workshop staff and artisans. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had presided over ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony for Ram temple at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on August 5. On November 9, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram temple ending decades-old Ayodhya title suit dispute. Following the orders of the Supreme Court, the Centre constituted the Trust for the construction of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ram-temple-construction-carved-stones-being-moved-from-nyas-workshop-to-janmabhoomi/story-QaIkLWYBEbF5pkl0mLa9fL.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||370 FIRs registered for immigration fraud in Haryana: Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday said 370 First Information Reports (FIRs) have been registered for immigration fraud and sending people abroad through illegal means in the state. Vij said police have arrested 351 persons in this regard and recovered ₹1 crore from their possession. In Karnal district, maximum 175 FIRs have been registered followed by 80 in Kurukshetra, 51 in Kaithal, and 44 in Ambala. The FIRs have also been registered in Bhiwani, Dadri, Sirsa and Narnaul and other districts. Vij said a special investigation team (SIT) set up at the state-level has been investigating such cases to put an end to immigration frauds. “The SIT headed by an inspector general of police, includes six superintendents of police level officers. The team will probe cases pertaining to fraud committed against youth of the state on pretext of sending them abroad,” he said. The home minister said there are several fraudsters in the state who were sending youth by illegal means to USA, Malaysia, Mexico, Dubai among other countries. “As many as 421 people from Haryana have been sent back to India by the governments of these countries,” he added.Vij said the SIT has been directed to take prompt action in this regard and as a result the police have conducted raids in various districts of the state. “The special research team has received 646 complaints in last four months of which 370 complaints have been filed and 276 complaints have been sent to their concerned districts for investigation,” he said.He said the team has been successful in arresting 351 accused based on 51 complaints filed in 2018-2019 and 370 complaints filed in 2020. “From 2008 to 2019, 163 cases were registered under the Migrant Act. However, after the SIT was constituted, the number of cases registered have risen by 127%,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/370-firs-registered-for-immigration-fraud-in-haryana-anil-vij/story-4bBN56w1NO1GELIVhDMfqL.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana EC begins process of updating electoral rolls||The Haryana State Election Commission has started the process of updating electoral rolls ahead of the general elections of municipal corporation, municipal council and municipal committee bypolls. State election commissioner Dalip Singh said the last date for disposal of appeals by the concerned deputy commissioners is November 19 and final publication of ward-wise electoral rolls will be done on November 27. The general elections for municipal corporation of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat; municipal council of Rewari and municipal committee of Bass, Sisai and Uklana (Hisar), Dharuhera (Rewari), Sampla (Rohtak), Ismailabad (Kurukshetra), Sadhaura (Yamuna Nagar) will be held in the near future. Besides, bypolls of various wards are also expected. “If any person intends to get his name included in the electoral rolls of concerned municipality, he will have to first get his name included in the electoral rolls of respective assembly constituency otherwise it will not be included in the electoral rolls of municipality,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-ec-begins-process-of-updating-electoral-rolls/story-0zIgcSiDlUizaq2CmnfUEK.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Life comes full circle for women’s cricket selector Renu Margrate||For former India cricket all-rounder Renu Margrate, 45, life has come full circle. From a humble background in Amritsar, Margrate toiled hard to make ends meet and earn an India debut in 1995. Now, six months after she applied for the post of national selector, Margrate has been installed as one of the five-member panel for three years and would be paid Rs 25 lakh per annum as salary. The panel will be headed by former spinner Neetu David. An office superintendent with Indian Railways, Margrate, who played five Tests and 23 ODIs for India, replaced Shashi Gupta as selector from North Zone recently. “I’m grateful to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) appointed committee for choosing me for this job. It’s amazing to be back to the sport after a decade in a different role. Our first job will be to make squads for the Women’s T20 Challenge to be held in the United Arab Emirates. The tournament will provide a perfect platform to India domestic cricketers as Australians, Kiwis and English players will be busy in the Women’s Big Bash League (WBBL),” said Margrate, who has played domestic cricket for Punjab and Indian Railways. ‘CRICKET HAS GIVEN ME EVERYTHING’ Going down the memory lane, Margrate remembers how her parents and brothers encouraged her to pursue cricket while they stayed in a small rented house near the Putli Ghar area in Amritsar. While her mother was a domestic help, her father would sell his paintings to earn a livelihood. “Those were difficult times. Yet they backed me and even sent me to a Jalandhar college so that I could pursue cricket passionately. We did not have money to buy spiked shoes. When I made my debut in 1995, they were elated. Sadly, they are no more but God has been kind,” said Margrate, who was a middle-order bat and a medium-pace bowler. “After I got a job with Railways and played for India, things started looking up. Cricket has given me everything. I could improve my lifestyle and give back to my family. We shifted to a better house though in the same locality. I want to do my duty of being a selector with dignity and honesty like I conducted my career,” says Margrate, who scored a match-winning 75 and also scalped six wickets during a match against Karnataka in the Rani Jhansi tournament in 1994. She smacked former India captain Shanta Rangaswamy in the match that helped her make her India ODI and Test debut against New Zealand in 1995. ‘WOMEN’S CRICKET HAS TRANSFORMED’ “Women’s cricket has changed a lot. We never had money or specialised camps or designated trainers. We put up in dormitories and travelled in buses and trains. Since BCCI took over, the face of women’s cricket changed in India. And the 2017 World Cup took the sport to another level. Now India cricketers have endorsements and BCCI gives central contracts,” she said. “The Covid pandemic halted the game a bit but with IPL-13 taking place in the UAE, the smiles are back again. Hopefully, women matches will also have thrilling finishes. And we can find more Shafali Varmas from the tournament,” said Margrate, who last played for India in the 2000 World Cup. The other selectors are Arati Vaidya, Mithu Mukherjee, V Kalpana and Neetu David as chief selector. ‘NEED GOOD FAST BOWLERS’ Margrate felt the need to have quality quick bowlers. “Jhulan (Goswami) doesn’t play T20s, then there is Shikha Pandey. Other than them, we don’t have many options. Once domestic cricket resumes, the selection panel would focus on scouting and grooming good fast bowlers,” said Margrate. The BCCI contracted players along with other domestic cricketers have been asked to take their yo-yo tests to be eligible for the Women’s T20 Challenge selection. It will have three teams and will be played from November 4 to 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/life-comes-full-circle-for-women-s-cricket-selector-renu-margrate/story-WiNvC8xtUwnKDOa40ZgFbI.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Pune’s real estate sector showing signs of recovery, says report||Hit by the Covid-19 lockdown, Pune’s real estate market is showings signs of recovery during the unlock period, according to a report by Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm. As per the report, 4,918 housing units were sold between the three months of July and September. This was 60 per cent more as compared to 2,235 units sold during April to June quarter. In the pre-Covid-19 quarter (January to March), the number of housing units sold were 7,813. As far as new launches are concerned, city has seen 6,721 projects being launched during July to September, compared to 785 in April to May and 12,650 between January and March. According to Rajani Sinha, chief economist and national director (research), Knight Frank India, Maharashtra’s government’s stimulus and strong demand has led to increase in the sale. “Strong demand stimulus like the one by the Maharashtra government and historic low home loan interest rates have been the key reason for the current uptick residential sales. These measures have compelled end-users, those looking for good deals for their property, to make their purchase decision. Developers also took the opportunity to make a strategic offer, especially on their unsold inventory, to support the sales velocity,” said Sinha. The state government in its efforts to revive demand in real estate sector reduced stamp duty from five per cent to two per cent. The concession will be applicable temporarily from September 1 till December 31. Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director, Knight Frank India, said, “There has been a meaningful improvement in sales and launches in Q3 2020. Developers have been focusing on liquidating inventory and homebuyers inclined to purchase ready assets has translated into reduced unsold inventory levels in this quarter. For markets such as Mumbai and Pune, the additional push by the state government in the form of reduced stamp duty has helped in demand generation and revenue creation for the state government.” According to the report, property prices in Pune have seen dip by around five per cent. In terms of rental values, there has been no change in Pune. According to Suhas Merchant, president of Credai-Pune Metro, customers are preferring projects nearing completion rather than under-construction sites while purchasing flats. “Buildings reaching their completion stage with good infrastructure are fetching good demand and western side of the city which have big flats are also in demand. We expect the demand to pick up in the near future,” said Merchant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-real-estate-sector-showing-signs-of-recovery-says-report/story-kvYzGi5HZsxmn5B3buBbEO.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Work on metro tunnel under Mutha river to begin: Maha-Metro official||With the completion of the 1.6-kilometre underground tunnel between Agriculture College and Shivajinagar, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) has now started work on digging beneath the Mutha river bed near Shivajinagar for the Pune metro project. Once complete, Pune will be the fourth city after Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai where an underground Metro rail crosses the river. The tunneling work below the Mutha river section, according to officials, will begin very soon. According to Maha-Metro director Atul Gadgil, the rail level below the surface at Mutha river is 28 metres which is the lowest point of the metro route. “The tunnel will be six metres below the lowest point of the river. After that there is a seven-metre ridge of the tunnel,” said Gadgil. Pune metro has an underground stretch measuring 5.019 km in its PCMC to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations. Among these five metro stations, there are three stations where Maha-Metro is erecting multi-modal hubs and other transport models would be connected to each other. Besides Pune, the Kolkata metro crosses the Hooghly river where the tunnel has been dug 33 metres below the river bed. In Mumbai, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) completed one of the twin tunnels passing under the city’s Mithi river. The two tunnels, one of which is complete, are almost 12.5m below Mithi river. Chennai has an operational line under water with the proposed Metro line passing through 20 metres deep under the depths of the Adyar river and Chepet lake while travelling between Madhavaram and Sholinganallur. In Pune, the Tunnel Boring Machine is 150-200 metres away from the river bed at Shivajinagar. The city, as per plan, has three metro corridors being developed by Maha-Metro, the state government company. It will cover total a distance of 31 kilometers (a 16-km stretch from Pimpri to Swargate and another from Vanaz to Ramwadi at an estimated cost of Rs 11,420 crore). The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) is building another route between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar, which will be of 23 kilometers at an estimated cost of Rs 7,947 crore. All the three lines are expected to be operational by 2022. Maha-Metro public relations officer Hemant Sonawane, said, “There would be no difference between regular underground metro tunnel and tunnel below the riverbed. Commuters would not realise that they are crossing the river when they travel from this section. The tunnel boring machine has already reached the Civil Court station and completed the 1.6 Km tunnel work for underground metro. There would be no special technique to cross the river. The same machine would do the tunneling work below the river.”Underground metro stations/ Rail level below the surfaceShivajinagar/16 metreCivil Court/28 metreBudhwar peth-25 metreMandai- 20 metreSwaragate- 22 metre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/work-on-metro-tunnel-under-mutha-river-to-begin-maha-metro-official/story-2MO1eDsSnZUFJ20R2CMsxL.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud case: PMLA court refuses home food for Dheeraj Wadhawan||A special court constituted to try offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has refused to allow home food for of Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). Wadhawan is lodged in Taloja jail in connection with Yes bank fraud case. The court, while refusing home food for him, said he is not consuming prescribed diet food provided by jail authorities. Wadhawan’s lawyers had approached the court earlier this week for providing home food to him claiming he is suffering from several ailments and has lost 25 kilograms in last two months. “Since 2018 he is a heart patient and had undergone angioplasty in Switzerland. He is also suffering from lung infection and had spent several days in the ICU. He has also suffered weight loss,” his lawyers contended. The plea was opposed by the prosecution claiming, the blood sugar level is fluctuating as applicant/accused is not consuming diet provided by the prison authorities. The prosecution pointed out that as per directions of High Court and recommendation of the Diet Committee of Government of Maharashtra, nutritious, healthy and nourishing food is provided to the inmates. Also read: ED arrests CFO, internal auditor of Cox and Kings in Yes Bank fraud case The court, after hearing both the side noted that, “I have gone through the medical report of applicant/accused issued by Chief Medical Officer, Taloja Jail. As per the report applicant/accused has a history of hypertension and had undergone angioplasty. His blood glucose level was checked and there is fluctuation in blood sugar level. The report further states that said fluctuation is because of not consuming the necessary diet provided by the prison authority.” The court, while rejecting his plea for home food, also noted that, “required diet is available in jail and was very well provided to the applicant/accused. However, he is not consuming said diet which is causing the fluctuations. As such, necessary and proper food and medication is available to the applicant/accused in Taloja Jail.” Dheeraj Wadhawan was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with Yes bank fraud case. The ED had initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 in connection with alleged suspicious loans granted by Yes Bank and alleged quid pro quo between Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor and the Wadhawans. The agency had arrested Kapoor on March 8 for money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-pmla-court-refuses-home-food-for-dheeraj-wadhawan/story-QIboEThHUBuYFe16z79zBL.html
09-10-2020||Pune||No ban on price rise: Onions at ₹50-₹60 per kg in Pune||Onion prices are hovering between Rs50 to Rs60 per kg in Pune city despite the government’s decision to ban the export of onions.The Union government on September 14, 2020, banned the export of all varieties of onions, anticipating a supply crunch. After the decision, the prices of onions dipped in the Agriculture Produce Market Committee from Rs3,000 to Rs2,200 per quintal.Now again the prices have shot up in wholesale APMC markets as well as in retail markets.Jaydutta Holkar, director, Lasalgaon APMC and Mumbai’s Vashi market, said, “Due to less arrival of stock in the market the prices have shot up. In Lasalgaon APMC the onion prices are between Rs3,500 and Rs4,500 per quintal.”“The rates depend on the quality of the onion, but it is true that the prices are soaring. It is most likely that the prices would remain high for the next few weeks as the farmers have less stock of onion with them and the new arrival has been delayed due to rains,” he said.A farmer Rupesh Sawant from Malegaon, Nashik district, said, “As most of the onion crop has been damaged, farmers sold out maximum stock during the lockdown period. We have less stock now. I have 50 to 60 quintals of onions with me which is of good quality but I will wait for next one or two weeks to sell it off.”“I got on an average Rs12 to Rs15 per kg for the onion sold earlier. Three days before (October 6) I sold ten quintal onions and for Rs28 per kg. The production cost per kg is Rs10-Rs 12,” he saidAnother farmer Satish Pawar from Nashik district said, “It is always the case that when small farmers have produced the crop the prices are low. When traders or big farmers are involved the prices shoot up.”“Now the price of onion is around Rs3,500 per quintal but I do not have stock,” he said.Sawant said, “The onion seed has also become costly. Last year it was Rs1,500 per kg but now it is Rs4,500 per kg. The prices of seed shoot up by three times. It is the wrong policy of the government to bring a ban on onion export.”“Even if the government did not want to give any subsidy for crops, don’t give it but now don’t bring any cap or interfere in agricultural commodities,” he said.Vilas Bhujbal, president, trade union, APMC, Pune, said, “The prices of onions have shot up in the wholesale market and will remain high for the next few weeks. Either the price will be stable or increase.”“As the average price of onion in the wholesale market is Rs35 per kg and so in the retail market it is from Rs50 to Rs60 per kg,” he said.Shelar Bhajiwale from Sahakarnagar area said, “The onion prices are increasing. Good quality onions are sold between Rs50 and Rs60 per kg. Average and damaged onions are at Rs40 to 50 per kg in the retail market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-ban-on-price-rise-onions-at-50-60-per-kg-in-pune/story-2O1YMCUec3Nb6GmroDm9LL.html
09-10-2020||City||Srinagar to get 200 libraries in schools and panchayats over the next two months||Jammu & Kashmir’s summer capital, Srinagar, would get 200 libraries in schools and panchayats over the next two months. As many as 21 of them have been established in hostels of the city’s colleges.Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary said that reading culture has always been essential to life in Srinagar which has of late suffered. “The book reading culture is diminishing here. When books and libraries would be readily available, people will obviously access them.”He said they have set up 21 libraries in various hostels of professional and degree colleges and are setting up one in each panchayat and some wards of Srinagar. “In colleges, there is limited scope for libraries but if they are in hostels, the students will read at leisure.”Also Read: Srinagar: Medical college suspends 7 nurses after protest over new duty rosterIn each library, there will be roughly 2000-plus books besides two computers with internet facilities.The list of these books was compiled by students after which they were acquired by the administration. “There is an involvement of students at each level. The libraries are planned and managed by them and we will be augmenting their resources annually,” he said. “We thought that a positive engagement of students and youth is necessary and what better way than this.”Choudhary said around 150 libraries will be established in schools of peripheral areas in the coming months. “In Panchayats, the books will be varied... These libraries will be managed by the panchayat people.”“Brilliant idea… should have books on all subjects. People can donate books as well and there should be a browsing centre in all. Photocopying facility as in National libraries,” tweeted Parvaiz Kaul, a prominent doctor.“Very welcome step sir. This must not be limited to Srinagar city only but we must have at least one public library in every Panchayat in rural areas as well. And people should be motivated to donate books to these libraries,” said Bilal Khanday, a netizen.Satish Dua, a retired army officer, suggested using the reach of the army for such an initiative. “When I was Corps Commander, we had established 66 Chinar Nau-Jawan Clubs, with great response. Among other facilities they have a library too, some big some small. You may consider partnering with them and use their reach in remote areas. Your choice of books will be more relevant,” he wrote in response to Choudhary’s tweet about the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-to-get-200-libraries-in-schools-and-panchayats-over-the-next-two-months/story-klx0vIRE0T4rigq9IEG7JI.html
09-10-2020||City||Gas leak at food processing plant leaves 1 dead, 1 injured in Goa||One person died while another took ill after an ammonia gas leak at a food processing plant in South Goa, police have said. The gas leak took place at a food processing unit located in Cuncolim Industrial Estate in South Goa in the early hours of Friday and claimed the life of one worker who was sleeping at the site. Also read: Gas leak at Boisar chemical unit near Mumbai, one injured“The leak took place between 2.30 am and 2.45 am at Cuncolim Industrial Estate. Some workers woke up and managed to escape from the site but he remained behind,” said Cuncolim Police Inspector Therron D’Costa, speaking of the deceased. Two people took ill and were rushed to hospital but one didn’t survive. The other worker who was hospitalised is believed to be stable. The leak has since been plugged. The police have registered a case of an unnatural death and are probing further. A case of negligence could also be added against the owners of the unit, depending on the progress of the investigation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gas-leak-at-food-processing-plant-leaves-1-dead-1-injured-in-goa/story-29MsqfnTAXVYYjTpMfxxNP.html
09-10-2020||Patna||Bihar’s socialist icon Ram Vilas Paswan dies||Veteran leader, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) patron and union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Ram Vilas Paswan, who breathed his last at a Delhi hospital on Thursday, leaves behind a big void in the national politics. His son and MP Chirag Paswan gave the news through his tweet. Bihar politics has been known to revolve around the big three, Nitish Kumar, Lalu Prasad and Ram Vilas Paswan, since the 1990s and despite often remaining in opposing camps, their personal equation was never affected.Having remained in active politics for five decades, he was one of the tallest Dalit leaders in the Indian politics. He had founded the LJP in 2000 and made it an important cog in Bihar politics by dint of his hard work. He was known to have an uncanny knack of reading people’s mood and political wind. He got elected to the Bihar Legislative Assembly for the first time in 1969 as a member of the Samyukta Socialist Party and never looked back thereafter, though he did not have any political legacy behind him. However, he leaves behind a legacy that would be hard to match. He was very active in the JP’s students’ movement as a student of Patna University and was also arrested. His hard work paid off and in 1977 he became MP for the first time at just 31 years of age from Hajipur on a Janata Party ticket. Since then, he became synonymous with Hajipur. He represented Hajipur Lok Sabha constituency eight times till 2019. In 1989 he outdid his own record by increasing his winning margin to over five-lakh. He became the union minister for the first time the same year. In 2019, he decided not to contest and went to the Rajya Sabha from the NDA. He was the RS member even from 2010-2014. He had the distinction of working with six Prime Ministers, which speaks volumes of his ability to adjust and adapt. Perhaps, it was his ability to plan deftly that resulted in his decision to pass on the baton of the LJP to his son Chirag Paswan in 2019 and stay away from the rigours of electoral politics, which he was quite adept at. He was also committed to his family and was not unfazed when some people asked him about projecting them in politics. He often said that his brothers stood by him when he was a struggler and it was his duty to help them come up. It was his stature and ability to get along with all that has left leaders of all hues sad, with condolences pouring in from everywhere, cutting across the party lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-socialist-icon-ram-vilas-paswan-dies/story-QgB5MixWTrVmN1wpjEL6FO.html
09-10-2020||Election:||Bihar assembly election: Tejashwi stabbed me in the back, Shah offered a balm, says VIP’s Mukesh Sahni||Mukesh Sahni-led Vikassheel Insaan Party, or VIP, has quit the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) in Bihar to contest 11 seats from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s quota in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Sahni spoke to Smriti Kak Ramachandran about the elections and why he chose to return to the NDA. Edited excerpts:In March 2019, you made a speech against the BJP. You were later given three Lok Sabha seats to contest as part of the Mahagathbandhan. What has changed since?In 2014, when I returned to Bihar from Mumbai, where I had gone to work as an 18-year-old, I came back for [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi. I worked closely with Amit Shah, who was the party president and campaigned hard for the BJP because I had faith in Modi. I ran a social organisation then and campaigned for the NDA in the 2014 and 2015 Bihar polls. But then I had concerns about my community, Nishads, not being given the benefit of reservation. So I quit.In 2018, I formed a political party and joined the NDA. A political party’s work is to contest elections and since I could not join the NDA, I went with the Mahagathbandhan. Even though I was not completely happy... I went with the flow. I was assured by [RJD leader] Tejashwi Yadav that we will be given 25 seats to contest and the deputy chief minister’s post. At the last minute, he announced at a press conference the VIP will get only two seats. It was there that I took a call that I am going to walk out of the Mahagathbandhan. Tejashwi stabbed me in the back and Shah offered me balm. So, I went back to the NDA.The only reason you walked out was Tejashwi Yadav not keeping his word...Tejashwi has inherited the party. His father Lalu Prasad was a big leader, but he [Tejashwi Yadav] lacks experience and discipline. And despite their Lok Sabha performance, we stayed with them and helped them, even when old allies such as the RLSP [Rashtriya Lok Samta Party] and the HAM [Hindustani Awam Morcha] left them.Our party has a vote bank of about 14 to 15% among the most backward communities. But he had different ideas. After reneging on his promise of 25 seats and deputy chief minister‘s post, he thought we will branch out on our own and benefit the RJD, since we will cut into the vote share of the NDA.Also read: JMM to go solo in Bihar polls, accuses RJD of ‘political betrayal’Has there been any discussion with the BJP on the possibility of a ministerial post? Have you resolved the outstanding issues with the party?For the past seven decades, there has been no reservation for the Nishads. I still say whatever can be done within the ambit of the Constitution for the community should be done. However, the government has taken some steps. Modi has announced special schemes for the fishing communities. There is a focus on fox nut farming. This gives me hope that work is being done to improve the economic condition of the community.There is no deal or pre-conditions with the BJP. I have worked closely with Amit Shah during the 2015 election. He supports me in my work. I am thankful to the PM, BJP president JP Nadda and [Union] home minister [Shah] who took me back and offered me 11 seats as against the 2 that the Mahagathbandhan offered.... we are capable of winning all 11 [seats].Is VIP a replacement for the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the NDA?I am not a replacement for the LJP. But I feel Chirag [Paswan of LJP] should have shown a little bit of patience. He should have complied with the rules of an alliance. After all the LJP is not such a big party that it is challenging its own ally. He does not have candidates to field. He has made his move with the eye on the 2025 election, but it is important to work on the ground and not make grand statements.You mentioned that you left Bihar to work in Mumbai. Employment will be a big issue in Bihar...Everyone has to struggle whether they are the rich or poor. And this problem of employment is not limited to Bihar. It is a countrywide problem. But we have to look at the work chief minister Nitish Kumar has done in the last 15 years. He has steered the state through difficult times. He has experience and vision which the RJD or Tejashwi do not have. Now is not the time for R&D [experiment] in Bihar. There are many senior leaders in the RJD but what is needed is experience and vision. Tejashwi is young but he does not meet people. He does not work with people on the ground. He does not hit the streets. He banks on the Yadav vote bank because he thinks it is his entitlement to get their votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-tejashwi-stabbed-me-in-back-shah-offered-a-balm-says-vip-s-mukesh-saini/story-m7P6rUZdNzfHNtg0tkyMDP.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||‘Want cooperation, not confrontation from other states over air pollution’: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is taking the lead in fight against air pollution in Delhi-NCR, but the neighbouring states are still not serious about the issue despite it becoming more dangerous due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Rai said the AAP government wants cooperation not confrontation with other states on the issue of air pollution. “The land has been divided into states but the sky is one. Pusa bio-decomposer initiative as a solution to stubble burning will benefit Haryana and Punjab more, and Delhi’s benefit is that it will get rid of the smoke from farm fires that make the city a gas chamber every year. We want cooperation of other states and not confrontation on the issue of pollution,” he said.Rai said the Delhi government has been taking action against dust, biomass burning, stubble and vehicular pollution.But air pollution in Delhi hit severe levels only when stubble burning is at its peak. The city becomes a gas chamber then, the minister asserted.“We are the only government which is serious about it (pollution level). We are working on a mission mode. Many states in India have been battling severe air pollution, but they don’t seem very active despite it being a major challenge, especially in the times of coronavirus,” Rai had told PTI in an interview on Thursday.The crop residue burning has not stopped despite the Supreme Court issuing strict directions in this regard, Rai said.“The issue concerns Punjab and Haryana, but Delhi is working more on it. Stubble burning is minimal in Delhi, still we are taking steps to deal with it. We are working with Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa… took an initiative. We want to take the lead and set an example for other states,” he said.“What we are working on will benefit Punjab and Haryana more. Delhi’s benefit is that it will get rid of smoke from farm fires,” he added.Stubble burning has started in Haryana and Punjab, which contributes significantly to the rise in pollution levels in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/want-cooperation-not-confrontation-from-other-states-over-air-pollution-gopal-rai/story-KB5qJR0pBH3kD2RBJrM6eN.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Students protest against fee hike at Fergusson College in Pune||Student unions staged a protest outside the Fergusson College (FC) premises on Thursday against the fee hike announced by the college administration for its various courses. The college, which is an autonomous body, has increased the fees for this academic year for the courses of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science by 100-200 per cent. Most of the students come from humble economic backgrounds and have faced financial difficulties due to Covid-19 pandemic and hence, have opposed the fee hike. “I am currently enrolled in the final year for Bachelor of Science course at Fergusson College and when we started the admission process online, we were shocked to see the increased fees. Last year, the fees for us was around Rs 2,000 which has now increased to Rs 6,000. Most of the students here in college are from rural areas of the state and we cannot afford such high fees. Specially during the pandemic, we are already suffering a lot and this financial burden is not acceptable,” said a student Sujit Kate. For the Bachelor of Arts course, the earlier fees which was Rs 2,470 for second year has been hiked to Rs 6,070 for reservation category which is almost a 145 per cent increase from the last academic year. For the science stream, last year the fees was Rs 3,550 which has increased to Rs 7,050, a 98 per cent increase. Sandhya Sonawane, Pune division head of Rashtravadi Congress students’ union, said, “Today we held a protest at the Fergusson College against the fee hike and we submitted a letter of our demands to the principal. Though the college is autonomous, but they don’t have any financial autonomy, so this fee hike should be cancelled immediately. The principal has assured us to take up the issue with the board of directors and if the issue is not resolved within 15 days, then we will start a hunger strike outside the college.” Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said, “We have received the letter from the students on Thursday regarding the fee hike and soon, we will be conduct a meeting to discuss it. A committee has been formed and accordingly, further decisions will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-protest-against-fee-hike-at-fergusson-college-in-pune/story-muJyjve34snytBnCAbV6MP.html
09-10-2020||Lucknow||BSP chief Mayawati asks Dalits to unite, win power||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday hit out at the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and called them casteist, feudal and narrow-minded while asking the Dalits to unite under her party’s banner to win power at the Centre and in the states.Speaking at a press conference after paying tribute to BSP founder Kanshi Ram on his 14th death anniversary, Mayawati accused the two parties of conspiring against the BSP to stop it from coming to power. She accused the Congress leaders of calling the BSP BJP’s B-team to misguide the Dalits. Mayawati said the BJP used similar tactics when the Congress was in power at the Centre. She asked the Dalits to understand the BJP and Congress’s “game plan” of dividing the community for political gains.Also Read: BSP revives 2007 Dalit-Brahmin formula, hopes to unseat Yogi in 2022 pollsMayawati, a four-time Uttar Pradesh chief minister, said their attitude towards the Dalits and the BSP was the same. She accused Congress and BJP leaders of indulging in all types of political drama over incidents of atrocities against Dalits to serve their vested interests. She referred to the alleged rape and murder of a 19-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and said both parties betrayed her community. “The Congress or BJP governments did nothing for the welfare and security of the Dalit community. Rather, the scheduled caste people were exploited and harassed under the BJP and Congress governments,” she said.Mayawati promised the BSP will work for the welfare of the weaker sections of all the communities. She asked Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram’s followers to strengthen the BSP for the Dalit empowerment and to reject the Dalit outfits launched with the Congress and BJP’s support to damage BSP’s electoral prospects.Mayawati said rival political parties like Congress and the BJP have launched a campaign to defame the BSP over fund collection from its supporters. She insisted her party collects funds from its supporters to run the organisation and to contest elections. Mayawati said the BSP did not take donations from big capitalists and rich businessmen like rival parties did. “If the BSP starts taking donations from capitalists and businessmen, then it will have to follow their directions and when in power, it will have to frame policies for their benefit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bsp-chief-mayawati-asks-dalits-to-unite-win-power/story-gb9uggZAyklW5XwNO9Ye8J.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Couple in Pune arrested for abandoning baby, declaring it dead||A couple was arrested by the Pune police on Thursday for abandoning their 3-month-old child at a church and informing their family that the child had died.The two people - parents of a 5-year-old child - are well educated who were bailed out on the same day by the court, according to the police.“The man is an engineer and the wife is a housewife. They have been married for seven years, but they had differences and were separated for a while. Last year, they came back together and the wife got pregnant around the same time and delivered a baby in August. But he had doubts and gave her the option of either leaving him or abandoning the child. She chose to abandon the baby,” said senior police inspector Rajendra Sahane of Khadki police station.A passer-by had found the baby near a church in Khadki on Tuesday early morning and handed it over to the police. The woman and her husband had differences among them and the husband had doubts about the biological father of child, according to the police. Their differences led them to decide that the child should be abandoned in order to save their marriage.“I saw the baby’s uncle’s social media post as he was an acquaintance. Another friend’s wife saw the child and brought it to my notice and in turn to the police. The sweating had drenched the baby’s clothes completely and it was shivering. Only a small part of the zip covering it’s body was open. At night itself, I had called the acquaintance and told him that the baby he mentioned in his social media post has been found. He was shocked and said that it was his sister’s baby and that a funeral was held for him,” said Litesh Tinku Das (28), a resident of Mula road and a social worker.The baby is now in custody of the police and is being treated at the Sassoon General Hospital. The police are looking for a legal recourse for the baby. The couple may also face charges for forging the baby’s death certificate.A case under Section 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/couple-in-pune-arrested-for-abandoning-baby-declaring-it-dead/story-60RvFO2j52Gz9Qg0Yt537O.html
09-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest department uses solar repeller technique to check movement of wild animals||In an attempt to check the movement of wild animals into residential areas near Ganga river in Haridwar district, the Uttarakhand forest department is now using solar enabled repeller systems. These solar repellers have motion sensor system which creates a high pitch sound when activated, startling wild animals enough to send them back towards the forest. During night time, the repeller instrument also throws a sharp light towards approaching wild animals, affecting their vision. Neeraj Sharma, divisional forest officer (DFO), Haridwar, said initial results of the repellers are encouraging. “These repellers are also being installed at other wild animal intrusion prone stretches in the district. Of the proposed 18, we have already set up 10 repellers on the points commonly used by wild animals to move towards residential areas,” he said. Also read: Elephant kills 55-year-old woman in Uttarakhand’s Nainital“The initial phase of installation is being done from Matri Sadan ashram till Bishanpur Kundi and further, it will be carried on till Laksar,” said Dinesh Naudiyal, Ranger Haridwar forest division. Gurukul Kangri University assistant professor environmental science Dr Gagan Matta pointed out that a cost-effective solar repeller instrument is based on the traditional methods of creating sound and light to shoo animals away. Farmers have welcomed the decision.“We want these repeller instruments installed at more places as wild animals, elephants in particular, ravage our agricultural crops of sugarcane every season,” said Jagjeetpur village farmer Ballam Saini, A delegation of affected farmers of Pathri area had also submitted a memorandum to the forest officials demanding construction of a safety wall as well as installation of repellers. Wild animals have regularly moved towards human habitation in Haridwar district. In July, an elephant entered a residential area just 1.5 km from Har-Ki-Pauri in Haridwar and created ruckus, damaging boundary walls and vehicles parked outside the houses. Earlier in April, an elephant was spotted at Har-Ki-Pauri. There are 2,026 elephants in the state, according to the elephant census released by the state forest department in June this year. In 2012, there were 1,559 elephants while in 2017 there were 1,839 elephants in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-forest-department-uses-solar-repeller-technique-to-check-movement-of-wild-animals/story-wBevyz1A9CmSq1ngdHCR5M.html
09-10-2020||City||Two Assam men cover 400km of flooded Brahmaputra on bamboo raft||While most people in Assam avoid crossing the swollen Brahmaputra during floods, two adventure-loving Assam men rowed a bamboo raft nearly 400km. Rishan Doley, 30, and Shekhar Bordoloi, 26, started from Majuli, the world’s largest river island, on September 30 and ended their 8-day-long trip at Umananda, the world’s smallest inhabited river island near Guwahati, on October 7. “Our aim was to show the tremendous potential for rafting and water sports in Assam in the Brahmaputra and its tributaries. Using a non-motorised bamboo raft when the river was flooded added to the thrill,” said Bordoloi, an engineer. Also Read: Wildlife-friendly roads pay off, 18 species using special underpasses in PenchThe two friends who connected during a mountaineering trip few years ago planned the expedition a year ago, but it took the Covid-19-enforced lockdown, which prevented them from going out on trips, to make it a reality. They built a 25 ft long and 17 ft wide raft with 170 bamboo shoots in a week. They named the raft Shibuk, a word used by the Mising tribe to describe the loud sound made by the Brahmaputra waters when it enters holes in the earth. The expedition was flagged off from Kartik Chapori by Padmashri Jadav Payeng, known as Forest Man for planting a forest on his own. To document the trip, Nayan Bordoloi joined the duo as a videographer. Rafting on the Brahmaputra is not easy even during winter, when the river’s water level goes down and the current slows. During the eight days, the friends had a tough time staying on the mainstream as the river meanders. They also experienced harsh winds and whirlpools. “Our most memorable experience happened on the fourth day when the raft got stuck in a sandbar in the evening as we were crossing Kaziranga National Park. As elephants and water buffaloes paced on the banks, we used all our strength to move it and continue rafting,” recalled Doley, who runs his own adventure tour company. The friends carried enough provisions for the trip, a small LPG cylinder and stove to cook meals and a mini-generator to charge their phones and other devices. At night, they halted on the banks of the river and set sail in the morning. Both Doley and Bordoloi hope to embark on more such adventures and promote water sports among tourists as well as provide employment to locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-assam-men-cover-400km-of-flooded-brahmaputra-on-bamboo-raft/story-uscPkhmS7myOmHAqIgOuZM.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Child reported kidnapped in Pune, found hiding behind pipe||A 10-year-old girl, who was reported as kidnapped on Wednesday, was found hiding inside her building in Bhosari on Thursday morning. She had run away from home after her elder brother scolded her for not attending online school lessons. The series of events began at 7:30pm on Wednesday at their residence on Dighi road, Bhosari.The girl is a student of Class 6 and lives with her parents and elder brother who is pursuing third year of engineering from a local college.“Her elder brother had scolded her for not attending school classes online that day. This had upset her and she ran out of the house,” said police sub-inspector Savarde who is investigating the case.The parents panicked and approached the police after they failed to locate the girl till late in the night. At 1:40am on Thursday, a case was registered at Bhosari police station.“The next morning, they found her sleeping in the duct in the garage of the building. She had spent the night there itself,” said PSI Savarde.The 41-year-old mother of the child owns a beauty parlour while her father owns a shop, according to the police.“She has an elder brother. She generally attends classes either on his phone or my phone. My parlour is on the top floor of our house so I’m available always. But yesterday she just refused to attend classes. We couldn’t eat or drink while thinking about her after we couldn’t find her. In the morning around 5:30am when the sun started coming up we went to the terrace to check again and when we looked down, we found her sleeping behind a big pipe. She is a fragile child so she hid completely behind the pipe,” said her 41-year-old mother.A case under Section 363 (kidnapping) was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/child-reported-kidnapped-in-pune-found-hiding-behind-pipe/story-S4VjFeZVUJDLQ8ODi3HU9M.html
09-10-2020||Pune||In 10,000-page chargsheet, NIA names 8 accused in Elgar Parishad case||One day after the arrest of activist Father Stan Swamy, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday submitted a supplementary charge sheet against eight persons accused of being connected to the Elghar Parishad case. The seven charge-sheeted accused are—academic and activist Dr Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu Musaliyarveetil Tharayil, three members of Kabir Kala Manch (Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor), and Father Stan Swamy. The eighth accused Milind Teltumbde, secretary of Maharashtra State Committee of the CPI (Maoist), is said to be on the run.After filing the charge sheet, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty said, “A supplementary charge sheet has been submitted against eight accused. The registry will scrutinise it first and later further process will take place.” Also Read: ‘Fake evidence planted’: Jharkhand activist Stan Swamy claims before arrestNIA took over the probe from Maharashtra Police in January. Four months later, the agency arrested Teltumbde and Navlakha. they had to surrender before the agency as the Supreme Court refused to grant them any further protection and relief from arrest. NIA, after the arrest, claimed that Teltumbde delivered a “provocative presentation” and speeches on December 31, 2017, during an event at Shaniwarwada in Pune, which led to the violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018, statewide agitation and loss of life. NIA has alleged Teltumbde was the convenor of the programme and his call data records show he was in touch with the other arrested accused present at the event. The agency also claimed that Navlakha, along with other activists, is accused of having links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad gathering. Navlakha was first arrested by the Pune Police on August 28, 2018, but the Delhi high court had quashed his arrest on October 1, 2018. The prosecution had alleged that till August 2018 he was a member of CPI (Maoist). While arresting Navlakha, Pune Police cited several letters recovered from the computer of one of the accused exchanged between them. It was alleged that Navlakha and some of the other activists (who have also been arrested in the case), had direct access to and communicated with central committee members and senior leaders of CPI (Maoist). Pune Police also alleged that Navlakha was part of the conspiracy and they were probing to check if there was a larger conspiracy of seizing political power via an armed revolution by mobilising the masses. Navlakha surrendered before NIA on April 14 as no court granted him protection from the arrest. Also Read: Bhima Koregaon judicial panel requests state to put hearings on hold due to CovidAfter the arrest of Teltumbde and Navlakha, NIA made its first formal arrest—an associate professor in the Department of English with Delhi University—on July 28.The agency claimed that Hany Babu had links with Communist Party of India (Maoist) and was one of the key conspirators. The prosecution also pointed out that there were letters exchanged between the accused which were recovered by Pune Police. The investigating agency found mention of his name and role in those letters. The agency also claimed that Babu was actively involved in raising funds to help Maoists, for their release from prison. Two months later, the agency arrested three members of Kabir Kala munch—Jyoti Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor. Gorkhe and Gaichor were arrested on September 7 while Jagtap was arrested a day later. The agency, in a statement released after their arrest, claimed, “The three were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused. It has also a matter of record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about the urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also it is established that during their (Kabir Kala Manch members) visits to the jungle, they underwent weapons and explosive training and awareness programmes on various topics related to Maoist movement.” The latest arrest by the agency was that of Father Stan Swamy. Father Swamy, an 83-year-old activist suffering from Parkinsons was arrested from his residence in Ranchi. The officials claimed that “he is a member of CPI (Maoist) and is actively involved in its activities. He also received funds through an associate for furtherance of the CPI (Maoist) activities. He is the convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist). The documents related to communications for furthering the activities of CPI (Maoist) and propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and literature were seized from his possession.” On January 1, 2018, riots broke out in various parts of Pune district on the occasion of the 200th commemoration day of the Bhima-Koregaon battle in which the East India Company defeated the Peshawar with the help of Dalit soldiers. One person was killed in these riots. According to the FIR registered at the Vishraumbaug police station on January 8, members of Kabir Kala Manch had allegedly made provocative speeches, sung and performed skits that led to violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The police had filed two charge sheets in the case and arrested nine accused—Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Rona Wilson, Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen and Vernon Gonsalves. However, two years later (January this year), the probe was transferred to NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/elghar-parishad-case-nia-files-charge-sheet-against-seven-accused/story-SQVhHaoAlQs1z3VCl7T5NL.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Unemployment one of the reasons behind rise in crime: Pune CP Gupta||Unemployment arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic could be one of the reasons behind the rise in crime, but there is not enough data to come to a conclusion. Prima facie we feel that unemployment is the reason behind the slight rise in crime in the city recently, said Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta while addressing mediapersons on the sidelines of a media briefing on Wednesday on the arrest of four assailants in the murder of a Pune builder.“Mobile phone thefts, chain snatching and other small thefts have witnessed a gradual rise in the city and we will increase preventive action and ensure all the criminals are dealt with strictly. We have information that as many as 260 criminals have been released on parole in the last 45 days and we will ensure extensive usage of organised crime acts like Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) to break the back of the gangs,” he said.Over the last ten days, four murder cases were lodged in the city. A man was murdered near Navale bridge and his decomposed body dumped in a sack was traced. A person was murdered in Krushnanagar area in Kondhwa while he was drinking alcohol and the mob set fire to the house and destroyed the furniture. Similarly, Yuva Sena office-bearer Deepak Maratkar was hacked to death on Thursday. A notorious goon was found murdered under mysterious circumstances in Kharadi, three days ago. Gupta said that wider use of surveillance technology will ensure that the crime rate is kept under check and orders have been issued to all crime units for a complete crackdown on the criminals. Gupta faces multifold challenges ranging from street violations, vehicle thefts and property and cybercrimes ever since he took over from outgoing CP K Venkatesham. The 51-year-old, a 1992-batch IPS officer, is an IIT graduate who hails from Uttar Pradesh was posted as principal secretary (special), home department, Mumbai, before his Pune posting.As many as 800 incidents of violence took place till September 2019 while 818 cases of the same incidents have been recorded till date this year. Incidents involving stabbing or sharp weapon attacks with the intention of grievous injury also are on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unemployment-one-of-the-reasons-behind-rise-in-crime-pune-cp-gupta/story-8ZVKysputRDrFUmUCg5puM.html
09-10-2020||Ranchi||Fodder scam case: Jharkhand HC grants bail to Lalu Yadav||The Jharkhand high court on Friday granted bail to jailed Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav in one of the fodder scam cases on the ground that he had completed half of the five-year sentence in said case.The court’s order, however, doesn’t pave the way for the release of the former Bihar chief minister from jail as he has been serving term in another fodder scam case in which he was sentenced to 14 years in prison.Yadav has been undergoing treatment in custody at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for over two years.Also read: For first time in 30 years, Lalu Prasad to miss Bihar pollsThe bench of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh granted bail to him on the condition that he would furnish two sureties of Rs 50,000 each and deposit Rs 2 lakh of Rs 10 lakh fine amount slapped on him along with the sentence.The bench, however, sought replies from inspector general (IG), prison, and Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail (BMCJ) superintendent to furnish details of people who met Yadav in the hospital in the last three months and clarify whether these people had the requisite permission as per the jail manual.The bench also sought a report from RIMS medical superintendent regarding Yadav’s current health status. It posted the matter for further hearing on November 7.Yadav had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.On December 23, 2017, he was convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick succession. Since then, he has been in jail.Of these three cases, he secured bail in one of them last year on the ground that he had served half of the 3.5-year imprisonment awarded to him.The high court granted bail to Yadav on Friday in the instant aforesaid case, which relates to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore from Chaibasa treasury against the annual allotment of Rs 7.10 lakh for the year 1992-93.Of the four cases in which he has so far been convicted and sentenced to different terms of imprisonment, he has now secured bail in three of them.But in the fourth and last case, the RJD chief is facing 14 years in prison – seven under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections and another seven under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. The trial court had expressly said both sentences would run consecutively.Yadav’s lawyers hope that the high court will strike down this decision, and let the two sentences run simultaneously. If that happens, half of that seven-year sentence would be completed by November 10.Yadav’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar said, “The high court, in matters of other convicts in the same case, suspended the sentence and considered a maximum (of0 seven-year imprisonment for reckoning the half sentence for bail purposes. In such a situation, he is completing half custody on November 10.”“We are expecting his release from jail after November 10. We will file another bail application in that month only,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/fodder-scam-case-jharkhand-hc-grants-bail-to-lalu-yadav/story-WcazU61P9CoWOrg8poHE0M.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Veteran writer protests for 20 hours after jeweller refuses to speak in Marathi||Veteran Marathi writer Shobha Deshpande protested outside a jewellery shop in Colaba, Mumbai, for about 20 hours after the jeweller refused to speak to her in Marathi and allegedly drove her out of his shop. Following this, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers rushed to the shop, assaulted the jeweller and forced him to apologise. Deshpande, 80, sat on a dharma on Thursday afternoon in protest against the jeweller. She alleged that at the jewellery store, she was abruptly told that they will not speak in Marathi and will not even sell their wares to her. They allegedly also showed her the door after she insisted on seeing their shop registration certificate, she alleged. The jeweller was talking in Hindi. I asked him to speak in Marathi. While he refused to do so, he also added that he was not interested in selling his jewellery to me. Then I asked him for his registration certificate. Again, he refused so I called the police who took his side, forcing me to sit in protest,” said Deshpande. Soon, MNS workers turned up in large numbers and allegedly even slapped the shop owner. “We will deal with his arrogance in our own style. We will not allow this shop to open till they start talking to customers in Marathi,” said MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande. He added that Deshpande was over 80, and suffered from multiple health issues but the owner did not bother about her condition before misbehaving with her. The jeweller, Shankarlal Jain, did apologise to Deshpande but MNS workers took him to the Colaba Police station. “I was born in Mumbai and respect the Marathi language. I am sorry for this mistake and will not repeat it,” said Jain. Deshpande then withdraw her protest. “I am appalled at this attitude where they openly insult Marathi which is the state language. They conduct their business for decades in Mumbai and refuse to learn Marathi,”she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-veteran-writer-protests-for-20-hours-after-jeweller-refuses-to-speak-in-marathi/story-A332BTbjZrTbpBknLGnVPN.html
09-10-2020||City||Maoists claim to have killed 25 tribals in Chattisgarh’s Bijapur in last week of September||Maoists have claimed to have killed 25 tribals in Chhattisgarh’s left-wing insurgency-hit Bijapur district in the last week of September for allegedly being part of a covert police operation and acting as secret agents and informers.In a statement, Maoist spokesman Vikalp called the 25 “traitors” and added a “people’s court” punished them with the support and participation of the people after obtaining “clear evidence” in Bijapur’s Gangaluru area. He added they included 12 secret agents, five covert operatives and eight police informers.Also read: Maoists kill five of their own members in ChhattisgarhThe statement did not specify when the killings were carried out. But the police in Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district bordering Chhattisgarh said they received intelligence inputs that the Maoists killed 16 villagers after holding a “people’s court” in the last week of September. The Maoists also kidnapped a few other villages and took them into forests and might have killed them later, a police officer said.Vikalp said one of the secret agents working for the police turned out to be Maoist leader Vijja. “Our inquiries revealed that Vijja had been acting as a police agent for the last two years and entrusted with the responsibility of harming the central committee of the Maoist party. He had provided crucial information about the party meetings to the police four times. Though huge police forces were deployed, we could escape with the help of people, alertness and support from the local groups.”Maoists were earlier reported to have shot dead Modium Vijja alias Bhadru, 39, for killing innocent villagers. Vijjalu carried a cash reward of Rs 8 lakh on his head.Vikalp said Bastar’s police inspector general P Sundar Raj and superintendent Kamala Lochan Kashyap and other top officers managed the covert operation Samadhan Yojana aimed at eliminating the Maoists by 2022. He added police opened bank accounts for the slain agents, covert operatives, and informers.Vikalp alleged they were involved in atrocities against tribals, including rapes, murders, and looting. “They released dogs on people and detained innocent people in camps to pressurise them to surrender.”Raj said the killings show the frustration of Maoists and that fear of becoming extinct was haunting them. “They have lost the public support due to their own misdeeds and their leadership is now totally clueless and directionless.” Raj said anti-Maoist sentiment was building up in the tribal areas and their movement is nearing an end.(With inputs from Ritesh Mishra, Raipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maoists-claim-to-have-killed-25-tribals-in-chattisgarh-s-bijapur-in-last-week-of-september/story-SWmAT68RNUe3B3M4QaCkmL.html
09-10-2020||Lifestyle||Sindur khela fervour to be missed this year? No way, say Delhi-NCR women||With the ways of living, the ways of celebrating our festivals have also changed due to the pandemic. So as Durga Puja approaches, the thought of not being able to revel in the age-old tradition of sindur khela makes one wonder how will the festival be this year! Durga Puja pandals aren’t planning to organise sindur khela in groups. But, where there’s a festival, there’s a way. And women in Delhi-NCR have already set plans to celebrate this tradition from the comfort of their homes. The relevance of celebrating sindur khela varies from one community to another. Shampa Sircar Das, a Delhi-based artist, says, “This tradition has its origins in the Durga Pujas that were organised by the zamindars, to usher bonhomie among homemakers. The red vermillion colour symbolises the strength of womanhood or shakti that a woman has and uses to shield her family and the society while facing different challenges.” Talking about her plans of indulging in festive celebrations, Das says, “This year the pandemic has left us with no choice since a majority of puja celebration committees have decided to perform only Ghot Puja (worshipping an urn symbolising the goddess), and a few of them will perform puja with small idols without any usual lavish celebrations. The joy and preparation of wearing a red and white saree and taking along in a thali, flowers, sweets and sindur will become online this year! The final goodbye to Ma Durga on Dashami and the ritual of applying sindur on the Goddess’s feet and forehead which is followed by the sheer joy of playing vermilion or sindur with each other will all be done a virtually.” Some denizens have even invited their friends to celebrate sindur khela in a closed complex. “I’ll be inviting some close friends of mine and in the garden of my house we will celebrate this ritual with all the fervour. I’ve also planned what all foods will be served and my music playlist is also ready. I don’t want to ruin the spirit of this annual affair due to the pandemic! When Ma is coming all the way for us, we must keep the spirit high,” says Sanghamitra Mallick, a Gurugram-based content writer. “Durga puja in Covid-19 might be dull, but not for me. I’m on my shopping spree! Dhunuchi dance and bhog is planned with my girls on Asthami and Mughlai dinner with family on Navami and sindur khela, all at my house. We would be wearing the new sarees to celebrate the rituals. Pandals are fun but let’s dance and celebrate for our soul this time,” says Alaknanda Kathak, a Noida-based dancer.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/sindur-khela-fervour-to-be-missed-this-year-no-way-say-delhi-ncr-women/story-30lMwdqaoM6tFRrc6G5UPJ.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Frame policy on staggered work timings to avoid train crowding: HC tells Maharashtra, railways||The Bombay high court has directed the state and railway authorities to device a way to ensure that people can go back to work by travelling on the local trains while ensuring that social distancing norms are maintained. The court has also asked the state to involve all stakeholders, including essential service providers, and frame a broader policy on staggered work timings so that the issue of overcrowding on platforms and local trains during peak hours is addressed. The state has also been asked to inform the court of the measures it proposes to take in the event of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases that have been predicted in December and January. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations filed on behalf of the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa and various lawyer groups, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was not averse to increasing the frequency of local trains on both the Central and Western Railways. The petitions have sought inclusion of lawyers in the list of essential service providers so that they can travel by local trains and attend court as and when their cases came up for hearing in the high court as well as the subordinate courts in the MMR region. While making submissions, Kumbhakoni submitted that the state had been asking the railway authorities to increase services based on demand. “We have slowly started opening sectors one by one as figures of Covid positive case are going down. The reason why we are doing it in a phased manner is the capacity of the health sector to treat patients...Whenever there is a decline (in the number of cases), we open up one sector that results in a small increase in Covid cases, but it doesn’t cross the threshold. That is how we have opened up restaurants. We are trying to take a judicious approach,” submitted Kumbakoni. “There is no return ticket for corona. We have to live with it. If we allow the public to enter local trains, we expect them to behave properly,” said Kumbhakoni. It was pointed out that the problem of overcrowding in trains was seen only during peak hours: 8 – 10 am and 4 - 7 pm. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for railways, suggested that a staggered work timing regime could ensure that huge crowds don’t reach the platform at the same time. Appearing for the Bar Council, senior counsel Dr Milind Sathe submitted that the council was amenable to staggered work timings and members could be asked to travel by locals only when they had cases. Other petitioners represented by advocate Abhay Anturkar, Shyam Dewani and other advocates concurred with his suggestions. After the submissions, the bench observed, “Survival should be foremost thing in our mind. Device a mechanism to ensure that all people do not come to the platform at same time.” The court then said that it was extending the facility of e-pass for advocates appearing in subordinate courts in the MMR region on an experimental basis for five days and would review it thereafter. It also asked the state and the lawyer associations to come up with responses to its suggestions and placed the matter for hearing on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/frame-policy-on-staggered-work-timings-to-avoid-train-crowding-hc-tells-maharashtra-railways/story-E9zpKiTypv9IcybH3oxAxL.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra ATS arrests HAL employee for leaking sensitive information to ISI||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested a 41-year-old employee, identified as Deepak Shirsath, of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for supplying sensitive information about Indian fighter aircraft and their manufacturing unit to the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan.ATS officials seized three mobile phones with five SIM cards and two memory cards from Shirsath. The seized phones and other electronic equipments were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination, said an ATS official. Shirsath was produced in the court and remanded to police custody till October 19, added ATS officials.Also Read: Mumbai Crime branch arrests fake IPS officer after 1200km long car chaseAccording to ATS officials, Shirshat has worked with HAL for 15 years. Officials of the Nashik ATS unit arrested Shirshat from his house in Nashik based on confidential information.During interrogation, Shirsath revealed that he was in constant touch with ISI, and also confessed that he had supplied sensitive information related to Indian fighter aircraft and information related to the HAL, said ATS officials.The aircraft manufacturing unit is situated in Ozar area in Nashik, the airbase and the prohibited area inside the manufacturing unit. The Nashik facility houses both Su-30MKIs and MIG-21s. A case has been registered against Shirsath under sections 3 , 4 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act, said ATS officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ats-arrests-hal-employee-for-leaking-sensitive-information-to-isi/story-QFUZm011Z3zDBVwc0jkiiI.html
09-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan temple priest tried to stop encroachment, burnt to death||A 50-year-old temple priest died in a Jaipur hospital late Thursday evening from the burn injuries received after he was set afire in Karauli district over a land dispute on Wednesday, police said. Babulal Vaishnav died during treatment for burns at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital. “We registered a case for attempt to murder against five people of the village; now the charge will be converted to that of murder,” Karauli superintendent of police Mridul Kachawa said. The priest gave a statement to police before death, he added. On Wednesday, accused Kailash Meena and others from his family allegedly set the priest’s hut in Bukna village under Sapotra police station on fire since he had been trying to prevent encroachment on temple land. The injured priest was taken to district hospital from where doctors sent him to Jaipur. Vaishnav was admitted to SMS Hospital in a critical condition and succumbed to his injuries late Thursday evening. Also Watch l Rajasthan temple priest burnt alive over land dispute; family holds protests Police said three acres of land is under the temple’s ownership but Meena wanted to encroach some of it. A few days ago, the priest started constructing a house for himself on the land that Meena was eyeing. On Wednesday, the accused poured petrol over the hut and set it afire. The priest was caught in the fire before being rescued. Also Read: Mumbai Crime branch arrests fake IPS officer after 1200km long car chase The SP said main accused Kailash Meena had been arrested and efforts to arrest others were on. He added that the priest had never informed the police about a dispute over land with Meena. Vaishnav’s family brought the body to the village for cremation on Friday. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. In his dying testimony, the priest named six people for setting him on fire, the police said. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje attacked the state government for the incident on Twitter. Some other BJP leaders alleged that the law and order situation in the state was deteriorating under the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-temple-priest-tried-to-stop-encroachment-burnt-to-death/story-yPkXYRZdfIeoHdIynEq7qL.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport’s duty free store starts online ‘click and collect’ service: All you need to know||Delhi airport’s duty free store has started a ‘click and collect’ service that allows international passengers to book products online and collect them from the store on the day of their travel, an official statement said on Friday. “Passengers wanting to avail this facility will first have to register themselves on DDFS website www.delhidutyfree.co.in. For online shopping of liquor, they will have to accept a disclaimer that they are above 25 year of age,” Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) statement said.The duty free store at the Delhi airport is run by Delhi Duty-Free Services Pvt Ltd (DDFS), a joint venture of the DIAL, Aer Rianta International and GMR Airports Limited.All you need to know about the ‘click and collect’ service: 1. Once the passenger is registered on the website, he/she can enter their travel and passport details. “After this, they can select their choice of product from liquors, tobaccos, make up and skin cares, perfumes, confectionary and other travel retail exclusives on DDFS website,” the DIAL stated.2.  The passengers can place their order well ahead of their scheduled travel by making online payment in advance, for which they will be issued a receipt. 3. They can then collect their product from DDFS store at Delhi Airport on the day of their travel, after showing the receipt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-s-duty-free-store-starts-online-click-and-collect-service-all-you-need-to-know/story-ciNqpKxmcuRmuGyLISLIxH.html
09-10-2020||Education||MP government report: 90% schools without water tap, 40% without power||Over 90% of government primary and middle schools in Madhya Pradesh do not have drinking water taps and four out of every ten schools are without electricity and a hand wash facility, according to unified district information system for education (UDISE) plus report. The report provides data of 99,987 schools as on July 18, 2020 and shows that many schools in the Central Indian state lack basic amenities for students such as drinking water facility. As many as 90,912 schools are without taps and 99,776 schools have unprotected wells. About 82.86% of all such schools don’t have other safe water source, as per the report. However, the report shows that progress has been made in providing toilet facilities in schools even though 1,208 schools are without toilets. In 3,654 schools, there are no functional toilets for boys and none for girls in 2,760 schools, the report said. The report also pointed out that half of these schools, don’t have a separate room for principal, 1,582 schools are existing without a building and 13,759 schools have no boundary walls. Schools in Chhattisgarh to remain closed due to Covid-19 pandemicThe infrastructural gaps also exist in the eight aspirational districts in the state identified by the National Institution for Transforming India (Niti) Aayog. They include Barwani, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Khandwa, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Singrauli and Guna, according to a letter written to collectors of these districts by commissioner, Rajya Shiksha Kendra, Lokesh Kumar Jatav. Jatav, in the letter, said, “Infrastructural gaps vis-à-vis toilets (boys/girls) and drinking water, as reflected in U-DISE 2019-20, is a matter of concern as it suggests carelessness and indifferent attitude towards the work. Please get the data updated by identifying the schools with infrastructural gaps and take action against assistant and junior engineers concerned, identified for carelessness and indifferent attitude.” Recently, minister of state for school education Inder Singh Parmar had said that the schools with less resource will be developed in a modern away and a number of schools will be upgraded under the CM-rise-schools scheme across the state. The school education department has listed 10,000 schools across the state to be equipped with modern facilities and technology under the scheme and for putting in place required resources to “develop capability and efficiency of modern 21st century in students”, according to a department document. Despite the claim, the state government reduced the budget of school education department by Rs 1,266 crore in this financial year citing Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: One dead, six injured in clash over naming of village square in MPEducationist, Anil Sadgopal, said the report didn’t surprise him.“The figures on infrastructural gaps in the UDISE plus report are not surprising. The fact remains that education doesn’t exist on the priority list of the governments, whether it’s at the Centre or in states.” Sadgopal blamed apathy in administration towards education for the continuing problems. “Kothari Commission report, as back as in 1966, talked of the concept of a common school system inter alia to strengthen the primary education in the country but nothing concrete took place to implement the Commission’s recommendations in the past six decades or so. When influential people’s children don’t study in government schools, why would these people be worried about the condition of the government schools?,” he asked Also Read: Madhya Pradesh: ‘Quarantined’ cop arrested with two others for illegal transportation of liquorJoint director (retired), school education department, KK Pandey, agreed with Sadgopal. “The government schools are now being run by local bodies, which have no dearth of funds for non-educational projects. The gaps have something to do with the priority of the state government and the local bodies. The department has worked on certain schools like schools of excellence which have good faculty and infrastructure but most of the schools are in shambles,” Pandey said. Madhya Pradesh teachers’ association’s Ashutosh Pandey said, “When admission in the nearest private schools under Right to Education (RTE) is possible, why should one choose a government school which has no facility? The government doesn’t want to strengthen the infrastructure in the schools. Want of facilities means fewer students in government schools and gives the government a pretext to privatise the school education.” Social activist Rolly Shivhare said, “We see similar reports every year but nothing happens afterwards on the part of the government. Since education is no priority in the government’s agenda, there is no planning and no budget for education. And thus, the children of weaker section, who prefer such schools don’t get quality education.” Rajya Shiksha Kendra commissioner Lokesh Kumar Jatav said the government was trying to pool in funds from various sources including local area development funds of the public representatives to strengthen the infrastructure in schools. “We are working on two fronts simultaneously. While we are strengthening the infrastructure we are working on quality of education too. We have taken several measures in this regard like ‘Hamara ghar hamara vidyalaya’ during the pandemic situation,” Jatav added. UDISE was initiated by the education ministry in 2012-13 to create national school management information systems for elementary education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mp-government-report-90-schools-without-water-tap-40-without-power/story-8MchgExtSgVmYE8gnFY05I.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Crime branch arrests fake IPS officer after 1200km long car chase||Mumbai police crime branch officials have arrested a 38-year-old Rajasthan man who posed as an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and allegedly kidnapped a Surat businessman from a renowned hotel in Marine Drive and extorted Rs 16 lakh under the pretext of settling a complaint registered against the businessman in directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI), said officials.The police chased the accused by road for hundreds of kilometers from Gujarat to Bangalore for over 24-hours, before he could be arrested. The accused would extort money from big businessmen posing as a senior IPS officer and would splurge the ill-gotten money on his lavish lifestyle, the probe has revealed.The arrested impersonator cum extortionist has been identified as one Shiv Shankar Sharma, 38 year old resident of Byavar in Rajasthan’s Ajmer district. Sharma has been arrested on the complaint of Surat resident Mohammed Ehtesham Aslam Naviwala, who is into garment export business.According to the officials in the crime branch, a few weeks ago, Naviwala received a call from Sharma, who posed as a senior IPS officer and informed him about registration of a complaint against him at the DRI for some customs and export-norms related violations. Sharma offered to solve the matter by mediating and called Naviwala to a four star hotel in Marine Drive.At the hotel room, Sharma offered to settle the matter for payment of a hefty sum. This led to a heated argument between Naviwala and Sharma and his associates. “They (then) assaulted Naviwala, abused him and confined him to the room. They later threatened and kidnapped him on gunpoint and later drove him to Gujarat to collect the ransom. He was harassed and was released only after he managed to pay Rs 16 lakh cash to the accused,” said a crime branch officer requesting anonymity.After the incident, Naviwala first approached Gujarat police and then Mumbai police. After preliminary inquiry with the Marine Drive hotel, the Marine Drive police registered a case last week. As the case was serious in nature, the senior officials pressed officials of Mumbai crime branch’s anti-extortion cell (AEC) to look into the matter. Also Read: Mumbai Police accuse Republic TV in ‘TRP scam’AEC officials used technological surveillance and information received from reliable sources to trace Sharma’s location in Gujarat, said the official. An AEC team then went to Gujarat, but Sharma kept on changing his locations, the officer added.“We chased him from Gujarat to Bengaluru for over 24-hours by road and eventually nabbed him in Bengaluru on Tuesday. He was brought to Mumbai and was placed under arrest,” the officer added.During interrogation it was revealed that Sharma had learnt through an associate that there was an existing complaint against Naviwala in DRI and therefore, he hatched a conspiracy to extort money from the businessman, another crime branch officer said.Investigators also learnt that Sharma has a notorious past. He was arrested last year for impersonating as an IPS officer and duping an eatery owner of several lakhs of rupees in Madhya Pradesh. Sharma also reportedly cheated a female police officer from Gujarat police by promising to marry her and then scooting off after taking a big amount of money from her.Also Read: Kanjur draws black kites, may threaten aircraft safety while landing: BNHS tells Bombay HC“The accused spend the unlawfully obtained money in his expansive and lavish lifestyle. He owns a car and would keep a senior IPS officer’s uniform and a cover of service pistol in the car. He would convince his victims by bragging about his alleged clout in the police department and among ministers,” another officer said.Sharma has been booked under sections 170 (impersonating a public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 323 (asaault), 342 (wrongful confinement), 364A (kidnapping for ransom, 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of hurt), 504 (abuse) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and 3 and 25 of the Arms Act. Presently he is in police custody. Sharma’s other associates are on the crime branch’s radar and may be arrested soon, said the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-fake-ips-officer-after-1200km-long-car-chase/story-Iqek2lqcIejns8lgOAdfxJ.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Truck crashes into factory building on MB Road; driver, helper dead||An allegedly speeding truck loaded with iron bars broke a road divider and crashed into a furniture factory at Mehrauli-Badarpur (MB) Road, killing its driver and helper on the spot in the early hours of Friday, police said.A goods carrier tempo was also damaged as the truck hit it before crashing into the factory building. Since the tempo driver or helper was not found at the mishap spot, it was not immediately known whether they were also injured and admitted to a hospital or had fled after the mishap, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said that iron bars were loaded on the truck at a factory in Okhla Industrial Area. Around 4 am, the truck left for Palwal in Haryana where the iron bars had to be unloaded in a godown. Around 4.30 am, the truck was coming from Ma Anandmayee Marg when the mishap took place.“The truck first broke the road divider, hit the tempo moving on the opposite road, and then crashed into furniture factory building after breaking the boundary wall. The distance between the boundary wall and the factory building is nearly 10 feet,” said Sanjeev Kumar, who was present at the mishap spot while the police and fire department were carrying out a rescue operation.Police said the impact of the crash was such that the entire cabin of the truck was reduced into a mangled heap. The bodies of the driver, Arif Ali, and the helper, Mumtaz Ali Badre, were stuck between the damaged truck and iron bars. The rescue teams took nearly an hour to remove the bodies from the mishap site.“Prime facie, it appears that the truck driver lost control of the vehicle and it led to the mishap. The mechanical experts would examine the vehicle to know if there was any mechanical fault or the truck’s brakes failed,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Ali and Badre belonged to a village in Hapur in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-truck-crashes-into-factory-building-on-mb-road-driver-helper-dead/story-yGGS2vnWGjfGpUxnBriraM.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Ramlila tradition to pause due to Covid-19? Actors, organisers in despair||Ramlila signifies the victory of good over evil, but is the pandemic really allowing anyone to win over the evil virus? Actors, who have been a regular at Ramlilas in Delhi-NCR, are looking for an answer ahead of Navratri, that is, the time when characters from Ramayana spring to life on various stages set-up across the region, to showcase the dramatic representation of the epic on Rama life. Delhi witnesses hundreds of Ramlilas every year, but this year due to the pandemic, the decision on permissions to allow organisation of these, is still awaited. Some actors are sure that this year they won’t get a chance to perform on the stage, and the thought of parting with the tradition that they have kept intact for decades, is making their heart sink. “I’ve been performing in Ramlilas since I was a child. This tradition runs in our family. My 7-year-old son would dress up as a young Ram, or be a part of Hanuman’s vanar sena,” says Yash Gupta, a member of Shri Ram Janaki Adarsh Kala Manch, which participates in many Ramlilas across the Capital. “The day I would hear that I have to play any part in Ramlila, I would start fasting and give up consumption of non-vegetarian food and alcohol. After wrapping up the festival, I would take my fellow actors to take a dip in the Ganga, to repent for any mistakes we might have committed during our character portrayal. But, sadly, this year we don’t think Ramlilas will be allowed, and hence none of the rest will happen either,” rues Gupta, adding, “But I’m still fasting, like I have been for three decades whenever I’ve played some or the other part in the Ramlila, since my childhood.” In Delhi, where preparations for Ramlilas usually begin months in advance, it’s an eerie silence this time of the year and adding woes to that is the air of uncertainty. “We used to prepare months in advance. It has been a tradition for us to organise Ramlila; humare liye ye shraddha ki baat hai,” says Amritraj Sharma, one who has been essaying the role of Ravana for almost 15 years, in Ramlilas across the city. Since most of the local organisers have either cancelled or are indecisive, Sharma adds, “We were planning to shoot it online, but the budget has been a big constraint this year. Abhi bhi plan hai ki 10-15 minute ki enactment karke we can at least play last year’s Ramlila on a LED screen for say a handful of people simply because we don’t want to break the annual tradition!” Some organisers are opting for a low-scale mythological drama whereas some other committees have suggested staging of the spectacle in an open air set-up, with a cap on the visitors amid Covid-19. The experience, however, won’t be the same, opines Arjun Kumar, secretary, Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, which organises one of the biggest Ramlilas in Old Delhi. He says, “There is definitely disappointment this year. We had hired actors and recorded new songs, but then decided to not organise Ramlila this year because the entire experience of Ramlila is with an audience, and that won’t be in full strength. From food vendors to dancers hundreds of people are associated with our Ramlila each year, so it is a sad news for everyone.” Agreeing that a staggered audience and ample sanitisation measures can’t make it a fulfilling experience, Abhishek Sharma, who has previously portrayed the character of Ram on stage, says, “We are willing to have the Ramlila even with an audience of 500 people, with 6 feet distance between two seats. The focus could be on digital transmission of the Ramlila on TV, with only main actors on stage. Safety measures like sanitisers will also be taken care of. But acha hoga agar hum kar payein, bhale hi chhote scale pe.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ramlila-tradition-to-pause-due-to-covid-19-actors-organisers-in-despair/story-ilqjoT1zBRpe2f035FFfGK.html
09-10-2020||City||Kondagaon gangrape: SHO suspended for not taking action||A station house officer (SHO) was suspended on Thursday in connection with the alleged gangrape and subsequent suicide of an 18-year-old tribal woman in Kondagaon district of Bastar region, Chhattisgarh, two months ago. Police said that seven persons were accused, of which five, including two minors, were arrested on Wednesday. The woman’s uncle had alleged that despite being aware of the incident, then SHO of Dhanora police station had not investigated the matter. “Media reports revealed then Dhanora SHO Ramesh Sori had received information about the incident through local sources 15 to 20 days after it took place and he had asked the woman’s family about it. But Sori neither informed his seniors nor took further legal action,” the statement released by Chhhattisgarh government stated. Also Read: UP top court dismisses plea alleging Hathras family illegally heldSori, now posted in Kondagaon Police Lines, was suspended with immediate effect and an enquiry was ordered against him, it said. The woman’s body was exhumed on Wednesday and an autopsy was conducted, it said. A case has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections 365 (kidnapping), 376-D (gang-rape), 306 (abetment of suicide), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 34 (common intention), it added. As per the statement of her family members, on July 19, the girl had attended a wedding with them in the nearby Kanagaon village. The same night, around 11pm, two boys from Kanagaon allegedly dragged her to a nearby forest, where she was sexually assaulted by five others. The next morning, the woman returned home without informing anyone and hanged herself. Her uncle later told reporters that after her death, two boys from the locality told him that she was sexually assaulted by some men in Kanagaon. Just two days after that, Dhanora station house officer (SHO) called him to the police station and asked why he had not reported the matter to police, he claimed. He alleged that the SHO had also assured him he would lodge a case, but took no further action. However, Inspector General Sunderaaj said that after her death, a police team had gone to the village and asked her family members to report the matter. “Recently, her father also attempted to kill himself by consuming poison, but he was saved after receiving timely medical treatment. The exact reason behind his suicide attempt is not known,” Sundarraj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kondagaon-gangrape-sho-suspended-for-not-taking-action/story-8HMGyXvtcAaXBQx4DOM60L.html
09-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt told to answer 97 questions scrutinising health facilities||Uttarakhand high court has directed the state government to submit its replies to 97 questions regarding status of facilities in the state’s primary healthcare centres, community healthcare centres and district hospitals. The court gave these directions on Thursday while hearing a PIL filed by Tehri Garhwal based Shanti Prasad Bhatt in 2013, regarding the status of healthcare system and implementation of various health schemes in the state. HT has a copy of the 97 questions, some of which require submissions on the number of health staff in the state, their attendance in the last two months, availability of medicines and its free distribution, availability and number of Jandhan Aushadhi centres, capacity to handle accident, delivery cases, availability of intensive care units and blood bank facilities, number of patients referred to higher medical facilities, location of the nearest referral medical facility, availability of x-ray and ultrasound facilities, anti-venom and anti-rabies injection facilities, proper waste management, 108-ambulance facility, oxygen supply, dialysis facility and so on. During the last hearing in the matter on September 20, 2020, the HC while widening the ambit of the PIL, had directed the petitioner to prepare a questionnaire regarding status of healthcare facilities in the state’s primary healthcare centres, community healthcare centres and district hospitals, said Abhijay Negi, counsel of the petitioner. Also Read: Uttarakhand govt to develop state as medical tourism hub “Accordingly, on Thursday, we submitted a list of 31 questions for PHCs, 32 for CHCs and district hospitals, 34 for district hospitals. Responding to the same, the HC directed the state government to submit its replies on all 97 questions within 4 weeks,” he said. In its September 20 order, the HC had stated, “We are of the view that in larger public interest, the medical facilities throughout the State of Uttarakhand requires to be considered...There has been a constant outcry from the public with regard to the lack of proper medical facilities, especially in the hilly areas. Since a large portion of the State is situated in the hilly areas, the people living there should necessarily be accorded with at least minimum medical facilities. Establishing appropriate medical facilities also has various problems. It is these issues, the State would have to balance, namely, the medical facilities to be provided to the public on the one hand and the environment on the other to strike a balance”. Also Read: Mahakumbh 2021: Uttarakhand assesses capacity of Haridwar, Ganga ghatsThe HC in its order stressed that “We deem it just and necessary to call upon the State to furnish particulars with regard to the availability of medical facilities, the nature of the medical facilities, the standard of hospitals, the quality of medical aid and all such issues that are necessary to determine appropriate medical attention to the public at large”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-told-to-answer-97-questions-scrutinising-health-facilities/story-Yjtv4NmoatxdUpcKU4XlfP.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC calls for expert report on medical requirements for suspected Maoist activist||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the dean of Sassoon General Hospital at Pune to constitute a team of experts for thoroughly examining and assessing the medical condition of suspected Maoist activist Kanchan Nanaware, who has been advised to undergo a heart and lung transplant.Justice Bharati Dangre has also directed the dean to complete the exercise and submit a report to the court advising further course of action.The high court issued the directive after the counsel for the 36-year-old Nanaware, senior advocate Gayatri Singh, pointed out that despite having serious health issues she has not been properly examined and her health has not been properly assessed for the last ten months.Also Read: Bombay HC raps jail authorities for neglecting hospital advice to suspected Maoist operativeActing on her plea for temporary bail on health grounds, the high court had earlier directed the chief medical officer of Yerwada central prison, where she is lodged, to enquire with the directorate of health services if the facility of transplant surgeries was available in any government hospital.Additional public prosecutor Mankuwar Deshmukh on Tuesday submitted a report from the jail doctor stating that the facility of heart and lung transplantation was not available at any government medical college or hospital.Nanaware has moved the high court for bail on medical grounds, particularly in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. According to her counsel, she has already undergone open heart surgery twice and has been advised to undergo further surgeries.Several offences are registered against Nanaware and her husband Arun Bhelke in Vidarbha region allegedly for being Maoist operatives and the couple is specifically accused of working in metro cities like Mumbai and Pune to indoctrinate the urban poor, especially young, unemployed slum dwellers, to join the banned movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-calls-for-expert-report-on-medical-requirements-for-suspected-maoist-activist/story-soitTxtt9A6tzxwI2e0wYJ.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In 9,420 cases from Mumbai slums, source of infection yet to be detected||Mumbai authorities have so far found 9,420 Covid-19 cases from the city’s slums where the source of Infection could not be detected. These cases, found between June 3 to October 6, were not marked as high risk contacts of a positive case-- which is a common source of Infection, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The case count in Mumbai so far is 222,784, of which 26,383 are active. A senior civic officer from BMC said such cases are not from among the high risk contacts moved to institutional quarantine facilities. They may be low risk contacts who were not identified. At 1,140, most of the 9,420 instances are in K/West ward (Andheri West), followed by G/North ward (Dharavi and Dadar) with 1,040, and T ward in Mulund with 757 cases.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.9 million mark; active cases further fall below 900,000Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force, said, “This clearly indicates instances of localised transmission in slums, but it is not a cause for concern. The sero survey results have clearly documented that people in Mumbai’s slums who have no contact and were directly screened showed exposure.” Presently, BMC quarantines an average of 13 high risk contacts for every positive case in slums. So far, BMC has institutionally quarantined 125,091 high risk contacts of Covid patients in slums. This is as per data since June 3, updated till October 6. Moreover, so far 31.1 lakh people from slums and chawls, and 10.5 lakh people from non-slums have been quarantined. Last week, results of round two of BMC’s sero survey showed 45% of the people from slums in three wards of the city -- R/North (Dahisar, Borivli), M/West (Chembur), F/North (Dadar, Matunga, Wadala) -- had exposure to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Sero survey is a study of how many people have antibodies against Sars-Cov-2 in their blood, indicating these people may have been silently infected and recovered, helping map the trend and spread of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-9-420-cases-from-mumbai-slums-source-of-infection-yet-to-be-detected/story-oSq2JKIAgZTC8zxwPRBKcM.html
09-10-2020||City||BJP MLA’s relative gunned down in Ghaziabad early in morning||Two unidentified assailants shot dead a 60-year-old government contractor in Ghaziabad’s Lohiya Nagar area on Friday. Naresh Tyagi, who was lawmaker Ajitpal Tyagi’s uncle, was on his way to a park for a morning walk when he was fired upon. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead.“The victim was going towards the park near to his house early morning. Two unidentified men arrived on a scooty and fired at him. He is stated to be a contractor and we have formed teams to investigate the case,” said police superintendent Kalanidhi Naithani.Police said the possibility of personal enmity as the reason for the murder cannot be ruled out. “The family has not said anything about any personal enmity and have also given a complaint against unidentified persons. A nearby CCTV showed two men on scooty but their faces are not clear,” said an investigator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-mla-s-relative-gunned-down-in-ghaziabad-early-in-morning/story-EAUPHG9Itv5YAVHOISQ0kN.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||As Chandigarh battles Covid-19, no ‘Ramlilas’ this festive season||With less than 10 days left for Navratri to begin, no signs of hosting the Ramlila events are visible in Chandigarh amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which young artists say has affected their enthusiasm for the annual celebration and add that the restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the virus bring with them a different set of problems. “We have sought permission from the Chandigarh Administration and submitted an application. But this time we have jointly decided that they will not organise the Ramlila for the safety of the people, even though permission has been granted,” Ajay Bhatt, a representative of the Garhwal Ramlila Mandal told ANI. “Earlier it was decided that we would live stream the event on Facebook or Youtube, but due to direct contact while dressing up and makeup, we have decided not to do the same,” Bhatt further said.According to Raghav Rawat, a Ramlila artist, it was more important to stay safe and continue social distancing. “The enthusiasm of artists has dipped now due to the pandemic. Even if we want to host it this year, it is more important that we stay safe. Even one of the artists here who has been associated with this event since his childhood has decided not to host the Ramlila this time,” Rawat said.This year, Navratri will be observed from October 17 to October 25. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-chandigarh-battles-covid-19-no-ramlilas-this-festive-season/story-0ZnkxJopVgtDl72mTvoZxN.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi should prepare for 15,000 daily Covid-19 cases during winter: Report||Delhi is likely to report around 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily in winter because of the prevalence of respiratory illnesses during this season that worsen symptoms of the disease, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned. More patients with severe symptoms from other states are also expected to come to the national capital for treatment during this period, it has said. At its peak, the seven-day Covid-19 case average was 4119, on September 19. “Winter months that make respiratory illnesses severer...Patients may come from outside Delhi in large numbers… Patients coming from distant areas are likely to be more serious. In addition, with festival-related gatherings, there could be a sudden rise in cases. Therefore, it is recommended that Delhi should prepare for a daily surge of approximately 15,000 positive cases and make arrangements for inpatient admissions of patients with moderate and severe disease roughly amounting to 20% of this surge,” the NCDC said in a document related to the revised Covid-19 strategy for Delhi.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.9 million mark; active cases further fall below 900,000The document has been drafted on the basis of the recommendations of an expert group led by Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog to help formulate a revised strategy for Covid-19 management in Delhi. It has recommended that the Delhi government should engage with community leaders, organisers, etc, to ensure festivals like Durga Puja, Dussehra and Chhath are low key with little or no gathering. The document said containment zones should be limited to places such as resettlement colonies and slums, and contact-tracing activities have to be rationalised and districts should follow leads provided by their own surveillance instead of just chasing targets when it comes to testing. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is relying on these recommendations for fresh Covid-19 management strategy for the Capital. On September 18, lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal asked DDMA to draft a fresh strategy as Delhi witnessed too many ups and downs in the Covid-19 graph since June 26 when a plan was last drafted, said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified. The DDMA is chaired by Baijal and its vice-chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Dr Paul leads separate advisory committees for both the central government and DDMA. The DDMA is scheduled to draft its strategy and submit it to the L-G by Tuesday next when the next meeting of the authority is scheduled, the senior official said. The official said these recommendations have been submitted to the offices of the L-G, chief minister and chief secretary Vijay Dev and discussed with district magistrates earlier this week. Senior officials in the L-G office did not comment. A Delhi government spokesperson refused to comment on the issue. Also Read: God chose this job for me, says man who cremated over 700 Covid victimsThe document said cases are being reported from all areas of all the districts and hence existing containment zone strategy needs to be revised. “The formation of new containment zones could be restricted only for highly dense localities such as resettlement colonies and JJ clusters /slums areas...For planned colonies, big apartments, RWA (resident welfare association)-governed localities, the strategy of micro containment zones or home isolation may be continued,” it said. “Proportion of active case under home isolation is to the extent of 50-60 %, which constitutes the major proportion of active cases in Delhi. Home isolation is observed in densely populated colonies as well. With the number of cases in thousands, the strict monitoring of movement restriction of all cases under home isolation, especially in densely populated areas, is challenging and maybe one of the reasons for the spread of infection.”It has recommended that the guidelines for the selection of cases to be put under home isolation need to be strictly followed and all symptomatic positive cases reported from densely populated areas should be isolated only in Covid care centres to ensure optimal utilisation of these facilities. It added that each home isolation case should be better monitored. On contact tracing, the document suggested the government’s policy can be further “rationalised”. “The contact tracing could be restricted to forward contact tracing only -- immediate family contacts, neighbourhood contacts and close workplace contacts, should be traced and tested as per ICMR guidelines on a priority basis.” It said the government’s current policy on testing was insufficient when it comes to containment zones, and recommended district-wise scaling up of tests and tests based on surveillance findings instead of chasing targets. “Criteria for scaling up of testing should be based on positivity in each district (preferably ward) vis-à-vis the total number of samples tested,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-should-prepare-for-15-000-daily-covid-19-cases-during-winter-report/story-660FGzMDOPNiMybXnAiz6H.html
09-10-2020||City||Detention centres for illegal immigrants should be outside jails, says Gauhati high court||Criticising the Assam government for flouting Supreme Court directives regarding detention centres for illegal immigrants, the Gauhati high court has held that those should be outside jails. In an order issued on Wednesday, Justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua stated that pending repatriation, illegal immigrants can’t be confined in prisons and deprived of basic human rights and dignity. The court was acting on several petitions on the manner in which detention centres are to be operated in Assam to house illegal immigrants awaiting deportation or adjudication of their claims as Indian citizens. Also read: Gauhati HC notice for Centre, Assam over nod to OIL to drill for oil, gas in national parkAt present, there are six detention centres inside jails in Goalpara, Kokrajhar, Tezpur, Silchar, Jorhat and Dibrugarh in Assam. The state government had informed the assembly in August this year that there are 425 detainees in these centres. A separate detention centre with a capacity to house over 3,000 is being built in Goalpara district. Citing an earlier Supreme Court order, the court held that state governments should set up sufficient number of detention centres outside jail premises and ensure that these places have adequate electricity, water, hygiene and security. “It is noted that even the model manual for detention centres provides that the detention centres be set up outside jail premises. If suitable accommodations are not available, the state government may look for hiring of private buildings for the purpose,” the order read. The court held that a communication by Centre to Assam government in 2018 allowing earmarking of a specific area inside jail premises to house illegal immigrants does not hold water as the move was allowed only as a temporary measure and not for long duration. “It is discernible that more than 10 years have gone by, since a part of the jail premises in Goalpara, Kokrajhar and Silchar had been declared to be detention centres. Certainly a period of over 10 years cannot be understood to be a temporary arrangement. Even in the respect of Jorhat, Dibrugarh and Tezpur, a period of 5 years is almost over which also cannot be strictly said to be a temporary arrangement,” the court held. “Considering the said aspect, it cannot be accepted that the respondents can still rely upon the communication dated 7/9/2018 to project the case that it would be permissible to declare a part of the jail premises to be detention centres,” it added. The court directed the state government to submit an action taken report within October 16, the next date of hearing, on the steps that have been taken to set up detention centres outside jail premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/detention-centres-for-illegal-immigrants-should-be-outside-jails-says-gauhati-high-court/story-E2x47sU3aTEqzFyepBnraM.html
09-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: ‘Quarantined’ cop arrested with two others for illegal transportation of liquor||A police constable, who was supposed to be quarantined at home after reporting Covid-19 symptoms, has been arrested along with two others, including a colleague, for illegally supplying liquor in Jabalpur.Police said Constable Manoj Assaiya had told his superiors in September that he had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient and that he was also showing symptoms of the disease and hence wanted to quarantine at home from September 25. Jabalpur police superintendent Siddharth Bahuguna has suspended Assaiya and his colleague Ramnaresh Tiwari and ordered an inquiry against them.Also Read: Daily Covid-19 count falls this week, but India inches closer to 7 million Covid-19 casesInspector Rekha Prajapati said they received information regarding the illegal transportation of liquor in a car coming from Damoh district. “A police team stopped a car at a check post at National Highway-30. The car was being driven by Yogesh Kushwaha and the constables Assaiya and Tiwari were sitting in their uniforms in it.”Prajapati said during checking of the car, they recovered 19 bottles of liquor worth Rs 90,000, which were being transported for a liquor contractor from Damoh.Police were investigating the matter to know how these constables came in contact with the contractor and how long they had been working for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-quarantined-cop-arrested-with-two-others-for-illegal-transportation-of-liquor/story-UmLVKH5ACJUCLTehCJlAZN.html
09-10-2020||Lucknow||UP BJP chief authorised to finalise names for bypolls||UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh has been authorised to ‘finalise’ the names of candidates for the seven Uttar Pradesh assembly seats due for bypolls, to be held on November 3. The announcement was made in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and party’s state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal.The decision to authorise Singh was taken at a meeting of party leaders, including deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and national general secretary Arun Singh, in Lucknow on Thursday. Possible names of candidates for the seven seats were also discussed in the meeting. Party’s UP general secretary Ashwini Tyagi has been tasked to give a report on Tundla assembly seat while reports for other seats have already been submitted by other party leaders tasked with the job.These constituency reports were discussed by party leaders who also deliberated on the poll strategy to be adopted for winning these seats.“The state BJP chief will now send the names to the party’s central leadership, which would then finalise the candidates,” a senior party leader privy to the details from the meeting, said. Also Read: Nominations for Uttar Pradesh by-polls to begin todayThe Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party have declared their candidates for the bypolls, which is also expected to be contested by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owasis’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM).The BJP is mulling fielding family members of lawmakers, whose demise or disqualification paved the way for bypolls in these seats, said a party insider, who didn’t wish to be named.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh officers not complying with orders: Allahabad high court expresses concern“Final decision is to be taken by the party leadership. All deserving candidates have been considered but the final decision would be taken by the central election committee,” another party leader said. The BJP has already started a virtual connect campaign in which the party state chief and the chief minister have been telling cadre to expose the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-bjp-chief-authorised-to-finalise-names-for-bypolls/story-mOTHTxwRNVpnGkA4cMhGTL.html
09-10-2020||Environment||Kanjur draws black kites, may threaten aircraft safety while landing: BNHS tells Bombay HC||The expansion of the Kanjurmarg landfill and dumping of municipal solid waste has been attracting thousands of black kites and cattle egrets over the dumpsite posing an air safety threat to flights landing at the Mumbai airport.This is among numerous submissions made in a report by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), a wildlife research body, to the Bombay high court (HC) based on the latter’s directions to evaluate the impact of solid waste management at the landfill on birds and the surrounding ecosystem.According to the report, which HT has reviewed, BNHS also told HC that leachate (liquid by-product when waste gets decomposed) collection ponds close to mangroves within the landfill could spill over during heavy rainfall leading to creek water contamination. Another major submission highlighted that the entire 141-hectare landfill was originally saltpan land thus establishing that it was protected under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) laws contrary to submissions by the then state chief secretary before the Supreme Court (SC) in 2003 that the plot was free of CRZ. BNHS also found mangroves had regenerated within the landfill, and these had not yet been identified or declared as a reserved forest.Also Read: Maharashtra officially declares 328.9 hectare reserved forest at Aarey Colony in MumbaiThe Kanjur landfill, where scientific waste disposal is undertaken, is adjacent to the 1,690 ha Thane creek flamingo sanctuary but has been left out of the proposed eco-sensitive zone (buffer area). Until earlier this year, the sanctuary was spread across 68.5 ha but the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expanded the size of the landfill by acquiring an additional 52.5 ha. This was challenged by Vanashakti before the HC alleging a violation of CRZ norms and safety of the flamingo sanctuary. But the HC allowed the expansion on December 5, 2019, saying BMC had acquired all necessary clearances. Subsequently, the matter was challenged by Vanashakti before the SC. However, the SC in February ultimately directed the HC to close the issue within three months and allowed BMC to commence dumping waste across the entire landfill.On February 26, the HC directed BNHS and the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to undertake field visits and submit reports evaluating the impact of waste dumping at the landfill on birds, mangroves, and mudflats. BNHS conducted two site visits – on March 6 and October 1 - along with BMC officials and the local contractor.“During our site visits we observed large concentrations of black kites and cattle egrets roosting on mangroves, the pylons of the transmission lines, and even within the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). The impact of this very large population of kites on smaller birds, lizards, etc within SGNP and on flight safety needs to be studied in greater detail. This is particularly important since the landfill is adjacent to the funnel of flight landing path, and the kites soar and fly in and around the landfill site and their roosting sites along the pylons along the Vashi creek bridge,” said the report.Debi Goenka, an honorary secretary, BNHS, said, “We have done a number of bird strike projects in the past and have a lot of expertise in this area. As mentioned in the report, thousands of birds are roosting there due to food abundantly available with 5,000 tons of garbage lying there at any given time. These birds are flying through the landing cone for aircraft, which is very dangerous when flights are landing. Secondly, these birds are also roosting in SGNP affecting numbers and species diversity of other birds.”BNHS identified the presence of 48 bird species (31 migratory and 17 resident) between October 2018 and February with maximum flamingos (approximately 4,300) in February. “Contaminants from the leachate are known to cause adverse impacts on the condition of birds. However, we have stated in our report that a detailed study is required, including assessment of blood and tissue samples, to determine the bioaccumulation of heavy metals in birds,” said Goenka.The report said that the landfill site was originally salt pan land, and was acquired by BMC for the solid waste management on the basis that it was not within the CRZ. “The data provided by the BMC states that the landfill comprises 141.77 ha land including 65.96 ha non-CRZ area, 52.45 ha CRZ area, and 23.36 ha mangroves (CRZ1A),” it said.The mangroves within the site have been notified as forests and handed over to the forest department as per HC orders. “We were informed that the extent of mangroves within the landfill had increased by approximately 8 to 9 ha along the northeast portion. These additional mangrove areas have not been notified as reserved forests,” the report said.The petitioner said the height of the garbage dump was taller than the Deonar dump. “The fact that an intertidal CRZ1 wetland is being abused, polluted and degraded is something which no authority in the state is willing to take cognisance of,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.According to BMC, the city currently generates 5.400 tons of solid waste apart from biomedical waste (approximately 24 tonnes). Of this, 60% of the waste is sent to Kanjur while the remaining is sent to Deonar. “We will study recommendations by BNHS. Since the matter is sub-judice, I cannot comment on it but we will be submitting our response before the HC if we are asked,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/kanjur-draws-black-kites-may-threaten-aircraft-safety-while-landing-bnhs-tells-bombay-hc/story-4LlblCZzo8yiGo0110n9CK.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wind speed picks up, AQI improves to ‘moderate’||Delhi’s air quality improved marginally to be in the ‘moderate’ category on Friday morning. The air quality index (AQI) at 8 am was 199, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Air quality enters ‘poor zone’ in 201-300 mark. Delhi’s average AQI was in the poor zone for the past two days; it was 208 on Thursday.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, had on Thursday forecast that the air quality may improve slightly to moderate on Friday because of the wind speed picking up slightly in the morning hours. Also, SAFAR has predicted that the wind direction may shift from north-westerlies (bringing fumes from stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab) to south-easterly around October 11 when further improvement in air quality is expected.Also read: ‘War room’ to keep an eye on air quality launched in DelhiAccording to scientists at the India Meteorological Department, even though the average wind speed is 15-16 kmph during the day, the north-westerly winds bringing in fumes from crop stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab in the northwest region is contributing pollutants in the atmosphere. However, the winds are mostly calm from evening to morning hence, the dispersion is not much. A drop in the night temperature also allows pollutants to settle in the atmosphere. On Thursday, the minimum temperature settled at 19.1 degrees C, two notches below normal while maximum settled at 35.6 degrees C, two notches above normal. “The air quality may improve slightly on October 11-12 because of thunderous developments likely in the region. The wind direction will also change to south-easterly during this time. However, this pattern will again change from October 15, with a return of northwesterlies and a dip in both the night and day temperatures,” said an IMD scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wind-speed-picks-up-aqi-improves-to-moderate/story-UmViM0qr49oYRAI8ASFRnJ.html
09-10-2020||Lucknow||Nominations for Uttar Pradesh by-polls to begin today||The filing of nomination papers for by-elections to seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh will begin on Friday with October 16 being the last date for them. The papers will be scrutinised on October 17 while October 19 is the last date for the withdrawal of nominations. The polling will be held on November 3 and the results will be declared seven days later.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh officers not complying with orders: Allahabad high court expresses concernChief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said they have revised norms concerning star campaigners in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of campaigners for recognised political parties has been restricted to 30 from the earlier 40. For unrecognised parties, the number shall be 15 in place of 20.The period for submission of lists of the campaigners has been extended from seven days to 10 days from the date of the notification of the polls. The request for permission for the campaigning by campaigners shall be submitted to the district authorities at least 48 hours before the start of the campaign so that all safety measures are implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nominations-for-uttar-pradesh-by-polls-to-begin-today/story-4DBblwUqfLgxnBpJaoSTvI.html
09-10-2020||Lucknow||God chose this job for me, says man who cremated over 700 Covid victims||A sanitation worker by profession, 35-year old Munna works at the Baikunth Dham electric crematorium in Lucknow and has conducted the last rites of over 700 Covid victims during the last six months.When most workers were scared of handling bodies of Covid victims, he was the first one to come forward for the last rites of the infected bodies, said Dilip Dey, zonal officer, Lucknow municipal corporation (LMC).“Since April, he has cremated over 700 Covid victims. Munna and his team have also not taken a single day’s leave in this period. The Baikunth Dham electric crematorium receives 12 to 17 bodies every day, even from outside Lucknow. Each cremation takes around 45 minutes. So, the staff works till 8pm,” he said.“We trained Munna and two other staff members on how to handle Covid bodies and use PPE kits. We also advised them to remain polite and humane towards everyone coming with Covid victims’ bodies,” added Dey.Munna said, “It’s a job, which God has chosen for me and I am not ashamed of it. I am cremating those who died from Covid at a time, when people are maintaining distance from each other.”“I am a high school pass-out, so I understand the difference between bacteria and virus. Despite the risks involved, I decided to conduct the last rites of Covid victims because my family members always told me that it is the only way to make a contribution to society,” he said.He added that he is prepared to go the extra mile to respect the sentiments of the bereaved families, often running a grave risk to his own health.“As per Hindu rituals, every family member wants to see the face of the deceased family member. But in case of a Covid death, opening of the cover is not allowed. But I usually take the risk of showing the face of the victim to family members when the body is pushed into the incinerator. But I take full precautions as I too have a family back home.”Munna said he felt sad when people didn’t recognize his contribution to the fight against Covid.“They think a sanitation worker is destined to do this. Sometimes, people even abuse us when we ask them to wait for their turn for cremation. But we never lose our temper as we are trained to handle their anger.”Also Read: Odisha to provide financial assistance to kin of deceased Covid warriors from CM’s relief fund“I put on my first PPE kit at 6am, when the first body is brought here and change it twice till 8pm. I avoid consuming food during the day time, but sometimes I have to eat after taking precautions. Usually, I keep having water to hydrate myself as we cremate 12 to 17 bodies every day,” he added.Munna said his wife lives with his father, mother, brother and sister in Jankipuram. “I don’t want my family members to get infected, so I stay at the crematorium ground 24x7. But sometimes when I feel like seeing my family, I visit Jankipuram and meet my family from a distance,” he said.Also Read: IMA questions health minister releasing Ayush-based Covid-19 management protocol“I appreciate the contribution of Munna and his team. They have responded to the challenge amid the pandemic. I compliment them for following all Covid protocols. The electric crematorium is getting Covid bodies not only from Lucknow but also from adjacent districts. He has handled this pressure without taking any leave,” said Ram Nagina Tripathi, chief engineer of LMC’s rubbish removal department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/god-chose-this-job-for-me-says-man-who-cremated-over-700-covid-victims/story-YnbBiHi7VsIjZuUhdK9J7O.html
09-10-2020||Kolkata||BJP Nabanna march: 3 party MPs likely to move breach of privilege motion against 3 Bengal cops||Three Bharatiya Janata Party MPs are likely to move a breach of privilege motion against three Kolkata Police officers for allegedly manhandling them on their way to file an FIR. Tweeting about it, Tejasvi Surya, national president of BJP Yuva Morcha and a MP from Bengaluru South Lok Sabha constituency, said late on Thursday, “Mamata’s police officers at Jarasanko Police Station have manhandled three Members of Parliament who had gone to file an FIR. MPs @NisithPramanik, @JyotirmayBJP and I will move breach of privilege motion against these errant and arrogant officials.” Also read: BJP workers clash with police during march to state secretariat; pistol seized“We waited for more than 2 hours, well into midnight, for police to register FIR upon our complaint. They instead manhandled 3 Members of Parliament. We will file a motion for breach of privilege & teach Mamata’s police a lesson in constitutional propriety,” Surya tweeted on Friday morning. Hundreds of workers of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) were stopped by the police on Thursday afternoon, when they were proceeding towards the state secretariat, violating prohibitory orders in place. The ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (March to Nabanna), led by top BJP leaders, including Surya, was organised in protest against issues ranging from alleged lack of employment opportunities in Bengal to law and order problems. A clash ensued and police had to use water cannons and resort to lathi charge. A statement issued by state chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay late on Thursday said, “A political party had asked for permission for Nabanna Abhijan. The state government gave them a written reply that this would go against the Supreme Court’s judgement on protests in public places, would be in violation of the NDMA Act and also that the area under Nabanna has Sec 144. The Police showed restraint despite violent provocations. We have recovered firearms. Several policemen have been injured.” Meanwhile the BJP’s Bengal unit will take out a silent procession in Kolkata on Friday afternoon as a mark of protest against alleged police high-handedness during its rally on Thursday. The party has alleged that 1,500 people, including several leaders, were injured. “The silent march would be led by Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. It would start around 4.30 pm from the state BJP headquarters in central Kolkata,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-nabanna-march-3-party-mps-likely-to-move-breach-of-privilege-motion-against-3-bengal-cops/story-unf6swnSuqkZ3vUqcmmS8L.html
09-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh officers not complying with orders: Allahabad high court expresses concern||The Allahabad high court has expressed concern that state government officials were not complying with its orders and that was forcing aggrieved parties to often file contempt petitions.“Apparently the officers are becoming habitual and not complying with the orders of this court at the first instance. This is a sorry state of affairs,” the court said.The court was hearing a contempt application for wilful disobedience of two orders passed in November 2019 and March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-officers-not-complying-with-orders-allahabad-high-court-expresses-concern/story-Swn4CkJetNUbxKAM8xtw6H.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two suspected criminals held after gunfight; second such operation on same day||Nearly 19 hours after four men wanted in several crimes were arrested by Delhi Police’s special cell team after 50 bullets were exchanged in Rohini, a similar gunfight in south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar led to the arrest of two men with criminal history late Thursday night. Both of them suffered gunshot injuries in their legs and were admitted to a hospital for treatment, police said. One of the arrested persons, identified as Karamvir alias Kala, was allegedly involved in several murder cases and there was a reward of Rs one lakh on his arrest, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah. On Thursday evening, the police received information about the movement of two suspected criminals in Ambedkar Nagar area. Police then zeroed in on the Devli crossing bus stop. Accordingly, a trap was laid and an exchange of fire took place when the two men were asked to surrender, they said. “During the gunfight, Karamvir alias Kala,30, from Delhi’s Kanjhawala suffered two bullet injuries in his legs. He is a dreaded criminal carrying a reward of Rs one lakh and involved in multiple murders. His associate Vikas,21, from Haryana’s Bahadurgarh, also suffered a gunshot injury in his leg. They were arrested and moved to Safdarjung hospital,” said DCP Kushwah. According to Kushwah, a total of 11 rounds were fired. The two suspects fired five rounds and the police fired the remaining in retaliation and self-defence. Two sophisticated pistols and the car in which the two men were travelling have been seized, the DCP added. Thursday night’s encounter was the fourth such operation wherein bullets were exchanged between the police and suspects, ending with the arrest of the suspects. Around 3.30 am on Thursday, four persons wanted for murder, attempt to murder and extortion in Delhi and Haryana were caught after a shootout in Rohini. The four suspects allegedly fired 21 rounds while 28 bullets were fired by the raiding team. All four suspects suffered bullets in their legs. Five days ago, the special cell had arrested two alleged gangsters after a shootout. Both men were shot in their legs. On September 28, police had arrested another alleged criminal in Delhi after an exchange of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-suspected-criminals-held-after-gunfight-second-such-operation-on-same-day/story-YNcSNQsjaRAuBvJeyIAhVL.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi may witness surge of 15k Covid-19 cases per day in winters: Centre||A report prepared by the National Control for Disease Control (NCDC) has cautioned that the national Capital needs to gear up to tackle the surge of 15,000 Covid-19 cases per day in upcoming winters and festivals.The report has highlighted three reasons to worry that may cause excessive pressure on healthcare services. (i) winter months that make respiratory illnesses severer; (ii) patients may come from outside Delhi in large numbers; (iii) patients coming from distant areas are likely to be more serious. In addition, with festival-related gatherings, there could be a sudden rise in cases.The report has been drafted by the NCDC under the supervision of Dr VK Paul, Chairman of NITI Aayog Member (Health).The report has recommended that the Delhi government should get prepared for a daily surge of about 15,000 positive coronavirus cases and make arrangements for inpatient admissions of patients with moderate and severe disease roughly amounting to 20 percent of this surge.“The guidelines for relative proportion for ICU, non-ICU beds, Covid care isolation beds should be according to the guidelines provided in the 3rd report of Empowered Group I,” the report has said.The report has talked about the prevention of infection among health care workers.“Till date about 2324 of healthcare workers have been affected due to Covid19 in Delhi of which 23 percent are doctors, 34 percent are nurses, 15 percent are paramedics, 18 percent are group D staff and 10 percent others. A total of 75 deaths are reported in healthcare workers of which 14 are of doctors which may be under reported. The increasing mortality in HCW and doctors is detrimental to maintaining the morale of these Covid warriors. Hence all efforts should be undertaken to prevent the Health Care-associated infection in all the hospitals, labs and field workers engaged in an active survey in the containment zone.”The report has highlighted to implement non-pharmaceutical measures and Covid appropriate behavior like focus on masks, physical distancing and hygiene. Launch a massive campaign for 100 per cent compliance with masks. This would be the single most important measure to prevent the spread of virus going forward. A two-fold strategy, persuasion and enforcement - should be followed, it said.The NCDC in its ‘Revised Strategy for control of Covid-19 version 3.0’ has noted that contact tracing strategy needs to be more rationalized.According to the report, Delhi has reported a total of 5,401 deaths till date. It has mentioned that the average daily mortality reported ranges between 30 to 40 from 15 September onwards. The higher mortality in the co-morbid (66.6 per cent) and elderly is inevitable and reported all over states and globally.The NCDC has pointed out that Delhi needs to reduce mortality to the extent possible should be one of the key objectives of managing the pandemic as the overall Covid-19 case fatality rate in Delhi is 1.9 per cent which is higher than the national average of 1.5 per cent.The report has recommended to take measures to minimize gatherings during coming festivals.“Large gatherings are super-spreading events. These must be avoided. Coming festivals (Chhat, Puja, Dussehra, Deepavali, Id, Xmas, New year) pose a huge challenge in pandemic control. It has been seen that Onam in Kerala and Ganesh Chaturthi in Maharashtra escalated the pandemic seriously. This must not be allowed to happen in Delhi. Our emerging gains in reduction in cases will be reversed because of these festivities and the rush in markets/localities. Such a setback that is potentially avoidable will dent the image of the capital and the country,” it said adding that the next 3 months are crucial in our battle with coronavirus.The NCDC report has recommended that the Delhi government to make awareness among people to develop a consensus to have these festivals with little / no gatherings.The NCDC’s report has also recommended conducting a sero-survey which can be tentatively planned during the 1st week of November.The NCDC has opined the Delhi government to focus on vulnerable populations that are elderly, co-morbid patients and recommended a periodic review of the triage facilities and training need assessment for medical staff to triage the patients as per the severity of illness and risk assessment for selection of facility. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-may-witness-surge-of-15k-covid-19-cases-per-day-in-winters-centre/story-OSvZBSzJ9ptIumOHsMS7HO.html
09-10-2020||City||Haryana’s bicycle man on mission to spread word on organic farming||An engineering drop-out from Sonepat’s Gohana block, Neeraj Prajapati, has cycled more than 18,500km in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan to spread awareness on organic farming.On a mission to spread word on organic farming, Neeraj believes that use of pesticides is the prime cause of rising cases of cancer and lung diseases in India.“Once, I was in Ludhiana, when I heard about the ‘Cancer Train’ (that runs between Punjab’s Abohar and Rajasthan’s Jodhpur). Later, a friend told me that this train ferries hundreds of cancer patients to Bikaner for subsidised treatment. I was moved and was already aware of the malpractices used to increase farm yield. So, I decided to educate farmers on the benefits of organic farming,” he said.Riding on his bicycle since April last year, Prajapati was recently on a trip to Ambala where he met a sugarcane researcher in the city and some progressive farmers in Panjokhara to discuss ideas on organic soap manufacturing. He was also felicitated by an NGO in Ambala Cantonment.Prajapati said he meets researchers, scientists and experts on organic farming during his trip to a particular region and then takes these new techniques to the farmers in various villages.“I listen to the issues of farmers and then discuss those with experts to find a solution. My mission was halted for a few months due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown but now things are getting back on track,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-bicycle-man-on-mission-to-spread-word-on-organic-farming/story-O8OCZTRK8XSwPPAAMGkPgM.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police accuse Republic TV in ‘TRP scam’||The Mumbai Police said on Thursday that they unearthed a “major racket” of gaming television rating points, or TRPs, by at least three channels, including Republic TV, and arrested four people, contending that the manipulated audience numbers were crucial because they directly translated into advertising revenue.The action provoked an instant denial from Republic TV, which claimed it was being targeted for its coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput case, and added that it would sue the police.“We found some channels were paying former Hansa research group employees -- contracted by BARC to carry out the research. They, in turn, were paying certain households to keep certain channels like Republic switched on to show higher TRPs,” Mumbai’s police commissioner Param Bir Singh said, adding that apart from Republic, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema were also found to be gaming the system.BARC stands for Broadcast Audience Research Council.The revelations by the commissioner at a press conference set off a storm, with an angry denial from Republic’s managing director and editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and triumphalist tweets by anchors working at the channel’s rivals.According to the latest TRP ratings, Republic is the most watched English language news channel. The police said Hansa and BARC complained after they spotted “unusual trends” in viewership.Following this, the police arrested Sanjiv Rao, found ₹20 lakh in his bank account and ₹8.5 lakh from his locker, which they contended was being paid to some households to keep certain channels on.“In some cases, people who did not understand English were keeping English channels like Republic on through the day,” Singh added. Some channels paid households as much as ₹500 a day, the police said.Republic responded in its statement that it would “file a criminal defamation case against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh”.It added: “There is not a single BARC report which mentions Republic TV. The people of India know the truth. Mr. Param Bir Singh’s investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case is under cloud and this is a desperate measure because of the Republic TV’s reportage on Palghar, the Sushant Singh Rajput case or any other case. This kind of targeting only strengthens the resolve of everyone at Republic TV to push for the truth even harder. Param Bir Singh stands completely exposed today. Since BARC has not mentioned Republic in any single complaint, he should issue an official apology and get ready to face us in court.”In a monologue on both Republic TV and Hindi channel Republic Bharat, an emotionally charged Goswami called the investigation a witch hunt, naming both Param Bir Singh and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, among other political leaders.The press conference and Republic’s reactions also set off a chain of political reactions.“Free press is a defining feature of our democracy and a cherished ideal of the Constitution. Trampling on media freedom will not be tolerated by people of India. Targeting of the media by #Congress and its allies is against all principles of democracy and is unacceptable,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted.“BJP knows very well that a blow on one of the four pillars of India’s democracy is enough to push the rest into a tumble. The blatant & shameless attack on press freedom is to achieve this objective. Citizens, be aware be alert, we have a duty towards our democracy,” the Congress party said in a tweet.It also attached a video that showed Javadekar stressing the need for media to self-regulate effectively.Shiv Sena MLC Manisha Kayande said it was shocking and surprising to see that some news channels were stooping to such levels just to increase their TRPs. “Police should reach the root of this and find out the mastermind. This episode has tarnished the image of the Institution of journalism, which is considered the fourth pillar of democracy,” she said.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said action will be taken against the channels and their heads as per law.“The investigation in the case is underway and action against the chiefs of the channels will be taken as per law. Police have asked for more clarification on a few things from the channels. There is no question of budging before any pressure. Investigation is underway and more details are expected to come out in the fake TRP case. It is a case of very serious violation for the sake of advertisement and revenue and action needs to be taken. We are not acting out of vengeance though a few channels have been constantly taking an anti-Maharashtra stand,” he told Marathi channel ABP Majha.BJP’s Keshav Upadhye said the police should investigate the matter, but not act with bias and hound people unnecessarily. “There are several other extremely important issues, like the rising crime against women in Maharashtra, which need to be urgently addressed,” he said.Those arrested are Vishal Bhandari, 20, a former employee of Hansa Research Private Limited, a contractor of BARC, and his current employer, Bompalli Rao Mistry alias Konda Palli alias Sanjiv Rao, 45.Bhandari in his statement to police said it was an old modus operandi to pay households where the meters used to record viewership were installed to keep certain channels on, helping fraudulently enhance ratings.TRPs are the basis on which media planners decide which channels to advertise in; Singh said in the conference that the “money earned through ads by the channels using fake TRPs will be treated as proceeds of the crime”.During interrogation Bhandari also revealed the name of Republic TV, police said.Singh said further investigation revealed names of Shirish Shetty, owner of Fakt Marathi channel, and Narayan Sharma, owner of Box Cinema. Both were arrested on Thursday.According to Hansa Research, approximately 30,000 BARC meters are installed in various parts of India to monitor various programmes and channels, and based on the statistical metrics, ratings are awarded to channels. Advertisers pay the channels at the rates fixed on the basis of the ratings.“This is with reference to the media reports regarding TRP ratings being manipulated. Hansa Research and BARC conducted an investigation into the matter over the last few weeks, the conclusion of which resulted in Hansa Research filing an FIR against an ex-employee who was engaged in some wrongdoing. We will continue to cooperate with BARC and with the authorities as and when called upon to do so,” said Praveen Nijhara, CEO, Hansa Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-accuse-republic-tv-in-trp-scam/story-o9QWFLMcdccLxWfNcejeuJ.html
09-10-2020||City||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, mental health helpline launched by Mumbai civic body gets 16K calls||The mental health helpline number, launched in April by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has received 16,703 calls from the city from April to September, with anxiety over socio-economic issues topping the list. Backed by Aditya Birla Education Trust, the toll-free helpline M-Power —1800-120-820050 – has been receiving almost 100 calls a day in the past six months. Currently, it receives around 35 calls per day from Mumbai. Most of these calls are regarding anxiety, depression, sleep disturbances, adjustment issues and relationship issues, among others. Mental health experts said the lockdown has left thousands of people jobless, women being pressured to get married, couples with adjustment issues after staying with their spouses 24x7, additional pressure at work and students concerned about their future. Ahead of World Mental Health Day on October 10, Dilshad Khurana, head counsellor of the helpline told HT, “We get most calls from those in the age group of 26 to 40. Their main concern is job loss and adjustment issues with families and spouses in the lockdown.” Almost 70% callers are men and 30% women. The helpline gets the highest number of calls between 3pm and 8pm. Unlike earlier, the concern about the Covid-19 infection has decreased among people. “Till May, we used to get a large number of panicking callers who were scared of the virus. If their neighbour or relative got infected, they would get worried. People used to believe false forwards on social media. Now, as people are more informed, we have stopped getting such callers,” she said. In April, the helpline received 11,932, which dropped to 1,879 calls in May, 971 in June, 671 in July and 600 in August. In September, the number rose a little to 650. “When the helpline was launched, we were receiving calls from people seeking ration or beds. Many of the calls weren’t related to mental health, so the number was higher initially,” she added. “People are tired of staying at home. Also, the negative and fake news circulated on social media worsens the mental health. Many young people are taking out their anger through bad behaviour at home, which further increases the tension at home,” said Dr Sagar Mundada, a city-based psychiatrist. In recent times, the helpline has started getting more calls regarding domestic violence. “We provide initial distress counselling before referring them to police,” said Khurana. The World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday laid emphasis on the need to invest more towards mental health. “Spending 2% of the national health budgets on mental health is not enough. International sponsors also need to do more. Mental health still receives less than 1% of international aid earmarked for health,” read a recent study conducted by WHO across 130 countries, including India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-pandemic-health-helpline-launched-by-mumbai-civic-body-gets-16k-calls/story-aCKOcTATb1TUbYchgeMqHP.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator asks education secretary to discuss physical school attendance with parents||In Thursday’s war room meeting, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the education secretary, Sarpreet Singh Gill, to hold talks with parents over physical attendance of students in schools.This comes after the Union ministry of home affairs as per Unlock 5.0 gave a go ahead for schools to open for academic consultations for students of classes below 9.Currently, the consultations are being held for students of Class 9 and above with the mandatory consent form from parents. While the government schools have 1,500 to 2,000 students attending, the numbers are not as encouraging in private schools. Attendance is not compulsory and online teaching is still on.Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We had instructed the principals of government schools to hold online parent-teacher meets to discuss the idea with the parents. They have also been asked to provide data regarding attendance since September 21, which is being collated.”The final decision to partially open schools from October 15 for the rest of the classes will be taken by the Chandigarh administration after determining how many parents agree to the arrangement and after monitoring the Covid situation in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-asks-education-secretary-to-discuss-physical-school-attendance-with-parents/story-mVQofve4PASvK2xYleFQkI.html
09-10-2020||City||Gym trainer found dead in Mohali’s Sector 68||A 23-year-old gym trainer on Thursday was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his rented accommodation here in Sector 68. The deceased was identified as Kuldeep Singh of Dhuri in Sangrur. His mother Binder Kaur said that Kuldeep had consumed some poisonous substance mistakenly.“The body of the deceased has been kept at the mortuary of the civil hospital in Phase 6, where the postmortem examination will be conducted tomorrow. We have initiated the inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC,” said sub-inspector Jagir Singh, the investigation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gym-trainer-found-dead-in-mohali-s-sector-68/story-O1sFOWBWHEHExpU0Ssp0DJ.html
09-10-2020||City||Woman among three booked for labourer’s murder in Panchkula||Three persons, including a woman, were booked for the alleged murder of a labourer, the police said on Thursday.On October 7, the victim’s brother, Kalicharan, 23, of Bareilly, UP, alleged that Guddo and her maternal uncles Kamlesh and Meharban had killed his brother Rakesh, 26.Kalicharan said Rakesh had been in live-in with Guddo, a widow with six kids, and the latter’s maternal uncles were not been happy with the relationship. They had on one occasion even threatened to kill Rakesh.On September 15, Kalicharan and his family got to know that Rakesh had died. “My parents found marks on his neck and chest,” he told the police.The postmortem report stated that “the cause of death is due to injuries, which are antemortem in nature. Alcohol-like smell present from gastric content, cause of death is due to stab wounds because of which vital organs like heart and lungs are damaged”.A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-among-three-booked-for-labourer-s-murder-in-panchkula/story-KhZsO9OUaqm0cI2wqwZJkK.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt won’t paste posters outside Covid-19 patients’ houses||The Delhi administration on Thursday decided to stop putting up posters at the houses of people who are under home isolation after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with officials saying they recognised the unnecessary stigma associated with the pathogen, and were confident the doing away with the measure would encourage more people to get tested.District officials have been asked to remove posters from outside the residences of Covid-19 patients currently under home isolation – 12,890 individuals, according to Thursday’s health bulletin. Monitoring of each home isolation patient, however, will continue as usual, a government official said.The decision was given the final go-ahead in Tuesday’s meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Chief secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday communicated the directions to all district magistrates and chief surveillance officials in 11 revenue districts, a second government official said.“At this point, people are quite aware of Covid-19. We have intensified our awareness drives. The decision to do away with posters is aimed at reducing hesitation among people. It happens because there is a stigma attached to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Dev told HT. “This move should improve the efficiency of the government’s strategy to fight Covid-19 and break the chain of transmission sooner. The monitoring of each home isolation patient would continue but there will be no posters,” he added.On the government’s decision, Delhi minister Kailash Gahlot said: “There is a stigma with the coronavirus disease and posters outside the house amplifies that. By doing away with this, we aim at increased testing. We want more people to get themselves tested without thinking of stigmas.”The posters that are put up outside the houses of people under home isolation mention the house number of the patient, the date on which the individual tested positive, and the date when the home isolation is supposed to end. The posters carry a disclosure that there is a Covid-19 patient in the house. In effect, they allowed people in the vicinity to ensure their own safety and encouraged them to monitor whether the patient was violating isolation rules.But there have also been reports that it has led to social stigma in some neighbourhoods.“The home isolation facility is a great initiative in Covid-19 management. But people in my neighbourhood did discriminate against me and I was left out of resident welfare meetings, people would avoid having conversations, etc. That is unscientific. Doing away with the posters can help several patients from that – at least in a symbolic way,” said a patient who recovered from Covid-19 on July 28 at his residence in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar. On September 30, the Delhi high court sought the Delhi government’s response on a petition filed by an advocate that sought the practice of pasting such posters be done away with by citing the right to protect a person’s privacy.“The government has come across cases in which people hesitated to get tested for Covid-19 fearing stigmatisation. And later the symptoms turned severe. Some of such patients were hospitalised. This is why this step was necessary,” said a second senior government official who asked not to be named.Delhi on Thursday recorded 2,726 new Covid-19 cases, taking cumulative infections in the city to 300,833 so far. The total number of fatalities linked to the viral illness in the city is 5,653. About 53,322 tests were conducted in the previous 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 5.11%, according to data by the Delhi government. Experts welcomed the decision.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “It is a welcome move. Such posters were leading to widespread discrimination of Covid-19 patients. It is the responsibility of the state to protect individuals from such discrimination. Cases can be monitored as efficiently without such posters. Among people in home isolation, awareness about Covid-19 should come from within. Awareness drives and community engagement on part of the government can play a major role.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-won-t-paste-posters-outside-patients-houses/story-KZpcd3U8id0ZrEq2xmfCTI.html
09-10-2020||City||Veteran Marathi actor Avinash Kharshikar passes away at 68||Veteran Marathi actor Avinash Kharshikar passed away on Thursday morning after suffering a massive heart attack around 10.30am in Thane. He was 68 years old. The actor, who has done more than 500 plays and several films, was known for his striking personality and comic roles in a career that spanned over four decades. Kharshikar suffered a fatal heart attack at his home in Ghodbunder, Thane after which he was taken to Bethany Hospital where he died during treatment. His daughter Apurva Shinde confirmed the news about his death. The family performed his last rites at Jawahar Baug Crematorium. “My father had undergone a leg surgery two years ago. Since January this year, he suffered from liver issues, for which he was admitted to hospital for almost a month, and had recovered. On Thursday, while having tea with my mother, he started perspiring. My mother checked his oxygen levels and then called our family doctor who suggested we take him to the hospital,” Shinde told Hindustan Times.At the hospital, the doctors informed Kharshikar’s family that he had suffered a heart attack and has succumbed. His last rites were performed in the presence of close family and friends at Jawahar Baugh Crematorium in Thane. A former resident of Dadar, Kharshikar had started his career in Marathi films in 1978, with a role in the movie ‘Bandiwan Mi Ya Sansari’. He later went on to earn roles in other films like ‘Aai Thor Tujhe Upkar’, ‘Lapwa Chapavi’ and ‘Maficha Sakshida’.The actor also made a name for himself on the Marathi stage, with roles in plays like ‘Saujanyachi Aishi Taishi’, ‘Apradh Mich Kela’, ‘Vasuchi Sasu’. He had also acted in the television serial ‘Damini’. Recalling a recent conversation Kharshikar had with his family, Milind Shinde, his son-in-law said that he wanted to drive through the new Atal tunnel to Leh-Ladhak next year. “Two days ago, he came to meet us and had fun with his grandchildren. His health was fine, and he discussed with us his plans to drive through the tunnel next year. His death came as a shock,” said Milind. Uday Sabnis, actor and dubbing artist, said that Kharshikar played an important role in documenting Marathi plays. “Kharshikar was instrumental in documenting old and well-known Marathi plays. Because of him, we can watch these plays on television. I worked with him on Damini a few years ago, and despite being younger to him, I played the role of his father. He had an attractive personality and was known for his comic timing,” said Sabnis. Marathi film director, Viju Mane said, “We were constantly in contact for over two years, and used to talk once a week. He was a great actor who had acted in more than 500 plays. I have seen him since my childhood, and working with him was a dream come true. On Monday, we had a long chat over serials and movies. We were going to shoot an advertisement in the next week. He has few future work plans like making a web series with new actors from Thane. His documentation of old plays was also underway but was paused due to the pandemic. He had planned to restart the work next month,” said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veteran-marathi-actor-avinash-kharshikar-passes-away-at-68/story-CDS3YW1Dqi3O47cM2F7f3L.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to approach Centre to expedite upgrade of GMSH to college||In a bid to speed up the process of upgrading the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 to a medical college, the UT administration will take up the matter with the central government.The administration had, in January this year, announced its intent to create a medical college at GMSH. A proposal in this regard had been prepared and sent to the Centre as well as the Medical Council of India. The pandemic, however, led to delays.On Thursday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, in the war room meeting, said the proposal for the city’s second medical college, which had already been sent, needed to be expedited. UT adviser Manoj Parida added that he would take up the matter with the Medical Council of India at the earliest.The new medical college is proposed to have two branches—one at GMSH-16 and another at Sarangpur. The exact site for a campus in Sarangpur is yet to be demarcated, but the UT health department has requested around 15 acre land for the purpose.With land obtained free of cost from the administration, total cost of the project will be limited to constructions costs. Medical and health facilities at GMSH will be utilised for the college. Additional infrastructure in the existing compound may also be created on spare land. Rest of the infrastructure required for running the college such as office spaces will come up at Sarangpur.The upgraded GMSH-16 will offer at least 50 MBBS seats, and an additional 50 after the projects takes off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-approach-centre-to-expedite-upgrade-of-gmsh-to-college/story-AsJMS87GowZ4xej4wn38pJ.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra nears 1.5 million Covid cases||Maharashtra on Thursday inched closer to 1.5 million Covid-19 cases after reporting 13,395 new infections, taking the count to 1,493,884. The plateauing trend of cases over the past few weeks has also led to a further fall in active cases to 241,986, accounting for 16.19% of the state’s total.The state is likely to breach the 1.5 million cases marks eight days after crossing the 1.4 million mark on October 1. The state will also complete over 500,000 cases in 28 days after crossing 1 million infections on September 11.On Thursday, the toll climbed up to 39,430 after 358 casualties were reported, of which, 187 were reported in the past 48 hours, another 55 were from the past week, while the remaining 116 were from the period before that, health officials said.The state has continued to record comparatively fewer fresh infections, as in the past eight days. Between October 1 and October 8, 110,592 cases were recorded. The number was 150,920 in the corresponding period last month (September), indicating the situation is getting a little better than the previous month, following a fall in the infection rate.However, officials said the state is still testing less than its full capacity. “The situation is improving, but we are also not testing enough. Our average per day testing is somewhere around 80,000-90,000 tests a day, which is not even 60% of the target set by the state. Unless and until we do not utilise full testing capacity and even then, if the rate of infection remains unchanged, it is difficult to say that the situation will not reverse in the coming future,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Last month, the state government had set a target to increase daily Covid testing to 1.5 lakh a day from the current average, but there has been no progress on that front.In the last eight days (since October 1), 619,026 tests were conducted and its per day average comes to only 77,378 tests, which is almost half the state’s target.“One of the problems behind less testing the officials pointed out is contact tracing. Despite the state’s directives on aggressive tracing, the authorities have yet to increase contact tracing. The spread can be reduced only if we could trace maximum people behind one patient,” said another official, wishing not to be named.On Thursday, the state conducted 80,043 tests. Total tests conducted till date are 7,404,231. The positivity rate recorded was 20.18%.Mumbai continues to report the highest number of cases across the state as it recorded 2,823 cases. It also recorded its second-highest single day spike on Thursday, pushing its tally to 222,784. Of them, active cases are 26,383. The city also recorded 48 deaths.The scenario in Mumbai has changed from September, when daily cases in the city kept going up. On Wednesday, the city recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,848 cases.Pune city continues to contribute second-highest infections, in terms of daily caseload, as it recorded 808 cases, taking its tally to 162,904, while Pune district became the third-highest contributor with 636 cases, pushing its count to 67,902. The combined total of Pune comes to 1,444 cases.Despite a decline in cases, Covid-19 casualties are not reducing. Maharashtra still has the highest number of casualties across the country.On Thursday, the state’s CFR was recorded at 2.64%, making it second after Punjab. The CFR of Punjab was 3.07% (with 3,712 deaths) till Wednesday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.The number of recovered patients also reached 1,196,441 as 15,575 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 81.13%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-nears-1-5-million-covid-cases/story-UESBm3WLN6pCUyRktuwv1O.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra officially declares 328.9 hectare reserved forest at Aarey Colony in Mumbai||The Maharashtra government on Thursday issued approval for the preliminary notification and declaration of reserved forest across 328.9 hectares (ha) at Aarey Colony, Goregaon, the state environment and forest ministries both said.This means 25.5% of the entire green lung (1,287ha) has been declared as reserved forest and would be later handed over to the forest department’s control as a part of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SNGP). The area declared forest is also three times the size of what was excluded (165ha) from Aarey within the protected buffer zone of SGNP in December 2016.Forest minister Sanjay Rathod approved the final proposal on Thursday, jointly developed by the state’s dairy and forest department, demarcating 288.43 ha (under the dairy department) and 40.46 ha (under the forest department) as reserved forest. “As directed by the chief minister and environment minister, an overall area declared as reserved forest under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927 stands at 328.9 ha, including the 40.46 ha originally proposed for a zoo,” said Rathod adding, “Now, the process will commence to declare this entire are under section 20 of the IFA. Subsequently, the entire area will become part of SGNP.”The gazette notification will be published over the next two to three days, said Rathod.According to the preliminary notification, a forest settlement officer, Konkan, would survey the area assessing rights of local residents, nature and scope of the land. This will be followed by suggestions and objections pertaining to land rights, and appeals can be made before the Mumbai suburban collector.Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister said, “Our intention is to ensure all tribal (adivasi) people’s rights within Aarey are protected. Over the next nine months, the administrative procedure to assess suggestions and objections will be undertaken before the final notification under section 20 of the IFA is published. Meanwhile, we have ensured that the entire area covered under dense tree cover is notified as reserved forest. There are additional areas such as open grasslands that would continue to maintain its status as no-development zones. Additionally, all roads, built-up structures, cowsheds, and proposed infrastructure projects within Aarey have been left out of the area demarcated as forest.”Since November 2014, Aarey Colony has been a bone of contention ever since proposals for infrastructure projects were proposed by the state. Citizens and environmentalists had been at loggerheads with the Maharashtra government opposing the construction of a Metro car shed, while demanding overall protection of Aarey as a forest, claiming it was one of the last green lungs in Mumbai and home to a large biodiversity of flora and fauna. Recurrent petitions before courts were rejected until chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on September 2 instructed concerned state bodies to declare a large section of Aarey as a forest.HT had on September 26 reported details from an unsigned draft of the final proposal (which was approved on Thursday) along with a map of the proposed green zone. The reserved forest area encompasses 107 land parcels from Aarey (111.3 ha), Goregaon (71.6 ha), Maroshi (146 ha including area allotted originally for) villages under Andheri and Borivali talukas in Mumbai suburbs. Forest secretary Milind Mhaiskar had said a 90-ha area earlier slotted for an encroachment rehabilitation project (ERP) was included in the reserved forest plan as it had rich biodiversity and it was not feasible to shift people there. “The ERP will still be constructed in Aarey but along the periphery away from the present site,” he said. Once the land is handed over to SGNP, the national park’s total area will increase to 106.5 sq km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-officially-declares-328-9-hectare-reserved-forest-at-aarey-colony-in-mumbai/story-WfzJDKJliRQPQEOkoDQ2DJ.html
09-10-2020||Noida||‘13-year-old gang-raped near Delhi, 3 arrested’: Cops||Three men who allegedly gang-raped a 13 year-old in Dadri, some 65 km from Delhi, on Tuesday have been arrested, said police.Primary investigation shows the victim and the suspects were known to each other, said police.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the victim’s family informed police on Thursday about the incident. “The family alleged that the three suspects live in the neighbourhood. They had asked a 12-year-old boy, who was playing in a nearby field, to call the victim to their house. When the victim arrived, the suspects gang-raped her,” Shukla said. The victim returned home and narrated the incident to the family members.A police team from Dadri reached the spot and sent the victim for medical examination. All the three suspects are neighbours and had gathered at one house and committed the crime.Shukla said that the Dadri police have registered a case against the suspects under Section 376-D (gangrape) and relevant sections of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The suspects’ medical examination will establish their exact age. We will be able to share more details once the medical report is received,” Shukla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/13-year-old-gang-raped-near-delhi-3-arrested-cops/story-GXxInEBZaxBuX9bcOhM2BI.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Building plan approval goes online in Chandigarh||Standing in long queues in government offices to get your building plans approved is now a thing of the past in Chandigarh, as UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Thursday launched an online system to provide the service.Online building plan approval system (OBPAS) has been identified as one of the key reforms agenda under government missions such as Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut), with focus on improving the ease of doing business.Citizens can now submit the building plan application along with the required documents online, with no human intervention. It will be followed by online scrutiny of the plan as per the Chandigarh Building Rules, and applicants will get regular updates through SMS and email. The fee will be auto-calculated and can be paid online too.The system will ensure timely approval of the building plan drawing, while making the entire process transparent with well-defined roles of each department/employee, stated a release. MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “Chandigarh Smart City Limited as part of the smart city mission endeavours to improve the ease of doing business and enhance citizen services.” He said the main objective is to facilitate citizens by providing online delivery of services, minimise manual intervention, and ensure faster application submission, tracking and monitoring, besides timely resolution of issues and increased transparency.”JUST A CLICK AWAYRegistration form will be provided to architects on MC and CSCL web portals (mcchandigarh.gov.in and www.chandigarhsmartcity.in)Registration form will be approved by the department of urban planning (architecture wing) Username and password will be shared with the architects through email24x7 help desk (0172-2787200) will be available to support citizens/architectsSMS and email notifications related to the application status will also be sent||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/building-plan-approval-goes-online-in-chandigarh/story-SY1FsnUIKog4sOALT7JnVO.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nepalese helps get away easily, verification paramount, Ludhiana police||While incidents of crimes by domestic helps continue to rise, all cases involving Nepalese nationals remain unsolved. According to police, Nepalese citizens enter India without any proof and don’t register with the police. Therefore, for their verification, police have to write to the Nepal government through the Union home ministry, which is a tedious process. Besides, Indian police cannot go to Nepal directly to arrest the accused in case they flee back by crossing the border.ALSO READ: Nepalese help, accomplices steal cash, jewellery from Ludhiana housePolice commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said domestic help from Nepal should not be hired without a strong reference. He advised that employers retain their workers’ Citizenship Card issued by the Nepal Government and also click their photographs as soon as they join a new job. Stating that most of the crimes by domestic helps were executed within the first 10 days of joining, the police chief cautioned residents against keeping valuables at home and recommended use of bank lockers for safe keeping.“Hiring helps through reputed agencies ensures that their background checks have been conducted. Also, get their police verification done as soon as possible. There have been multiple instances where the house owners did not even have a photograph of their servants. Submit a duly filled form with a recent photograph for police verification,” he said.The top cop also advised installation of CCTV cameras and other security gadgets, especially in places where domestic helps worked alone for long hours. “Also, try and ensure that the workers are not aware of such electronic monitoring. Besides, people should avoid displaying money and other valuables in front of maids,” he added.The police chief added that with the cooperation of the employers and neighbours, such crimes can be better prevented. On February 12, 2020, an attempt by a domestic help and his three accomplices to sedate a Model Town Extension family and rob them was foiled by alert neighbours. The year before also saw at least nine such thefts and robberies by domestic helps between May and November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nepalese-helps-get-away-easily-verification-paramount-ludhiana-police/story-2ubPYDONKig1OSfTSTjMXM.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Teachers’ Association elections: 80% polling recorded on Day 1||As many as 400 faculty members cast their votes on the first day of polling to elect the new Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) team.In view of the pandemic, polling is taking place in a staggered manner over two days.On Thursday, 505 teachers of over 70 teaching departments were scheduled to vote at two venues in four time slots. Returning officer Vijay Nagpal said 400 teachers voted, making it a turnout of around 80%. As many as 122 teachers of three institutes — chemical engineering, engineering and technology, and hotel and tourism management — are to vote at the English department auditorium from 9am to 1pm on Friday.Those who missed out on Thursday can also cast their vote on Friday, with the returning officer’s permission. Last year, the elections had witnessed 95% turnout.The counting of votes will be conducted at 1:30pm on Friday, which will be followed by the declaration of results. An annual general body meeting of PUTA will take place at 3:30pm.The elections were earlier scheduled on September 25 and 26, but were postponed after several teachers raised concerns over polling being held during a pandemic. The new dates were finalised after taking Chandigarh deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar’s permission.During the polling on Thursday, a controversy had erupted over one vote, after it was reported that a ballot paper was taken out of the polling station. The issue was later “resolved amicably”, said the returning officer.Otherwise, polling went off smoothly, with booths being sanitised at regular intervals.The incumbent president, Rajesh Gill, said: “We are happy that finally the elections are being conducted. We have tried our best to stand by our democratic system. Teachers in good numbers cast their votes on the first day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-association-elections-80-polling-recorded-on-day-1/story-INK3FIe0qHcttZ435nMUNK.html
09-10-2020||City||Pet dog bites off 9-yr-old girl’s ear lobe in Mohali’s Phase-9 market||A Mohali woman has been booked after her pet dog attacked and bit off a nine-year-old girl’s ear lobe at the Phase-9 market on Thursday.The girl, Harshita, who lives in the same area, had gone to the market for some work in the morning, when Preeti Singh, a resident of Phase 11, arrived there in her car with her pet Boxer dog.As soon as she stepped out with the dog, it attacked Harshita, who was passing by. Boxer, bred from the Old English Bulldog and the now extinct Bullenbeisser, have very strong jaws, and a powerful bite, ideal for hanging on to large prey.The girl immediately made a call to her father, Gurbir Singh, who arrived at the spot and informed police. Meanwhile, the girl was rushed to a private hospital by other family members.After receiving information, a police control room van reached the spot, and the victim’s father demanded registration of a case against the dog owner.“The victim’s statement has been recorded. We have booked the dog owner under Section 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said inspector Rajnish Choudhary, station house officer, Phase 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pet-dog-bites-off-9-yr-old-girl-s-ear-lobe-in-mohali-s-phase-9-market/story-WUogKMRNUwa0cboKfoBPBN.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nepalese help, accomplices steal cash, jewellery from Ludhiana house||Hired two months ago, a Nepalese domestic help, along with his two accomplices, stole cash and gold jewellery after sedating an elderly couple in their 70s in the city’s posh Gurdev Nagar locality on Wednesday night. The accused, Khem Bahadur, also sedated the security guard of the house and another 11-year-old domestic help before fleeing with the booty. He and his two accomplices were captured in the CCTV camera installed outside the house.The couple’s son, Sandeep Ghai, an industrialist who runs a hosiery factory, was away at his relatives’ house in Model Town with his wife and children when the theft was executed.While Ghai has yet to provide exact details of what was stolen from the house, sources in the police said around Rs 24 lakh and 500gm of gold jewellery were missing.According to investigators, the family had not got Bahadur verified through the police before employing him.MIDNIGHT THEFTGhai came to know about the incident around 2am when he returned home with his wife and kids. He told the police that he had employed Bahadur through the reference of a worker at his factory around two months ago. On Wednesday, while leaving for his relatives’ house in Model Town for dinner, he instructed his domestic helps – Bahadur and 11-year-old Munish Kumar, and the security guard not to allow anyone’s entry in the house.On his return, he was shocked to find the security guard lying unconscious. As he entered the house, he found Munish collapsed on the floor with a head injury inflicted by a blunt weapon. He frantically rushed to his parents’ room and found them also unconscious and the house completely ransacked. Ghai alerted the police and rushed the four people to a private hospital, where they are stated to be stable.Police and a forensic team arrived at the scene soon after for clues. As per preliminary investigation, the accused may have served the elderly couple, the guard and the child eatables laced with sedatives. However, police are waiting to record the victims’ statements to ascertain what happened exactly. “The factory worker who referred Bahadur quit his job soon after due to the Covid-19 outbreak. We have not ruled out his involvement in the crime,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Harpal Singh.Multiple teams had been despatched to arrest the three accused, he added.The Division Number 5 police have lodged an FIR against the three accused.REWARD ANNOUNCED FOR INFOPolice commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has announced cash reward for information on the accused. The police chief assured that the identity of the informer will be concealed.Investigators said the CCTV footage showed Bahadur and his two accomplices entering the house around 10.30pm and leaving around 12.30am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nepalese-help-accomplices-steal-cash-jewellery-from-ludhiana-house/story-QTjHHyLTLmXOEvbVkYcAxN.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Limit red zones to localities with dense population, suggests panel on Delhi’s Covid strategy||Containment zones should be limited to places such as resettlement colonies and slums, contact-tracing activities have to be rationalised and districts should follow leads provided by their own surveillance instead of just chasing targets when it comes to testing. These are some of the recommendations drafted by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), with an expert group led by Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog, to help formulate a revised strategy for Covid-19 management in Delhi.The document related to the revised Covid-19 strategy for Delhi, which HT has seen, says home isolation cases in high-density areas could have led to transmissions and warns that Delhi may witness around 15,000 cases per day in the winter months because of respiratory illnesses adding to Covid-19 symptoms and the likelihood of more patients with severe symptoms coming from other states. The strategy document recommended that the Delhi government should engage with community leaders, organisers, etc., to ensure festivals – Durga Puja, Dussehra and Chhath – are low key with little or no gathering.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is relying on these recommendations for chalking out a fresh Covid-19 management strategy for the Capital. On September 18, lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal had asked DDMA to draft a fresh strategy as Delhi had witnessed too many ups and downs in the Covid-19 graph since June 26 – when the plan was last drafted, said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.At its peak, the seven-day Covid-19 case average was 4119, on September 19The DDMA is chaired by Baijal and its vice-chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Dr Paul leads separate advisory committees for both the central government and DDMA.Also Read | India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedesThe DDMA is scheduled to draft its strategy and submit it to the L-G by Tuesday (Oct 13) when the next meeting of the authority is scheduled, the senior official said. The official said these recommendations have been submitted to the offices of the L-G, chief minister and chief secretary Vijay Dev – and discussed with district magistrates earlier this week.Senior officials in the L-G office did not comment.A Delhi government spokesperson refused to comment on the issue.The document said, “Cases are being reported from all areas of all the districts and hence existing containment zone strategy needs to be revised.”It said, “The formation of new containment zones could be restricted only for highly dense localities such as resettlement colonies and JJ clusters /slums areas...For planned colonies, big apartments, RWA (resident welfare association)-governed localities, the strategy of micro containment zones or home isolation may be continued.”“Proportion of active case under home isolation is to the extent of 50-60 %, which constitutes the major proportion of active cases in Delhi. Home isolation is observed in densely populated colonies as well. With the number of cases in thousands, the strict monitoring of movement restriction of all cases under home isolation, especially in densely populated areas, is challenging and may be one of the reasons for the spread of infection,” the document noted.It said, “It is recommended that the guidelines for selection of cases to be put on home isolation need to be strictly followed and all symptomatic positive cases reported from densely populated areas should be isolated only in covid care centres (CCC) to ensure optimal utilisation of these facilities.”It said that each home isolation case should be better monitored.Also Read | Covid-19: The good and bad newsOn contact tracing, the document suggested the government’s policy can be further “rationalised”. It said, “The contact tracing could be restricted to forward contact tracing only -- immediate family contacts, neighbourhood contacts and close workplace contacts, should be traced and tested as per ICMR guidelines on a priority basis.”It said the government’s current policy on testing was insufficient when it comes to containment zones, and recommended district-wise scaling up of tests and tests based on surveillance findings instead of chasing targets. “Criteria for scaling up of testing should be based on positivity in each district (preferably ward) vis-à-vis the total number of samples tested,” it said.It noted, “Testing should not be target-driven, rather it should be guided by the surveillance in containment zones, number of positive and their symptomatic contacts identified and number of symptomatic persons identified at screening sites. Increase in the number of tests should be reflected in increased case finding. Merely increasing the number of tests to reduce the positivity rate would not be appropriate.”“Winter months that make respiratory illnesses severer...Patients may come from outside Delhi in large numbers… Patients coming from distant areas are likely to be more serious. In addition, with festival-related gatherings, there could be a sudden rise in cases. Therefore, it is recommended that Delhi should prepare for a daily surge of approximately 15,000 positive cases and make arrangements for inpatient admissions of patients with moderate and severe disease roughly amounting to 20% of this surge.”Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said: “As the economy opens up more with time, high-population density areas remain at high risk as far as transmission is concerned. In other areas, they can isolate cases and improve monitoring, without creating containment zones. So, the containment zone strategy that the government is currently discussing sounds reasonable.”“Also, the government should consider localised isolation facilities near slums and high population areas so that patients can be isolated without being taken to a place far away from residence. As far as the predictions regarding the surge of cases in the winters are concerned, there is not much concrete study on that so far,” he said.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “First of all, the government should scale up RT-PCR tests. With their awareness campaigns, they should help bring change in behaviour and encourage people to get tested on their own. As far as containment policies are concerned, Delhi can do away with the concept of containment, even in high-population areas, at this juncture. Positive cases should be isolated in facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/limit-red-zones-to-localities-with-dense-population-suggests-panel-on-delhi-s-covid-strategy/story-OO3ocpfyimJVgR2dSfiBBK.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Coding is the need of the hour, says Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Around 12,000 government school students in the capital are set to benefit from the HT Codeathon initiative because of collaborative efforts with the Delhi government, says deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio. The government has encouraged coding programmes for female students and to pursue STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), the scale of engagement is wider this time, said Sisodia, who spoke to Hindustan Times on the importance of coding, encouraging more students to learn coding, and HT Codeathon’s role in today’s digital economy. Excerpts:Until a decade or two ago, coding wasn’t as popular in the country as it is today. What has changed since then and why are more educators or education policies focusing on it?It is the need of the hour. Children studying in schools now will become professionals in 10-15 years. If they don’t have knowledge about coding, their foundation will be weak. [Apple co-founder] Steve Jobs had called computer science a liberal art, so it’s not just about programming. Coding helps students think, visualise, and express themselves or talk about societal issues.So as a government, it is our responsibility that if there is a need, we should motivate people and bring them together. We wanted to teach kids about new-age technology. But when we came to power in 2015, classrooms were damaged and infrastructure needed work. Since then, we have been at work, and have improved infrastructure and done extensive teacher training programmes, results in government schools have touched 98%, and motivation is high among stakeholders. So we thought now is the time to work on the future.The new National Education Policy (NEP) calls for introducing coding for classes 6 and above. What kind of curriculum or learning should we envision under it?The curriculum has to be embedded along with other subjects. Rote learning won’t work here. Students from government schools, who previously engaged in coding initiatives in our schools, wrote codes and developed animated videos on themes like the importance of educating girls and the Covid-19 crisis. Today, if they were put in a curriculum-based framework, they won’t be able to think. In coding and programming, visualising and thinking is equally important. Children must be given the space to think as it will lead to more successful outcomes. We can’t have a rigid syllabus for it. So, learning should focus on embedding coding with languages or subjects like history and mathematics.In a country like India, where there is widespread economic disparity, how can we ensure that all students get to learn how to code, even those without access to devices on their own?Teaching coding to students who have used computers and smartphones from a young age is relatively easier than teaching someone who may not even know how to switch on computers, or has not heard of coding before. It is a challenge to introduce these children to coding, and we have accepted it and been successful in our earlier initiatives as well. The lack of devices is a challenge but the government does not have the revenue to provide gadgets due to the Covid-19 lockdown. We are functioning at less than 50% of the revenue collection. We have to make sure that before giving phones to students, our teachers, health workers and other staff are paid. However, the budget crunch is only temporary. In five years, the Delhi government has invested in education with an open heart. Eventually, we hope to get more money to spend on education beyond infrastructure and teachers’ salaries.There is an existing perception that coding is tough or not for everyone. What can be done to dispel that notion?The young girls who showed their work today [at a Codeathon event on Thursday] decoded everything. Students from poor backgrounds whose parents are rickshaw drivers, maids, and laundry workers, are now learning coding. There is a chance that the generations before them did not even learn how to switch on computers. But now these students have demonstrated that it is not impossible to learn coding. We have around 1,500-2,000 teachers who have B.Tech degrees, and coding is their domain. This will help create a zeal among students about coding.HT Codeathon is a mobile-friendly initiative, and the learning can happen online on mobile phones. How much of an advantage will it be in government schools?It is a big initiative and is free for government school students. Besides, Codeathon focuses on both learning and competitiveness, which will create a zeal among students to compete and learn better. Students without any knowledge of software or engineering will learn coding, and that will lay the foundation for a new India. You’ve travelled to several countries and studied their education models. With respect to coding and technology, what is something that we need to emulate here?Modern technology is a part of their education and not just taught as a subject. It is introduced in the early stages of education. Technology should be embedded in the learning environment. They should be able to learn coding in a creative manner. Once, while on a visit to a school in a foreign country, I saw a group of students working on a play on tax reform laws that were going on in the country at that time. This shows embedded learning. The students weren’t taught about the reforms through rote learning in classes...The way we adopted liberal arts, we have to adopt coding. Through this bigger experiment with HT Codeathon, involving thousands of students, a greater atmosphere of learning coding will be developed in government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coding-is-the-need-of-the-hour-sisodia/story-idZ4KtQ0Jgcc7rjAwM1kNM.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Male breadwinners top the list of murder victims in Ludhiana||Men aged between 30 and 60, who were mostly the breadwinners of their families, comprised 35% of the 56 murder victims across Ludhiana district last year.In all, the district witnessed murders of 37 men (66%), as compared to 19 women (34%), the latest report of the National Crime Record Bureau reveals.These included 20 men aged between 30 and 60 – 11 in the age group of 30 to 45 and nine aged between 45 and 60. The second most-vulnerable age group in men was between 18 and 30 that constituted 25% (14) of the victims – the highest number in all age categories.The trend was similar among females, with those between 18 and 45 years comprising 12 of the 19 victims, eight of them aged 30 to 45. The number of female victims in the age group of 45 and 60 was three.Two male senior citizens were also murdered, besides five children aged below 16, including four females. Among them, three kids were below six years of age, while two girls were teenagers.Across Punjab, 706 murders were reported in 2019, of which 502 (71%) were male and 204 (28.9%) female. Here, the age group of 30 to 45 comprised the most victims at 254, out of which 182 were men.As many as 47 juveniles were murdered in Punjab, of which 25 were females.DISPUTE LEADING CAUSEDispute due to multiple reasons was the primary cause behind the 56 murders in Ludhiana, accounting for 44.6% (25) of the tally.As per the bureau’s report, there were 53 murders in 2018 and 56 in the subsequent year – a 5% spike in cases. 2017 saw the highest murders (59) among the three years.Infidelity was the second leading reason behind the murders in the city. As many as 10 residents were killed as a fallout of illicit relations. In six cases, the motive behind the murders was not found, while two women were murdered by their husbands or in-laws over dowry. In Punjab, three dowry deaths were reported in 2019, out of which two cases were reported in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/male-breadwinners-top-the-list-of-murder-victims-in-ludhiana/story-AZYIQWCBp4Esib5FrtfysK.html
09-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurgaon cop files extortion FIR, says he’s being blackmailed by woman for Rs1 cr||After a police officer filed a complaint alleging that a woman had been blackmailing him and demanding ₹1 crore and that she had threatened to implicate him in a false case for refusing to pay the money, the police on Wednesday registered an FIR in the matter. The police said the complainant, who is a former station house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station, complained on June 25 that last year, when he was posted in the city, a woman had filed a case of dispute against a third party and the police had conducted a fair investigation in that case. In the FIR, the police officer, said, “But since then, the woman started blackmailing me and asked me repeatedly to pay money. She and her aides asked me to pay ₹1 crore last year and when I refused to pay the amount, she filed a false case against me in Jind.” The police said the complainant alleged that some aides of the accused woman had filed similar fake complaints against several people with the intention of extortion. Dinesh Kumar, station house officer, (SHO), Sadar police station, said, “A complaint was received and after conducting investigation, an FIR has been registered. Some audio recordings have been submitted by the complainant and we are verifying the allegations. Apart from a woman, two more people have been named in the FIR. No arrests have been made so far.” A case was registered against the accused persons under Section 384 (punishment for extortion) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sadar police station on Wednesday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-booked-for-blackmailing-police-officer/story-apxaBYDg4nEWDG1fusguSK.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||‘War room’ to keep an eye on air quality launched in Delhi||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday inaugurated a centralised “war room” at the state secretariat to monitor to air pollution levels and coordinate efforts by different agencies to control a spike in bad air, a chronic problem that plagues the Capital and its surrounding areas every winter.A 10-member team of experts under senior scientists Dr Mohan George and Dr B L Chawla will lead the efforts to monitor real-time data of pollutants, the condition of pollution hot spots, stubble burning images and efficacy measures aimed at checking bad air, the government said.The war room is one of the seven measures of the Delhi government’s action plan to fight air pollution, announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this week. Other measures include steps to control dust pollution, a mobile application to register complaints and hot spot-based pollution-control strategies. Rai said the control room will work towards ensuring stricter enforcement of guidelines to check dust pollution at construction and demolition sites, ready-mix concrete plants, and garbage burning. The team will keep an eye on the mechanised sweeping of roads and sprinkling of water to prevent dust pollution.Also Read | Despite strong winds, why is Delhi’s air quality on the slide?“This fight will not be possible without the support of every agency and, therefore, we have set up and launched a centralised war room today in the Delhi secretariat. The war room is fully equipped with technology to monitor real-time pollution data,” Rai said on Thursday. “Three large LCD screens are present across the room. Real-time pollution data, which includes air quality and data of PM 2.5 and PM 10, sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, ozone, and wind speed will be displayed will be shared in one of the screens. Through another screen, we will monitor the situation in the 13 hot spots. Through a third screen, we will monitor NASA and ISRO pictures of stubble burning in neighbouring states,” Rai said.“We will monitor complaints filed by people through the Green Delhi app which the CM will launch in the coming days. We will monitor complaints and implement strict action. On the other hand, we will monitor road sweeping and water sprinkling work done by the municipal corporations through GPS,” he said. The minister said daily reports on the number of complaints received and grievances redressed will be sent to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.High levels of air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem but gets aggravated in winters due to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local emission sources.The 13 pollution hot pots in Delhi are Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R K Puram and Jahangirpuri.Also Read | India to see pre-Covid air traffic numbers by January 1: Minister Hardeep PuriSmoke emanating from the burning of stubble by farmers in Delhi’s neighbouring states, but mostly in Punjab and Haryana, contribute to Delhi’s air pollution -- almost 44% according to the Delhi government -- every winter.To tackle stubble burning, the Delhi government has tied up with IARI Pusa scientists to spray a “bio-decomposer” solution in paddy fields in the national capital, starting October 11. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and can prevent stubble burning. The AAP government says other states can follow Delhi and use the solution to tackle the problem of stubble burning.The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the “poor” category on Thursday and is likely to deteriorate further due to unfavourable meteorological conditions and spike in farm fires, the met office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/war-room-to-keep-an-eye-on-air-quality-launched-in-delhi/story-kK7a0XXkJgsTRhCPEIRkOJ.html
09-10-2020||Gurugram||Epca directs strict ban diesel gensets from Oct 15, pollution at construction sites to be monitored||The chairman of the Supreme Court-appointed Environmental Pollution Control Authority (EPCA), which is tasked with control and prevention of air pollution in Delhi-NCR, has issued a “most urgent” directive to the chief secretary, Haryana, as well as the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, on Thursday evening after a meeting. The directive calls for an immediate and strict ban on use of diesel generators in Gurugram and Faridabad districts starting October 15, when the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) kicks into action.“In 2019, the state of Haryana had informed EPCA that they will put in all required measures by the winter 2020, so that electricity from the grid can be supplied without disruptions... which would obviate the need for diesel generators,” an EPCA spokesperson on Thursday said. “Over the last two years, exceptions have been made for Haryana and other NCR states over diesel genset ban. But this year, in view of the public health hazard posed by Covid-19, we cannot relax any pollution control rules,” he added. In addition to this, the order (authored by Epca chairman Bhure Lal) states that the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) will be required to enforce air pollution norms at all large-scale construction sites under its jurisdiction, while also seeking undertakings from proprietors ensuring compliance with Grap norms and Epca directives on dust management, before October 15. Similar undertakings will also be taken from Red and Orange category industries in Gurugram and Faridabad ensuring use of only “authorised fuels”, i.e. piped natural gas (PNG), instead o traditional diesel, coal or husk, which emit large quantities of particulate matter. Moreover, HSPCB has also been asked to ensure round the clock surveillance of “hot spot areas” to ensure that any violations — such as dumping of solid waste and construction debris, biomass burning, and use of illegal fuels — are penalised. Epca’s order (dated October 8, a copy of which Hindustan Times has seen) also asks the HSPCB to “ensure long-term solutions for solid waste dumping.”HSPCB officials said they have already chalked out some measures for mitigation of not only waste dumping, but overall reduction of air pollution in four districts of Haryana. “In November 2019, we had prepared a comprehensive action plan for Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Panipat, which come under the National Clean Air Program. That plan has been reviewed by Epca, and has now been integrated with Grap as they have many overlapping provisions and goals. Even Bahadurgarh will now come under the purview of this plan,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, who is one of the recipients of Thursday’s EPCA order.HSPCB officials said that they are currently in the process of taking stock of the measures introduced under the integration of the Grap with its own ‘Comprehensive Action Plan for Clean Air for Cities of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Panipat in Haryana’. These measures have been assigned to various departments at the district level. “We have definitely made progress in the matter, despite challenges posed by the Covid-19 lockdown. Research studies have been commissioned, new air quality monitors and PM sesors have been installed in Gurugram, and mobility plans are being revamped. Industries have also been brought to comply with emission norms weeks ahead of the winter season. We have sought individual reports from concerned officials at a district level, which will be further submitted to Epca,” said an HSPCB official Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (Gururgam), HSPCB, said, “Once we have assessed the progress of the action plan, we can comment on what work remains to be done. It will take about a week’s time. Teams have already been created for surveillance of several hospots in Gurugram and Manesar which have been identified with Epca’s help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/epca-directs-strict-ban-diesel-gensets-from-oct-15-pollution-at-construction-sites-to-be-monitored/story-EkCL6aGzVNtso3xJbmqv7N.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana records two Covid deaths for the first time in 68 days||For the first time since August 1, Ludhiana recorded just two Covid-19 deaths on Thursday.In another breather, the number of fresh cases in Ludhiana remained below 100 twice in the past three days, with 89 people testing positive till 5pm on Thursday. This pushed the case tally to 18,942. Of these, as many as 17,555 patients have been discharged – a recovery rate of 92.6%, leaving 594 active cases. A total of 790 people have succumbed to the disease so far.The latest fatalities include two males, aged 73 and 64, residents of Basant Enclave and Janta Nagar, respectively.Since the first case was reported on March 24, cases have steadily multiplied, hitting the 18,000 mark within 191 days on October 1 – 13 days after Ludhiana recorded the single-day highest spike of 464 cases on September 17. September had recorded a massive surge of 7,522 cases within 30 days, against the 6,783 cases reported in August – a spike of nearly 11%. September also accounts for 42% of all Covid-19 deaths so far. On the other hand, October has recorded 984 cases in the first eight days, with the steepest daily spike in the month being 161 on the fifth – significantly below the sharpest surge of 464 cases seen on September 17. “Things are getting back under control, but residents need to remain cautious, mainly in view of the upcoming Navrataras and festival season,” said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, adding that stepping out of the house should be avoided as far as possible, especially by senior citizens and those suffering from other ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-records-two-covid-deaths-for-the-first-time-in-68-days/story-oROo3qerg0ahiWpfablJuI.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Despite strong winds, why is Delhi’s air quality on the slide?||Despite the average wind speed of 15-16 kmph, air quality in Delhi continued to be poor on Thursday for the second consecutive day. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, Delhi registered an AQI value of 208, which places it in the ‘poor’ zone. Experts said though faster winds play a major role in the dispersion of pollutants, it is not helping in case of Delhi since the wind speed is not consistent throughout the day. As well as the direction of wind is not helpful since it is blowing from the northwest bringing in particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10 -- one of the primary pollutants in Delhi’s air) from Haryana and Punjab where farm fires are raging, they said. According to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed reduces between evening and early morning hours. They also said that currently the northwesterly winds are bringing in fumes from crop stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab, which according to the Delhi government is one of the major contributors of particulate matter to Delhi’s air. “These pollutants are not being able to disperse as much just with the day wind, as the winds turn calm from evening to early morning hours. The duration for which the wind speed is good is very short. Besides, with a dip in mercury, the ventilation index (the ability of the atmosphere to dilute and disperse the pollutants over a region) has also become slightly low,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.On Wednesday, Delhi’s air plunged into the ‘poor’ zone for the first time since June 28. Government agencies have warned that the air quality in Delhi may deteriorate further over the next two days though remaining in the ‘poor’ zone. According to CPCB, prolonged exposure to poor air may lead to breathing discomfort to most people.As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, PM 2.5 being the lead pollutant is characteristic of winter. “The forecast for AQI is in the higher end of moderate to the poor category on Friday. However, it is predicted to improve thereafter to be back in the moderate category. A gradual increase in stubble burning fires was observed on Wednesday around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions. The boundary layer wind direction and speed are favourable for the transport of pollutants towards Delhi at present, but a shift in the wind direction is likely from October 11, which is likely to help improve air quality,” the Safar bulletin stated.As per Safar, the fire count in the northwest region on October 7 was 399.IMD’s Srivastava also said that wind speed in the region is likely to improve by Sunday. “The air quality may improve slightly on October 11-12 because of probable thunderous developments in the region. The wind direction will also change to southeasterly during this time. However, this pattern will change from October 15, with a return of northwesterlies and a dip in both night and day temperatures,” said Srivastava.On Thursday, the minimum temperature settled at 19.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal while the maximum settled at 35.6 degrees, two notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-strong-winds-why-is-delhi-s-air-quality-on-the-slide/story-u61UIy9Vd2mSlnZZLXuu2M.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Shut down thermal power plants around Delhi, demands AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged rampant violation of environmental norms by thermal power plants in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and demanded that they should be immediately shut down. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj accused the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) of being silent over alleged violation of pollution norms by these power plants. “AAP wants to know why CPCB is silent over the rampant violation of pollution norms by thermal power plants in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Despite the Supreme Court order and Central government’s direction, 13 coal-based thermal power plants in these states have not yet adopted anti-pollution technology,” Bhardwaj said.Referring to the Badarpur Thermal Plant in Delhi, which was shut down in 2018, Bharadwaj said, “When the Delhi government can shut down these power plants then why can’t the other states do the same.”To be sure how polluting a thermal plant could be, the Badarpur BTPS contributed nearly 11% of Delhi’s ultra-fine respirable particles or PM 2.5. To add to it, 26% of the city’s PM 2.5 levels comprised coal and flyash which were emitted from the plant, according to a study by IIT Kanpur.As per the Centre’s Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), when the air quality is in the severe zone (ambient PM2.5 or PM10 concentration value is more than 250 µg/m3 or 430µg/m3 respectively), coal-fired power plants and brick kilns must be shut down.According to experts, thermal power plants are a major source of nitrous and sulphur oxides which causes coughing, wheezing, shortness of breath, or a tight feeling around the chest. It also causes smog. “Moreover, the National Green Tribunal had ordered that the coal which is being used in these thermal power plants should be taken in covered transport but these states do not even follow this order. The NTPC, a central government agency, has challenged this order in the Supreme Court,” said Bharadwaj.Bharadwaj also said that over 2,300 brick kilns, another major source of air pollution in Delhi-NCR, were yet to shift to cleaner fuels.The AAP spokesperson said the brick kilns continue to operate and pollute air because of the “corruption of the state pollution control boards”. “The CPCB is neglecting all these issues. In the coming days, questions will be raised against Delhi and everyone will talk about dust pollution and vehicular pollution. But all these issues are already there; only the toxic air of the stubble burning is absent. When that toxic air comes here, the situation in Delhi will worsen,” he said.The CPCB did not respond to queries for a comment on the AAP’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shut-down-thermal-power-plants-around-delhi-demands-aap/story-aNhZtiZaiI0cIHUzjyoYGO.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||BJP anti-farmer, Centre never got produce at MSP from Delhi farmers in 5 yrs: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Central government has not once purchased produce at the minimum support price (MSP) from farmers in Delhi in the past five years.In the truncated session, Parliament had approved three farm bills, leading to protests by farmer bodies and opposition parties. The primary points of contention are the absence of any mention of MSP (the government-decided floor) and the freedom given to private players and others to operate in areas beyond the physical boundaries of agricultural produce market committees (APMCs).Addressing a press conference, AAP leader and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said because of the BJP government’s “stepmotherly” treatment towards Delhi farmers, they have been forced to sell their produce to private players at rates lower than the MSP.“The BJP at the Centre is against farmers. The BJP has used the slogan, ‘Jai Jawaan Jai Kisaan’, as a mere political tool to gain votes, and adopted the policy of ‘Mar Jawaan Mar Kisaan’ in reality. Over the past few weeks, farm bills are being discussed in the country. They were passed in Parliament secretly by keeping constitutional values at stake and were implemented across the nation. While the opposition says the BJP wants to abolish the MSP and mandis and harm the farmers, the Centre says it would not abolish mandis and MSP,” he said. Displaying documents, Chadha alleged that after 2015, the central government has not once purchased produce from Delhi farmers, let alone at the MSP rates. “The farmers of Delhi were left to be exploited by private players. The year 2015 was the last time that the Centre purchased wheat produce from Delhi farmers. It has been 5.5 years, and the Narendra Modi government has not purchased produce even worth a single rupee. The MSP of one quintal of wheat this year is ₹1,925. But because the central government is not purchasing wheat, Delhi farmers are forced to sell it at ₹1,700, which means that farmers are suffering a loss of ₹225 per quintal,” Chadha said. He further said over the past few years, Delhi government officials, mandi presidents, and ministers of the Delhi government have consistently written to the Centre, urging them to purchase produce from Delhi. “They have written that it is the responsibility of the government to purchase the crop produce at MSP from our farmers. But Centre has given no response. As many as 10 letters were written by the Delhi government to the Centre between March 2018 and May 2020 but to no avail,” Chadha said. Responding to AAP’s allegations, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “Kejriwal and his party have no moral right to make such baseless allegations about the Centre. The Kejriwal government has failed to give proper rights to the farmers. It is even misleading people by projecting that the liquid solution prepared by the Pusa Research Institute to turn stubble into manure is an achievement of the Delhi government. In reality, the institute is under the Centre and such activities should have begun in the month of August itself. So, the AAP should be the last party to talk of farmer welfare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-anti-farmer-centre-never-got-produce-at-msp-from-delhi-farmers-in-5-years-aap/story-mqbaAaf4MQx1Yhu64IwQpL.html
09-10-2020||Mumbai||Despite rise in Covid-19 cases, 32% beds in Mumbai are vacant, claims civic corporation||The city recorded more than 2,800 cases on Thursday for the second consecutive day. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been able to maintain bed vacancy at around 32%. Officials attribute this to a high rate of patients discharged after treatment at Covid facilities. On Thursday, the city saw its second-highest single-day spike, with 2,823 new cases of Covid-19 and 48 deaths. Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally stands at 2,22,784, with 26, 383 active cases; and the death toll is 9,296. The discharge rate is 83.79% and the fatality rate is 4.17%. Dharavi recorded only eight new cases on Thursday, bringing its tally to 3,300. Of these, 2,820 have been discharged. According to BMC, there are 15,047 beds in dedicated Covid-19 health facilities in the city, of which 11,102 are in government hospitals and 3,945 are in private hospitals. In government hospitals, 4,198 beds are available while 650 beds are vacant in private hospitals. There are also 2,018 beds in intensive care units (ICU), of which 1,039 are in government hospitals and 979 are in private hospitals. There are 123 ICU beds available in government hospitals and 111 in private facilities. In case of oxygen (O2) beds, 6,592 of the total 9,115 in government hospitals are available. In private hospitals, 440 of the total 2,523 O2 beds are vacant. Of 1,131 beds with ventilators in the city, 714 are in government hospitals (70 are vacant) and 417 in private hospitals (31 are vacant). Bed vacancy has remained at around 32% despite spikes in the Covid caseload. This has been possible partly because of the high rate of patients discharged. Altogether, 1,86,675 patients have been discharged in Mumbai. According to BMC, September saw over 50,409 discharged patients in the city, which is the highest recorded in a month so far. The previous highest was in July, when 42,283 patients were discharged. The city recorded 16,791 discharges until May 31. In June and August, 27,186 and 29,362 discharges were recorded respectively.“We have four major Covid-19 jumbo centres at Worli, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Goregaon and Dahisar. These four jumbo centres have played a crucial role in ensuring our capacity or availability of beds remains high, which also results in government hospitals having more vacancies compared to private hospitals,” said a BMC official.Previously, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told HT, “We have enough beds to even handle around 4,000 patients daily. This is because we do not require beds for all the patients. Only symptomatic patients require a bed and asymptomatic patients are quarantined or opt for home isolation.” As of October 6, of the total 23,976 active cases in the city, 60% were asymptomatic while 34% were symptomatic and 6% were in critical condition.Another BMC official said there has been no instance of beds not being available for a Covid patient. “Bed availability becomes an issue only when the patient wants a bed in the hospital of his or her choice, rather than by the availability. In the last four months we have allotted more than 80,000 beds with help of our ward war rooms,” said the official.According to BMC, its Covid war rooms, set up in each ward, allotted beds to 82,973 patients between June 10 and September 30.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant said, “The overall picture is 32% beds vacant, but there needs to be an improvement in the vacancy ratio maintained for ICU beds and ventilators. We are witnessing mild cases of late, but there is no guarantee with this virus. It will be wise to augment the number of ICU beds and ventilators.”Google Maps to show containment zones In a bid to make it easier for Mumbaiites to locate Covid-19 containment areas, the civic body collaborated with Google to showcase these zones on its maps from Thursday. There are 651 containment zones in Mumbai as on Wednesday and the civic body said information about them and other similar data will be updated on Google Map on a regular basis in the future. (with inputs from Sagar Pillai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-rise-in-covid-19-cases-32-beds-in-mumbai-are-vacant-claims-civic-corporation/story-cZ5o4D7bygojyKxHMRIVmO.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi government partners with HT to train students in coding||Students participating in India’s biggest coding Olympiad will fill the gap in technology-related education in Delhi government schools, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said at the launch of the Hindustan Times Codeathon on Thursday. The Delhi government has partnered with Hindustan Times to train 12,000 students from its schools in coding. “Modern technology-related education is what is missing from our system. With this programme, we will train our students as professionals of tomorrow. Our government was working on computer labs when we were approached by She Codes to train girl children in coding. Once the foundation was laid, then came the partnership with Hindustan Times to challenge our students in coding,” said Sisodia at Veer Savarkar Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Kalkaji on Thursday. The launch was also attended by Udit Prakash Rai, Delhi’s director of education, Rajeev Beotra, senior executive director of Hindustan Times, and Rupinder Kaur, founder-president of the She Codes training programme. “Now that there is excitement about coding in our schools, I received a call from an Indian-origin technocrat from the United States to work with our teacher and students and mentor them in coding. Everything fit in place at the right time,” Sisodia said. The HT Codeathon will provide students from classes 6 through 9 from across India a virtual platform to learn coding in languages such as HTML, CSS and Python. The students will be scored when they complete the tutorials and quizzes, and the top 100 performers will participate in a finale in December. At the event, the animations made by six students from class 6 who had learnt some coding under the She Codes programme, launched in January this year, were presented. The animations, which were conceptualised and designed completely by the students revolved around topics like good touch and bad touch, the need for conservation, educating the girl child, and awareness about Covid-19. Speaking about the short videos, Sisodia said, “We have seen in these videos how coding promotes thinking, and creatively presenting messages. There was a video where the girl child says she is helpless, and all I could think was that now she is not helpless — she is a coder”. Rai emphasised how the Codeathon would lay the groundwork for making teaching coding a continuous part of educating children. “This was a small dream for our education department, and a big step for our students. I am a student of a government school from Uttar Pradesh and saw a computer for the first time when I went to study engineering. Today children in our schools are learning how to code. This will promote a coding culture in our schools. This process should not end in the next two or three months, it should be continuous,” said Udit Prakash Rai, director, education. Senior executive director of Hindustan Times, Rajeev Beotra said, “The students will have to just register and start learning through an interactive platform that will have many videos, tests and tools. The programme will train children in classes 6 and 7 in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and those in classes 8 and 9 in Python as well. Every student will have a personalised dashboard that will track the progress of the students. This dashboard will be accessible to the parents and teachers as well to know how the students are performing. And, there will be a leaderboard with the rank of the student.” Over 22,000 students have already registered for the Hindustan Times Codeathon, which will provide training, mentorship from technical experts, and opportunities to win laptops or smartwatches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-partners-with-ht-to-train-students-in-coding/story-kuNknypUjXJReEnovs7XON.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||Gang poses as CBI, police officers and robs people of ATM cards, money||The Delhi Police Thursday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers that used to target people after offering them a car ride while posing as officers from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or the police. Police said one man has been arrested and he alone was involved in at least eight cases of robbery, extortion and cheating in Delhi.Police identified the arrested man as Mukesh (single name), a resident of Trilokpuri, who earlier used to work as an auto-rickshaw driver.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said on June 30, a complainant reported that around 5.30pm that day, he and his friend had taken a lift from three occupants of Swift car to go from Maharani Bagh bus stand on the Ring Road to Burari. “About a kilometre into the journey, they introduced themselves as CBI officers and said they were carrying weapons and a wireless set. The men took the complainant and his friend’s ATM cards and dropped them near Kashmere Gate ISBT. Thereafter, they withdrew ₹1.70 lakh from their accounts,” Singh said. The DCP said in July, a similar case was reported by a resident of Shaheen Bagh, who said he got into a car to go from South Extension to Ashram Chowk. “He said the men in the car claimed to be crime branch officers of the Delhi Police and took his ATM cards. Later, they dropped him and withdrew money from his account,” he said, without specifying the amount withdrawn. The officer said during the investigation, police received information on Wednesday that the kingpin of the gang, Mukesh, who has been evading arrest in several cases of robbery, kidnapping, theft and cheating, will be visiting his home in Trilokpuri. “On this, our team laid a trap and arrested Mukesh from his home. He has admitted his involvement in the two recent cases. He disclosed that he is the leader of the gang and that he, along with his two accomplices, both resident of Trilokpuri, carried out the robberies,” the DCP said. Police said they will arrest his two accomplices soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-poses-as-cbi-police-officers-and-robs-people-of-atm-cards-money-one-held/story-sC7bv5FqciHFmkvCG30T7O.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||12 mobile phones, intoxicants recovered from inmates at Ludhiana Central Jail||As many as 12 mobile phones and some medicines and narcotics were recovered from nine inmates at the Ludhiana Central Jail on Tajpur Road on Wednesday night.Two teams of jail officials had conducted the special checks at the same time and recovered the contrabands.In his complaint to the police, assistant jail superintendent Jagraj Singh said 11 mobile phones were recovered from inmates Jaswinder Singh, Rajesh Kumar, Sandeep Singh, Rishav Kumar, Harvinder Singh, Sagar and Khadak Singh.Sukhdev Singh, assistant jail superintendent, who led the other team, said one mobile phone, some black substance, suspected to be narcotics, and 38 tablets, suspected to be intoxicants, were found in the possession of inmates Harminder Singh and Lakha Singh.Assistant sub-inspector Hardial Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on production warrant for questioning to ascertain how they managed to get mobile phones on the jail premises.Two separate cases under Section 52 A (1) of the Prisons Act have been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-mobile-phones-intoxicants-recovered-from-inmates-at-ludhiana-central-jail/story-gfDgskoT5DSDoGcwASlFbN.html
09-10-2020||Delhi||To end chaos at vehicle dealer outlets, Delhi govt to soon home-deliver HSRPs||The Delhi government will soon start home delivering high-security registration plates (HSRP) and fuel stickers for vehicles registered in the national capital, senior transport officials said Thursday. The move comes after the city administration was flooded with complaints from vehicle owners who had failed to get the high-security number plates despite having paid for them and made the mandatory visit to the vehicle dealer outlets to collect them. On September 23, the Delhi government had issued a public notice asking vehicle owners to get their HSRP and colour-coded fuel stickers at the earliest in order to avoid being penalised for want of both. While the notice did not mention when the crackdown against defaulters would begin, it created a lot of panic among vehicle owners. Car dealers were soon flooded with applications for these new plates. The result was that there were at least 8,000 pending applications for HSRPs (as on Tuesday), creating a huge backlog and triggering chaos at dealer outlets.HSRPs are hologram plates made with a laser-branded permanent identification number, which cannot be copied. The colour-coded stickers are meant to identify vehicles based on their fuel type. The stickers also include details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and the engine and chassis number of the vehicle.A senior transport official said there are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi — both commercial and private — which are supposed to have these high-security registration plates. These include around 1.1 million four-wheelers and 1.9 million two-wheelers, while the rest are auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, buses, trucks, and others. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, as vehicles registered after that date are mandatorily equipped with HSRPs and fuel stickers.Stepping in to sort out the problems, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said they would soon start home delivering HSRPs and fuel stickers in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “The existing system was resulting in overcrowding at dealer outlets. Home delivery of HSRPs, once introduced, will be a comfortable option for many -- for some extra payment. Vehicle owners will get the high-security number plates without having to step out of homes, although it may take a day or two longer than it would have if they collected them directly from dealers,” he said. The fee for availing of the home delivery option is yet to be decided, officials said.A senior official of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited, the manufacturer of HSRPs, said the final modalities of the home delivery system would be complete by Tuesday. “We are hoping to formally launch the home delivery service by the end of October. The process will be seamless as the portal for availing of home delivery will be the same as the one for booking HSRP -- bookmyhsrp.com. The user will be given the option to choose home delivery or self pick-up,” said the official from Rosmerta, on condition of anonymity.The company also said it will solely operate the home delivery service for which it is now expanding its call centres and also roping in companies that provide riders. “Until now, our call centre was manned by just 20 people. Now, we are increasing the staff strength to over 100. For home delivery, we are creating a pool from our own staff as well as roping in two companies that provide riders,” the official said. On Tuesday, Gahlot had chaired a meeting to resolve the problems being faced by vehicle owners in getting these new number plates. Gahlot had directed officials to ensure that motor vehicle owners are not penalised for failing to have upgraded to HSRPs and colour-coded fuel stickers until further orders.The minister also had directed that no new application should be entertained until the backlog is cleared and the existing crisis is resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-end-chaos-at-vehicle-dealer-outlets-delhi-govt-to-soon-home-deliver-hsrps/story-ejdmNzITXa8YdQ9EozZBqO.html
09-10-2020||City||Dengue rears its ugly head in Ludhiana as Covid takes back seat||The Ludhiana health department has been hit by a double whammy: dengue and Covid-19. Though the medical teams have managed to bring the raging coronavirus under control, dengue has reared its ugly head and already infected 451 people. Since July, 416 people have been diagnosed with the vector-borne disease in the city, while 12 cases were reported in Koom Kalan, 10 in Pakhowal, four in Payal, three in Sahnewal, two in Sudhar and one each in Samrala, Manupur, Malaud and Khanna.Majority of the local cases have surfaced in Haibowal, Haibowal Khurd, Mundian, Civil Line, Guru Arjan Dev Nagar and surrounding areas near Samrala Chowk, Sector 32 on Chandigarh Road, Urban Estate in Dugri and Basti Jodhewal area. The first case of dengue was registered in July, while August saw none. The spread of the disease gained momentum in September, the health department said. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said the city has been divided into two parts and 18 anti-larvae teams have been constituted to contain the dengue transmission. “While nine teams will check larvae in Ludhiana- A, as many teams will destroy the insects in Ludhiana- B,” he added. He said besides destroying the dengue larvae, the staffers were also putting up posters to spread awareness among residents.In majority of the places, dengue larvae were found in plastic cups, tyres and stagnant water in coolers. City industrialist dies of suspected dengueAngad Singh Ahuja, 33, who was suffering from suspected dengue, died of multiple organ failure at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Thursday. His family said he was earlier undergoing treatment at a private hospital where he had tested positive for dengue. Later, he was shifted to DMCH where he succumbed, one of his relatives said. Angad was at the forefront of FICO’s Young Leaders’ Forum and was the managing director of Big Ben Group, one of the largest manufacturers of saddles and pedals in the country. The health department said they could not confirm it to be a case of dengue death till the arrival of report.Angad is survived by wife and two daughters, aged eight and three. He was son-in-law of CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja. Mystery shrouds three similar deathsIn September, 19-year-old Thakur Gangeshwar Singh had died of suspected dengue at SPS Hospital. He had also tested positive for Covid-19. Similarly, two teenagers from Khanna and Sarabha Nagar had also died of multiple organ failure last month. It is being alleged that the duo were suffering from dengue. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that NS1 antigen test and MAC Elisa test are mandatory to ascertain if any patient is suffering from dengue. “Dengue death will be confirmed after receiving the test reports,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dengue-rears-its-ugly-head-in-ludhiana-as-covid-takes-back-seat/story-QMdUIGzrqiGFVLTvIngseM.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Four special trains to run from Pune across the state||Pune: After starting two special trains between Pune and Mumbai from October 9, the Central Railways (CR) will launch eight more special trains to various destinations starting from October 11. These special trains will run as fully reserved trains. Out of these eight special pair of trains, four trains will run between Pune to Nagpur, Ajni and Amravati. According to the information given by the CR, one special train will be Pune-Nagpur AC special weekly (train no. 01417). It will leave Pune from October 15 on every Thursday till further advise and arrive at Nagpur next day. While the return special train (train no. 01418) will leave Nagpur from October 16 on every Friday till further advise and arrive Pune next day. Its halts and timing will be same as the Pune-Nagpur Humsafar Express train (train no. 11417/11418). There will be 13 coaches of 3 tier AC in the train. The second special train running from Pune is Pune-Ajni AC Special weekly (train no. 02239). It will leave Pune from October 17 on every Saturday and arrive at Ajni next day. While the return special train (train no. 02240) will leave Ajni from October 18 on every Sunday and arrive at Pune next day. Its halts and timing will be same as the Pune-Ajni Humsafar Express train (train no. 22139/22140). There will be 13 coaches of 3 tier AC in the train. Similar train will run between Ajni and Pune as Ajni-Pune AC Special weekly (train no. 02224). It will leave Ajni from October 13 on every Tuesday and arrive at Pune next day. While the return special train (train no. 02223) will leave Pune from October 16 every Friday and arrive at Ajni next day. Its halts and timing will be same as the Ajni-Pune Express train (train no. 22123/22124). There will be one first AC class coach, four 2-tier AC coaches and nine 3-tier AC coaches in the train. And the fourth special train running from Pune will be Pune-Amravati AC Special weekly (train no. 02117). It will leave Pune from October 14 on every Wednesday and arrive at Amravati next day. While on the return journey (train no. 02118) it will leave Amravati from October 15 on every Thursday and arrive at Pune next day. Its halts and timing will be same as the Pune-Amravati Superfast Express train (train no. . 22117/22118). There will be one first AC class coach, four 2-tier AC coaches and nine 3-tier AC coaches in the train. Whereas other four trains which CR is starting in the state are Mumbai-Kolhapur special daily train, Mumbai-Latur Superfast Special 4 Days a week train, Shri Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Terminus Kolhapur-Gondia special daily train and Mumbai- Hazur Sahib Nanded special daily train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-special-trains-to-run-from-pune-across-the-state/story-m9EKKuPFQjgOCtyVHyDQRK.html
09-10-2020||Pune||Pune traders seek relaxation in shop timings ahead of festive season||Pune: With the Centre announcing relaxed restrictions as part of fifth round of unlock regulations for October, the Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP) on Thursday writes to Pune district guardian minister and state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar demanding permission to keep shops open till 9 pm. The trader’s body cites forthcoming Navratri and Diwali festivals as reason for relaxation. Shops are presently allowed to remain open till 7 pm. The trader’s association state that relaxation in timings will allow office goers to shop after their work schedule. Shop owners said that these customers shop after 7 pm. The authorities have allowed restaurants and bars in the city to keep dine-in services open till 10 pm. “The 7 pm deadline has affected our business. We normally see customers between 6 pm and 10 pm during weekdays. Hence, we have demanded that shops should be allowed to remain open till 9 pm. We have already suffered due to the lockdown, and Navratri and Diwali festivals are our main seasons of business,” said Tushar Jawalkar, owner of men’s clothing shop at Laxmi road. Another shop owner Prem Jauhari said, “It is injustice to shop owners and traders in the state, when hotels and restaurants are allowed to remain open till 10 pm. We follow all the rules and regulations as per Covid safety protocols, then why is this compulsion to shut down at 7 pm? State government should understand our problem and allow us to keep shops open till 9 pm or 10 pm.” Fatechand Ranka, president of FTAP, said, “We have entered the auspicious Adhik month when women purchase gold and silver jewellery items. The Navratri festival will begin from October 17 followed by Diwali. The coming months are important for shop owners and traders in terms of business. As we are following the virus prevention measures announced by the authorities, we have requested the state government to extend our shop timings from 7 pm to 9 pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-traders-seek-relaxation-in-shop-timings-ahead-of-festive-season/story-6j85fs6I5O3n3eitXS3uTP.html
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||With steady decline, active Covid cases in Ludhiana drop to less than half in two weeks||After recording a swift surge of 7,522 cases in September, Ludhiana is now registering a steady decline in the number of active cases, as per figures shared by the district health department.From the 1,509 active cases among the 16,783 cases confirmed as of September 23, the number has dropped to 618 among 18,853 infections on October 7 – a decrease of 59%.The number of active cases now is also the lowest since August 1, when there were again 618 infected patients in the district. Currently, 35 patients are admitted at government facilities, also lowest since August 1. As many as 349 patients are observing home isolation and another 125 are admitted in private hospitals of the district. With this the positivity rate has also reduced to 2.2% as compared to September 17 that saw a record 464 fresh cases, causing the positivity rate to shoot up to 8.7%. In more good news, so far in October, the daily fatalities have been below 10 with the exception of October 3 and 4 when 10 deaths each were reported. In all remaining days, the deaths were in a single digit with three deaths being reported on October 1 and four on October 6. This comes as a respite from what it was a fortnight back, when as many as 19 deaths were reported on September 15 – said to be the peak of the first wave of coronavirus in district. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma cautioned that while it was a respite that cases were coming down, there was no room for complacency. “I appeal to residents to stay indoors as far as possible, as this would not only keep them safe but also help lower the spread of infection in the community,” he said. VIRUS CLAIMS SIX MORE LIVES, 114 TEST POSITIVEThe figure of fresh Covid-19 cases remained low for the second consecutive day on Wednesday as the district reported 114 cases.However, the virus claimed the lives of six Ludhiana residents, pushing the death toll to 788. On Tuesday, the district had recorded 85 cases, the lowest in 65 days since the 78 cases on August 2.The district’s patient tally now stands at 18,853, of which 17,444 patients have recovered, leaving 618 active cases. A total of 3.02 lakh samples have been tested till now. The six deceased on Wednesday include five males and one female. The woman, aged 40, was a resident of Chak Sarwan Nath village. The male deceased include an 84-year-old from Ghumar Mandi, a 60-year-old from Miller Ganj, a 57-year-old from Kot Mangal Singh, a 48-year-old from Talwandi Kalan and a 45-year-old from Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-steady-decline-active-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-drop-to-less-than-half-in-two-weeks/story-eL0GMr5tmCGynEh2xUGKAM.html
09-10-2020||City||Pandemic, farmer stirs delay arrival of shipments, leave Ludhiana industrialists on the edge||The Covid-19 pandemic, along with farmer agitations and tensions at the Indo-China border, has escalated the troubles of industrialists who are ruing the delay of shipments arriving from ports. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, and Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), jointly said that movement of container trains from Ludhiana to ports and back have been seriously hampered due to the ongoing agitation by the farmers over the agri bills. “It has already been five days and the current situation is brewing into a disaster for exports. Shipments have been delayed and exporters are fearing cancellation of orders. Plus, the sudden increase of ocean freight and other expenses are adding to losses and mental agony of industrialists,” they said. CICU has now written a request letter to the PMO, ministry of commerce, ministry of MSMEs and ministry of finance requesting their immediate intervention and highlighting the hardships being faced by exporters. The major commodities contributing to imports into Ludhiana are metal scraps and waste paper for 20 feet and 40 feet containers, respectively. Orders of metal scraps from Dubai dried up due to ban on export by the supplier country amid the onset of Covid.The import of waste paper also saw a steep fall due to the same reason. Consequently, exports are either in waiting or are forced to rely on the empty containers from Delhi or Mundra ports at an additional cost of Rs, 20,000 and Rs 30,000 respectively per container. Sarvjit Singh, co-convener of CICU’s export promotion committee, said that during the Covid lockdown, period shipping lines had withdrawn vessels fearing less cargo, which had resulted in congestion at major transit ports like Salalah, Colombo and Singapore. He added that even the empty containers from Delhi and Mudra ports were not arriving due to ongoing agitation by the farmers. He said that the industry was facing a huge deficit of containers due to imbalance in import and exports at Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industrialists-rue-delay-in-arrival-of-shipments/story-MvBs9HoJrJYjuCTrB7YFyL.html
