10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra could be completely unlocked by November-end: Tope||Every activity across Maharashtra, including schools, gymnasiums and railway services, could be unlocked from the coronavirus-enforced lockdown by the end of November, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. He added that rates for the gold standard real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests would be further slashed to ₹800, from the existing rate of ₹1,200 to ₹2,000, within the next eight days.Tope said that barring a few activities, everything has been opened up by the government under its Mission Begin Again — a staggered plan to unlock activities—and the remaining restrictions will be lifted in phases by November-end. The state went into lockdown from mid-March.“We have allowed bars and eateries to operate. Schools are expected to open after Diwali. Railway services are being allowed this month. Religious places and gymnasiums, too, will be allowed to open in a phased manner. Some activities will be allowed by October-end, and the remaining by November-end. I think by November-end, everything will be open,” he said.Maharashtra government allowed restaurants and bars to open from October 5. Long-distance and intercity train services within state limits have also been allowed earlier this month. There is a rising demand for opening of shrines and gymnasiums. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, earlier this week, clarified that schools will not open till Diwali, falling on November 14, and the decision about their opening will be taken by reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state. The state administration is wary of a second wave of the infection, as witnessed in many other countries, if activities are opened up abruptly. Thackeray reiterated his concern during the virtual inauguration of a test lab in Washim on Saturday.The health minister on Saturday during the inauguration function, said the rates of the RT-PCR kits have fallen drastically in the recent past and in the wake of it, the rates of the tests, too, can come down. “We have brought the test rates to ₹1,200 through two revisions over the past few months. The prices of the kits required for the tests have fallen further and the benefit of it should be passed on to the common people without allowing the private laboratories to profit. We will take a decision in the next eight days to bring the rates down to ₹800 per test. The tests in Maharashra are lowest in the country,” he said.On September 8, the government slashed the rates to ₹1,200 to ₹2,000 from earlier rates ranging between ₹1,900 and ₹2,500. Initially, the test rates were as high as ₹4,500 per test. Those were brought down to ₹2,200 to ₹2,800 in June, ₹1,900 to ₹2,500 in August and ₹1,200 to ₹2,000 in September. The private laboratories are allowed to charge more for the collection of swabs from home. The initial high cost was attributed to shortage of kits owing to reduced manufacturing due to lockdown, restrictions on their transportation and reduced competition among laboratories.State government recently decided to procure 35 lakh RT-PCR kits along with other material and medicines, spending ₹634 crore. The government has fixed the rate at ₹78.4 per kit required for the test. On that basis, the state government has decided to go for a revision of the test rate.Maharashtra has around 400 testing labs, including more than 200 from the private sector. The tests done by private labs are more than government laboratories. The further slashing of rates, however, is expected to face a resistance from the private sector. “It has been witnessed that the private sector has been indulging into profiteering, cashing in on the pandemic, be it prices of masks, tests or PPE kits. The RT-PCR kit costs not more than ₹200 and adding other overheads, per test cost does not exceed ₹600, against which they have been allowed to charge up to ₹2,000,” said an official from the health department.Meanwhile, the Western Railway (WR) is planning to increase its local train services being operated for people working in essential services. Above 100 local train services will be increased in the coming week.“We are inspecting and looking on introducing new local train services for employees working in essential services.” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, WR.Presently, the WR operates 506 train services everyday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-could-be-completely-unlocked-by-november-end-tope/story-yRBrdu1nOQuFF7VslHNhjK.html
10-10-2020||City||2 Panchkula cops among six booked in a ₹36.5-lakh fraud case||Two assistant sub-inspectors (ASI), posted at Haryana DGP headquarters in Panchkula, and four others were booked for duping a Panchkula resident of ₹36.5 lakh, on the pretext of getting a petrol pump allotted to him, the police said on Saturday.The accused were identified as ASI Dharminder Sharma, ASI Naresh Kumar Rana, Rana’s wife Kiran Bala, Gurinderjit Singh Dhajal of Zirakpur, Sat Narain of Karnal, and Gur Kirpa of Yamunanagar.Complainant Preet Pal of Sector 25, Panchkula, told the police that in October 2014, he had seen a newspaper ad about an oil company allotting rural retail outlets and dealerships in Haryana.One of the accused, Gurinderjit, had “assured of having links with politicians, Haryana CM” and that he could “get the allotment work done from petroleum minister Dharmender Pardhan.”Pal said that he had approached two ASIs known to him for advice who said they knew Gurinderjit, and would help finalise the deal. For ₹35 lakh, Pal was assured allotment by Sat Narain, who also said he was close to other politicians.By 2016-mid, however, Pal had not gotten any response. In October 2017, on Pal’s insistence, the accused “agreed to return the money”, but their cheques were dishonoured. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-panchkula-cops-among-six-booked-in-a-36-5-lakh-fraud-case/story-gc1gxKdqFwF5bDqJLS1DUO.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll crosses 40K, last 10,000 deaths in 25 days||Maharashtra on Saturday crossed the 40,000 mark for Covid-19 fatalities, seven months since the first case was reported. With 308 new fatalities, the state’s toll went up to 40,040, while 11,416 new infections took the tally to 151,7434. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 2,203 new cases, taking the city’s tally up to 227,276, while its toll stands at 9,391.State clocked the last 10,000 Covid-19 deaths in just 25 days . The first 10,000 were crossed in 125 days (on July 11) after the first case was detected on March 9. Next 10,000 were reported in 30 days. The 30,000-mark was breached in another 30 days. Of the fatalities reported on Saturday, 168 deaths were from the past two days, 60 from past week, while remaining 80 were from the period before it. Mumbai and Pune district retained their first and second positions in term of new infections and fatalities. Pune saw addition of 46 deaths, while Mumbai reported 48 deaths. Ahmednagar and Satara in western Maharashtra reported 24 and 26 fatalities respectively. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.64%.Pune added 1,772 new infections, which included 724 from city, 634 from rural parts and 414 from Pimpri Chinchwad. Nashik, Ahmednagar, Nagpur and Satara continued to clock high number of cases with addition of 741, 813, 595 and 452 cases respectively. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises nine municipal corporations and rural parts of three districts, accounted for 36.82% or 4,103 cases of state’s tally. While the state has been reporting a decline in the daily caseload over the past three weeks, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state has not reduced in proportion. The CFR in first 10 days of October rose to 2.53% from 2.04% in September. The CFR had fallen to 1.91% in first 15 days of September to rise to 2.18% the next fortnight. The rise in CFR in over the last more than three weeks has resulted in the state’s overall death rate hovering around 2.6%, while the death rate of a few other states and the national rate has steadily declined.The high rate of mortality is attributed to the late referral of infected people to health facilities, lacklustre approach of the machinery in tracing suspected people and low rate of testing. “We are still getting the infected patients to the facilities as late as third or fourth days, against the targeted period of first 48 hours. These patients not only risk their life, but also infect others in large numbers. The tracing of suspected contacts is as low as less than 10 in most of the districts, against the expected ratio of 20 people per infection. We expect the ratio to improve after the launch of “My Family, My Responsibility” last month,” said an official from health department requesting anonymity.State health minister Rajesh Tope, admitted that the state’s test rate per million population needs to improve. “We are at sixth position, even below Andhra Pradesh, Telangana when it comes to per million tests. We are not testing at the fullest of the 400 laboratories opened in the state. The tracing ratio, too, needs to be improved to 1:20 so that we can contain the spread of infection and CFR can be brought below 1%,” Tope said.Tope said that Maharashtra’s CFR is high compared to other states, but it is also because of the transparency authorities have been maintaining in terms of cases and deaths.State conducted 82,064 tests in last 24 hours at a positivity rate of 13.91%. Overall positivity rate of the state stands at 20.05%. State’s recovery rate improved to 82.76% after 26,440 patients were reported recovered on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-toll-crosses-40k-last-10-000-deaths-in-25-days/story-ASahnRru4VHGuRrN0EUr6H.html
10-10-2020||City||21-year-old dies in Ambala, family allege murder||A 21-year-old man, Sajan, alias Mogli, of Ambala, died under mysterious circumstances early Saturday morning, police said.Sajan’s family, however, has accused two of his friends Manish and Rahul of murder, alleging that they had taken him along on Friday evening and left him outside their home in an unconscious condition the next day.Baldev Nagar station in-charge Satya Narayan said, “The family has alleged that the duo gave him something poisonous as there was no injury mark on his body.”“The postmortem is being conducted and his body will be handed over to the family for last rites. Further investigation is underway”, he added.A case was registered against the two friends under Sections 34 (common intention), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-dies-in-ambala-family-allege-murder/story-cWJr79aGh7NwbYicuQuUYK.html
10-10-2020||City||Haryana speaker directs officials to make plan for multi-level parkings in Panchkula||In view of the lack of parking space in Panchkula, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta said that multi-storey parking areas should be developed in every sector and directed officials to make a detailed plan.Gupta was chairing a meeting of the sanitation and beautification committee at the Haryana Vidhan Sabha secretariat on Friday. The meeting was attended by officials of the committee, MC and Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). They presented details of ongoing development works and explored the possibility of projects that could be set up in future.The problem of rainwater stagnation in areas including Sector 19 was also discussed and the speaker asked for a report on the rainwater harvesting project established in Sector 19 last year.Gupta said that he has discussed the construction of a bridge to connect Sectors 20-21 to sectors across Ghaggar with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and it will be built soon. There was a discussion on beautification of the main roads of the city. Along with this, instructions were also issued to make proper lighting arrangements on roads. The speaker also expressed displeasure over the non-completion of the construction of bus queue shelters and their quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-speaker-directs-officials-to-make-plan-for-multi-level-parkings-in-panchkula/story-ONKOwnDwThylpSKPzt3XoI.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Elections 2020: Bar Council, Punjab and Haryana HC Bar at loggerheads again||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) and Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) are at loggerheads again over the conduct of annual elections. The council has objected to the HC Bar announcing elections on October 24. “We are in talks with HC Bar election committee. We are proposing elections for November 6 in all district Bars and the HC,” said BCPH chairman, Karanjit Singh. However, chairman of the election committee, PHHCBA, KS Sidhu, has written to BCPH asking it not to interfere in the affairs of High Court Bar. “There is no provision of the Bar Council framing rules for holding of elections for the high court,” Sidhu’s letter said. Sidhu’s letter comes in the wake of Bar Council seeking suggestions from lawyers over holding elections on November 6 in all Bars in the two states and the HC. This proposal from BCPH had come following PHHCBA announcing polls on October 24. Earlier too, the HC Bar body and Bar Council had locked horns over online elections announced by Bar Council for September 30 and October 1. Subsequently, the matter reached the high court and election notification was quashed. Bar Council is a statutory body which regulates entry into legal profession and has nearly 1-lakh members in the two states and Chandigarh. The HC Bar has nearly 4,000 members practising before high court. Bar Council withdraws proposal to go on strike Meanwhile Bar Council has withdrawn its proposal to go on hunger strike after October 12. “The high court administration has decided to partially allow physical hearing in district courts. In view of this, strike call has been withdrawn,” Singh said. The BCPH had threatened to go on strike on October 2 after the high court notified that only virtual hearings would take place in all courts in October in the two states and Chandigarh. Now, district courts are being allowed to open partially for physical hearing for the first time since March when lockdown was imposed in view of Covid-19 outbreak. However, only virtual hearings will be allowed at HC for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elections-2020-bar-council-punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-at-loggerheads-again/story-G1UI078emyru42SDjjvxyH.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||After September surge, Covid deaths on decline in Chandigarh||Deaths due to Covid-19 in Chandigarh are on the decline after a surge in September.Weekly data shows that between September 18 and 25, the highest number of 35 fatalities took place. This happened just after infection surged, with single-day highest of 449 positive cases reported on September 13, and active cases reached their peak at 3,171 on September 16.“Present data suggests that we have achieved the peak in terms of both cases as well as deaths. The huge surge in deaths seen in mid-September has receded significantly,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, adding that there is a direct correlation between the number of cases and deaths, and as new infections have started decreasing, fatalities will come down as well.Dr Ram said during the surge in September, it was also seen that the severity of the disease had increased. “Many patients had comorbidities, which were aggravated due to the infection. “However, in the last couple of days, not many patients are reporting to the facility in such a serious condition,” he said.The reduction in fatalities is also coupled with active cases dipping below 10% (at 9.3%) on Saturday, and recovery rate inching towards 90% (at 89.1%). In fact, the number of recoveries continues to outnumber fresh infections since September 17. Even on Saturday, 157 patients were discharged in comparison to 96 who tested positive. However, fatality rate that increased from 1.2% to 1.4% in the last week of September has since remained constant.“There is a continued effort from the health department to daily monitor patients who are in home isolation and identify those at high risk,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department. “Patients with comorbidities are being paid special attention, and in case of emergency, medical help is promptly available.” Dr Nagpal said since the testing numbers remain above 1,000 on a daily basis now, “we are trying to identify and isolate the persons who have contracted the infection as early as possible”. “This all is expected to bring the fatality rate below 1%,” he said.Dr Jagat Ram said hoping that people don’t resort to major violations of safety norms, it is unlikely that there will be another surge in infection. However, the PGIMER is taking no chances, and is making arrangements for Covid management till the next year, as it is unlikely the pandemic will end abruptly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-september-surge-covid-deaths-on-decline-in-chandigarh/story-2oCWZVS1xoQsDgIOjoM18M.html
10-10-2020||City||War memorial site on Ambala-Delhi National Highway inspected||PC Meena, director general, directorate of information, public relations and languages, Haryana, on Saturday visited the project site where a memorial for the 1857 war is being constructed on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway. He was accompanied by senior administration officials. The Rs 200-crore project being undertaken over an area of 20 acre and is expected to complete by July 31 next year.Architect Renu Khanna gave detailed information about the construction work related to the project. Meena said that the various events related to the revolution of 1857 will be shown through various mediums like audio-visual, short films and digital walkthrough 5D auditoriums. PWD chief engineer, Chandramohan, informed Meena that five buildings are being constructed at the site including interpretation centre, open-air theater, auditorium, museum and memorial tower. He added that most of the work of IC, OT and auditorium has been completed while 50% of the museum building and 20% of the memorial tower have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/war-memorial-site-on-ambala-delhi-national-highway-inspected/story-MKp6U6W0VXfKjdNkylUhXJ.html
10-10-2020||City||Tricity Buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||When UT secretariat failed the cleanliness test The ugly side of the UT secretariat is for all to see in its premises in Sector 9, Chandigarh. Heaps of old furniture have been dumped wherever space is available, particularly in areas senior officers seldom visit. One such location is near the canteen, where old, unused furniture, some of which could be heritage items, has been conveniently dumped. “Despite the Swachhta Abhiyan, the administration’s own secretariat fails the cleanliness test. Corridors and verandahs are being used as storage dumps for old files and worn out furniture. Some corridors are blocked with almirahs that there is hardly any space left for an emergency evacuation in case a fire breaks out,” a UT employee said, requesting anonymity. Women doctors take the charge of Covid-19 management Women administrators have taken charge of two important health institutions in the city amid increased efforts to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The first, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, has taken over as director, health services of Chandigarh after Dr G Dewan retired last month. Also, at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Dr Jasbinder Kaur, the head of the biochemistry department, has the officiating charge of director-cum-principal of the institute after Dr BS Chavan took leave for personal reasons. Besides, the treatment of Covid-19 patients, their sampling and testing, the health department and GMCH-32 are involved in contacting isolated persons at home on a daily basis. Traffic lights on the blink in Mohali The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) installed traffic signals at six accident-prone spots on the stretch from Sector 76 to 80 but a month on, the lights are not functional as the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is yet to issue the power connections. A senior GMADA officer admitted, “We requested them for the power connection but have not got it yet.” Meanwhile, accidents are witnessed at these points almost daily. Social distancing at Dussehra easier said than done Even as the UT administration is considering giving permission for celebrating Dussehra, organisers say that the administration’s direction of limiting the number of people is easier said than done. “Every year, thousands flock to the main Dusshera celebrations in the city. Rather than telling us to limit people at these gatherings, the administration should reach out to the people and ask them to sit at home. If more than 200 or 300 people show up what can we do to stop them?” an organiser said. Police inspector to career counsellor Question inspector Amanjot Singh, the station house officer of Chandigarh’s Sector 39 police station, and get free counselling on which media organisation one should work for. Known to be rude to journos, Amanjot loves counselling journalists when they call him up for information and updates on the crime front. It’s not that he hates the media but sure has his favourites. Mritunjay Kumar’s PUTA win comes as a surprise Though Mritunjay Kumar won this year’s Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections, it came as a surprise to most faculty members as he is an assistant archivist at AC Joshi Library, and not a teacher. Mritunjay, who will head the PU’s teaching body for a year, was contesting against Mohammed Khalid, who is a professor and former PUTA president.Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-aOUu7hX7xH0GbFCe2uivNL.html
10-10-2020||Lucknow||5% quota for ex-personnel of armed forces in UP Group C jobs||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to provide 5 percent horizontal reservation in Group C jobs in the state government services to armed forces ex-personnel (Army and Navy, Air Force) who are natives of the state.The reservation will be given horizontally under each category, a state government press statement stated. “This decision would boost the morale of former officers and other former staff of the armed forces and their families will get support,” the chief minister said as quoted in the statement.Also read: Hathras gang rape case to be probed by CBI, Centre issues notificationThe statement also said that UP was the state from where the highest number of people joined the armed forces and consequently the state has a large number of ex-service personnel.The present government is sensitive toward soldiers and the welfare of retired soldiers and their families, the statement added. The state government had already increased the compensation to Rs 50 lakh from the previous Rs 25 lakh to the next of kin of armed forces, and central and state paramilitary forces who sacrifice their lives in the line of duty. Apart from this, the state government has also made an arrangement for providing jobs to the dependents of the martyred soldiers.On March 2018, the state government had issued orders for the provision for the appointment of family members of martyrs in state government services on compassionate grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/5-quota-for-armed-forces-ex-personnel-in-up-group-c-jobs/story-a8NrLEes8YMvbsqxuU7rCK.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents pledge to follow Covid safety norms||The Chandigarh Police started a special campaign on Saturday to spread awareness on Covid safety protocols. Teams from different police stations administered an oath to shopkeepers, rickshaw pullers, street vendors and drivers at various markets in the city. The residents pledged to follow all safety norms. The campaign was started after many residents were seen flouting social distancing norms and not wearing masks in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-pledge-to-follow-covid-safety-norms/story-QsrvAR8etKSVSXjNLFSFyN.html
10-10-2020||City||90% gram panchayats in Ludhiana district stand against stubble burning||Ludhiana More than 90% gram panchayats in the district have passed resolutions against stubble burning.As per the information, there are total 941 gram panchayats in Ludhiana district, of which 847 have joined hands with the district administration and passed resolutions against the stubble-burning menace.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appreciated the efforts of the panchayats to stop the unhealthy practice and urged the others to cooperate with the district administration to make Ludhiana a zero stubble burning district.The DC said that the administration is making concerted efforts to defeat Covid, and the hazardous gases release during burning paddy stubble, besides polluting the environment, might be harmful for those infected by the virus.District development and panchayat Officer (DDPO), Peeyush Chander, said they are expecting all gram panchayats to pass similar resolutions in coming few days and help the district administration in making Ludhiana a stubble burning free district.Meanwhile, gurdwaras in villages have also been involved by the district administration to stop the message of stopping stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/90-gram-panchayats-in-ludhiana-district-stand-against-stubble-burning/story-Gv5CteEXpA4G9fJGoNp10J.html
10-10-2020||City||Need for ease of doing business discussed at PU regional centre in Ludhiana||University Business School, Panjab University Regional Centre, Ludhiana, in association with Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal, Punjab, organised a webinar titled “Ease of doing business in Punjab: Challenges and way forward” on Saturday.RP Tiwari, vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, was the chief guest on the occasion and the guest of honour was Rajat Aggarwal CEO, Invest Punjab.Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said that the webinar will encourage a close coordination between academic and government outlook regarding industry.Tiwari said that the problem with the overall business environment in the country was the huge gap between the skills of graduates and business requirements. He hoped that the New Education Policy will fill the gap. He expressed happiness over Punjab taking major strides in skill development, start-ups, incubations and entrepreneurship. He also insisted on sustainable development and hoped for constant industry-academia interaction. Aggarwal spoke on the initiatives undertaken by the Punjab government to encourage an environment of business. He said that several measures have been taken in this direction including single-window offices, reductions of regulatory burdens, digital approvals, monitoring of timelines, setting up of special desks and self-certifications.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, FICO, was the main speaker at the webinar. He said that much has to be done in order to make industry a vibrant and a flourishing enterprise. He added that land costs, expensive and intermittent power supply, high rates of interest charged by banks, high cost of raw materials and high freight charges are serious problems being faced by the industry in Ludhiana.Harish Anand, economic adviser, Vardhman Group of Industries, spoke on the need for ease of doing business to accelerate investment and economic growth in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-for-ease-of-doing-business-discussed-at-pu-regional-centre-in-ludhiana/story-2lGryUTxfuNAErMzH4eRbN.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Accused asked to return copies of charge sheet||The sessions court hearing the Delhi riots case asked the lawyers of the 15 accused to return soft copies of the charge sheet made available to them by the police on September 21 after the latter admitted that the identities of some protected witnesses had been inadvertently revealed in these, and also ordered that the identities not be revealed to anyone. The move came after the Delhi Police informed a sessions court presided over by additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat on Friday that people with “vested interests” have approached at least three protected witnesses listed in the charge sheet in the Delhi riots conspiracy case.  The court also ordered that the accused be given another copy after removal of the files containing the details of the witnesses. Judge Rawat said the investigating officer erred by placing the document containing the details of the witnesses as part of the charge sheet and handing it to the accused. “The sole idea is to protect the identity of the witnesses and to ensure their safety and security,” the court said. A two-page document listing the names and addresses of at least 15 protected witnesses, who gave evidence against those arrested for conspiracy in the Delhi riots, was included in the police’s charge sheet filed in a city court last month. The document contained the names and address of protected witness --- otherwise referred to only by their pseudonyms such as Alpha, Beta, Hector, Delta, Echo, and Mike. The statements of the protected witnesses were recorded before different judges between March and August. A statement before a judge is admissible evidence. These witnesses hold the key to police’s narrative that the riots were part of a larger conspiracy and orchestrated by people protesting the new Citizenship Amendment Act. The witnesses were insiders or friends of the accused and claim to have been present in meetings or seen or heard the accused conspiring. On Friday, Delhi police moved an application in court stating that the mistake was inadvertent. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad told the court that it was necessary to protect the identity of the witnesses and requested the court that the document also be extracted from the judicial file and replaced with a truncated version with the original being sealed and kept on record. Prasad also urged the court that a direction be also issued to all the accused and their lawyers to delete and destroy any copy/prints made out of the soft copy. The court ordered immediate steps to the effect and posted the matter for further hearing on October 15. Delhi police officers did not wish to comment on their claims before the court about people approaching the witnesses. At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in the 2020 Delhi riots. The clashes started when groups of people -- one supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act and another opposing it -- clashed near the Jafrabad metro station on the evening of February 23. It snowballed into large-scale Hindu-Muslims clashes in parts of northeast Delhi between February 23 and 27. Delhi police have arrested at least 21 people for conspiring to start the riots; 15 have been charged so far. The arrested persons include prominent faces of the anti CAA protests such as former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, and student activists Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, and Safoora Zargar. Police have alleged that those arrested raised funds for and planned the riots, mobilised rioters under the garb of the sit-in anti-CAA protests. The latter have denied the allegations and accused the police of launching a witch hunt against anti-government voices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-accused-asked-to-return-copies-of-charge-sheet/story-igZrCfLNamJe0RpwDaUPDK.html
10-10-2020||City||Safety protocols: CBSE issues 55-page dossier to schools||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has issued 55-page guidelines to affiliated schools regarding their reopening. The schools have been asked to constitute task teams, emergency care support, and hygiene inspection squads. The board has instructed schools not to involve students in any cleaning activities for health and safety reasons. The schools must ensure that children do not exchange masks or share food with each other. It has also been directed that school campus should be cleaned every day and a daily record of sanitised areas be maintained. The board has also directed the affiliated schools to reopen in phased manner and in different shifts, following the ‘odd-even formula’. To implement these directions, several schools have come up with videos that were sent to parents so that every child is prepared to wear mask, sanitise hands frequently and maintain adequate physical distance.The authorities of BCM School, Dugri, have come up with two videos which have been shared with the parents. In those videos, students have been asked to be responsible and sensible citizens. In the three-minute video, the students have been given instructions how to wear a mask, maintain 6ft distance from each other, clean hands, cover the mouth while coughing and sneezing, and avoid coming to school if experiencing fever, cold and cough. Principal Vandna Shahi, said, “We reopened the school last week and received a good response from Class 12 as more students are coming to school for clearing their doubts. We took all precautions and will abide by the instructions sent by the board.”Authorities of Bhartiya Vidya Mandir School, Udham Singh Nagar, meanwhile, are conducting a survey to take consent from the parents to send their children to school to seek guidance from teachers. Principal Bandana Sethi said, “We have received the guidelines from the board and will follow them while reopening the school next week. We will first see the response of the parents and then proper instructions will be sent through a video informing them about the precautions the children need to take while visiting school.”Box: Other instructionsFunctions and celebration of festivals to be avoidedSchool assembly to be conducted in classroomsVirtual parent-teacher meeting to be arrangedStudents, teachers and other staff members to be encouraged to use Aarogya Setu App for their own and safety of others. Practical work to be done in small group while maintaining social distancingAvoid conducting book fairs, exhibitions, excursion trips, annual function till the situation normalisesTeachers must engage students in promoting emotional health and make them feel safe in school||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/safety-protocols-cbse-issues-55-page-dossier-to-schools/story-4duR4U4yzOv2IzP1ZjokpO.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Haze, humidity lead to rise in Mumbai’s pollution levels||The city witnessed hazy conditions with high humidity levels and cloud cover on Saturday, leading to further rise in air pollution level. Some parts of the city recorded light rain, with thundershowers reported along the outskirts of the city. The absence of wind speed did not disperse pollutants leading to poor air quality, said researchers. Pollutant-measuring indicator air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 121 (moderate) on Saturday – the worst since March. It was 118 (moderate) on Friday. An AQI of 111 (moderate) has been predicted for Sunday. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Saturday’s AQI was an average of nine locations in the city as the station at Bandra-Kurla Complex has been defunct for over a week. While major locations in the city recorded ‘moderate’ air quality, the highest pollution levels were witnessed at Navi Mumbai (193), followed by Andheri (176) and Mazagaon (166). Colaba and Bhandup had the cleanest air with satisfactory air quality at 71 and 70, respectively. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Humidity levels were at 89% in south Mumbai and 81% in the suburbs. “Owing to high moisture in the air, the city recorded higher pollution levels on Saturday, as pollutant carrying capacity increases when there is more humidity. Also, wind speed is very low characteristic to the withdrawal period of monsoon,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. Meanwhile, the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 0.2mm and 0.3mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30 pm on Saturday. Thane recorded 5.6mm rainfall. The city and suburbs could expect partly cloudy conditions on Sunday with the possibility of light rain. “The presence of low pressure weather system over Bay of Bengal is activating monsoon currents over central India, leading to thundershowers for the coast and interior Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general western region, India Meteorological Department. AQI through the week Monday -50 (Good) Tuesday- 68 (Satisfactory) Wednesday-78 (Satisfactory) Thursday-97 (Satisfactory) Friday-118 (Moderate) Saturday - 121 (Moderate) Important air quality dates this year •Prior to Friday, last time the city recorded high pollution levels was a week before the first phase of lockdown was implemented. On March 17, the AQI was 272 (poor), on March 18 it was 172 (moderate) and on March 19 it was 130 (moderate)•During the lockdown, the highest recorded AQI was on May 17 at 90 (satisfactory)•Mumbai recorded its cleanest air since the monitoring began on June 30 with an AQI of 12 (good)(Source: SAFAR)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/haze-humidity-cause-surge-in-mumbai-s-pollution-levels/story-GupUIqNdjflIVGbBVX4U5H.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister hints at possibility of ‘unlocking everything’ by November end||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday hinted at the possibility of unlocking everything, including schools, gymnasium and railway services, by November end. He also announced to slash the rate for the RT-PCR tests for coronavirus to bring them down further to Rs 800 from the existing rate of Rs 1,200 to Rs 2,000 within the next eight days. It would be the fourth revision done in the wake of a drop in the rate of test kits and other overhead costs.Tope said that barring a few activities, everything has been opened up by the government under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ and the remaining restrictions will be lifted in phases by November end. “We have allowed bars, restaurants and eateries to operate early this month. The schools are expected to be open after Diwali. Railway services are being allowed this month. Religious places, gymnasiums too will be allowed to open in phased manners. Some of the activities will be allowed by October end and the remaining by November end. I think by November end everything will be opened,” he said.Also read: Republic TV’s CFO doesn’t appear in fake TRP case; police summon CEO, 2 othersMaharashtra government allowed restaurants and bars to open from October 5. The long-distance and intercity trains services within state limits have also been allowed early this month. There is a rising demand for the opening up of the shrines and gymnasiums. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, early this week, clarified that the schools will not open till Diwali and the decision about their opening will be taken by reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state.The state administration is wary of the second wave of the Covid-19 infection, as witnessed in many other countries, if the activities are allowed abruptly. CM Thackeray reiterated his concern during the virtual inauguration of a test lab in Washim on Saturday.The health minister on Saturday, during an inauguration function, said that the rates of the RT-PCR kits have fallen drastically in the recent past and in the wake of it, the rates of the tests too can come down.“We have brought the test rates to Rs 1,200 through two revisions over the last few months. The prices of the kits required for the tests have fallen further and the benefit of it should be passed on to the common people without allowing the private laboratories to profiteer. We will decide in the next 8 days to bring the rates down to Rs 800 per test,” he said.On September 8, the government slashed the rates to Rs 1,200 to Rs 2,000 from earlier rates ranging between Rs 1,900 and Rs 2,500. Initially, the test rates were as high as Rs 4,500 per test. Those were brought down to Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,800 in June; Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,500 in August and Rs 1,200 to Rs 2,000 in September. The private laboratories are allowed to charge more for the collection of the swabs from home. The initial high cost was attributed to a shortage of kits due to limited manufacturing amid lockdown, restrictions on their transportation, among other reasons.The state government recently decided to procure 35 lakh RT-PCR kits along with other material and medicines spending Rs 634 crore. The government has fixed the rate at Rs 78.4 per kit required for the test. Based on the experience, the state government has decided to go for the revision in the test rate.Maharashtra has around 400 testing labs including more than 200 private ones. The tests done by private labs are more than the government laboratories. Further slashing of rates, however, is expected to face resistance from the private sector.“It has been witnessed that the private sector has been indulging into profiteering cashing in on the pandemic situation, be it the prices of masks, tests or PPE kits. The RT-PCR kits cost not more than Rs 200 and adding other overheads, per test cost does not exclude Rs 600 against which they have been allowed to charge up to Rs 2000,” said an official from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-minister-hints-at-possibility-of-unlocking-everything-by-november-end/story-WKJBTZUXPwE48Nt5usaU7K.html
10-10-2020||City||Political parties jump in to support SC community ‘bandh’ call; commuters harassed in Ludhiana||Commuters were stuck in serpentine queues on Saturday as national highways were blocked at different points for over an hour amid the Punjab bandh called by members of the Scheduled Caste (SC) community. They were protesting against the Hathras gangrape in Uttar Pradesh and alleged multi-crore postmatric SC scholarship scam. Different political parties also joined the protest in support of the SC community to gain political mileage. Commuters were left a harried lot as gridlocks were witnessed on National Highway-44 and adjoining roads. The movement of vehicles coming from Chandigarh and Delhi were also disturbed at Samrala Chowk. Heavy traffic was also seen at Transport Nagar Road despite police creating diversions. While Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) staged protests at Samrala Chowk and Jalandhar Bypass Chowk against the SC scholarship scam, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) blocked the National Highway-44 near Green Land School. Social distancing norms went for a toss and many protesters were not even wearing masks.Raj Kumar Atwal, Punjab president, BJP SC Morcha, also participated in the protests. Atwal slammed the state government and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for not taking action against minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot who had allegedly embezzled Rs 64 crore meant for SC post matric scholarship. He added that they will continue agitations against the state government and the public will teach Congress a lesson in the 2022 legislative assembly elections. Simarjeet Singh Bains, president of LIP, said that the party will continue to fight against injustices being faced by the SC community. Meanwhile, commuters said that protests by political parties should not result in harassment for the public.One of the commuters, Arshdeep Singh, said that protests should be staged against injustices, but the public should not be inconvenienced in the process. He added that the government should take strict action against the protesters for blocking roads and not following Covid safety guidelines. Hathras case: SAD leaders join protest against UP govt Ludhiana After the party high command snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over farm bills, leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have now joined a Dalit organisation in its protest against the Uttar Pradesh’s government over the ‘gang-rape’ and murder of a young woman in Hathras. Members of Bhartiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj on Saturday morning staged a protest at the Clock Tower, demanding capital punishment for the culprits during the ‘Punjab Bandh’ call proposed by the organisation. Shops in Chaura Bazar remained closed till afternoon, but rest of the city was open.Vijay Danav, Shiromani Akali Dal leader and head of Bhartiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj, while addressing the protesters, alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government had failed in saving girls and women. The agitation was also attended by former cabinet minister and adviser to former chief minister (CM) Parkash Singh Badal, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, besides Kuldeep Singh Khalsa, former Lok Sabha deputy speaker Charanjit Singh Atwal and Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, along with other Akali leaders. The protest continued till 2pm. The flow of traffic was disrupted near the protest site, which left the commuters a harried lot. Heavy police force was deployed in the market to avoid any untoward situation. Several other organisations, meanwhile, also staged protests in different areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-parties-jump-in-to-support-sc-community-bandh-call-commuters-harassed-in-ludhiana/story-6rcNGaCH5pyWbmBBNpe3FI.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||After encouraging response, evening testing camps to continue in Gurugram throughout winter season||The health department on Saturday said it plans to continue holding evening testing camps for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests throughout October and the ensuing winter season. The department said the decision was taken after observing an encouraging response to such camps, which were held across 10 locations in Gurugram, since October 1. An estimated 800 people have already been tested at these camps over the past 10 days. Dr MP Singh, the health department’s nodal officer for testing and containment zone management, said, “Our evening camps are held every evening for two to three hours. We are seeing a better response than what we have anticipated. Every day, approximately 80 people are coming in and getting walk-in tests done, in a relatively short period of time. About 800 people have been tested so far. Seeing this demand, we will be issuing a revised schedule for such camps every 10 days.” Since October 1, a camp had been set up every day at select locations, such as Laxman Vihar, Rajiv Nagar, Patel Nagar, Khandsa, Sukhrali and Nathupur, all of which were designated as containment zones at the time of these camps. The locations themselves, officials explained, had been selected as they are important transit hubs and public places, drawing heavy public footfall. For example, Gurugram bus stand, Galleria market and the Sheetla Mata Mandir were all earmarked for such camps.A schedule prepared by the health department reveals that, by October 20, evening RT PCR camps will be held for a second time at three locations, including Sahara Mall and Galleria market (under the Chanderlok primary healthcare centre), and Ambience Mall (under the Nathupur primary healthcare centre). New locations include the Tigra-Samaspur crossing in Tigra, Sector 10A and Sector 4 markets in Laxman Vihar, Sector 90 in Bhangrola, Miyawali Colony and Ashok Vihar (Phase 3) in Rajiv Nagar, and Sector 14 market in Sukhrali.“For the moment, we are focusing on increasing testing in areas adjacent to containment zones, so if there is any spread outside the sealed area we will come to know. At places where there is more demand for walk-in tests, like in Galleria market and Ambience Mall, repeat camps will be held. These activities are helpful for people who may want to get tested but also have to go to work during the day,” said Dr Singh. While he did not reveal how many new positive cases have been detected through these evening camps, Singh added that higher positivity rates had been observed among people tested at Galleria Market and Ambience Mall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-encouraging-response-evening-testing-camps-to-continue-in-gurugram-throughout-winter-season/story-sOZdQkZ2UZnwhoybKXOYJL.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Blocked drains the main reason for flooding during rainy season: MCG committee||A committee formed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to find solutions to frequent waterlogging in the city has found that drain blockages are often the reason for flooding during the rainy season, a release issued by the civic body on Saturday stated.A committee comprising MCG officials, councillors, and retired government engineers was formed after severe waterlogging in the city in August which left seven underpasses, low-lying houses, and most of the major stretches of the city inundated.A meeting of the committee was held at the MCG’s office in Sector 34 on Saturday. “The main objective of the formation of the committee was to identify flood-prone areas and prepare a plan for a permanent solution. As a part of this exercise, suggestions have been taken from the citizens of Gurugram, RWA officials, individual experts related to the drainage work. Common suggestions included constructing new rainwater harvesting systems and building drainage lines in places that lacked such facilities,” said Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG.RC Taneja, retired chief engineer, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), and a senior MCG official, attributed the waterlogging in the city to blocked drains. Another senior MCG official, who attended the meeting, said,“Experts are of the opinion that a thorough study should be carried out on the ground for preparing a citywide drainage plan. It was also suggested in the meeting that knowledge of groundwater level is very important before installing rainwater harvesting systems and adequate study also needed to be conducted in this regard. Experts also suggested connecting all drains in the city to one other,” said a senior MCG official, who attended the meeting.Further, a decision was also taken for building more ponds in the city to act as a storage area for rainwater. In this regard, MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma, said that the civic body is looking at developing ponds next to sewerage treatment plants (STPs) to ensure maximum storage of water. As per MCG officials, Kaur directed Sharma to discuss key points discussed in the meeting with experts in greater detail and told all executive engineers to start preparing estimates based on the suggestions received in the meeting.The MCG committee also decided to conduct a meeting, with the drainage committee of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to optimise resources and to find lasting solutions for the issue of waterlogging in the city, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/blocked-drains-the-main-reason-for-flooding-during-rainy-season-mcg-committee/story-qdxtOtqzgzY2oG0jzWnGlM.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Cycle tracks, exchange of revenue roads high on the list of agenda for MCG’s House meeting||Constructing cycle tracks along Golf Course Road (GCR) and Golf Course Extension Road (GCER), exchanging revenue roads for land, and setting up digital libraries across the city are some of the key items on the list of 20 issues that will be discussed in the upcoming House meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday.Cycle tracksEarlier, on October 2, the city’s first cycle track was opened between Huda City Centre and Subhash Chowk. The proposal for building similar cycle tracks along GCR and GCER has been mooted by Mahesh Dayma, MCG councillor of Ward 34.MCG officials privy to the matter said that since both GCR and GCER are owned the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) it is unlikely that this exact proposal would be approved by the House but instead, a survey for setting up cycle tracks within MCG’s arterial roads is likely to be approved.“We can only execute engineering changes on cycle tracks on stretches falling within our jurisdiction. At the most, we can approve this proposal within the House and then forward it to GMDA for perusal. Either way, GMDA already has plans for setting up cycle tracks along both the concerned stretches,” said a senior engineering wing official of the MCG.GMDA has the onus of maintaining all the master roads in the city, while the responsibility of maintaining arterial roads, stretches that connect a particular sector or a village, lies with the MCG.GMDA is planning on setting up 650 kilometres of cycle tracks in the city. In the first phase, stretches originating from HCC towards Signature Tower, Iffcco Chowk, Kanhai traffic light, and DLF Phase 1/ DLF Phase 4 crossing will be covered. In the second phase, stretches such as GCR, GCER, MG Road, and Sohna Road would be re-engineered to make way for cycle tracks.Digital libraryMahesh Dayma has also proposed the agenda for building digital public libraries.“In this digital age, there is a paramount need for an advanced technology-enabled public library with all the necessary modern facilities and equipment. Currently, there is no decent library facility in the city. It will not only enhance the quality of life of citizens but also provide them with world-class infrastructure. The library can be built keeping in mind sustainable infrastructure and ecological norms with proper parking facilities and dedicated halls and auditoriums for hosting seminars and conferences,” stated Dayma in his agenda proposal to the MCG. As per MCG’s engineering wing officials privy to the matter,the land for such a project is in the process of being identified.Revenue RoadsAnother agenda proposed for the House meeting is regarding the exchange of revenue roads and giving MCG land of the same value.For example, if MCG has a revenue road of one acre in Sector 50 worth ₹3 crore, then a builder looking to claim the revenue road can offer the MCG 10 acres land in Sector 102 worth ₹3 crore in exchange.The issue of revenue roads is a major one in the city especially in condominiums and townships, where such a road, often surrounded on all sides by a condominium or township, serve no purpose.With the revenue road belonging to the government, a builder can also not fence it or use the vacant stretch for any purpose. Before the city started expanding in the 1980s, revenue roads used to provide connectivity to villages. Over time, village lands were sold to builders for developing townships and condominiums, however, revenue roads could not be touched and development work has to be carried out around it.In its proposal, the MCG town planning branch has highlighted that they have received two such proposals from builders for exchanging lands, one in village Sihi and Harsaru, and the other involving a land exchange in Ghata village and Sector 89.“Adhering to the directions of the MCG commissioner to host House meetings at a new venue each time, the meeting this time will take place at the community centre in Sukhrali. This way, more government buildings will be looked after while officials would also get to witness localised civic problems faced by residents in a particular area,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.Other agenda in the MCG House meeting include a report on MCG’s policy on street vendors and to explore possibilities of regularising more vendors who may have lost income due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the construction of a community centre in South City 2 and compiling a detailed project report for the drainage situation in sectors 27 and 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cycle-tracks-exchange-of-revenue-roads-high-on-the-list-of-agenda-for-mcg-s-house-meeting/story-4qee4lOTo8pkirjK9OQH6I.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Two brothers drown in Chandu Budhera canal||Two brothers drowned in a canal in Chandu Budhera on Saturday morning, said police. A team of fire department officials and divers took about 40 minutes to recover the bodies. The dead were identified by their first names as 18-year-old Sandeep and 16-year-old Mandeep, both from Masina village in Azamgarh, Uttar Pradesh. Police said they had been working as masons and stayed on rent on Pataudi road with their family. According to the fire department, the incident was reported to them close to 8am, following which a rescue vehicle was dispatched. “Prima facie, probe has found that the brothers had gone near the canal to relieve themselves. Mandeep went to the canal to fetch water and as he lunged, he slipped into an area that was 15 feet deep. His elder brother jumped in to save him, but he was also swept away by the current,” said Ramzan, assistant fire station officer (AFSO), sector 37 fire station. “Their bodies were found 30 feet away from where they were swept away. The entire operation took about 40 minutes.” Police said the victims were accompanied by two friends, who reported the incident to the police around 7.45 am. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The victims’ family have not alleged any foul play. The victims were rushed to the civil hospital, where doctors declared them dead-on-arrival. The bodies have been handed over to the family after the autopsy.” No case had been registered. Incidents of people drowning in the canal are common with police stating that despite repeated warnings, people continued to go to the canal for swimming, relieving themselves or recreation purposes. Authorities had put up a board displaying the depth of the canal as a warning and police patrolling at night was increased. On July 19, a 24-year-old man, who had gone to the canal for a swim with his friends, had drowned. Last year in June, 2019, a 29-year-old man, who worked at a private company in Kapashera near Delhi-Gurugram border, had drowned in Dhankot. A week prior to that incident, on May 31, 2019, a 16-year-old boy had drowned in the same canal. The boy, a student of class 11, had gone to the canal along with six friends for a swim and his body was recovered after ten hours by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-brothers-drown-in-chandu-budhera-canal/story-eb7DvpyIlBfybT4aAdlKLM.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally higher than civic body projection||The number of Covid-19 cases in the city is significantly more than what the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had predicted, indicating a more rapid growth than the authorities had anticipated for the outbreak. The civic body’s projections are crucial since facilities like hospital beds, testing kits and ventilators are scaled up on the basis of these estimates. At present, there are 2.25 lakh cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai. Last month, the civic body had said it expected Mumbai’s Covid tally to reach 191,000 by October 4. However, on that date, the number of Covid-positive cases in Mumbai was 2,13,000. Of late, the city has also seen record numbers of new cases daily. On Wednesday, the city recorded 2,838 new cases of Covid-19, which is the highest daily count so far. BMC’s projection for the number of active cases has also been surpassed. The civic body had said it expected the number of active cases in the city to reach 26, 628 by September 15. The total number of active cases on September 15 was 30, 879. A senior civic official said the projections have helped BMC keep pace with the outbreak. “These prediction numbers kept evolving over multiple iterations, and there are various other models that are combined and aggregated and then the estimations are considered. We have not fallen short of beds. These prediction models keep getting aggregated and refined basis evolving protocols and situations, and have in fact guided us well.”Experts said the prediction models may have failed because of irresponsible human behaviour, like ignoring social distancing norms and not wearing masks. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Apart from Covid-19 being unpredictable, the biology of the virus is not a mathematical model. Human behaviour is a key reason for viral transmission. If citizens act recklessly, don’t follow the rules of social distancing or wear masks, the number of cases is going to increase sharply. Any prediction will fail unless all citizens self-regulate. During the festive season, citizens did not wear masks or follow rules of social distancing, which led to the surge in cases.” Joshi added that many make simple mistakes like removing masks in enclosed places. “I want to advise citizens to not remove masks while speaking, or while they are in the toilet. Avoid removing masks as much as possible,” he said.The BMC started testing for Covid-19 on February 3 and the first case was detected in the city on March 11. The number cases peaked in May for Mumbai but gradually reduced after June. By the end of August, after the festive season, the city saw an increase in cases. Since the second week of September, the caseload for Covid-19 has seen another sharp spike, with over 2,000 new cases being reported daily, on an average. September also saw BMC scaling up its testing capacity by 43% . Daily testing figures went up from 4,000-5,000 in June to up to 15, 000 in September. Of the total 11.15 lakh tests conducted in Mumbai as of September 29, more than 52% (5.80 lakh) of the tests were conducted in August and September. From September 1 to September 29, over 3.41 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in Mumbai. The corresponding figure for August and July was 2.38 lakh and 2.04 lakh respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-tally-higher-than-civic-body-projection/story-KkXghAoeH7UJi3Dy2n2YAL.html
10-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad admin directs private hospitals to treat every Covid-19 patient even if not financially sound||The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Saturday directed private hospital to treat every Covid-19 patient even if the patient is not financially sound. He said industrial area associations have offered to help the administration foot such bills.The administration said it would review cases of those who were financially not in a position to pay the bills and pay it in their stead.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also directed the hospitals to provide a copy of the government order and rate list of paid Covid treatment to patients at the time of admission. On Saturday, the district reviewed its Covid-19 preparations and resolved to intensify their efforts ahead of the festival season. “I have directed the private hospitals to treat every patient even if the patient is not financially sound. We have held discussions with industrial area associations and they have agreed that they will help us foot the bills of such patients. So, the hospitals have been asked to provide treatment to every patient and also give them copy of the government order for price capping and also put up the rate list at their premises as well on their websites so that there is no confusion,” district magistrate Pandey said. The Uttar Pradesh government, in an order issued on July 10, had capped the paid Covid-19 treatment charges in private hospitals in accordance with the recommendation of committee headed by Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member. The prices were capped according to severity of sickness and depending on whether the hospitals were accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) or not. However, the July 10 order did not specify whether other charges -- such as testing, medicines --- were to be included or excluded from the rate and that created confusion, inviting many complaints of hospitals overcharging patients. To sort out the issues, the govt on September 10 issued a revised order which clarified the inclusion and exclusion of different charges. “The directions given by the district magistrate will be complied with and we have spread the message to every member hospital. He has said that every patient, whether Covid or non-Covid, should be provided with treatment. In case the patient is not financially sound, the hospital will send the bill to the administration which will arrange for finances,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “He has also said that the tests should be done only through the private laboratories which are registered with the office of Ghaziabad chief medical officer.”The district magistrate further added that several directions were also issued for better management of containment zones in order to control spread of infection. “Under the procedure, the respective incident commanders (administration’s executive magistrates) will be provided with police station wise list and they will have to click the pictures while creating a containment zone as well as during the time when the zone is de-sealed. During the sealing time (generally 14 days), the health department will also carry out certain procedures and monitor the containment zones,” Pandey added. The health department officials have been asked to monitor that surveillance teams and the rapid response teams (in case of home isolation) reach the containment zones and distribute medicines and carry out 100% testing as per guidelines. The Indian Council for Medical Research in its advisory on September 4 has advised for 100% testing in containment zones. In an order on October 3, the UP chief secretary RK Tiwari redefined the area of containment zones which have now become much smaller as compared to those defined as per previous directions given in July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-admin-directs-private-hospitals-to-treat-every-covid-19-patient-even-if-not-financially-sound/story-QKGZqfLLSZ6a77B1TzoJQP.html
10-10-2020||City||Greater Noida: Three men who stole rifle from a security guard arrested||The police on Saturday arrested three suspects and recovered a licenced revolver from their possession. The revolver was snatched by the suspects form a security guard last month in Greater Noida (west). The suspects have been identified as Vishal Singh, 20; Yogendra, 21; and Vikas, 19 — all residents of Roja Yaqubpur village in Bisrakh. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police(DCP), Noida Central, said that the three suspects had snatched the licenced rifle from a security guard on September 20. “The security guard, Ashish Dixit, had recently shifted on a rented accommodation in Roja Yaqubpur village. He used to work at a private company in Greater Noida’s Sector 57. On September 20, the security guard had completed his night shift and was walking back home with the rifle,” he said. When the security guard reached near Plot No 85, the three suspects reached the spot on a motorcycle and accosted him. “They held the security guard at gunpoint and snatched his rifle. The security guard put up a resistance but was pushed on the road. The suspects swiftly rode back on the motorcycle and fled the spot,” he said. Bisrakh Police had registered a case against three suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC). Chander said the police pursued the case and identified the suspects. “On Saturday, the police received information about the movement of the suspects in Greater Noida (west). The police stopped their motorcycle and recovered a countrymade gun from their possession. Based on their interrogation details, the police conducted a search and recovered the stolen rifle from Yogendra’s house.”Chander said that the three suspects had no prior criminal history. “The investigation revealed that Yogendra is fond of weapons. The security guard had shifted in his neighbourhood last month. Yogendra conducted a recce and identified the security guard as a vulnerable victim. He made a plan with two other accomplices and snatched his rifle,” Chander said. The police have seized the licenced rifle, a countrymade gun, a live cartridge and a motorcycle from their possession. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-three-men-who-stole-rifle-from-a-security-guard-arrested/story-C6cETbsiLl9OjFFeCfQ6CK.html
10-10-2020||City||Man arrested for molesting minor girl in Badalpur||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old man was arrested for allegedly molesting a class 10 student in Badalpur on Thursday. The victim, a native of Badaun, lives with her family members at a rented accommodation and studies at a government school. The student said the suspect confronted her when she was returning from school. “I was returning home with a classmate. The man stopped my way and said he wanted to meet me alone. He started misbehaving with me when I objected to his behaviour,” she said in the FIR. The suspect asked the victim to meet him at certain location in the evening and threatened her with dire consequences for not meeting his demand, the girl’s father said. The student raised an alarm and a local shopkeeper rushed to her rescue. The man then fled as people started gathered around. The student returned home and informed her family members about the matter. The victim’s father said the suspect is a married man and lives in the neighbourhood. “I work as a contractual labour at a person’s field. The suspect is a relative of my employer. He has been harassing my daughter for some time. We have filed a complaint against him in the Badalpur police station,” the father said. Dhamendra Sharma, in-charge of Badalpur police station, said police registered an FIR against the suspect under Section 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC. “We launched a search and arrested the suspect the same day. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-molesting-minor-girl-in-badalpur/story-gFsjijKWGRBdvwV1XVFUKJ.html
10-10-2020||Noida||Two traders, barely 40 mts apart, robbed at gunpoint at wholesale market in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: A group of four armed men performed two robberies back-to-back at the busy Kirana Mandi wholesale market early Saturday. The police said that they have registered FIRs for robbery and are trying to trace the gang. According to the two victims, the first instance took place when trader Ankit Garg was supervising the loading and unloading activities at his godown. The market is one of the busiest markets in the city, located in the heart of old Ghaziabad. “It was about 6.15am when a car stopped nearby and two men approached me, while two others remained in their car, which was a Swift. They were wearing face masks, which we use to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Soon, they pulled out pistols and pointed them towards me. Then, they started pulling out the gold rings and bracelet which I was wearing. I did not resist. After pulling out the gold items, they asked me if I had any money in my bag which was on the table,” Garg said. He added that the two robbers then checked up the bag and left his godown. Barely 40 metres away, the robbers repeated the incident with another trader, Sumit Gupta. He was also supervising the unloading of goods at his godown when two robbers took him on gunpoint. “I did not resist their attempts. There were several labourers at the godown and none of us tried to resist since the suspects were armed. They took my gold bracelet, boarded their Swift car and fled the spot. Later, a group of traders from the association met the police and raised concerns,” he added.The two traders said that they gave their respective complaints to the police at the Kotwali police station.“There is normally a police patrol present at Kirana Mandi as goods are loaded and unloaded early in the morning. However, there must be some laxity on part of local officials, which is why the incident took place. The senior officials will take a call. However, we have registered FIRs under IPC Section 392 (robbery) and teams are trying to trace the suspects,” said Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer (city 1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-traders-barely-40-mts-apart-robbed-at-gunpoint-at-wholesale-market-in-ghaziabad/story-KpjBTp3xHg4XpUy281BAPJ.html
10-10-2020||Noida||‘Water courts’ to address billing issues to come up in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida industrial development authority (GNIDA) on Saturday said it will set up ‘water courts’ in each sector, wherein residents can approach an official tasked to solve their grievances related to water bills. The move comes after residents filed complaints that their water bill-related issues were not being addressed.“We have decided to send a team of officials to each sector so that grievances of residents can be addressed right there. The motive is that the residents do not need to visit the authority to get their water bill issues resolved,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Greater Noida authority.Singh has directed the additional CEO, Deep Chandar, and water department staff to visit one sector every week and set up a ‘water court’ where residents can come, discuss and resolve their issues.The team of officials will select one sector on a weekly basis and be present at the ‘water court’ from 10am to 12pm. The ‘water court’ may also be organised at the ground floor hall of the authority’s administrative office located in Sector Knowledge Park-IV.Residents, meanwhile, said that apart from the issue of exorbitant water bills, the authority issued bills without delivering quality water to households.“The authority is supplying muddy water and the pipelines have leakages. Despite repeated complaints, the authority staff do not address complaints on time. The authority has no right to collect water charges unless they start supplying water,” said Harendra Bhati, founder member of Active Citizen Team (ACT), a citizens’ collective, and a resident of Sector Beta I.As per official estimates, Greater Noida at present needs 210 million litres water daily (MLD) for its population of around 12 lakh.“The water pressure remains erratic in our sector, and residents have been suffering for a long time. We hope the authority will look into this issue,” said Alok Singh, another founder member of ACT and a resident of Sector Alpha I.GNIDA said it will address all issues related with water supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/water-courts-to-address-billing-issues-to-come-up-in-greater-noida/story-gvLiVmavesk7rKMNjVhyiL.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Man beaten to death in north Delhi: Sisodia visits family, announces ₹10L compensation||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday visited the family of 19-year-old Rahul Rajput, who was beaten to death on Wednesday — allegedly by the family of a woman he was in a relationship with— and announced an ex gratia of ₹10 lakh.“The Delhi government will work towards speedy justice for the family of the victim. We shall talk to the L-G, the police and engage top lawyers in prosecution to ensure that those found guilty be given strictest punishment,” Sisodia said at their house in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar.“The family is in a poor economic condition. Under directions of the chief minister, I will ensure an immediate financial help of Rs 10 lakh for the family at the earliest.” Rajput’s family on Saturday reiterated that they did not see the crime through a communal lens, even as social media posts painted the murder as one with communal overtones.Several other political leaders from the national capital on Saturday visited the bereaved family’s house in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar, including Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party chief Adesh Gupta.“Whoever visited us to offer us their condolences, we assured them that we don’t believe in seeing a crime from the Hindu-Muslim angle. The religion of the killers do not matter to us,” said Rajput’s uncle Dharampal, who was witness to the crime, and rescued his nephew from the attackers. Rajput succumbed to his injuries at Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital in Jahangirpuri on Thursday.The suspects involved in the killing — two men and three minors, were apprehended on Thursday.Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said the situation in the victim’s neighbourhood, as well as in Jahangirpuri, where the woman lives with her family, has been “normal”. “We have deployed police personnel in both areas. We are just keeping a watch,” Arya said. Dharampal said that while he was satisfied with the police action, he believed there were around 10 attackers. “The police have assured us that if they get to know of any other person’s involvement, they won’t be spared,” he said. Rajput, who tutored school students, while pursuing his Bachelor’s degree from Delhi University, was lured out of his home on Wednesday evening and thrashed by a group of men. Dharampal had rescued him, but he succumbed to internal injuries the next day. The woman’s family was against the relationship, Rajput’s family have claimed in the police statement, and had also allegedly threatened him in the past. Delhi BJP chief Gupta, however, demanded that the Delhi government give the family ₹1 crore as compensation. Gupta also hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress for “appeasement politics”. Gupta said, “Just a week back, AAP and the Congress leaders were doing politics in the name of Dalits in other states and even took out candle marches... Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has not even met the deceased’s family. Even Congress leaders, who can travel 600km just to do politics, have not even visited the family.” Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt hit back and said, “BJP has woken up after two days. Our party member Vinod Aggarwal and others have been with the family since the day the incident came to light and were with them since then. It is unfortunate that the BJP is politicising the incident.” Aam Aadmi Party’s Saurabh Bhardwaj, who was among those who met the family, tweeted, saying the party’s local legislator, Pawan Sharma, had been helping the family from the day of the incident and that he had accompanied the family to the police station to get the FIR registered.BJP leader Kapil Mishra compared the murder with past cases in Delhi that had communal overtones. He also demanded that the chief minister give the family a compensation of Rs1 crore and legal aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-beaten-to-death-in-north-delhi-sisodia-visits-family-announces-10l-compensation/story-iGmMmod6opycBgKPMEggEO.html
10-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: 13 construction sites with no CCTVs and self-audit likely to face penalty as UPPCB deadline ends||Ghaziabad: As the deadline to install CCTV cameras at construction sites and make self-audit for dust control measures ended on Saturday, the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that 13 construction sites in the district have failed to comply with the directions. The UPPCB on September 22 had issued a public notice in accordance with the directions of the state-level air quality monitoring committee, and directed the construction sites to make self-audit of dust control measures and also to install cameras at the sites whose control will be given to the board. The officials said that it is for the first time that such directions have been issued to control dust emission at the construction sites in order to curb air pollution. “Out of 47 major construction sites, about 42 are those which have an area of more than 20,000 square metres, and were asked to install CCTV cameras and complete the self-audit. Of these, we have 13 sites which have not taken up the self-audit procedure or the installation of CCTVs. Starting Monday, we will be taking up inspection and start levying the penalties on per day basis based on the level of pollution index at the site,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The officials warned that such sites may face closure depending upon the scale of violation. They further said that the construction sites of the Delhi-Meerut expressway and the Regional Rapid Transit System have completed their respective self-audit process. “Since the two are linear projects and not concentrated at one site, they were not required to install CCTVs. In phase 2 of the inspection, we will conduct physical checks at the sites which have completed self-audit and also installed the CCTVs,” Sharma said. The developers’ body, on the other hand, said that most of their members have complied with the directions. “Most of our members have taken keen interest and complied with the directions given by UPPCB. Some may not have installed the CCTV since it is for the first time such directions have been issued. But such members have already initiated the process of procuring the CCTVs,” said Gaurav Gupta, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) - Ghaziabad. “Further, our members have also initiated additional measures like green paving of areas near the project. We are proactively taking pollution abatement measures,” he added. Under the UPPCB’s direction for self-audit, the firms taking up construction were required to fill up details related to environmental clearance; status of usage of treated water for dust emission; status of consent to operate for ready mix and hot mix plants; status of dust suppression measures; status of PUC certificates for vehicles used for transportation of material; maintaining adequate stack height for diesel generator (DG) sets and ensuring collection, segregation and disposal of construction and debris waste. The Ghaziabad district is on the list of 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh with high levels of pollution. In 2019, the city topped the list of all cities across the country having high levels of air pollution on several occasions. “We have also identified about 70 industrial units in Ghaziabad which are using wood and coal as fuel. They have been given deadline of October 15 to install CCTV cameras facing their chimneys and give control of the cameras to the UPPCB for real-time monitoring. If they fail to meet the deadline, they will also face penalties,” Sharma added. According to UPPCB records, the city in 2019 had 31 days when the air quality index (AQI) spiked to ‘severe’ category. For another 67 days in 2019, the AQI was recorded under the ‘poor’ category. The officials have warned that the construction sites which fail to comply with air pollution norms after the Graded Response Action Plan is implemented on October 15, are likely to face more stringent penalty which ranges from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore, based on different categories of pollution levels. A similar penalty will be recommended against the erring instances in case of industrial emission, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-13-construction-sites-with-no-cctvs-and-self-audit-likely-to-face-penalty-as-uppcb-deadline-ends/story-sEy6nMnk4v8oMJ2JiJY8cN.html
10-10-2020||Noida||Agency hired to remove 150,000 tonnes of legacy waste dumped at Indirapuram landfill||Two years after Indirapuram residents moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a bid to stop the dumping of solid waste at the landfill site at Shakti Khand, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation has hired an agency to deal with the dumped waste, estimated to be about 150,000 tonnes.The Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) will fund the project that is estimated to cost nearly ₹4 crore“The agency which will start with use bio-remediation technique to process the waste at the site. The GDA has agreed to fund the project and the funds it will be deposited in an escrow account. We expect that the work will begin by October end. Under the project, the waste will be turned to manure,” said MS Tanwar, municipal-commissioner. The process is expected to be completed by April, 2021, he added.Bio-remediation is a process to clean a polluted site and makes use of either naturally occurring or deliberately introduced micro-organisms to consume and break down environmental pollutants.The petition with the NGT was filed by Confederation of trans-Hindon RWAs. It claimed that the site was not complying with the Solid Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2016. Futher, burning of garbage here was aggravating poor air quality in the region, it said.. The tribunal had issued directions to the municipal corporation and GDA to ensure that the waste dump site at Indirapuram. During the further course of hearings, the latest on September 2, the tribunal took a strong view of the slow pace of action. “Let meaningful steps be now taken by the statutory authorities expeditiously and compliance report filed by e-mail, failing which there will be no other option except to take action personally against the senior officers on further failure,” the tribunal said. The UP pollution control board (UPPCB) had stated that solid waste had reached height between five to 15 feet at different places. The report had also stated that the dump site was not a scientific landfill and continued dumping may percolate the generated leachate to ground water. The GDA says that had managed to control the dumping of waste at the site.“Dumping at the site has stopped. The GDA will transfer funds for the bio-remediation project to an escrow account. Since corporation is a maintenance agency and can deal better with solid waste, we have decided that they take up the bio-remediation project. The corporation has selected an agency and we have decided to provide funds,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of GDA. The regional officials of the UPPCB officials said that they will be monitoring the progress. “We will continue to contest the case till the waste is cleared. It is a source of unhygienic conditions and causes health issues for residents besides aiding air pollution if there is fire,” said Mohan Sangwan, general secretary of the federation which filed the petition.In other case, with regard to 10 drains, the NGT had ordered a similar bioremediation process under the municipal corporation“We have engaged the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to prepare detailed project report for 10 drains which are directly getting discharged, untreated, into river Hindon,” said Tanwar. The 10 drains were identified as Karhera drain, Hindon Vihar drain, Kaila Bhatta drain, Arthala drain, Sarvodaya Nagar drain, Rahul Vihar drain, Indirapuram drain, Dasna drain, Nandgram Petrol Pump drain and drain at main gate of City Forest area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/agency-hired-to-remove-150-000-tonnes-of-legacy-waste-dumped-at-indirapuram-landfill/story-GSxprdjxOmBucvZEugVEtL.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to construct ‘charkha-shaped’ bridge on Mumbai-Nagpur corridor as tribute to Mahatma Gandhi||As a grand tribute to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, the Maharashtra government has decided to construct a bridge designed in the form of a ‘charkha’ on the 701-km Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Mahamarg (prosperity corridor), the state’s most ambitious project. The charkha (spinning wheel) had become a symbol of self-reliance during the independence movement.According to officials, the detailed designing of the bridge is completed and the construction work will also resume soon. Being built on a river, the 315-metre bridge will be the entry point to Wardha district — well-known for the Sevagram Ashram — from where the Mahatma led the nation for 12 years until Independence. Gandhi had initiated the Swadeshi movement by taking up the charkha and encouraging fellow citizens to weave their own clothes instead of buying foreign goods.The bridge will have three wheels as a part of its design. The two bigger rings will be 40 metres in diameter, while the smaller one will be 16-metres in diameter. The iconic six-lane bridge, with two service lanes, will also be crossing over the Wardha river.Deep Dey, director of DesignFakt India Pvt Ltd, has designed the bridge. “We picked themes that further India’s vision as a growing superpower. The charkha represents the ‘Make in India’ concept and is also a symbolic identity of Wardha,” he said.The entire 701-km expressway is expected to be functional by May 1, 2022. The ₹55,000-crore expressway will connect 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages between the Mumbai and Nagpur.Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) — the project’s executing body — said, “Apart from being one the most challenging projects, the Samruddhi corridor is also one the most aesthetically-designed projects.”Of the 33 major bridges that are being built along the corridor, five each at Wardha, Buldhana, Nashik, Thane and Nagpur will have iconic designs.However, apart from Wardha, the designs for four other bridges are still under consideration.Among the designs under consideration for the bridge in Buldhana will be the one showcasing a bird representing women empowerment. Nashik, which is known for its rich history, will have a bridge with hands showcasing ‘tarpana’, a Hindu practice of making offerings to God, and in Nagpur, the bridge is likely to be in the form of a tiger to promote the ‘Save the Tiger’ movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-construct-charkha-shaped-bridge-on-mumbai-nagpur-corridor-as-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi/story-k9haDnjvD4iFJegtPGocBO.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||AAP accuses MCDs of running licence-Raj, BJP says allegations baseless||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) of running “license-Raj”, accusing the civic bodies of continue to issue health trade licenses to restaurant owners despite being asked by the central government to stop doing so. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “The BJP-ruled MCDs do not want to abolish the permit raj, so it wants to continue giving health trade licenses to restaurant owners. The Delhi CM had instructed the MCDs that no such licence will be needed any more but the BJP-ruled MCDs are opposing this direction.”Bhardwaj’s statement came in reaction to a letter purportedly sent by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), a statutory body under the Union health ministry, to the commissioner of the three MCDs. The letter said: “It is informed that with the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006, … and Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration) Rules 2011, the sole authority for issuance of license/registration of food business operators in India vests with the registering authorities/ central or state licensing authorities duly appointed under the provisions of the said Act by the respective commissioner of food safety.” “In view of above legal position, it is requested to immediately look into the matter and ensure that no separate/additional food licenses are issued by your offices and any food business operator who is doing business under your jurisdiction or is planning to start new food business may be directed to obtain the same from FSSAI,” said the letter cited by Bhardwaj.  Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The FSSAI order is being examined by MCDs and very soon the mayors will speak about it as giving health licence involves several issues like hygiene in premises, seating limits and washroom facilities. It is not just limited to food quality, which is the prime concern of FSSAI. AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj’s accusations on MCDs not allowing ease of business are politically biased.” South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh, however, countering the AAP’s allegations said that the latter is playing politics over the issue. “Health licence is crucial to ensure hygiene standards of the premises and safety of visitors. Besides, the whole process of granting licences was online and transparent. Also, the public health department ensures if the establishment is structurally safe or not,” she said. The mayor added that by way of giving licences, it is also ensured that the premises has potable water supply, provision for safe disposal of solid waste, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-accuses-mcds-of-running-licence-raj-bjp-says-allegations-baseless/story-CqydqCwCjNa8vWS2Ch38kO.html
10-10-2020||Noida||Covid-19 impact: 100 industrial units withdraw power connections in Noida||NOIDA: As many as 100 industrial units in Gautam Budh Nagar, affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, withdrew their power connections since April this year, while 150 have opted for reduced power loads, the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), the power distribution company of the district, confirmed. According to Virendra Nath Singh, the chief engineer of the PVVNL (Noida division), the 100 industrial units who pulled the plug on their connections have voluntarily done so after clearing their outstanding dues.“Besides, 150 other units have reduced their power load after getting approval from us and applications of many others in this regard have come through. Industrial units, which have permanently disconnected their electric lines, have also mentioned in their applications that they will not kick off production again,” he said.Singh added that out of the 11,010 factories falling under the domain of PVVNL until now, a total of 2,810 units have been closed their electric supply permanently so far.“The prognosis is really alarming. While 340 big industrial units, of altogether 2,497 units, have got their permanent disconnection, another 2,470 of 8,513 medium and small units have opted for permanent power disconnection. Usually, on an average, permanent disconnection is opted for by nearly only 350 industrial units every year,” he said. Sunil Tandon, who ran an automobile factory in Sector 6, said he had no other option than to close operations as the cost of raw material has gone much higher and the orders have become limited, due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Despite Noida having been declared a ‘no power cut zone’ by the state government, the city sees no respite from regular power tripping. And, since the Environmental Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority has ordered for a ban on diesel generator sets in the National Capital Region, we have no option left other than to pull our shutters down,” he said. Surendra Nahata, the president of MSME association (Noida chapter), also said that frequent power cuts have become a routine affair in Noida. “It is impossible to run factories if diesel gensets are banned. The industries in Gautam Budh Nagar district are on the receiving end. Even if we pay the fixed charges for electricity, we have to face at least three hours’ power cut every day during working hours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-impact-100-industrial-units-withdraw-power-connections-in-noida/story-YHLJQUQgB1jhtFr7TbSWCP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Republic TV’s CFO doesn’t appear in fake TRP case; police summon CEO, 2 others||The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Saturday issued summons to Republic TV’s chief executive officer (CEO) and two Chief Operating Officers (COO) for questioning in the fake TRP racket case, an official said.Earlier in the day, Republic TV’s chief finance officer Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram and another official Ghanshyam Singh chose to not appear before the probe team saying that the news channel has approached to Supreme Court.CEO Vikas Khanchandani and COOs Priya Mukharjee and Hersh Bhandari have been now asked to remain present before the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch on Sunday, a senior police officer told PTI.Two officials of Republic Media Network (Sundaram and Singh) did not comply with the summons, citing a petition filed in the Supreme Court, but there has been no order from the apex court not to investigate the case, the latest summons said.Since these two persons also mentioned in their reply that the company had advised them not to appear before police, “it is necessary to record your statement in this regard”, the summons to the CEO and two others said.While CFO Sundaram did not appear, the police recorded the statement of Madison World and Madison Communications chairman Sam Balsara on Saturday, an official said.Balsara was at the crime branch office for more than eight hours, he said, adding that statements of accountants of Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi TV were also recorded. Sundaram, in his reply to the summons issued to him on Friday, claimed that a hearing before the apex court is scheduled within a week. The CIU of the crime branch is investigating a fake Television Rating Points (TRP) racket. On Thursday, the police had arrested four persons including owners of Marathi channels Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema in the case.Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that three channels including Republic TV manipulated the TRP.The racket came to light when the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), an organization which measures TRP, filed a complaint in this regard through Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/republic-tv-s-cfo-doesn-t-appear-in-fake-trp-case-police-summon-ceo-2-others/story-uOroNdadyKwOG41fzbNtrJ.html
10-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Flat sales begin to pick up as Covid-19 restrictions relaxed||NOIDA: After witnessing a severe slump from April to June due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, the real estate sector is slowly reviving as the sale of flats has increased in last three months in the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida after restrictions were eased, according to property consultants and government officials.In Noida alone, flat sales increased from 265 units in the preceding quarter (April, May and June) to 670 units in third quarter (July, August and September) of the calendar year 2020, said a survey of Anarock , a property consultant. Greater Noida saw housing sales rise to 1,610 units in Q3 (July, August and September) from 630 units in the preceding quarter, the survey said. According to Anarock’s research, national capital region cities such as Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad saw a sales of nearly 5,200 units in Q3, an increase of 148% compared to the preceding quarter (Q2 - May, June and July). Compared to the pre-Covid-19 quarter of Q1 2020 (January, February, March), housing sales in NCR have rebounded by nearly 65% in the third quarter.Individually, Gurgaon saw a nearly three-fold jump in housing sales -- from 570 units in Q2 2020 to nearly 1,680 units in Q3 2020.“The massive jump in housing sales signals positive trends for the upcoming festive quarter (October-December) where we expect home sales to rise further. Despite the ongoing pandemic, we are seeing genuine homebuyers make the most of the low home loan rates and the innovative schemes offered by developers, including financial benefits, flexible payment plans, etc,” said Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants.Real estate experts and officials of the registry department feel that many homebuyers, who could not buy a property or failed to execute their property registry due to Covid since March this year to transfer property title to their name, are now rushing to do the same. According to Anarock survey’s in April 2020, NCR comes third nationwide with nearly 15,600 unsold ready homes worth R10,720 crore. This accounts for just 9% of the total unsold inventory of 1.73 lakh units in the region. Experts feel that coming festive season will help the sector to see a revival to some extent.“We are already seeing signs of a revival with sales in the mid-market segment picking up across all metro cities. Pent-up demand of the last six months, reduction in interest rates of home loans, availability of completed units and the ‘work-from-home’ imperative are all expected to contribute to a strong recovery in the second half of 2020,” said Gaurav Kumar, Managing Director, Capital markets and residential business, CBRE India.Meanwhile, the Gautam Budh Nagar stamp and registration department, which carries out property registration, transferring property from a seller’s name to buyer’s name, is also flooded with property buyers wanting to make sale or purchase now.In April, when the Covid-19 restrictions came into effect, no property registry took place, and the state government did not get any revenue out of property sales. The UP government then restarted registry with some restrictions from May 4 and in the same month, it earned a revenue of Rs10 crore. In June, it earned Rs 60 crore, Rs100 crore in July and in August, the revenue rose to Rs110 crore.“From September 1 to October 9, the revenue rose to Rs426 crore. We hope it will further increase manifold in the upcoming festive season from October 17 to 25, when property buyers’ sentiment is at all-time high in the year,” said AK Tripathi assistant inspector general (AIG), stamp and registration department, Gautam Budh Nagar.Small property consultants have also started feeling positivity as the market has started to open up.“As people do not have that much fear as it was initially when the Covid-19 pandemic just broke out, those who want to purchase property, be it flat or plot, are coming to us to inquire or visiting the sites. We are witnessing a positivity among customers unlike earlier, when the market was completely shut due to Covid-19. We are now getting 5-6 customers daily who want to explore options for buying,” said RD Singh, head of Geeta properties, a small property consultant.“We are looking for a flat in Noida during this time because we realised that due to Covid-19, we may get a better deal as compared to pre-Covid situation. Many developers, we heard, are offering flats at lower rates,” said Amit Kumar Chauhan, a prospective buyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-flat-sales-begin-to-pick-up-as-covid-19-restrictions-relaxed/story-4fvnLSmIYd4wQttxInA7tI.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Parents in Mumbai participate in Thali Bajao protest against private schools charging exorbitant fees||Parents from various parts of the country protested against private schools for charging unjust fees from them, during the Covid-19 pandemic. The ‘Thali Bajao’ protest was organised by a city-based NGO Forum for Fairness in Education (FFE) and saw the participation of parents from various parts of the country like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Chennai, Ghaziabad, Delhi and Gujarat. As part of the protest, parents and children of private schools banged plates from their homes between 7am to 7.05am on Saturday. “Through this protest, we hope that the state and the central government wake up and act against private schools which are not just charging hefty fees during these difficult times, but are also threatening to remove students if their parents protest the fee hikes. We demand that such parents get relief soon,” said Jayant Jain, president, FFE.“Our school has not given any concession in fees even as online education continues for the last six months. On top of that, they have increased the overall fees and when we protested, we were not given any answers,” said the parent of a school in south Mumbai. Parents of several schools in Mumbai had written to the state education department complaining against the indiscriminate fee hikes levied by schools. In September, the department also formed two panels and are now in the process of inspecting these schools. “We are in the process of checking the documents of these schools and if inadequacies are found, action will be taken against the said school,” said an official from the education department. A government resolution released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay High Court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-in-mumbai-participate-in-thali-bajao-protest-against-private-schools-charging-exorbitant-fees/story-M3SLw7GuruierCJ653Qz8L.html
10-10-2020||City||Pandemic has put spotlight on need of mental healthcare: Experts||The Covid-19 pandemic has put a spotlight on mental healthcare as the issue took the centre stage in the past seven months. Covid-induced crisis is taking a toll on the health of people, said psychiatrists on the World Mental Health Day observed globally on Saturday. The day is celebrated on October 10 every year to increase involvement in the matters of mental health, encourage global mental health education and advocate against the social stigma that is often associated with it. This year, to shed light on the alarming rise in mental disorders, the international awareness day will be focusing on ‘Mental Health for All’ and an increased investment in mental health.Experts have highlighted how the past seven months have challenged everyone’s mental well-being, especially healthcare workers who are performing in unprecedented circumstances; students, who are trying to adapt to a new routine with a little contact with teachers and friends, and are anxious about their future; and people already suffering from mental illnesses. The levels of anxiety, fear, isolation and emotional distress have also increased, mental health specialists said. Professor and head of psychiatry department at Ludhiana’s Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) Dr Ranjive Mahajan said, “The number of patients with mental health issues has increased by almost 70% during the pandemic due to rising fears and uncertainty.” The government needs to focus on mental health as presently, only 0.05% of the investment in the national health policy is being directed towards this sector, he added. “Mental healthcare is a human right and should be available to all. All people must have access to quality mental health services, whenever and wherever they need, without any financial distress,” says Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, professor, DMCH’s department of psychiatry. “Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of mental illness is as important as any other ailment. A considerable portion should be invested in the provision of affordable mental healthcare services in the community,” he added. Dr Pallavi from Christian Medical College and Hospital said the anxiety, apprehensions, unemployment, social distancing, lack of physical contact with other family members, increasing rate of suicide, drug abuse and depression have become widespread as the world struggles to bring the coronavirus under control. “It is expected that the need for mental health and psychological support will substantially increase in the days to come. Investment in mental health programmes on national and international levels is more urgent now than it has ever been,” she added. A national mental health survey in 2018 had placed the lifetime prevalence rate of mental morbidity at 17.94% and current psychiatric morbidity around 14.42% in Punjab. Mental health is the need of the hour, reiterated Dr Pallavi. Week-long activities at DMCHThe department of psychiatry at DMCH observed ‘World Mental Health Week’ which ended on Saturday. Online yoga sessions and awareness sessions were organised for the healthcare workers of DMCH, Hero DMC Heart Institute (HDHI) and DMCH Cancer Care Centre for their mental well-being.Secretary of DMCH Managing Society, Prem Kumar Gupta, lauded the efforts of the departments of yoga and psychiatry for organising these awareness sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pandemic-has-put-spotlight-on-need-of-mental-healthcare-experts/story-wtWeLE3oDFnUBlC5rzCCBI.html
10-10-2020||City||Chandigarh-Kharar highway project: NHAI to open second stretch of flyover by November 15||With 85% work completed on the much-delayed Chandigarh-Kharar road expansion work, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) says the whole stretch will be opened to the public by end of this year. The project, which entails widening of the road between Balongi and Kharar T-point including construction of two flyovers and three minor bridges, has been hanging fire for the past five years. The total length of the flyovers (divided into three parts) is around 10km.After opening 1-km stretch of the flyover starting from Balongi (called the Balongi flyover) for vehicular traffic recently, now the NHAI will be opening the next stretch over the Kharar bus stand towards Ludhiana by November 15.The ₹368-crore project being executed by Larsen & Toubro was initiated in November 2015 and has missed six deadlines, after initially poised to be completed in three years by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and mostly recently workforce issues amid the pandemic were the main reasons for the delay.The national highway where the flyover is coming up connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck. About 50,000 vehicles were crossing the stretch on an average before the lockdown. Kharar subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain, who is supervising the project, said the work is going on in full swing and around 85% has been completed. “The other stretch over the Kharar bus stand will be opened by November 15,” he said, while adding that the work picked up pace amid as vehicular traffic got reduced under the flyover during the lockdown.Meanwhile, a senior NHAI official, who did not wish to be named, said the work on stretches near Desumajra and Sunny Enclave in Kharar will also be completed as soon as the work on the Khanpur bridge is over.Villagers block road, demand direct accessResidents of Daun and 25 nearby villages on Saturday blocked both sides of the highway, bringing the work on the elevated road from Balongi to Kharar as well as traffic to a halt. They demanded direct access to the road.Daun sarpanch Ajmer Singh said the village has historical importance, and on every Sunday, a lot of people visit it to pay obeisance at the local gurdwara. “We have not been given a direct access to the elevated road and are forced to travel extra and take a U-turn, causing a lot of inconvenience as well as traffic jams,” he said. The protest that started around 11am lasted for about an hour, and was lifted after the intervention of SDM Himanshu Jain, who assured the residents that he would take up the matter with NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-kharar-highway-project-nhai-to-open-second-stretch-of-flyover-by-november-15/story-ENrL9doX7aTzkSEeBpgUrO.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid count goes past 13,000||The number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh crossed the 13,000 mark on Saturday as 96 more people tested positive. The recent 1,000 cases have been added in 10 days, which is the slowest since August. In September, thrice it took just three days to add 1,000 fresh infections to the tally. The total stands at 13,081, of which 1,229 cases remain active. Meanwhile, two men died, taking the toll to 190. Aged 51 and 65, they belonged to Khuda Ali Sher and Sector 47, respectively. With 157 people being discharged, the number of recoveries reached 11,662.No casualty in Mohali, PanchkulaThe neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula districts recorded no casualty on Saturday.While 90 fresh cases surfaced in Mohali district, including 52 from the main city, 64 people tested positive in Panchkula district, including 40 from the city.Mohali also reported 120 recoveries, taking the total to 10,066. While 11,318 people have tested positive in the district so far, 207 have died and 1,045 remain infected.In Panchkula, a CRPF personnel was among those tested positive. The total has reached 6,556, of which 6,017 patients have recovered and 100 have died, leaving 439 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-count-goes-past-13-000/story-oZQbHpTR3lMfpItlsp2GVO.html
10-10-2020||City||DPCC fines Ficci Rs 20 lakh for violation of dust-control norms||New Delhi: The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Saturday fined the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Rs 20 lakh for alleged violation of dust-control norms at its construction site at Tansen Marg. The FICCI administration has been asked to deposit the environmental compensation of Rs 20 lakh within 15 days, a notice issued by DPCC said. “Non-complaince of the above directions will attract penal action as per the Air Act, 1981,” the notice dated October 10 said. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had on Friday inspected the site and found that work was on and no dust-control norms were in place despite previous directions (given on August 14) to FICCI not to restart demolition activities without installing an anti-smog gun. Ficci is demolishing its old building that was ravaged in a fire in April, 2016. The building housed the National Museum of Natural History, which was also gutted in the blaze.“Anti-smog gun, which is mandatory at large-scale projects, has not been installed. All demolished material and debris lay uncovered without sheets. Unpaved surfaces and areas with loose soil have not been sprinkled with water to suppress dust. The site is not fitted with a water-spraying nozzle system. Workers have not been provided with masks to prevent inhalation of dust,” the notice stated. HT contacted Anurag Mankhand, deputy director(media), FICCI, for a response to DPCC’s notice but despite many calls and messages he was not available for a comment. Air quality poorMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ zone on Saturday for the fourth consecutive day. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 4 pm bulletin, the average air quality index (AQI) was 221, as against 202, the previous day. Government agencies said the air quality may improve to moderate on Sunday, with a likely shift in wind direction. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, said PM 2.5 was the lead pollutant. “AQI is set to improve to moderate on October 11-12. The low pressure system formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify and influence the circulations in north and central India. A shift in Delhi surface wind direction, from northwesterly to southeasterly by October 12, is predicted. This could influence air quality positively in the coming week. Stubble burning fires have been observed around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions,” the SAFAR bulletin stated. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), wind direction is likely to change from October 11 to southeasterly, which may help improve air quality over the next two days. “During the period when the winds are transitioning, there could be deterioration in air quality. However, once the winds have settled, it may help improve air quality to ‘moderate’ zone,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dpcc-fines-ficci-rs-20-lakh-for-violation-of-dust-control-norms/story-anyBihoHfEXeVP36dxTNsJ.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway to increase 100 more locals for essential workers in Mumbai||The Western Railway is planning to increase its local train services that are being operated for people working in essential services. Over 100 local trains will be increased in the coming week.“We are inspecting and looking on introducing new local trains for employees working in essential services,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.Presently the Western Railway operates nearly 506 train services every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-to-increase-100-more-locals-for-essential-workers-in-mumbai/story-yUbZoA9IvW0sEJ9GzbzfWM.html
10-10-2020||City||Road rage: Man shot dead in Punjab’s Zirakpur||A 35-year-old man was shot dead after he intervened in a road rage incident involving his friends and another group of revellers on Zirakpur’s VIP Road in wee hours of Saturday. The victim has been identified as Anil Thakur, who belonged to Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh, and was residing with his family at Daun village in Kharar. He provided elevator repair services, and is survived by his wife and 10-month-old son, said police. Police have registered a case of murder against seven people, including Happy Brar, who is a businessman from Faridkot in Punjab, and a woman. Brar was the one who opened fire from his .12 bore pistol, said police, adding that three shots were fired, two of which hit Thakur in his chest and abdomen and one hit his vehicle’s tyre. “All the accused have been identified and raids are on to arrest them,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police, Mohali. No arrest has been made so far, but sources said shells of three bullets have been recovered from the spot besides a red Maruti Swift car. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Zirakpur police station.Brawl over denying passage to SUV Thakur had gone to his hometown a week back and returned on Friday. In the evening, he went to attend his friend Vinay’s birthday party at a discotheque in Sector 26.Later, a dozen of them drove to a roadside eatery on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway in Zirakpur and had dinner. Anil then left for his house in his Honda Accent while Vinay and others, including Arman and Aman, left in a Toyota Fortuner to drop a friend on VIP Road in Zirakpur. As Vinay reached the Domino’s outlet on VIP Road, he tried to overtake another Fortuner, but was allegedly denied passage. As he finally managed to overtake, he and his friends allegedly hurled abuses at the occupants of the other SUV, being driven by Happy Brar. There were two more men and a woman sitting in the SUV.Brar allegedly chased, overtook and intercepted Vinay’s SUV, and brandishing a pistol, he pulled out Arman. Meanwhile, a few more men known to Brar reached the spot in a red Maruti Swift. The group then allegedly hurled stones at Vinay’s Fortuner and damaged it. Meanwhile, Aman called Thakur and told him about the brawl. He immediately returned to the spot, only to be shot at. On being rushed to hospital in Dera Bassi, he was declared brought dead ‘Accused shouted out his name before firing’ Vinay in his statement to police said that before opening fire, the accused shouted out his own name. “You should have checked my background before getting involved with me. I am Happy Brar from Faridkot,” he is alleged to have said. Police said Brar claims to be associated with a political party on his social media profiles. Initial investigations revealed that he is already named as an accused in a number of cases.Till about two years ago, he used to operate a discotheque in Zirakpur, said an investigating official, and at present operates a discotheque in Sector 26, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-rage-man-shot-dead-in-punjab-s-zirakpur/story-ywvIGgqu2UJTXuGsmpNTuN.html
10-10-2020||City||80,000 establishments in Ludhiana’s Aggar Nagar to get smart meters||Aggar Nagar division will be the first in the district to get smart meters so that power thefts can be checked. Under the project, over 80,000 commercial and non-commercial establishments will be covered.Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has already floated tenders for the advanced metering systems. The smart meters will have automatic sensors and in case of a tampering attempt, a complaint will be set to the control room. A camera will be installed within the meters which will capture the image of the person who tried to open them. They will record information including electricity consumption, voltage levels, current, and power factor. Parminder Singh, executive engineer, Aggar Nagar division, said, “The smart meters will be installed in over 80,000 domestic and commercial establishments. Tenders have been floated by the metering department and we expect the installations to be done in the next three to four months.”The smart meters will be installed at a height to keep them out of reach of those who pilfer electricity. In the last three months, the department conducted raids in different parts of the district and over 700 consumers were found violating power norms. Fines were imposed and FIRs were lodged against them.After installation of smart meters, the staff will not have to collect the electricity bill reading manually as required in the conventional meters installed currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-000-establishments-in-ludhiana-s-aggar-nagar-to-get-smart-meters/story-4Y12M7nXR4S9Hav4KYRCfO.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman loses ₹2 crore in a cyber fraud||A 51-year-old Khar-based businessman filed a first information report (FIR) at BKC cyber police against an unknown person after someone illegally transferred ₹2 crore from his company’s bank account. According to police, the complainant Kamal Makhija is an authorised dealer of Hindustan Petroleum who distributes oil to oil factories, petrochemical plants and traders. On October 5, while making a payment, he noticed that ₹2 crore is missing from his account. He then visited his bank and found that the money was transferred to different bank accounts through 31 illegal transactions, said an officer. Makhija then approached cyber police and filed a written complaint. An officer from cyber police station said, “We have registered the offence under section 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 66 (computer-related offences.), 66 (c) (punishment for identity theft), 66 (D) (punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource], and 43 (A) (compensation for failure to protect data) of Information Technology Act.” “As soon as we registered the case, we managed to save ₹44 lakh. However, by that time the accused had withdrawn remaining cash from different ATM centres and some money was transferred to other accounts. We are investigating the case,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (cyber).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-businessman-loses-2-crore-in-a-cyber-fraud/story-oNu7MM2N0P9YMS7uYPVutK.html
10-10-2020||City||Contempt notice to Cidco for failure to hand over mangrove land to Maharashtra forest department||Environmentalists have issued a contempt notice to planning agency City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco) for failure to hand over mangrove land under its jurisdiction to the Maharashtra forest department. A similar notice was also issued to the state urban development and environment departments to look into why Cidco has failed to hand over the mangrove land.The notice issued to six top Cidco officials, including the vice-chairman and managing director, joint directors and the law officer directs the planning agency to assess the extent of mangrove area and hand it over to the state within seven days or non-compliance would entail civil and criminal contempt proceedings against Cidco under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.Petitioners before the Bombay high court (HC) in various matters pertaining to mangrove and wetland conservation, environment group Vanashakti, issued the legal notice on Friday.“Despite the state mangrove cell repeatedly writing to Cidco to handover mangroves to the forest department, the agency has remained silent on many occasions and this conduct is nothing short of holding themselves above the law. Such high-handedness will be brought up before courts if Cidco again chooses to remain tight-lipped,” said Zaman Ali, counsel for Vanashakti and advocate, HC.The notice cited orders passed by the HC on October 6, 2005, that mangrove areas on government-owned lands, including those belonging to state agencies such as Cidco, needed to be handed over to the forest department within a period of 12 weeks from the declaration of the same as protected forests. HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018.“Years of non-compliance of orders of the HC cannot be condoned,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, and member of a HC appointment committee on preservation of mangroves.He added that non-cooperation from bodies like Cidco was primarily responsible for the delay. “We have time and again reminded the forest department to take custody of mangrove areas but they have not been able to do so due to the non-cooperation from urban development bodies like Cidco. Even the HC-appointed committee had directed almost a year ago to comply with the HC orders. Now we have no option but to seek judicial intervention which we will do.”The notice further alleged that Cidco, appointed as the special planning authority for the Navi Mumbai new town project, had omitted land occupied by mangroves near villages of Kunde, Wahal, and Dapoli in Raigad district in its final development plan (DP).“We have asked Cidco to initiate steps to modify and amend the DP precisely demarcating all mangrove forest lands and follow-up with the transfer of said areas to the forest department,” said Stalin.Priya Ratmabe, public relations officer, Cidco said, “The entire matter is under examination by Cidco. It is being studied by different departments, and we can comment on the matter after due consideration.”Another Cidco official requesting anonymity said, “There has been no study so far to examine the exact mangrove area within our jurisdiction, and neither has there been any decision to undertake such a study yet. However, some mangrove areas have been marked in certain DPs as green zones.”Maharashtra has 15,312.6 hectare (ha) mangroves on government land, declared as reserved forests. However, 13,716.7 ha land has been handed over to the forest department by seven Konkan districts, and the majority of the 1,592.8 ha of remaining mangroves land remains with Raigad district (1,195 ha).In addition to this, approximately 2,000-ha land held by planning authorities such as Mumbai metropolitan regional development authority (MMRDA), Cidco, Maharashtra industrial development corporation (MIDC), Maharashtra housing and area development authority (Mhada), and various municipal corporations have neither been measured nor handed over.On September 18, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had directed all Konkan district collectors and state agencies to transfer mangrove areas under their jurisdiction to the forest department for declaration as reserved forest within two months. So far, the Maharashtra tourism development corporation (MTDC) is the only state agency which will be handing over 500-acre of mangrove area across the Manori-Gorai belt within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contempt-notice-to-cidco-for-failure-to-hand-over-mangrove-land-to-maharashtra-forest-department/story-UBV7qqs6PLuOEf4e6CyfLP.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 1,772 fresh cases, 46 deaths||Pune district reported 1,772 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 46 deaths on Saturday, according to the state health department.As of Saturday, Pune district has a total of 3,14,118 positive cases of which 2,61,316 patients have recovered from the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection and 46,583 are active cases.The death toll in the district now stands at 6,218.Pune Municipal Corporation reported 724 fresh cases and 16 deaths on Saturday, while Pune rural reported 634 fresh cases and 22 deaths.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 414 fresh positive cases and eight virus-related deaths. According to civic officials from the past few days, the new positive cases in rural and PMC area are almost the same, but the cases from PCMC are showing a declining trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-1-772-fresh-cases-46-deaths/story-48LalrdhYVu9KVMBoUUISM.html
10-10-2020||City||Woman stabs stray dog in Nallasopara near Mumbai, booked||Tulinj police on Monday booked a woman for allegedly stabbing a stray dog which was roaming in her Shirdi Nagar area, Nallasopara (East). The accused Taslim Ansari, 30, was furious as whenever she passed by the area the stray would bark at her. In a fit of rage, she stabbed the stray with a knife. Ansari is absconding. The locals applied turmeric on the injuries and informed Nilesh Bombhani, an animal activist who runs the Sadhbhavna Seva Sanstha Trust in Nallsopara. Bombhani rushed the dog to the Dalwi Animal Hospital. The dog is responding to treatment and it would take at least a week for him to be discharged as he has suffered deep internal injuries and gashes on its stomach, said a vet.The Tulinj police have registered a case under section 429 (injuring animal) of the Indian Penal Code and Animal Cruelty Act, 1960 against Ansari who is yet to be arrested said police. We will issue a notice to her and order her to be present before the Vasai court once the charge sheet is filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-stabs-stray-dog-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai-booked/story-OQe9RXZxG4zBxQ5ouBPItM.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Not easily spotted: Yellow-footed buttonquail rescued from Sahar area in Mumbai||The elusive yellow-footed buttonquail, a ground-dwelling bird, was rescued from Sahar area in Andheri on Friday by an animal rescue group. The bird is protected under schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Members of Aasha The Hope for Animals Welfare Trust rescued the bird from near Sahar police station after receiving a distress call from resident Chandrakant Shinde. “We were told the bird fell from a tree or some height and dislocated its right wing. We informed the Mumbai forest department about the rescue,” said Naveen Solanki from the animal welfare group. “Since this bird is elusive and is not familiar with a human touch, it will need some time to get adjusted to our presence following which we will take it to the veterinary doctor for a detailed health examination.”Solanki added the bird was approximately 4-5 inches in length. “The forest department has been informed about the rescue,” he said. According to experts, the bird is generally spotted across grasslands and buffer areas of forests. “It is not rare for Mumbai but it is spotted very less due to its ability to camouflage easily as it is ground-dwelling. However, it is very much present in and around Sanjay Gandhi National Park,” said Girish Jathar, assistant director (climate change and Himalaya program), Bombay Natural History Society. “An interesting fact about this bird is females are brightly coloured and can be distinguished from males as the latter have a rufous neck collar on the throat. At the same time, males incubate the egg of the bird and not the female as opposed to other birds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-easily-spotted-yellow-footed-buttonquail-rescued-from-sahar-area-in-mumbai/story-E7uvWGNwX3pVkd3UWQtC1K.html
10-10-2020||City||Left with 2 days’ coal, Punjab stares at severe power outages||Chandigarh The ongoing rail blockade has severely impacted coal supply for the thermal power plants in Punjab, officials said on Saturday, as fear of severe power outages rises in the state. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal appealed to the farmer outfits, which have been protesting against the three new contentious agriculture laws, to ease their agitation to allow movement of goods trains. “If (goods) train services do not resume, I fear there can be power cuts and maybe total power shutdown in the state,” Badal told reporters. With no movement of goods trains because of the ‘rail-roko’ agitation for an indefinite period, the coal supply in thermal power plants has reached a critical stage. “We are now left with two days of coal,” Punjab State Power Corporation Limited chairperson and managing director Venuprasad said. According to officials, Lehra Mohabbat, Ropar thermal and GVK thermal power plants are already shut. Two other power plants — Talwandi Sabo and Nabha — are running at half of their total power generation capacity. Some of the areas in the state have already been facing power cuts due to less electricity generation. The state is procuring 6,500MW of power from other sources, including private ones, as against the demand for more than 7,000MW. Different farmers’ bodies have been protesting against the new farm legislations. They had stepped up their agitation by resorting to rail blockades for an indefinite period from October 1. Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting on the rail tracks in Amritsar and Ferozepur since September 24. Meanwhile, several farmer organisations held a meeting in Barnala on Saturday to discuss chief minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal for relaxing their ‘rail-roko’ agitation. However, it concluded without any decision as representatives of some farmers’ bodies could not make it to the meeting. In their October 7 meeting, farmer leaders did not pay heed to Singh’s appeal for allowing goods trains. While appealing to farmers, the chief minister had said that the state government needed to urgently transport foodgrain, coal, fertiliser and petroleum on priority, besides lifting the paddy grain from the wholesale markets. He had also noted that the state’s coal stocks were critical and if not replenished soon, there would be severe power shortages, which would hamper the wheat sowing operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/left-with-2-days-coal-punjab-stares-at-severe-power-outages/story-uo8CbQpZHday5mMJHJGHHM.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||BEST to add new buses, plans common mobility card, passenger information system in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) administration has announced 2,462 new buses to be introduced by 31 March, 2022. The administration in its budget for 2021-2022 that was presented to the BEST committee on Saturday stated that it plans to increase and maintain the fleet of its buses to 6,337 by March 2022.National common mobility card as a pilot project for BEST buses along with passenger information system at 800 bus stops and terminals will also be introduced.The BEST administration showed a budget deficit of ₹1,887.83 crore of which ₹1624.24 crore is from its transport department and ₹263.59 crore from the electricity department.An outlay of ₹446.07 crore has been proposed as the expenditure for 2021-2022.Presently, the BEST has a fleet of 3,857 buses by October inclusive of 1,099 buses are on wet lease. Under the wet-lease model, BEST does not own the buses but get them from contractors for a fixed per kilometre rate.The administration will also procure 900 buses, of which 300 will be electric and 600 will be single-decker buses.The fleet of 3,337 buses that are owned by BEST will also be maintained by the organisation by procuring replacement of the buses that are scrapped and getting 3,000 buses on wet lease.“The buses that will be added to the fleet will be a mixture of buses procured by the administration and buses on wet lease. Finalisation of air-conditioned (AC), mini or midi buses will be done in the later stage,” said Surendrakumar Bagde, general manager, BEST.The organisation has also proposed implementation of the national common mobility card for its buses. The testing of the card and inspection of requirements is ongoing at Wadala and Colaba BEST bus depots. The testing began in October.“The initial testing and setting up of infrastructure for the implementation of the common mobility card has started. Only after discussions with other organisations including MMRDA, the implementation will begin,” said a senior BEST official.The passenger information system that will display the expected time of arrival of buses and information regarding the bus routes, will be placed at 800 locations in the city.The passenger information system is a part of the organisation’s Intelligent Transport Management System (ITMS) and will be installed on bus terminals and bus stops.“BEST has always been a neglected mode of transport for the longest time. It is welcoming to see that improvements are being done and long-term planning in being undertaken. New buses, passenger information system and common mobility card will help the organisation to grow, and the citizens as well. Every public transport in the world is bound to make losses. Just due to losses the improvements should not be stopped, the parent organisation Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) or the state government should compensate,” said transport expert, AV Shenoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-to-add-new-buses-plans-common-mobility-card-passenger-information-system-in-mumbai/story-K03cVW1YkSJfRmW4il1krI.html
10-10-2020||City||Two die after inhaling toxic fumes from septic tank in Delhi’s Badarpur||New Delhi: Two men died and another was hospitalised after inhaling poisonous fumes from a septic tank at a four-storey building at Molarband in south Delhi’s Badarpur neighbourhood on Saturday afternoon, police said. The dead persons included the owner of the building, Satish Chawla,60, and Devender (single name), a 40-year-old hired to clean the tank. The man who was hospitalised and survived was identified by his first name Manoj. He is a contractor whom Chawla had hired to clean the tank. Devender worked for Manoj, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said a case under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Badarpur police station. “The case has been registered against the building owner, who is among the two dead persons,” Meena said. DCP Meena said the police received a call at 4.45 pm, saying three persons had fallen into the septic tank of a building at F-block in Molarband. A team from the Badarpur police station reached there and found that one person, Manoj, has been rescued from the tank and admitted to a nearby hospital. “Rescue teams from the fire department arrived and two more persons – Devender and Satish Chawla – were taken out from the tank and rushed to a private hospital where they were declared brought dead,” the DCP said. During preliminary enquiry, Meena said, it was learnt that Chawla owned the building that has 18 rooms occupied by his tenants. The septic tank is in the basement of the building. Chawla lived in a nearby building and ran a grocery shop. Chawla wanted to get the septic tank cleaned and had given the contract to Manoj. “On Saturday afternoon, Manoj and Devender came to clean the tank. When Devender went inside the tank, he fell unconscious. Manoj went inside and fell unconscious. Chawla went in to save them but he too lost consciousness. Some locals managed to pull Manoj out and rushed him to a hospital,” the DCP said. Initial probe showed the persons entered the tank without any safety gear. “Prime facie, it appears they inhaled toxic fumes and collapsed in the tank,” a police officer associated with the probe said, requesting anonymity. In May last year, two labourers died and three others were hospitalised while cleaning a septic tank without safety gear at a under-construction building in outer Delhi’s Prem Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-die-after-inhaling-toxic-fumes-from-septic-tank-in-delhi-s-badarpur/story-cZZO5WqobWIHlBfkyGDtcJ.html
10-10-2020||City||Family of alleged peddler attacks police, four cops injured||New Delhi: Out to arrest an alleged drug peddler who was involved in three dozen other crimes, four policemen were injured when the relatives and neighbours of the suspect attacked them with bricks and chilli powder in a bid to rescue him in north Delhi’s Gulabi Bagh on Friday afternoon, the police said. The injured policemen, however, managed to hold on to the suspect, Rajeev, who too ended up with injuries in the rescue bid, said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north). Rajeev turned out not only to be involved in drug deals, he was also wanted for an armed robbery with a commuter in Karol Bagh in February earlier this year, the officer said. Police said that they were working on a tip-off that Rajeev could be found in his house in Andha Mughal neighbourhood of Gulabi Bagh. “When we reached the neighbourhood, we found him sitting on a cot outside his house. When we tried to catch him, he pulled out a pistol and fired at us,” said Alphonse. The bullet missed its mark and the police were able to overpower him before he could fire the next round, the officer said. “It was then that his relatives and neighbours began pelting bricks, stones and glasses at us. Some of them even threw chilli powder at the policemen, temporarily blinding them,” the DCP said. Two assistant sub-inspectors, a head constable and a constable were injured in the attack and their car was allegedly vandalised. But the injured policemen continued to hold on to Rajeev until reinforcement arrived. Police said they were working to identify the individuals involved in the attack on the policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-of-alleged-peddler-attacks-police-four-cops-injured/story-6KkZW7yJQZUUmsIJJGL1fM.html
10-10-2020||Bhopal||‘Women from Bangladesh trafficked, pushed into sex trade and drug peddling’: MP Police||More than 500 women from Bangladesh were brought to India illegally and forced into sex racket and drug peddling by racketeers in the past few years, the police claimed on Saturday, after the arrest of 20 people in the past fortnight. Most of the girls were taken to Mumbai and Gujarat where they were drugged and pushed into prostitution, the police said. “After the arrest of 20 people, including two agents from Surat, under section 370 (trafficking) of the Indian Penal Code and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the police found that some agents, who were working at the Indo-Bangladesh border, used to identify young women from underprivileged families in Bangladesh to bring them to India on the pretext of providing jobs. Later, they used to give the women to certain people in Mumbai and Surat who pushed them into prostitution and drug peddling,” said HN Mishra, deputy inspector general of police, Indore. He said these people used to drug the women and also used them to supply MDMA - a drug used for recreational purpose - to different people. Also read: Hathras gang rape case to be probed by CBI, Centre issues notification“In Indore, most women were brought from Mumbai and Surat by traffickers Sagar Jain and Dharmendra Jain who also used to supply drugs. They are absconding and the police are trying to nab them. The police arrested two agents Aruz Sayeed, 32, and Titu Gazi Bengali, 34, from Surat on Thursday. The police are interrogating them to know more about Babu Bhai whose name was taken by many girls. As of now, they informed that they brought more than 500 girls from Bangladesh to India,” said the DIG. As of now, Indore police freed 19 girls including 12 from Bangladesh. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate the matter. Vijay Nagar police station in-charge Tehzeeb Qazi, who is a member of the SIT, said, “On September 21, two girls from Mumbai lodged a complaint at Vijay Nagar police station that they were brought from Mumbai to Indore for a modelling event a month ago but they were held hostage in a flat and forced into sex racket. They, somehow, managed to flee from the flat but there are six more girls who are still trapped in the flat.” “The police raided the flat and rescued six girls and arrested five people from the flat including two women. During the interrogation, one of the accused informed the police about two other places where women were kept hostage for a long time. The police raided a guest house and a hotel and rescued 13 women and arrested 10 people,” said Qazi. “The women informed the police that a man known as Babu Bhai brought them to Mumbai from Bangladesh in the past few years on the pretext of providing job. He also gave Rs 75,000 to Rs 1 lakh to the family members of every woman. Later, they were forced into prostitution by some other people. The agents in Mumbai beat them up for opposing prostitution. As most of them are uneducated and brought illegally without a passport, they can’t go back to their homes in Bangladesh,” the officer said. “The women and the accused told the police that the women, especially those who used to oppose to work, were drugged many times. These girls were also used to supply MDMA drugs to customers on direction of Sagar Jain,” Qazi said. On Friday, the police arrested Sagar Jain’s driver with drugs. The police also arrested Deepak Vaishnav and Govardhan Purohit, residents of Indore, and have recovered fake Aadhaar cards of these women from them.Mishra said, “It is an organised racket mainly operating in metro cities and some cities of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. A large number of people are still on run. We are trying to identify them with Babu Bhai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/women-from-bangladesh-trafficked-pushed-into-sex-trade-and-drug-peddling-mp-police/story-m6jU5ACkEdhi7BrfnQK7VK.html
10-10-2020||City||Need to check restaurants serving unhygienic food||Hauling up restaurants that serve bad food has become a little easier for consumers.Even though the onus of proving that the restaurant served unsafe food is on the consumer, the apex consumer court has said that an affidavit from the consumer would suffice and there is no need for a laboratory test of the food, in order to claim compensation before the consumer courts.While upholding the award of damages to a consumer, who had suffered food poisoning on account of stale food served at Yum Restaurants, Manipal, Karnataka, Justice V.K.Jain, Presiding Member, in an oral order agreed with the restaurant that the initial onus of proving that the food served was defective, would be on the complainant.. “However, the burden of proof so placed upon the customer cannot be so high that an ordinary customer visiting a restaurant is unable to discharge the same. In my opinion, if a customer files an affidavit in the consumer complaint instituted by him stating therein that the food served to him was rotten/stale/inferior in quality, such an affidavit will be sufficient to discharge the initial onus placed upon the customer, unless it is shown that the complaint is motivated or was actuated by extraneous considerations,” Justice Jain said.Describing the practical difficulties faced by a consumer in taking out a sample of such food and getting it tested in a laboratory, Justice Jain said such a requirement, therefore, would be “impractical, inconvenient and a costly exercise” and would force a consumer to give up the fight for his right.In this case, the complainant had given an affidavit about the stale food served to him on December 23, 2014 and also a letter from a doctor who had certified that he suffered food poisoning and was under his treatment for a few days. That was sufficient evidence, the Commission held, thereby clearly defining the burden of proof or the evidence required to be presented by consumers in such cases (Yum Restaurants(India) Pvt Ltd Vs Kishan Hegde, RP No 156 of 2020)Today, modern technology, particularly the mobile phone and the social media, has empowered consumers enormously. They can take pictures of the food, record conversations with the restaurant owner on the poor quality and present them as evidence. They can also put out the information in the public domain. A video of a dead lizard in the sambar served at Saravana Bhavan in Connaught Place, New Delhi, that went viral in the first week of August, is an example.However, such visual evidence of unsafe or poor quality food is not always possible, particularly where the food is stale or is contaminated with pathogenic bacteria. In such cases, the only evidence is the laboratory testing of the food or the proof of ill health suffered by the consumer following consumption of such food. In fact in many cases, the consumer may realize that the food was hazardous, only after suffering its ill effects. So in all such cases, the apex consumer court’s ruling will help.Today, despite a modern food safety law , a large number of restaurants around the country prepare and store food in highly unhygienic conditions, putting at risk, the health and safety of consumers. In June last year, for example, the Food and Drug Administration in Maharashtra checked 10 randomly selected upscale restaurants in Lonavla and found most of them preparing food in extremely unhygienic conditions and using raw materials well post their shelf life, in clear violation of the food safety law. Results of such special drives and consumer complaints only draw attention to the need for more stringent implementation of the Food Safety and Standards Act. Last year, Gujarat had introduced the concept of open kitchens to bring transparency in the cooking process. I do not know the extent of implementation there, but that’s certainly a concept that needs to be incorporated in the food safety law and enforced strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-check-restaurants-serving-unhygienic-food/story-Mgm5bIA3MTGw4TTBl3vEJM.html
10-10-2020||Election:||‘Win against boss’: Ex-constable in Bihar gets lucky with BJP ticket on seat eyed by former DGP||A former constable of Bihar Police turned luckier in the battle of ballots of Bihar over a former DGP whose bid to test the political waters failed for the second time. Constable Parshuram Chaturvedi took voluntary retirement from service (VRS) like former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. Both eyed the same Buxar seat. Chaturvedi, perhaps, never thought he would win the race against his ‘boss’ despite his patient wait for years but destiny favoured him this time. In the seat-sharing formula, the seat went to the BJP, ending Pandey’s prospects who had joined the JD-U soon after his resignation. Son of four-term Congress MLA Jagat Lal Chaturvedi, the BJP gave the ticket to Chaturvedi. He is said to be the choice of Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey who happens to be the local MP. Chaturvedi, a native of Mahda village under Muffasil police station area, is member of BJP’s farmer cell. He quit the police job in 2008 from Bihar CID department and joined politics. He said that he was also associated with the JP students’ movement in 1977. Also read: Gandhis, Shatrughan Sinha among Cong’s star campaigners for phase 1 of Bihar pollsIt is not just Chaturvedi. Another retired DG (home guards) Sunil Kumar, who had lost the race to Pandey for the post of DGP, also got lucky to get a JD(U) ticket from Bhore. This was the second time Pandey fumbled in his attempt to enter the electoral politics. He had resigned five years ago to contest the election but he did not succeed. He requested for the withdrawal of his resignation, which was accepted. In the last four months, Pandey made headlines for his pro-active approach in the Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case and his sudden resignation had sparked speculations that he could contest the election. It got further strengthened when he joined the JD(U). Pandey later took to social media and posted about his major decision. He posted, “I can feel that my well-wishers are upset. I also understand their concern and problems. After my retirement, everyone expected that I will contest the election but this time I am not contesting the assembly elections.” “It is true that I had taken VRS to contest polls. Lekin samikaran nahi bana (calculations did not work out). I am a loyal soldier of the JD(U). If the JD(U) and the BJP want me to campaign in this election, I will do so,” he said. The former DGP also defended his stand in the Sushant case. “I have no regrets about the stand I took in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/win-against-boss-ex-constable-in-bihar-gets-lucky-with-bjp-ticket-on-seat-eyed-by-former-dgp/story-gzBIVx3UvNb0ertkJqMOpL.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Portrait of a village in Punjab before the sundown of Partition||Deep in the dry and sandy stretches of the Malwa region, in pre-Partition Punjab, lies the sprawling village of Sahnewal; its skyline a mixture of high havelis and humble mud houses surrounded by acres of green fields and groves of dark, thorny keekar and neem — thus opens the novel Dusk over the Mustard Fields with a finely drawn portrait of a village in Punjab. One can well take this as a period novel as it begins in the 1920s and culminates in the bloodshed and exodus at the time of Partition, but it transcends the periodicity. Its strength lies in traversing the times and evaluating what is lost and what has not changed much in some 100 years. A mosque and a gurdwara flourish in the village where Hindus and Muslims live in a workable arrangement and lamps are lit in every household, with people joining in Diwali as well as Eid festivities. In a village where all the major landholdings are with the Sikh and Muslim Jats, the businesses with Hindus and the majority of the workers and artisans are Muslims, the tallest haveli belongs to Zaildar Kehar Singh. The adjacent ones belong to the village moneylender Lala Beli Shah and the horse breeder Mian Ali Begh. The Zaildar has two daughters and the older one, Nimmo, the protagonist, cannot go to school because it is five miles away from the village. But she grows up happily learning Gurmukhi, numbers and Urdu at the primer level. Her skills are weaving, embroidery and cooking like the other girls of the village. The family prestige and the promise of a good dowry bring her the match of a handsome officer of the British Indian Army. She is 16 and on the eve of the marriage she feels excited, having relegated a shared crush for Akhtar, son of Mian Ali next doors to a childhood fancy. She wonders what her husband, Hukam Singh, will be like: Does he drink too much? Will he beat her if she makes a mistake? She prays that he should not be too foul tempered and is determined to do all that she can to please him. However, all her determination fails when confronted with the fair and handsome Lieutenant; from her dusky skin to her rusticity, her inability to speak English, dress in style and be an asset at the garden parties and lunches organised by the commanding officer’s wife, Mrs Gillespie. Nimmo is no memsahib and, worse, fails to conceive a child in two years. She is rejected in favour of the educated and beautiful Hansa. Left in the village home she falls prey to the sexual assaults of her husband’s stepbrother. Ironically, Hansa nearly loses out to Nimmo when the latter conceives only to give birth to a daughter who is then abandoned by the husband’s family as well as her own. The humane and heartwarming part of the story is the friendship that grows between the two wives. It is Hansa who tells Hukam Singh in the face that infertility is not her problem but his and takes the decision to adopt Nimmo’s abandoned daughter. And what becomes of Nimmo as she wanders in the dark wanting to take a last look at her parental home in Sahnewal – a place famed for being actor Dharmendra’s village, where he grew up as his father was the school headmaster, at a time when the riots preceding Partition and massive exodus from both sides had begun. In the story, Mian Ali’s family is escaping to Lahore in the dark of the night and Akhtar recognises Nimmo’s silhouette and asks her to accompany them. The healing touch comes when she shares everything and he takes her hand in his: Akhtar and Nimmo are married in a simple ceremony and the girl from Sahnewal, daughter of Zaildar Kehar Singh and wife of Major Hukam Singh of Raipur is reborn as Naaima Begum, her past belonging to another era and another country, torn asunder by ruthless destiny. The saga ends on a note of hope. Not only does Ranjit tell the tale well, she also sets the mood for a forgotten era in colonial Punjab. “This I owe to my parents. My father, Lt Col Daljeet Singh, who recreated the ethos of the British Indian Army for me and my mother who belonged to Sahnewal in acquainting me with the rural culture along with its pride and prejudice and the lives of women.” Ranjit’s paternal village is Mithapur and she lives in Chandigarh as she says with her dog Teddy. Travelling is her passion. She also runs a non-profit organisation for education and psychological counselling. Having finished this book in one reading through the night, one awaits Ranjit’s next novel. nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-portrait-of-a-village-in-punjab-before-sundown/story-EnwlOcST1Gl3qCzGqzEVkK.html
10-10-2020||City||Modi govt must roll back farm laws, restore statehood to J&K: AICC in-charge Rajani Patil||Newly appointed AICC in-charge for J&K affairs, Rajani Patil on Saturday said the PM Narendra Modi-led government must roll back its controversial agrarian laws like it did in the case of land acquisition bill.She also demanded the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and 4G mobile internet.Patil, who is on a five-day visit to J&K, also attended a farmers’ rally here. While addressing the gathering, she termed the recently passed agrarian bills as “black laws” and demanded that they be rolled back immediately.“We are against these black laws and compel the BJP government to roll them back like we did in the case of land acquisition bill under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi. It will happen this time as well because the entire farming community is against these laws,” she said.She also recalled that the Swaminathan committee report had recommended fixing MSP at one-and-a-half times the cost of production.“We felt happy when the Modi government promised to double it, but nothing has happened so far. On the contrary, farmers are in distress,” she added.Patil also took a jibe at the UP government for its alleged inaction over the Hathras gangrape and murder case.Demanding the restoration of J&K statehood, Patil said, “I have never heard of a state being converted into a UT before. However, UTs do get converted into states. I oppose the BJP government’s move of turning J&K into a UT unconstitutionally and unilaterally. It was a Dogra state. We want that statehood to be restored at the earliest,” she said.She also pressed upon the rising unemployment among the youth in J&K and continued suspension of 4G internet services in the UT.However, Congress being a divided house in its backyard, Patil minced no words and said, “If we get united, we will win. Congress gets defeated by Congress itself. If we get united, we will become invincible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-govt-must-roll-back-farm-laws-restore-statehood-to-j-k-aicc-in-charge-rajani-patil/story-G0ca70VBJRQCKYdPArx8kJ.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Where angels don’t fear to tread||Angels of the free air made best use of a historic moment. As VIPs, scientists and mediapersons waited patiently for eight critically-endangered vultures to take freedom’s flight from their aviary and sample a fresh goat carcass placed outside the open door near Pinjore on Thursday, a bevy of butterflies descended on the glistening meat. They were accompanied by black, crawling insects. Neither the vultures in the aviary or the wild ones circling overhead came down to the mutton due to the heavy human presence, so Common Mormon butterflies had a field day picking salts and minerals from mutton, some of which will be passed to females to facilitate reproduction.Butterflies indulge in mud-puddling – the generic term for salt/mineral collection – at what may seem to the human eye as the oddest of locales. Some butterflies pick nutrients from dead, rotting snakes. Others alight on sweaty socks of scientists engaged in field work and no doubt find a larder of exited salts to forage upon. Elephant dung is a favoured spot.Besides nuptial chores relating to sodium and salts collection, butterflies nurture a weakness for sweet, sugary liquids and fermenting fruits. This writer has experienced an Anomalous Nawab butterfly merrily sip beer from a glass in the outdoors due to its sugar content. But what takes the cake is “rum pudding”. Pioneering vulture scientist and keen naturalist Dr Vibhu Prakash recounts that one of the best baits for virtually all the butterflies prevalent in the area is to place rotten bananas fermented with rum for 24 hours in the open! Yummy! SHINE ON YOU CRAZY DIAMOND Gliding squirrels constitute an obscure group of mammals dwelling in the towering canopy and stealing out of tree hollows at night. Most photographs of these endearing creatures, which can achieve Batman-like nocturnal glides of 180 to 200 m between tree tops by opening their skin flaps, are of them still on branches and framed in a flashlight beam. An exceptional photograph of an Indian Giant Gliding squirrel captured in aerial locomotion that bestows them their common names was not by a wildlife scientist but by a software quality control techie from Surat, Gujarat, Keyur Chaudhari, who took departure from popular day safaris and ventured into forests draped in the velvet of the night. The challenge of securing such a photograph was underscored by squirrel scientist and field researcher, assistant professor Murali Krishna Chatakonda, who told this writer: “To get a picture of a squirrel actually gliding, one has to be in a forest with an open canopy. It takes just a few seconds for the squirrel to glide from one tree to another. So, in that limited window, a photographer with quality equipment and patience will have to spend the night for a good picture. Squirrels glide from one tree to another for feeding, when males clash for territory, breeding season, to avoid predators, energy saving etc.”Chaudhari’s picture of a squirrel at the Ratanmahal sanctuary, Gujarat, transiting between Mahua tree tops 50 feet apart drew praise from Chatakonda, who described it as an “amazing capture”. The picture resulted from a familial collaboration between Chaudhari and his father, Arvindbhai, who assisted by beaming a flashlight on squirrels gliding. The glide is a crowning moment of the mysterious night but lost in the din of humanity’s snores and narcissistic dreams. Thanks to an intrepid photographer, it now winks like a star and sparkles like a rare diamond in the expansive museum of natural history, curated online as a treasure trove of digitised wildlife images enjoying an ease of public access. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-where-angels-don-t-fear-to-tread/story-UfsxNlUbIiNi8E1OtTTfuN.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: The big fat lame excuse bloom of Zoom||Americans may have tired of inventing excuses for an apology of a President called Donald Trump, whom even Covid couldn’t tame, but one thing at which we Indians outsmart westerners and never run out of is the art of weaving excuses lame. Left, right, centre, epicentre and nerve-centre. (Nerve centre, because none can match us Indians when it comes to the ‘nerve’ or verve with which we’re game to deliver pretexts lame).Just when the National Short List of Lame Excuses seemed to be running out of steam – much in the manner of the NCB charge-sheets churned out damning the Divas of Drug-peddling, along came Covid.With its New Normal narrative, which made the Virtual the New Real, came trundling along a litany of latest lame excuses.For those fed on a robust diet of staple excuses springing from the repertoire of Babudom India or India Inc, there’s now a new stage spinning a lexicon of lame excuses faster than cricketers Rashid Khan or Rahul Tewatia’s action – The Big Fat Indian Dhoom and Boom on Zoom.Thanks to this, the National Short List of Lame Excuses just turned into a Long List. Who better to bear the brunt of it, oops often the grunt of it, than our Lollitas, Lamba jis, Lally jis & Co.Of #WorkFromHome & the Web What sarkari and corporate lingo-ism couldn’t do for the Great Indian Lame Excuse Long List, has been done by New Normal’s hashtag-ism. #WorkFromHome has given this Long List a new lease of life. Oops, or is it new lease of Lies!“Sahab is in the Loo”; “Sahab is in a meeting”; “Sahab is on a tour” blah blah – all are passé.Picture One. Lamba ji’s smartphone squiggles alive as he is busy belting out his boom on Zoom. He tosses it at Lollita with the adroitness of a referee spinning a toss.“It’s the Boss!”He bleats like a little lamb at Lollita, contorting his countenance into imploring histrionics that broadly translate into bestowing upon her a new job profile – Multitasking as Lamba ji’s PA (Pandemic’s Assistant) while juggling her own #WorkFromHome and #WorkOfHome.It’s the same beseeching look a deer is wont to wear, were a wolf to come calling for dinner in the middle of conferencing by the deer with many a peer.“Honey, please cook up some excuse. Say I’m attending an earth-shaking Webinar ...”Lollita goggles glacially at Lamba ji. The only earth he seems to be shaking is the one beneath his armchair every time he joyously jounces with or without slipper while watching Ravi Bishnoi’s chutki flipper.“Er... Can he call back later? He’s attending a global webinar of regional ‘heads’!” Lollita fobs off Lamba ji’s boss, her trite tone tapering off with tad emphasis on the last word.Truth be told, Lamba ji is gainfully employed (alas, for her, painfully employed) in putting “heads” together on a Zoom call with cricketing cronies for foretelling the fate of “regional” teams battling it out on a “global” turf – IPL 2020. It’s in the middle of Lamba ji’s live punditry on Zoom about Navdeep Saini’s full toss that there has come this pest of a call from a boss who is cross.What more inopportune moment than this to give birth to New Normal’s hottest new excuse – India Webinar-ing.The curious case of the Lame Excuses’ Long List looking longer thanks to India Zooming’s “Who Moved My Crease.”Going places in time of #StayHome When a head honcho recently dished out an ingenious pretext to a peer for not reverting to WhatsApp messages, little did he know he was contributing to New Normal’s Long List of Lame Excuses.“Sorry, I was on a tour to the Planning Commission,” he furnished his standard sarkari excuse, substantiating it by posting on Instagram his masked face of officialdom.“OMG, you went to Delhi at the peak of the Capital’s Covid curve?” gasped the peer.“Nah, just a virtual tour!” the honcho mumbled lamely.What a mask had to do with a virtual tour is anybody’s guess!Voila, but this Standard Sarkari Tour Excuse acquired a new twist in the time of #WFH. Who better than Lamba ji to live it out!Picture Two. Lollita is on a Zoom family reunion and in the middle of it whispers aside to Lamba ji, “Bade Bua ji is asking why you didn’t attend the recent family wedding?”“Wedding? In Lockdown?” Lamba ji caterwauls with consternation, much in the manner of an affronted Cat chided for not chasing pigeons whilst kept caged inside the window.“Obviously ... On Zoom,” Lollita looks appalled at Lamba ji’s denseness, not of cranial follicles but of faculties.“Honey, make some excuse, that I was on tour,” Lamba mumbles mindlessly.Now it’s Lollita’s turn to glare glassily at the lameness of Lamba ji’s excuse.“Tour? Or detour!”For, the only tour Lamba ji has been undertaking during #WFH is from his reclining chair to the refrigerator for recurrent refuelling.The curious case of the lamest excuse for not legging it to My Big Fat Geek Wedding.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-the-big-fat-lame-excuse-bloom-of-zoom/story-wFEzTRmAWVCZH4kcsNEOvO.html
10-10-2020||City||Noida: 55-year-old man from J&K goes missing||Noida: A 55-year-old man from Jammu and Kashmir allegedly went missing from Noida’s Sector 18 on October 5.According to the police, Tribhuvan Krishna Pandit, a resident of Kulgam in Jammu and Kashmir, was visiting his elder brother for the past few months in Greater Noida’s Sector Omicron 2.“He left home on the morning of October 5. He had gone to Sector 18 market for some work. However, when he didn’t come back till evening, we got worried. He doesn’t keep a mobile phone so there was no way for us to contact him,” said RJ Pandit, the man’s brother.He said that the family started looking for Tribhuvan and later found out that he had also visited his bank’s branch.“We checked and got to know that he made a transaction at 11.04am for Rs 1,000, but after that there is no record of him. We filed a missing person’s complaint with Sector 20 police on October 7,” said the brother.The family said that there was no reason for him to leave all of a sudden. “It has already been a few days and we want police to expedite the search,” the brother said.Police officials said that efforts are on to look for the man. “We have verified the bank transaction and his whereabouts at that time. His information has been shared with other police stations as well. A search is on and hopefully, we will find him soon,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house office, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-55-year-old-man-from-j-k-goes-missing/story-ML2G9a8DE6AfK4FE5XUoNI.html
10-10-2020||City||Noida: News channel files case against fake account of journalist||Noida: A city-based Hindi news channel has filed a case at the Phase 2 police station against a social media user allegedly running an account in the name of a prominent journalist.The incident came to fore on October 4 when employees of the channel located in Sector 85 came across screenshots of certain chats between a senior doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), involved in the CBI probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput case, and the chairman of the channel. “The chats seem to be between these two people. However, it is clear that the screenshots are fake and are intended to misguide. There has been no conversation between these two people and the messages are not truthful at all,” said the police complaint filed by the news channel.The channel further alleged that the fake screenshots were intended to ruin its image and to spread fake news. “The fake information was not only directed to ruin the channel’s integrity and reputation among the public, but it also seems that they were intended to affect the ongoing CBI inquiry. These messages are circulating on social media, and our internal investigation has found the source account which was made in the name of a prominent Indian journalist. The doctored screenshots were first shared on the night of October 3,” said the complaint.Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the user of the account under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Copyright Act, the police said.According to the police, it was found that the account was being used to circulate fake news aimed at misdirecting and confusing public. “A probe in the matter is underway. The account is fake and we are trying to trace the user,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news-channel-files-case-against-fake-account-of-journalist/story-GiPgDaM6g1BMU5BsKy6VRL.html
10-10-2020||City||Himachal to celebrate disaster reduction day on October 13||Like every year, the Himachal Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (HPSDMA) will be celebrating International Day for Disaster Reduction on October 13.An HPSDMA spokesperson said the authority will carry out the 10th edition of its an annual mass awareness campaign on disaster risk reduction ‘Samarth’, which was started in the year 2011.The state-wide campaign comprises a variety of events and activities held across districts in the month of October every year for two weeks.The spokesperson informed that the focus for this year has been on developing content like news stories, photographs, quiz, videos and social media cards, which will highlight the links between good disaster risk governance and having national and local disaster risk reduction strategies in place in alignment with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.Online and digital modes will be extensively used this year to create awareness, build capacities towards promoting disaster resilience in the state. Besides this, as part of this campaign, a tabletop mock exercise on chemical (industrial) disasters has been planned on October 15, along with National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), to assess and review the preparedness of all stakeholders. As a run-up to this exercise, online training for officers of the district disaster management authorities and nodal officers of all departments has been planned on October 12.Besides this, a three-day online training programme on ‘Hill area environment’ will be organised by HPSDMA in coordination with National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) from October 21 to 23. Similarly, one such programme will be held for traditional construction practices in the state and school safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-celebrate-disaster-reduction-day-on-october-13/story-AXhbHO7hlar6QizllU3lRP.html
10-10-2020||City||Taxpayers to get ration on government rates but no subsidy: HP minister||Himachal Pradesh food and supplies department minister Rajendra Garg on Saturday said income taxpayers would not be given subsidised ration, but they will continue to get the central subsidy (on government purchase rates) for rice and wheat flour.Garg said this while addressing a function of the depot holders of the state at Jhaniari village in the district. He said the PDS shops would now be opened from 10am to 5pm and proper sampling of the food grains would be done. Local MLA Narendra Thakur was also present on the occasion.Talking about an increase in the commission of depot holders, he said this issue would be discussed with the chief minister and thereafter the next course of action would be decided.He said the working of food and supplies department was being monitored and a sum of ₹30 lakh had been recovered from those who got ration by claiming to be in the category of BPL families.He praised the working of the depot holders during the ongoing Covid pandemic and assured them that they would be provided with justice regarding their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taxpayers-to-get-ration-on-government-rates-but-no-subsidy-hp-minister/story-SoDWbNIMja06Kog5oUU0aN.html
10-10-2020||Jaipur||Karauli priest’s death: Family, villagers end protest after govt assures Rs 10 lakh compensation||After three days of protest, the family members of the priest - who was allegedly set on fire in Bukna village of Rajasthan’s Karauli district - and villagers ended their protest on Saturday evening after holding talks with the government representatives.The 50-year-old temple priest died in a Jaipur hospital late on Thursday evening from the burn injuries received after he was set afire over a land dispute on Wednesday.A meeting of a delegation of the villagers and family members with the district collector and the superintendent of police was held on Saturday afternoon.“The family members will be given a relief compensation of Rs 10 lakh, a contractual job for a family member in the government, and financial help under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana,” said SP Mridul Kachawa.He said that the station house officer (SHO) of the Sapotra police station and the local patwari have been transferred. A departmental enquiry would be conducted against them. “The investigation of this case is being done by the circle office, Hindaun. A special team from Jaipur will also come which will work in coordination with the district team to arrest the remaining accused,” Kachawa said.Hundreds of villagers, senior BJP leaders and members of various social outfits reached Bukna village on Saturday morning and launched a protest.Earlier, the family members were demanding compensation, government job for a family member and action against the policemen of Sapotra police station. “We are demanding Rs 50 lakh compensation, security for the family members, government job for one of the family members and the entire Sapotara police station staff to be transferred,” one of the family members said before the government announced the compensation.“Where is the government? The deceased has six daughters and the government is not answering,” he said. “How will the family survive without the help of the government? We will not cremate the body unless our demands are fulfilled and the rest four absconding accused are arrested.”Governor Kalraj Mishra called chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday morning over law and order situation of the state in special reference to the alleged killing of the temple priest in Karauli and rape of a minor girl in Barmer, according to a release from the Raj Bhavan. The governor expressed concern over these incidents. The CM told the governor that the state government had taken cognizance of all these incidents and Rajasthan police were investigating them. “We will not spare any culprit. All incidents will be investigated fairly,” the CM said. Gehlot said he was keeping tabs on the law and order situation in the state and had instructed officials to take necessary action. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena and the Karauli-Dholpur Lok Sabha MP Manoj Rajoriya also reached Bukna village of Sapotara town on Saturday morning where they are protesting along with the deceased’s family members and villagers.Meena had warned the government that if the demands of the family members are not met then they will reach Civil Lines with the body and launch a protest.A three-member fact-finding committee, comprising Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra, national secretary Alka Gurjar and former general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha Jitendra Meena, also reached Sapotara town.On Wednesday, accused Kailash Meena and others from his family allegedly set the priest’s hut on fire since he had been trying to prevent encroachment on temple land. The injured priest was taken to the district hospital from where doctors sent him to Jaipur. Vaishnav was admitted to SMS Hospital in a critical condition and succumbed to his injuries late on Thursday evening.On Friday, the alleged killing escalated into a political row. State BJP president Satish Poonia said he had formed a 3-member committee for finding facts of the case.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said in a tweet that the killing of the temple priest could not be condemned enough. “We cannot express enough grief over it,” she said.After facing political attack, Gehlot wrote on Twitter, “The murder of Babulal Vaishnav in Sapotara, Karauli, is extremely unfortunate and condemnable; civil society has no place for such acts. The state government is with the bereaved family in this sad time. The main accused has been arrested and action continues. The culprits shall not be spared.” Congress party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi said, “I have spoken to the DGP; the family will be provided security and their demands will be discussed.” He said he would write a letter to the chief minister to demand strict action against land encroachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/burning-of-karauli-priest-family-villagers-end-protest-after-govt-assures-rs-10-lakh-compensation/story-0pXUFoKZPaz8VkiM9Bm35M.html
10-10-2020||Bhopal||MP woman kills herself, family alleges police refused to register her complaint||A woman killed herself after police allegedly refused to register her complaint regarding a stolen tractor in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh, alleged family members.The victim was a resident of village Bara of Sagar district and killed herself on Friday evening by consuming poison. She was rushed to the community health centre and was later referred to Sagar district hospital where she died during treatment on late Friday night, said police.The woman’s family members staged a protest and blocked the road by putting the body of the woman in Banda area of Sagar district on Saturday demanding action against Banda police station in-charge Prashant Singh. Later, Sagar superintendent of police Atul Singh reached the spot and cleared the traffic after assuring the family of conducting an inquiry in the matter. The SP also removed Prashant Singh from Banada police station and shifted him to the police lines. Also read: Gandhis, Shatrughan Sinha among Cong’s star campaigners for phase 1 of Bihar pollsThe deceased’s son alleged that a villager Ramratan Mishra had stolen their tractor a week ago and his mother had gone to Banda police station to lodge a complaint as the male members of the family were busy in harvesting but police didn’t listen to her complaint.“Mishra was harassing my family and demanding money in exchange of the tractor. When my mother went to the police station on Thursday, the police didn’t lodge any complaint but informed Mishra. Later, Mishra threatened her of dire consequences. Upset with Mishra’s threats and police’s action, my mother took her life,” the son said. However, the SP said, “The deceased’s husband and Ramaratan Mishra had purchased the tractor 7-8 years ago in partnership but the tractor was in the name of the deceased’s husband. A few weeks ago, their relationship turned sour and Mishra took the tractor with him. Mishra was demanding the money which he had invested on the tractor.”“After the deceased’s complaint, the police personnel of Banda police station went to Mishra’s house and seized the tractor on Friday. The police asked both of them to prove the ownership but the woman had killed herself. In this matter, we found that Banda police didn’t handle the case properly so the in-charge has been removed,” said the officer. Police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-woman-kills-herself-family-alleges-police-refused-to-register-her-complaint/story-qKMTsAnNqyzhh8ZvmhiVCO.html
10-10-2020||City||12 villagers booked for illegal construction near ammunition depot in Ludhiana||As many as 12 people from Bains and Ayali Kalan villages have been booked for an illegal construction near the ammunition depot in Baddowal.The FIR was lodged following a complaint by an army officer from the depot. The villagers booked have been identified as Bittu Shah, Rohit Goyal, Gulab Singh, Davinder Singh, Manjit Kaur, Swarn Singh, Hardev Singh, Bhagwant Singh, Sarbjit Singh and Gurmeet Singh of Ayali Kalan village, and Gurpartap Singh of Bains village.In his complaint, the army official said the accused had constructed a house within the 1,000-metre radius of the ammunition depot despite a ban by the commissioner of police and deputy commissioner. ASI Amarjit Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the 12 villagers had been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-villagers-booked-for-illegal-construction-near-ammunition-depot-in-ludhiana/story-Ge10zkpEpQ4ubUM6oU603H.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai witnesses haze-laden muggy Saturday, pollution levels worsen||The city witnessed hazy conditions with high humidity levels and cloud cover allowing air pollution to rise further on Saturday. Some parts of the city recorded light rain on Saturday with thundershowers reported along the outskirts of the city. The absence of wind speed did not disperse pollutants leading to poor air quality, said researchers. The pollutant measuring indicator - air quality index (AQI) - was recorded at 121 (moderate) on Saturday, which was the worst AQI since March. It was 118 (moderate) on Friday. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Saturday’s AQI was an average of nine locations in the city as the station at Bandra Kurla Complex has been defunct for over a week. While major locations across the city recorded ‘moderate’ air quality, the most polluted location was Navi Mumbai (193), followed by Andheri (176) and Mazgaon (166). Colaba and Bhandup had the cleanest air with satisfactory air quality at 71 and 70. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. An AQI of 111 (moderate) has been predicted for Sunday.Humidity levels were at 89 percent in south Mumbai and 81 percent in the suburbs. “Owing to high moisture in the air, the city recorded higher pollution levels on Saturday as pollutant carrying capacity increases when there is more humidity. Also, wind speed is very low characteristic to the withdrawal period of monsoon,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. Meanwhile, the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 0.2 and 0.3 mm rain between 8.30 and 5.30 pm. Thane recorded 5.6 mm rain. The city and suburbs could expect partly cloudy conditions on Sunday with the possibility of light rain. “The presence of low-pressure weather system over the Bay of Bengal is activating monsoon currents over central India leading to thundershowers for the coast and interior Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-witnesses-haze-laden-muggy-saturday-pollution-levels-worsen/story-ymqyDSj2DOOquT3RsSOt9J.html
10-10-2020||City||Four of Sagar Newton gang held for murder bid on Ludhiana woman, daughter||Police on Saturday arrested four men for trying to murder a woman and her daughter by hurling petrol bombs at their house in Karnail Singh Nagar on Thursday night.While the police had booked 40 men – all members of the Sagar Newton gang – they have managed to arrest only four, who have been identified as Mahesh Kumar, alias Inder, and Anuj Kumar of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar; Raju Kumar of Chauhan Nagar; and Gaurav, alias Sunakkha, of Dugri village. Investigators have also identified six other men as Daman Gill, Sebi, Namit, Vinay, Pardeep and Ankit. Along with them, 30 other accused have yet to be arrested. Whether Newton was also at the crime scene has not been established. He is a proclaimed offender and wanted by the police in several cases.Inspector Surinder Kumar, SHO, Dugri police station, said a manhunt was launched following the murder bid and four men were arrested from different locations. The victim, Manjit Kaur, 42, told the police that her son, Jagtar, was friends with Sagar Newton around three years ago, but snapped ties with him as Newton took to crime.In July 2018, Newton was arrested in a murder case. After he was bailed out in January this year, he contacted her son again, but Jagtar told him he wanted nothing to do with him. Newton had been holding a grudge since, she alleged. On January 15, members of Newton’s gang had barged into her house and damaged household items. They had also vandalised seven cars parked in the street outside their house and threatened the family with sharp-edged weapons and sticks in their hands. A case in this regard was registered at the Dugri police station. Following the October 8 attack, police had lodged an FIR under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to nab the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-of-sagar-newton-gang-held-for-murder-bid-on-ludhiana-woman-daughter/story-WQwpWBtN3x4NV0ZLTXxXjO.html
10-10-2020||Election:||This Maoist-turned-politician of Bihar has more cases against him than party chief Pappu Yadav||Jan Adhikar Party-Loktantrik (JAP) candidate from Gurua assembly constituency in Gaya district has beaten down his party boss Ranjan Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav in terms of number of cases lodged against him, most of which are for heinous crimes. According to an affidavit filed by Pappu Yadav, during his nomination filed in 2019 Lok Sabha elections when he unsuccessfully contested from Madhepura, 31 cases are pending against him, out of which charges have been framed in 10 cases. However, Maoist-turned politician Sudhir Kumar Verma alias Vinod Marandi, who once carried Rs 25,000 prize on his head, has 37 cases against lodged him, which include heinous crimes under 3/4 Explosive Substance Act, Section 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murder, 307 of IPC (attempt to murder), besides others. Marandi, out of jail on bail, filed his nomination papers for Gurua seat on Thursday. BJP’s sitting MLA Rajiv Nandan is one of the contestants from the constituency, while the RJD has fielded Vinay Kumar. In 2015 assembly polls, Nandan had defeated Ramchandra Prasad Singh of JD(U) by a margin of 6,515 votes. Also read: Gandhis, Shatrughan Sinha among Cong’s star campaigners for phase 1 of Bihar pollsThe JAP has forged an alliance for Bihar elections by tying up with three parties—Azad Samaj Party of Chandrashekhar Azad, the Social Democratic Party of MK Faizi and Bahujan Mukti Party led by BPL Matang. A police official said Marandi had joined the Maoist outfit Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) in 1999 as area commander, however, when he could not establish his supremacy in the organisation, he floated Revolutionary Communist Centre (RCC) in August 2004. The RCC was involved in extortion and other unlawful activities and spread its wing in entire Magadh division and bordering areas of Jharkhand. In 2009, he was arrested, however, the court acquitted him in the absence of any concrete evidence. The police had later arrested him in 2016 from Vishnupad area of Gaya after tracking his mobile phone for quite some time. Marandi, who earlier used to frequently change his phone numbers and used to call people from his hideouts, said now he has said farewell to arms and joined the mainstream politics. “Besides politics, I do broking of land,” he said. “I fear that I may get killed as I had disassociated myself from the MCC and the RCC about two years back. Therefore, I have sought security from the district administration,” he said. Marandi’s wife, Sunita Devi is mukhiya of Diha panchayat under Gurua police station in Gaya district. Marandi, a Dangi by caste, feels he might get the majority of votes of his caste besides Muslims would also vote for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/this-maoist-turned-politician-of-bihar-has-more-cases-against-him-than-party-chief-pappu-yadav/story-o3x0dMdY2fpF4XlpYkUGIK.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Lockdown will be lifted completely in state by November: Health minister Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday indicated that by the end of November, remaining restrictions under lockdown will also be lifted in the state and all sectors will be allowed to reopen. Tope while speaking to reporters at Ahmednagar on Saturday said that the government is now planning to give permission of reopening schools and religious places in the coming days. “We have already allowed restaurants and bars. In the next phase, possibly during Diwali, we will have to reopen schools,” said Tope. The health minister said that the government’s approach is to open various sectors step by step and within the next two months, everything will be reopened. “The flight operations have resumed and train services are also in the process of restarting. I think step by step, schools, religious places and gymnasiums will be allowed to open. By the end of November, lockdown will be lifted 100 per cent,” said Tope. There is a growing demand from various organisations to reopen temples and other shrines in Maharashtra. The principal opposition in Maharashtra, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with Maharashtra Nav Nirman Sena and Bahujan Vanchit Aghadi have staged protest demanding temples to reopen. The gymnasiums owners in the state too have urged government for permission to operate considering the financial loss they are facing. Despite the protest, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has not given permission to reopen temples and gymnasium. His cabinet colleagues have maintained that CM is cautious about reopening due to the Covid-19 situation in the state. The minister also announced bringing down RT-PCR (Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test rates in Maharashtra by Rs 400. “The RT-PCR test rates at private labs, which was brought down to Rs 1,200 earlier will be further reduced to Rs 800. This will happen within a week,” said Tope. During the early phase of the pandemic in March, the Centre had capped the price of RT-PCR test, considered to be gold standard for its accuracy, to Rs 4,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-will-be-lifted-completely-in-state-by-november-health-minister-tope/story-E2hUTfScdTCdH2apxui85M.html
10-10-2020||City||Taxi driver held with 105gm heroin in Ludhiana||A taxi driver was held with 105gm heroin near Dholewal Military Complex on Friday.The accused was identified as Pritam Singh, alias Rinku, of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Lalheri Road, Khanna.ASI Sukhwinder Singh of the anti-narcotics cell, said Pritam was arrested following a tip-off. He was going to deliver the consignment when the police stopped him for checking and recovered 105gm heroin from his pocket.He said Pritam took to drug peddling to make easy money. They are looking into his past criminal record.A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taxi-driver-held-with-105gm-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-6KiWZlaTLxBWLy0mFYeFhI.html
10-10-2020||City||Same man behind two Ludhiana robberies: Police||Probing into the Friday afternoon robbery of a Yamaha sports bike from a realtor’s office on Jassiyan Road, police have found that one of the two robbers was also involved in the October 5 robbery bid at a currency exchange shop near Dharampura Chowk.While police have not revealed the accused’s name, they have been conducting raids for his arrest.“The robber was identified through the CCTV footage at the realtor’s office where he and his accomplice took away a Yamaha YZF R15 at gunpoint,” said inspector Krishan Gopal, SHO, Salem Tabri police station. He said several teams had been formed for the arrest of the accused, who, along with two accomplices, had also attempted an armed robbery at a money exchanger’s shop near Dharampura Chowk. The trader had managed to foil the robbery and had a narrow escape when one of the accused opened fire at him while fleeing. The bullet had missed the target and hit the counter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/same-man-behind-two-ludhiana-robberies-police/story-oJc38J9TtRpwSSSdbLEaQI.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s tribute to ‘father of nation’: Mumbai-Nagpur corridor to have ‘Charkha’ bridge||As a grand tribute to the ‘father of the nation’ – Mahatma Gandhi – Maharashtra’s most ambitious project – the 701-kilometre Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi corridor will also have a bridge designed as a ‘Charkha’ or a spinning wheel that became a symbol representing ‘swadeshi’ or self-sufficiency. Being built on a river, the 315-meter bridge will be the entry point to Wardha district, well-known for the Sevagram Ashram from where Gandhi led the nation for 12 years till Independence. Mahatma Gandhi initiated the Swadeshi movement by taking up the charkha and encouraging fellow countrymen to weave their clothes instead of buying foreign goods.The bridge will have three wheels as part of its design. The two bigger rings will be 40 metres in diameter and the smaller ones will be of 16-metre diameter. The iconic six-lane bridge, with two service lanes, will also be crossing over Wardha river.Also read: Republic TV asks Mumbai police to suspend probe in fake TRP caseDeep Dey, director, DesignFakt India Pvt Ltd which has designed the bridge, said, “We picked themes that further India’s vision as a growing superpower. The Charkha represents the ‘Make in India’ concept and is also a symbolic identity of Wardha.” According to officials, the detailed designing of the bridge is done and the construction work will also resume soon. The entire 701-kilometre corridor is expected to be functional by May 1, 2022. The Rs 55,000 crore ambitious expressway will connect 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages between the state’s first and second capital - Mumbai and Nagpur.Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is executing the project, said, “Apart from being one the most challenging projects, the Samruddhi corridor is also one the most aesthetically designed projects.”Of the 33 major bridges that are being built along the corridor, five bridges at Wardha, Buldhana, Nashik, Thane and Nagpur will have iconic designs.The designs under consideration for the bridge in Buldhana is to showcase a bird representing women empowerment. In Nashik, known for its rich history, the bridge will be designed with hands showcasing ‘tarpana’, a Hindu practice of making offerings to the Lord, and in Nagpur, the bridge is likely to be in the form of a tiger to promote the movement ‘save the tiger.’ However, apart from Wardha, the designs for the four other bridges are still under-consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-tribute-to-father-of-nation-mumbai-nagpur-corridor-to-have-charkha-bridge/story-KymgBdwuEc0I8Xwp3aRURN.html
10-10-2020||City||60-year-old Ludhiana man left paralysed in vicious attack by 10 men||A 60-year-old man was paralysed after 10 men brutally assaulted him with baseball bats and sticks at his tea shop in Sundar Nagar on Friday night. The attack came hours after the victim’s son had an altercation with a scooterist for driving rashly.The victim, Somnath, has been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where doctors revealed that the left side of his body had been paralysed and that his condition was serious.Somnaths’s son, Raju, told the police that the assailants’ two bats broke in the ruthless attack. Police have seized the bats.Another son of the victim, Amit, said Raju was away at a nearby factory to deliver tea, while his father was present outside the shop, when he suddenly heard his father’s cries for help.On rushing outside the shop, he saw 10 men thrashing his father with sticks and baseball bats. Upon noticing a crowd gathering, the attackers fled, leaving his father lying motionless on the road. As Raju returned, the brothers rushed their father to CMCH.Raju told the police that on Friday afternoon, he had confronted a scooterist who was driving rashly. He had returned to his shop after onlookers intervened and had seen the scooterist following him before driving away.“We are waiting for the medical report of the victim and his statement to lodge an FIR. We are also scanning CCTV cameras in the area near the tea shop to identify the accused,” said sub-Inspector Davinder Singh, SHO, Daresi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-ludhiana-man-left-paralysed-in-vicious-attack-by-10-men/story-0HG0vn4Qt3EdYEGLU6458J.html
10-10-2020||Lucknow||Opposition parties have ‘division’ in their DNA, alleges Yogi Adityanath||Hitting out at the Opposition, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday alleged that “division is in the DNA” of these parties and they are trying to create a rift in society on caste and community lines. Addressing a virtual meeting of the BJP’s office-bearers as part of preparations for assembly by-election to Deoria Sadar assembly constituency, he alleged that due the development activities undertaken under the BJP rule, the opposition parties were frustrated and were using “every trick” to defame his government. By-elections will be held to seven Assembly seats, including Deoria, in Uttar Pradesh on November 3. Six of the seats were held by the ruling BJP and one by the SP. “The thought process of the rival parties is dirty and their intention is dangerous. “Division is in their DNA. It was due to this thought process that they first divided the country, and are now attempting to divide the society on the basis of caste, community and region. For them, the interest of their clan is of utmost importance, while everything else is secondary,” Adityanath said, targeting the Congress and other rival parties. Raising the issue of development under the BJP, he said that “the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which have ruled the state for 15 years, have only corruption and anarchy to count as their achievement. “From time-to-time, these parties have throttled democracy and the Constitution. Their development was confined only to slogans and speeches.” The BJP leader said that the “actual development” started six years ago with the formation of the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Owing to all-round development, the popularity of BJP is continuously rising, and there is a feeling of positivity in the public. “In this case, the unhappiness of these (opposition) parties has transformed into frustration. As a result, they are trying to resort to every trick to defame the government. However, their intentions will never be fulfilled,” he said. Referring to the problem of encephalitis, the UP chief minister said that from 1977 to 2017, the disease had claimed the lives of more than 50,000 people, most of them children. “No one had ever raised their voice. In a span of only three years, we are on the way towards eradication of encephalitis,” he asserted. Referring to Deoria, Adityanath said, “The sacred land of Devraha Baba was known as the sugar bowl. The economy of the area was based on sugarcane. Ask them why in their tenure one after another sugar mills wee old at throwaway prices.” Devraha Baba, who died on June 19, 1990, was a revered ascetic who lived beside the Yamuna river in Mathura. He was known as “ageless Yogi”. UP BJP chief Swatantradev Singh also addressed party workers, a statement issued by the UP BJP said. The seven Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh where bypolls will be held on November 3 include Naugaon which fell vacant after the death of minister Chetan Chauhan. The by-election was necessitated in Ghatampur (Kanpur) as sitting MLA and minister Kamal Rani Varun died, while in Tundla (Firozabad) the sitting MLA, SP Singh Baghel, got elected to Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau (Unnao) seat fell vacant following the conviction of Kuldeep Singh Sengar. The seats of Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani will have by-election due to the demise of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/opposition-parties-have-division-in-their-dna-alleges-yogi-adityanath/story-eZmnODLSwEj5DJpPLh2eQK.html
10-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to provide special kits to pregnant women, newborns||Uttarakhand government will soon launch Saubhagyavati Yojana under which it would provide special kits with essential items for “proper care and nourishment” of pregnant women and newborns in the state, said officials on Saturday. Under the soon to be launched programme of its women and child development department, the government aims to promote proper nourishment as well as sanitisation in households with pregnant women and newborn babies. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “There will be two separate kits provided for a pregnant woman and her newborn under the programme. It is to make sure that both of them are properly taken care of.”Rekha Arya, minister for women and child development informed that both the kits will have about 7-8 items for which the budget was already sanctioned during the budget session in March. Also read: India test-fires 10 missiles in 35 days. It is not a coincidence“We have identified about 30,000-40,000 pregnant women as the beneficiaries under the programme in the first phase. They would be provided with the kits which will include dry fruits, women and baby clothes, sanitary napkins, diapers, woollen shawl, blankets, bedsheets, soaps, oil, blankets and other items,” said Arya. She informed that the programme was “supposed to be launched earlier only but got delayed due to the pandemic”.The CM meanwhile, hailed the initiative as an important one for the state. “The initiative becomes important with the fact that for a healthy society, pregnant women and newborns must be well looked after,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-to-provide-special-kits-for-pregnant-women-newborns/story-8FXehSsZlImaZ26ocZxyEK.html
10-10-2020||City||Robbers take away scooter containing ₹3.42 lakh in cash after assaulting its rider in Ludhiana||Three armed robbers made off with a scooter containing Rs 3.42 lakh in cash after hitting the vehicle with their car and injuring its rider near the Advanced Training Institute (ATI) on Gill Road on Friday evening. The robbers also attacked the victim, Sandeep Jain, 50, of Vijay Inder Nagar, Jain Colony, with sharp-edged weapons before taking off with his two-wheeler.Jain told the police that he was a manager at Ratan Fabrics, a knitted cloth and garment manufacturer, in Industrial Area-A. On Friday, he collected Rs 3.42 lakh as payment from Jindal Textiles near Arora Cinema on Gill Road and stored the cash in the storage below the seat of his Hero Maestro Edge. On his way back, a white Hyundai Verna hit his scooter near ATI on Gill Road, throwing him on the road.Soon, three masked men, armed with sharp-edged weapons and a pistol, got off the car and attacked him on the arm and thigh. One of the accused drove away his scooter containing the cash towards Gill Chowk, while others followed him in the car.As the robbers left, he immediately sounded the police and alerted his employer, Sachin Jain.“The incident took place on a busy road, but the nearby shopkeepers claim to have seen nothing. A CCTV installed near the spot has captured a white Hyundai Verna without a registration number plate hitting Sandeep’s scooter,” said ASI Davinder Singh, who is investigating the case.He added that the robbers seemed to have been tailing Sandeep, who was promoted as a manager a month ago. “We are probing the case from all angles,” the ASI said.A case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been lodged against the unidentified robbers at Division Number 6 police station. SIXTH ROBBERY IN NINE DAYSOctober 9: Two men robbed a coloniser’s employee of his Yamaha YZF R-15 motorcycle at gunpoint on Jassiyan RoadOctober 5: Three armed men attempted a robbery at a currency exchange shop near Dharampura Chowk in broad daylightOctober 3: A 38-year-old man was assaulted and robbed of Rs 50,000 in Kutbewal Gujran villageOctober 3: Two men robbed a Tibba Road resident of his motorcycleOctober 1: Three motorcycle-borne men shot at a factory worker and robbed him of Rs 2,600 in cash and a mobile phone on the 33 Foot Road in Jamalpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbers-take-away-scooter-containing-3-42-lakh-in-cash-after-assaulting-its-rider-in-ludhiana/story-o1gsjNFRoORgL3zLhmXsyJ.html
10-10-2020||Kolkata||Will urge PM to give message to people to follow Covid safety norms in Durga Puja: BJP||The BJP’s West Bengal unit on Saturday said that it would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deliver a message asking the people of the state to follow Covid-19 safety protocols during Durga Puja festival this year. The matter was discussed recently by the partys state leadership, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said.“We would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji to give a message to people before Durga Puja regarding Covid-19 safety precautions. Durga Puja is the biggest festival of Bengal, but we have to be careful due to the pandemic situation,” he told reporters.Earlier on Friday, Ghosh had urged the people of the state to observe Durga Puja but shun the festivities this year.“There was not much celebration in Holi and Ramnavami this year. Let the celebrations be muted during Covid-19 time.We are scared of the safety of people as the chief minister said Durga Puja festivities would take place this year as well,” he had said.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the puja committees to prepare open-air marquees in view of the contagion and ensure that pandal hoppers wear masks.West Bengal on Friday recorded the highest single-day spike of 3,573 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 2,87,603, while the death toll rose to 5,501 with 62 more deaths, according to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-urge-pm-to-give-message-to-people-to-follow-covid-safety-norms-in-durga-puja-bjp/story-uhuRx9QuLvwRNV3XGrAQDO.html
10-10-2020||Pune||32-year-old accosted, forced to transfer money online in Pune||A 32-year-old man was robbed by three who demanded money to be transferred through Google Pay into their accounts in Pune. The incident happened on Tuesday between 7:30pm and 7:45pm when the complainant was headed from DSK Vishwa in Chavanbaug towards Nanded Phata, Pune in a car. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ketan Patil (32), a resident of DSK Vishwa in Dhayari, Pune. The man approached the police two days after the incident. Patil was visiting a friend in Nanded City area and minutes after he drove past Chavan baug corner, three men on a bike stopped his car and took out the keys to the car, according to the complaint. The three threatened to damage his car if he did not transfer money to them through Google Pay. He transferred Rs 3,000 to a phone number they provided before fleeing, according to his complaint. The police are now looking for the three suspects in the case. A case under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhagad road police station against the three. Assistant police inspector SV Umre is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/32-year-old-accosted-forced-to-transfer-money-online-in-pune/story-E38Tcmg7hgH92MTEXdDd8H.html
10-10-2020||Pune||PMC takes action against restaurants for not following Covid guidelines in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun taking action against hotels and bars who are not following Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government. The PMC recovered a total fine of ₹30,500 in fine. Of the total fine, ₹12,500. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Hotels, bars and other business activities have reopened just to give a push for the economic activity. Though the economic activity has started, health is a priority, and if needed administration would take strong action and there will be no compromise with health issues on the background of Covid-19.” The divisional commissioner also formed teams to inspect hotels and bars. As instructed by the divisional commissioner, ward offices have begun the drive in the city.Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward office took out a drive on Satara Road on Thursday and recovered a fine of ₹12,500. The PMC issued a press release which stated, “Action has been taken against Hotel Saurabh, Basuri, Navratna, Abhi Kitchen and Jagat Bhari Kolhapuri. The PMC fined ₹2,500 each hotel and warned to take necessary steps.” Meanwhile, the PMC also recovered ₹18,000 from the citizens who are not using face masks. Action against face masks has been taken by the Shivajinagar Ghole road ward office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-takes-action-against-restaurants-for-not-following-covid-guidelines-in-pune/story-KeQ2hi2omDKXZsoiLapA5J.html
10-10-2020||City||Four militants killed in two encounters in Kashmir’s Kulgam, Pulwama||Four militants, including two belonging to the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), were killed in two separate encounters in south Kashmir on Saturday, police and army officials said.While two militants of JeM, including a Pakistani national, were killed in Kulgam district in the morning, another two were killed in the afternoon in Pulwama district of the restive region.A police spokesperson said that the Kulgam joint operation by the Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Jammu and Kashmir Police was launched on Friday night after a specific input regarding the presence of terrorists in Chinigam area of the district.“During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists got ascertained they were given the opportunity to surrender, however, instead they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” the spokesperson said, adding: that the two terrorists were killed in the subsequent gunfight and their bodies were retrieved.Also Read: Prevented 75% more infiltration attempts across LoC this year compared to 2019: Indian ArmyThe suspected terrorists have been identified as Tariq Ahmad Mir, a resident of Divsar Kulgam, and Sameer Bhai Usman, a Pakistani national. Both are believed to be JeM operatives. “They were involved in many terror crimes and civilian atrocities including the killing of one police personnel,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that Inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar lauded the role of the forces for the timely and safely evacuation of civilians during the encounter and for showing restraint during the search operation. “...Security Forces exercised strict restraint. Terrorists fired UBGL & AK during the night. Civilians evacuated at first light. One M4 rifle & one pistol recovered,” Army’s Chinar Corps said in a tweet on Saturday. Keeping the view the pandemic, the bodies of the slain militants will be sent to Handwara for burial after completion of all medico-legal formalities. The nearest family members of the killed local terrorist shall be allowed to participate in the last rites, police said.Pulwama encounterTwo other militants were killed in a separate encounter at Dadoora area of Pulwama on Saturday afternoon.“2 unidentified terrorists killed. Incriminating materials, arms & ammunition including 02 AK rifles recovered. Search going on. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Police confirmed in a tweet.Kashmir has seen a spate of encounters this week. On October 7, three militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district , police said. A day before that, a suspected Hizbul Mujahideen militant was killed when he attacked a BJP activist in Ganderbal district of the Valley. The personal security officer of the activist was also injured in the attack and later succumbed to his injuries.So far, around 189 militants have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-militants-killed-in-two-encounters-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-pulwama/story-yf8p1zsHSh6aXMuxydNx8L.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Former Sena MLA Suresh Gore passes away due to Covid-19||Former Shiv Sena MLA from Khed assembly constituency Suresh Gore (Age 55) passed away on Saturday morning due to the Covid-19 infection.Gore is survived by his wife, son and daughter. He tested positive for Covid-19 21 days ago and undertook treatment at Chakan during the earlier stages. Later, when his condition was not improving, he was shifted to Pune’s Ruby Hospital. He passed away on Saturday morning. On Friday, IAS officer Sudhakar Shinde passed away due to Covid-19 and the following day, Gore passed away which has affected Pune’s administrative and political circles.Gore was the Shiv Sena MLA between 2014 and 2019. Earlier, he was a Nationalist Congress Party member and also represented the Pune Zilla Parishad. He was the vice-president of the Pune Zilla Parishad. Khed assembly constituency falls in Pune district and the Chakan MIDC industry is located in its jurisdiction.Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said, “We lost an emerging and active leader from Pune district.”Many political leaders from Pune district expressed their condolences.Gore also strongly represented farmers’ issues and opposed the pipeline project by the Pune Municipal Corporation at Bhama Askhed. He did not allow the PMC to go ahead with the project without the assurance of a compensation for the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/former-sena-mla-suresh-gore-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/story-Sz6DfHyyI3OU1KmWsRd6HL.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Longer monsoon will have no impact on the onset of winter: IMD||The city of Pune and most parts of Maharashtra is experiencing a delayed monsoon, however, the delayed withdrawal of rain won’t have an impact on the onset of the winter season, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The winter season generally commences from the end of November while India Meteorological Department (IMD) usually considers the month of January and February as the winter season. “The delayed post-withdrawal monsoon season will not have an impact on the winter season, as it is after the monsoon. Winter will commence from November end. The IMD will release a forecast about the winter season by the end of October or the start of November,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD Pune. The normal withdrawal monsoon date for the city is October 9. For this season, it is expected to start on October 15. “For the next few days, Pune and Nashik are likely to get light to moderate rain on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday while Mumbai is expected to have very light to light rains in the next three days,” said Kashyapi. On Friday, parts of Pimpri Chinchwad and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area received moderate showers in the evening, while there was no rain activity, noticed in the city. “It was just a passing shower, such activities are expected to happen for the next few days,” added Kashyapi. The maximum temperature of the day was 33 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 21 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/longer-monsoon-will-have-no-impact-on-the-onset-of-winter-imd/story-ai68ZsPYeayiWqQDOgDzzK.html
10-10-2020||City||Prevented 75% more infiltration attempts across LoC this year compared to 2019: Indian Army||The Army on Saturday said it has been able to prevent about three-fourth of infiltration attempts across the Line of Control (LoC), the de facto India-Pakistan border in Jammu & Kashmir, this year compared to 2019 even as Pakistan continued to push infiltrators and weapons to fuel terrorism.Lt Gen B S Raju, the general officer commanding of the Army’s Chinar Corps responsible for operations in the Kashmir Valley, said the situation along the LoC is under control even as ceasefire violations were happening to some extent. “It [ceasefire violations] help Pakistan in infiltration.”Raju cited intelligence inputs and said around 250-300 terrorists were ready across launch pads on the Pakistan side to infiltrate into Jammu & Kashmir. “We have been able to stop them despite their efforts to infiltrate,” he said. “Last year, around 130 persons infiltrated and this year the figure is below 30. Such is the change. And I hope this will also lead to an improvement in the internal situation,” he said on the sidelines of a function in Srinagar.Also Read: 2 terrorists killed in J-K’s Pulwama hours after another gunbattle in KulgamRaju said they foiled an attempt from the Pakistani side to send weapons, including four AK-74 rifles, using a tube across the Kishanganga River in Keran in Kupwara district on Saturday. “Our jawans were alert and owing to our surveillance equipment, we were able to recover that cache. This broadly shows that there has been no change in the intentions of Pakistan. And in future as well, we will offset their designs,” he said.Raju said there have been other attempts to send weapons into other parts of Jammu & Kashmir and even Punjab. “The motive to push weapons is to keep the people of Kashmir tangled so that terrorism remains here. We always try to stop this so that there is very little damage here. We want the help of the people to stop terrorism.”Raju said they were also continuously neutralising militants. “In the morning [Saturday] in South Kashmir, we were able to neutralise a foreign and a local terrorist. We have witnessed wherever a foreign terrorist is neutralised in a particular area, peace prevails there. In Pulwama and Shopian, owing to different operations in the past two-three months, there has been peace there.”Raju said the militant recruitment has overall decreased in the last six months. “In South Kashmir, the problem is worse than North Kashmir. Overall, the situation is under control. A month ago, the recruitment increased but it has again come down in the past 15 days. I hope the youth will pick the correct path and there will be a further reduction in recruitment.”Raju said many terrorists were also surrendering. “We do not advertise that thing but it is a good indicator.”He said they were awaiting the summary of evidence to the killing of three young men in a staged gunbattle in July. “Initial court of inquiry has concluded and, on that basis, we concluded that some wrong was committed. And on that basis, we have ordered a summary of the evidence which is halfway through. And we hope that it concludes soon so that we can go into the next stage.”Raju said contrary to reports, they have seen no indications that China and Pakistan were helping each other tactically. “We have seen in the news that China is helping Pakistan or Pakistan is helping China. We have no such indications. Owing to CPEC [China–Pakistan Economic Corridor] there is the presence of Chinese in Pakistan. Military cooperation in terms of equipment is there but we did not see any tactical help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prevented-75-more-infiltration-attempts-across-loc-this-year-compared-to-2019-indian-army/story-C78YPVMUtoBDi0SBfU1d2N.html
10-10-2020||City||Pimpri-Chinchwad top cop shares plan on ‘village defence party’||Krishna Prakash, commissioner of police, Pimpri- Chinchwad, has recently introduced the “village defence party” initiative in the jurisdiction controlled by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate. The initiative, described in the Maharashtra Police Act, empowers residents of an area chosen by the police to patrol and assist the police in their security endeavours, ensuring the area they operate in is protected. CP Prakash is using the initiative to supplement the shortage of staff on the Pimpri-Chinchwad police force, that came into existence on August 15, 2018. In an interview with Shalaka Shinde he shares details about the village defence party and how it will operate. How many villages will have your appointees in places under the village defence party initiative? We are planning to appoint persons in 250 village clusters. The provision is very much there (in the Maharashtra Police Act). Will they be armed? Not all of them. In any village, there will be eight-10 people who will be armed. They will be selected on the basis of their discipline, regularity in patrolling, their capacity to purchase a weapon and their background - criminal record or confidential record - or history of biased behaviour. Rifle procuring is not a difficult thing; it is available in government factories. In any case, procuring it will be their responsibility. How will these people be trained? We will talk with SRPF officials. We will get their help to train them. All of this will take six months, three months of which will be training time. We will need time to plan, choose the appointees. We want to increase traffic wardens also with the help of industries in these areas, municipal corporations - PMC, PCMC - and the rural area as well. There is no-one available to sponsor traffic wardens. Village defence parties will be helpful here. How will you handle a place like Hinjewadi – which is rural, but also houses the IT parks? Village defence officers (VDO) will work in the night only, not in the morning. If they are working as traffic wardens, they will be working with traffic police. What is your long term view of this shortage of staff? An advertisement has been placed for 750 police staff. We have already sent a proposal for three DCPs and four ACPs, and, I think it is in process. We have no DCP for traffic or crime. These are important posts. High ranking officials are required. In two phases, 1,150 staff has been sanctioned. The PCMC has a population of 25 lakh, but the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionnerate covers a population of 45 lakh, as per 2011 census; currently it must be 60 lakh. Compared to Pune city, it is much bigger. We have to augment this city with important facilities like QRT BDDS, dog units, police hospitals, etc. It is nascent and we cannot blame anyone. We need land. A letter, allegedly written by a constable, has made serious charges against an inspector and a former commissioner. Comment. The letter is to be verified properly; there are minute details. Unfortunately, because of the Covid19 situation, the inquiry has been given to ACP HQ and he is holding many charges. He has not been able to conduct the inquiry properly, but he did get a statement from the constable that he has not written the letter. Now there are two new ACPs. I will transfer the inquiry to one of them, once they join. Though information is quite direct, it needs thorough investigation. If the land exists, then the facts can be trusted. A PSI from Chakan police station was booked for dacoity. Comment He was booked after reasonable suspicion and grounds were found. We have registered a case against him as the kingpin, not as a pawn. Somehow, he got the hint and he escaped; he might have observed that accused were arrested. That must have alerted him. We have conclusive proof against him that needs to be verified by voice forensics. The phone seized from the accused has the recording of that officer showing he was directing each and everything. How have you personally managed to operate in these Covid times? I’m racing against time here. I’m unable to do my workouts; only on Sundays or Saturdays. Last Sunday, I ran 15km; last-to-last Sunday I ran 42km as part of the virtual Berlin marathon. This Sunday, I will be running 42km in the virtual Chicago marathon. I’m running, but am not getting the time for my whole workout to strengthen other parts of the body. I do not have a full-fledged team. Sleep has gone for a toss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prakash-shares-vision-plan-on-village-defence-party/story-Q1wdnggqs7XYVlYKmFksNN.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||7 injured in acid attack in Thane’s Bhiwandi, it started as petty fight||Seven persons were injured in a clash that also included an acid attack on Friday night while allegedly attempting to resolve a conflict between two groups in Anjurphata Bhiwandi. The injured were immediately shifted to Bhiwandi based hospital. Narpoli police are investigating the case.According to Narpoli police, the conflict started when one of the victims Nikhil Sharma, a resident of Tadali Sainagar area, while returning home from office on Thursday had an altercation with another person over a trivial issue. Sharma was allegedly beaten up in the scuffle that night. Also Read: Bombay high court grants pre-arrest bail to school manager booked for rapeOn Friday, Sharma, his friends Abhishek Sharma, Rohit Pandey and Suraj Patel, along with two-three other friends, went to the Anjur Phata residence of the man who had allegedly assaulted Sharma the previous evening to confront him about the incident. “It is then that a scuffle started between the two groups that led to injuries to seven persons. Acid was also thrown during the attack. One of the women who tried to intervene was also attacked by acid by two men,” said police. Narpoli police are yet to arrest the accused and have started searching for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-injured-in-acid-attack-in-thane-s-bhiwandi-it-started-as-petty-fight/story-g5oeDBQJwErGsnpTcBJKKI.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Pune man booked for kidnapping despite minor’s desire to live with accused||A 25-year-old from Bhosari in Pimpri-Chinchwad, was arrested by the local police on Thursday, in a fourth case of kidnapping registered against him in the past four years. The person he is accused of kidnapping has remained constant in all four cases - a girl who wants to live with him. The man has been identified as Nitin Suryavan Ghorpade, a resident of Khandoba Mala, Bhosari, according to police. This has happened due to an order of the Supreme Court in 2013, that mandates registration of FIR in every complaint of a minor missing in all states in the country. Every complaint of a minor person missing has since been registered as a case of kidnapping. On Thursday, Ghorpade was arrested by officials of Bhosari MIDC police station in a case registered under Section 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) in March 2019, against him. The first case was registered in 2017 when he was 22 and the girl was 15-years-old. Now, the girl is months away from adult status, but the man she claims to be in love with has a criminal record due to their relationship. “The girl is now pursuing some education. Her parents are against their match and she is a minor. Every chance she gets, she goes to him willingly. But, her parents register a fresh complaint against him each time,” said senior police inspector Shankar Awtade. “These two (accused and victim) are distant relatives and are members of the Pardhi community. The two are sure about being with each other, but the parents make these attempts to keep them away,” said police sub-inspector Pooja Kadam of the Bhosari police station. The police officials of Bhosari MIDC, where the 2019 case against him is registered, brought the man to Bhosari police station on Thursday claiming that the alleged kidnapping had happened in their jurisdiction. However, to the determined couple, the jurisdiction barely made any difference; the allegedly “kidnapped” girl walked into the police station next to her handcuffed partner. They have done this thrice earlier - once each in 2017 and 2018 in Bhosari police station, and once in Majalgaon police station in Beed in 2018. “She was visiting her grandparents in Beed when she called him there and they decided to take off. They were found - he was sent to jail and she was sent back to her parents,” said PI Awtade. While it is unclear whether the couple will be back together, the police are looking forward to the day when the girl turns 18 and the series of cases can be stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-kidnapping-despite-minor-s-desire-to-live-with-accused/story-eoutNQNAXKMmK2MZv8nXTP.html
10-10-2020||Dehradun||Portals of Hemkund Sahib shut for the year, over 8,500 pilgrims visited shrine||The portals of Sikh holy shrine Hemkund Sahib in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand was closed for this year on Saturday at 1:30 pm following all rituals and prayers. On Saturday, a batch of about 1,350 Sikh devotees witnessed the last prayers at the shrine before its portals closed ahead of the winter season. The process of the closure of the shrine started on Saturday morning following all rituals and prayers. The shrine, which opened on September 4 this year following relaxations under Unlock 4.0, welcomed around 8,500 pilgrims. The shrine was open for 36 days this year. Last year, more than 2.39 lakh pilgrims visited Hemkund Sahib.Also read: Republic TV asks Mumbai police to suspend probe in fake TRP caseSeva Singh, chief manager of Hemkund Sahib Management Trust said that this year in the 36-days that the shrine was open, the management received complete support from district administration, police and locals. “For this, the trust expresses gratitude to all. All the devotees who visited Hemkund Sahib have also fully supported the Trust by following the guidelines of Covid-19,” said Singh.Along with this, the portals of Hindu shrine Lokpal, the temple dedicated to Lord Ram’s brother Lakshman, was also closed for the year following all rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/portals-of-hemkund-sahib-shut-for-the-year-over-8-500-pilgrims-visit-shrine/story-A3rcxKrX4A4GmwfM4JJhmO.html
10-10-2020||Pune||9k-10k cases pending at cyber crime cell; lack of response from service providers leading to delay, say police||As many as 9,000-10,000 cases are pending at the cyber-crime cell of the Pune police till September, according to Sambhaji Kadam, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime and economic offence wing (EOW).Lack of response from banks, social media, Internet and telecom service providers have contributed to the mounting cases pending resolution at the cyber-crime cell, say officials.The cyber police have returned Rs 8.5 crore to the complainants in around 650 cases till July this year. However, more than double the complainants have lost their money. There are various reasons for the loss of this money, including people tricked into sharing information willingly. However, a major contributor is the lack of response from companies.Of 1,175 requests made to 11 service providers in 2019, 301 were rejected, and 419 were provided; rest remained unanswered.In 2020, so far, 1694 requests have been made to these companies. Of these 1,694 requests, 465 have been declined, 905 have been accepted and the rest remained unanswered.“There are times when we have sent 15-16 reminders for particular information and it still remains unanswered. This needs government intervention to make these companies respond on time,” said Kadam.The police either write to the nodal officers of the concerned or to the Computer Emergency Response Team, India (CERTIn) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. However, their responses are not always met with.“For all such companies, there is a single point of contact called the nodal officer who collects and provides this information sought by the police,” aid Sandip Gadiya, a cyber security expert.“There are multiple reasons why there is no response: the letter is not clear describing crime and sections invoked. In some cases, if the account is accessed from outside the country, the nodal officers cannot provide the information. In yet another type of cases, the nodal officers check if the quoted sections are rightly invoked. There is also the reason of servers of the company being located outside of India,” he said.“The problem is that it is as it is difficult to trace the money. Once it is traced, finding the name on the account and the original owner is another challenge. Also, these crimes are often committed from outside the jurisdiction of the local police. Amid these problems, it should be noted that it is binding for these companies to share this information. I will have to study about the legal recourse to this,” said advocate Vishal Muralikar who works as a public prosecutor in the local court where cyber-crime cases are heard.“There are other legal recourse that can be used by the police or the complainants themselves. However, all the processes culminate into the co-ordination between tech companies and the police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/9k-10k-cases-pending-at-cyber-crime-cell-lack-of-response-from-service-providers-leading-to-delay-say-police/story-kQ8V4AW5TkOs0JppeYlB6M.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Final year students of Pune varsity, affiliated colleges face technical glitches during mock tests||The second day of the mock tests of the final year exam students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges saw complaints like technical glitches, difficulty in login and irrelevant questions.The exams of the final year students will commence from October 12, whereas the mock tests have begun from Thursday. Kamlakar Shete, a final year student, said, “We are facing several issues while writing the mock tests. Some of the questions in the last phase question no. 58, 59 and 60 are not appearing in the mobile application.”Most of the students have not got the login id and password details from SPPU examination department, claim the students.“The helpline number provided by SPPU is not reachable most of the time and if it gets connected no one answers the calls,” said Shete.As many as 2.5 lakh students will be appearing for the final year exams of SPPU and affiliated colleges. Of these, two lakh students have chosen online option while the 50,000 students have opted for the offline option. For the offline exams, 113 centres have been identified where the physical exams will be conducted.These exams will be of 50 marks with multiple choice questions for one hour. Currently, SPPU faculties are preparing question paper sets for around 3,300 different subjects. Vaibhav Edke, president, Maharashtra Students Welfare Association, said, “Weare receiving complaints from students about the mock tests, there are many issues due to which students are not able to give this mock test.”He claimed that engineering students are asked irrelevant questions in these mock tests. “For example, they are been asked random general knowledge questions which are not related to the given subject. If this is the situation in the mock tests, then during the examination students will be in trouble,” he said. Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation, SPPU, said, “We are receiving many calls from students about technical issues, login issues and other issues while appearing for the mock test.”“If the students read the instruction manual properly they can appear for the exam easily, and we will resolve all the technical issues of the students before the examination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/final-year-students-of-pune-varsity-affiliated-colleges-face-technical-glitches-during-mock-tests/story-2xyeItCdIXcppSL6ZCtMaJ.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Pune residents should not step out without masks: Ajit Pawar||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday expressed his unhappiness over many residents not wearing masks. At the meeting with elected members, police and government officials in the city on Friday, Pawar said, “During my visits to various parts of the city, I noticed that many citizens are not wearing masks. I was told by the police and municipal corporation officials that they are regularly fining violators, but people are still neglecting the virus prevention guidelines. It is a must to wear masks. Residents should not step out without wearing it.”The guardian minister even pulled up an official at the meeting for not wearing a mask. The deputy chief minister later meet the officials of Pune Smart Development Corporation Limited and instructed them to take steps to complete projects on time.The minister told smart city officials to chalk out plans and take steps to improve the ranking of Pune city in smart city projects. The ranks of cities under the Smart Cities Mission are rated over factors, including project implementation and funds utilisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-residents-should-not-step-out-without-masks-ajit-pawar/story-U0YyNWNAOnP8YVwo52wAZL.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in higher end of ‘moderate’ category, likely to improve marginally on Sunday||The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the higher end of the ‘moderate’ category on Saturday, but a government forecasting agency said it is likely to improve marginally on October 11. The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) stood at 197, which falls in the higher end of the ‘moderate’ category. It was in ‘poor’ category at 204 on Friday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said PM 2.5 is the lead pollutant in Saturday’s AQI and is likely to improve to the ‘moderate’ category by Sunday.“The overall Delhi AQI is in the higher end of ‘moderate’ and at the edge of the ‘poor’ category, with PM2.5 as the lead pollutant,” SAFAR said. It said the AQI is forecasted to marginally improve but remain in the ‘moderate’ category for tomorrow while further AQI is forecasted to improve by October 12, which will also remain in the moderate category.It said the low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify to depression and move west northwestwards and influence the circulations in the north and central India. “A shift in Delhi surface wind direction, northwesterly to southeasterly by October 12 is forecasted. This could influence air quality positively in the coming week,” it said.Due to stubble burning around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions, the fire count was found at 253 on Saturday, SAFAR said. Starting October 15, stricter measures to fight air pollution will also come into force in Delhi and its neighbourhood as part of the Graded Response Action Plan, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017.These measures include increasing bus and metro services, hiking parking fees and stopping use of diesel generator sets when the air quality turns poor.When the situation turns “severe”, GRAP recommends closure of brick kilns, stone crushers and hot mix plants, sprinkling of water, frequent mechanised cleaning of roads and maximising power generation from natural gas.The measures to be followed in the “emergency” situation include stopping entry of trucks in Delhi, ban on construction activities and introduction of the odd-even car rationing scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-in-higher-end-of-moderate-category-likely-to-improve-marginally-on-sunday/story-ORwIGw7k3EtyBRQiAL3MQP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Contempt notice to Cidco for failure to hand over mangrove land to forest department||Environmentalists have issued a contempt notice to state planning agency City industrial development corporation ltd (Cidco) for failure to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction to the Maharashtra forest department. A similar notice was also issued to the state urban development and environment department to look into why Cidco has failed to hand over the Mangrove land.The notice issued to six top Cidco officials, including the vice chairman and managing director, joint directors, and the law officer, directs the planning agency to assess the extent of mangrove area and hand it over to the state within seven days or non-compliance would entail civil and criminal contempt proceedings against Cidco under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.Petitioners before the Bombay high court in various matters pertaining to mangrove and wetland conservation, environment group Vanashakti issued the legal notice on Friday. “Despite the state mangrove cell repeatedly writing to Cidco to handover mangroves to the forest department, the agency has remained silent on many occasions and this conduct is nothing short of holding themselves above the law. Such high handedness will be brought up before courts if Cidco again chooses to remain tight lipped,” said Zaman Ali, counsel for Vanashakti and advocate, Bombay high court (HC).Also Read: Republic TV asks Mumbai police to suspend probe in fake TRP case, cites petition in SCThe notice cited orders passed by the HC on October 6, 2005 that mangrove areas on government owned lands, including those belonging to state agencies such as Cidco, needed to be handed over to the forest department within a period of 12 weeks from the declaration of the same as protected forests. The HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018.“Years of non-compliance of orders of the HC cannot be condoned,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti and member of a HC appointment committee on preservation of mangroves.He added that non-cooperation from bodies like Cidco was primarily responsible for the delay. “We have time and again reminded the forest department to take custody of mangrove areas but they have not been able to do so due to the non-cooperation from urban development bodies like Cidco. Even the HC-appointed committee had directed almost a year ago to comply with the HC orders. Now we have no option but to seek judicial intervention which we will do.”Also Read: BMC’s predictions fall short, Covid-19 cases increase faster than anticipatedThe notice further alleged that Cidco, appointed as the special planning authority for the Navi Mumbai new town project, had omitted land occupied by mangroves near villages of Kunde, Wahal, and Dapoli in Raigad district in its final development plan (DP).“We have asked Cidco to initiate steps to modify and amend the DP precisely demarcating all mangrove forest lands and follow-up with the transfer of said areas to the forest department,” said Stalin.Priya Ratmabe, public relations officer, Cidco said, “The entire matter is under examination by Cidco. It is being studied by different departments, and we can comment on the matter after due consideration.”Another Cidco official requesting anonymity said, “There has been no study so far to examine the exact mangrove area within our jurisdiction, and neither has there been any decision to undertake such a study yet. However, some mangrove areas have been marked in certain DPs as green zones.”Maharashtra has 15,312.6 hectare (ha) mangroves on government land, declared as reserved forests. However, 13,716.7 ha land has been handed over to the forest department by seven Konkan districts, and the majority of the 1,592.8 ha of remaining mangroves land remains with Raigad district (1,195 ha).In addition to this, approximately 2,000-ha land held by planning authorities such as Mumbai metropolitan regional development authority (MMRDA), Cidco, Maharashtra industrial development corporation (MIDC), Maharashtra housing and area development authority (Mhada), and various municipal corporations have neither been measured nor handed over.On September 18, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had directed all Konkan district collectors and state agencies to transfer mangrove areas under their jurisdiction to the forest department for declaration as reserved forest within two months. So far, the Maharashtra tourism development corporation (MTDC) is the only state agency which will be handing over 500-acre of mangrove area across the Manori-Gorai belt within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/contempt-notice-to-cidco-for-failure-to-hand-over-mangrove-land-to-forest-department/story-gvxBDm0NHcsMdxwFcCFKkK.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi pollution control body imposes fine on FICCI for violating dust control norms||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 20 lakh on the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) for violating dust control norms at a demolition site on Tansen Marg.According to an official order, FICCI has been told to deposit the fine within 15 days. Directions have been issued not to carry out or restart any demolition activity without installing an anti-smog gun at the project site,the order read. “An undertaking to this effect should be submitted within 7 days. You should also take adequate measures to rectify the deficiencies observed during the inspection on October 9 and submit a compliance report within a week,” it said.  The DPCC had earlier asked FICCI to stop work at the demolition site. It is mandatory to install anti-smog guns at construction and demolition sites larger than 20,000 square meters, according to government guidelines.Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Friday that there are 39 sites having 20,000 square metre of area in Delhi and six of these sites do not have anti-smog guns and have been told to stop work.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-control-body-imposes-fine-on-ficci-for-violating-dust-control-norms/story-ydFcsRZZ7cyXcKuiJXp7AM.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Move Covid-19 patients to Delhi government hospitals ahead of Hindu Rao strike: Satyendar Jain||The Delhi government on Saturday ordered shifting of all Covid-19 patients at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital to Delhi government facilities, days after doctors and nurses went on a symbolic strike to protest against non-payment of salaries for the past three months. The medical staff at the hospital, which is the biggest municipal health facility in the city, have threatened to go on a complete strike from Sunday. “Doctors and staff of Hindu Rao Hospital have called for a strike Sunday onwards. There are Covid-19 patients being treated at the hospital. We have directed that all the patients be shifted to Delhi government hospitals. They can go to any of the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, whichever is closer,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.Also Read: Resident doctors of Hindu Rao threaten indefinite strike over pending salariesThe hospital was designated as a Covid-19 treatment facility in mid-June after the first surge in the cases of the viral disease in Delhi. The hospital has 343 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Jain further said that the corporation should hand over hospitals to the Delhi government if they are unable to pay salaries to their staff. “The doctors and staff should be paid and if the corporation cannot do so, they should hand over the hospitals to the Delhi government,” said Jain, referring to multiple strikes the staff has had to go on due to the non-payment of salaries.Describing Jain’s comments as “irresponsible”, Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation, said the decision to shift patients was not taken by the Delhi government. “The decision to move the Covid-19 patients was taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The corporation had raised the matter in one of the previous meetings. Hindu Rao hospital was getting few Covid-19 patients -- 15 or 25 at any given time. There are over 900 beds in the hospital. We thought it would be better utilised if we treated non-Covid-19 patients,” he said.The DDMA is headed by the Lieutenant Governor. There were 23 Covid-19 patients at Hindu Rao hospital on Saturday. Of them, 11 were moved to Lok Nayak hospital and two were shifted to Aruna Asaf Ali hospital. Three patients are still admitted at the hospital as they are critical and in ICU; the rest have been discharged.The striking doctors, meanwhile, rejected claims by the civic body that salaries have not been paid due to paucity of funds.“Why should doctors and nurses, who are at the forefront of the Covid-19 fight, have to go on strike to get their basic right of salary? And, it cannot be a matter of the MCD not having any funds. The corporation generates hundred of crores in taxes every month; do you know how much they need to pay the doctors and nurses in all hospitals and dispensaries run by the north corporation? Just Rs 13 crore,” said Dr Abhinav Sardana, the president of the Hindu Rao resident doctors’ association. Currently, there are over 16,000 beds reserved for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across the city in both government and private hospitals.Jain said that the government was taking measures but to prevent a surge in cases people should take precautions such as wearing a mask, maintaining social distance, and hand hygiene.The mayor said, “The statements by the health minister were highly irresponsible. The Delhi government owes us Rs 1,600 crore. Instead of paying us the money so that we can run the corporations efficiently, they have been making allegations that we cannot run the corporation and that we should hand over the hospitals to them. Would they be able to run their services if the Centre did not pay the dues,” he said.“As for the doctors, I have requested them to withdraw the strike. We are disbursing salaries on priority. Last week, we paid the pensioners. Next, we will pay the doctors and sanitation workers. We are trying to arrange funds for their salaries and they should receive it in another 10 to 15 days,” said Jai Prakash.But the doctors said they were yet to receive any assurance by the civic body.“We had been contacted by the mayor on Friday but have received no written assurance on when the salaries will be disbursed. As planned, we will go on a strike from tomorrow morning,” said Dr Sagardeep Bawa, vice president of the resident doctors’ association of Hindu Rao hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/move-covid-19-patients-to-delhi-government-hospitals-ahead-of-hindu-rao-strike-satyendar-jain/story-YcJPIYjS3AYFV9DtW7s94I.html
10-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan panchayat polls phase 4: Over 38% voter turnout recorded till 12pm||Over 38 per cent voter turnout was recorded till noon in the fourth and last phase of panchayat elections in Rajasthan on Saturday, an official said. State Election Commission secretary Shyam Rajpurohit said 38.91 per cent voters exercised their franchise till 12 pm. The voting began at 7.30 am and is going on peacefully. There are 30.56 lakh voters, including 15.97 lakh males and 14.59 lakh females, in 897 gram panchayats where voting is taking place. He said the elections are being held according to the guidelines related to Covid-19. A total of 4,629 candidates are in the fray for the post of sarpanch and 11,373 for the post of panch, he said, adding that 26 sarpanch and 3,714 panch have already been elected unopposed. EVMs are being used for the polling to elect sarpanch while ballot papers are being used to elect panch. The first phase voting took place on September 28, while the second phase was held on October 3. The third phase polling took place on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-panchayat-polls-phase-4-over-38-voter-turnout-recorded-till-12pm/story-EJVzOfHzxqxrpUtZ1MiIlM.html
10-10-2020||Arts||Shobha Deepak Singh on recovering from Covid-19: Jo Dara So Mara||As the festive season approaches, artistes are trying to reclaim the stage and take the pandemic head on. The fight isn’t easy, but the fighters aren’t giving up either. “Woh dialogue hai na: Jo Dara So Mara. So, darna nahi hai,” says Padma Shri Shobha Deepak Singh, director of Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra (SBKK) in Mandi House, who recently resumed work after getting discharged from hospital where she was recovering from Covid-19.     “On September 20, I realised I was Covid positive, and soon got hospitalised,” says Singh, 77, who had been working out of her office all through the lockdown period. “I used to go every day for two or two and a half hours. So when I got to know that I’m Covid positive, I was so sure that some artiste at the institute would also have got corona. We got 40-45 people tested, but nobody tested positive besides me and my husband (Deepak Singh). The doctor has been thinking, how is it possible,” she quips, adding, “But I wasn’t afraid. Some friends of mine even went abroad or to remote places because they didn’t want to get corona, and still got it. One has to take precautions, but can’t stay afraid.”   A few days back, when Singh resumed work in her office, she was surprised to find that nobody was available at the rehearsal for SBKK’s Ramlila, which has received Government’s permission to be staged. “Then suddenly all the dancers appeared on the stage with flowers, and started clapping. It was such a touching welcome... I have been missing the noise of ghungroos in the institute. During the pandemic, we shifted all classes online since the parents of foreign students were concerned about the health of their children. But, I had decided that the Ramlila would happen this year as well! Its first show was in 1957 and has been happening since; I didn’t want to give it a break. The only reason why it could have been cancelled is if the Government didn’t allow us,” says Singh reiterating how performing artistes have had a tough time due to the pandemic. “During May-June, the Kalbelia dancers who I have worked with in the past contacted me saying they have no money. And without thinking for a second I sent them whatever I could.” One who is known to be averse to the very thought of recording live performances, choreographed by her, and cringe when people miss out giving credits, Singh has for the first time agreed to this year’s Ramlila at SBKK to get recorded. “What to do! In life you always have to go along with how the society moves. Although 100 people can watch it live at the open lawns now, we had earlier thought of an alternative incase we didn’t get the permission. The alternative was to record the whole performance from October 10 to 12, and upload the video on YouTube, from October 17 (when Navratri begins), along with a ticker that says that its copyright lies with SBKK. Even now we’ll go ahead with this plan,” she adds.          Author tweets @HennaRakheja Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/shobha-deepak-singh-on-recovering-from-covid-19-jo-dara-so-mara/story-qYbFreW9lXWOxUB2R6mdrJ.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bandh call by Dalit outfits against Hathras incident disrupts life in Punjab’s Jalandhar, Phagwara||Markets in Doaba, particularly in Jalandhar and Phagwara cities, wore a deserted look and traffic was thin on Saturday in response to the Bharat Bandh call by Dalit organisations to protest the Hathras incident in Uttar Pradesh and alleged post-matric scholarship scam involving a Congress minister in Punjab. The Doaba region of Punjab, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts, is affected by Dalit protests as it constitutes a major chunk of the state’s Scheduled Caste (SC) population. Of Punjab’s 2.8 crore population, Dalits make up 32%, the highest in the country. Punjab Agro Industries Corporation chairman Joginder Singh Mann led supporters in holding protests in Phagwara. Mann said that the rising number of atrocities against the underprivileged and weaker sections of society in Uttar Pradesh has exposed the “anti-poor face” of the BJP government in the state. He accused the state government of suppressing voices against injustice. Paramjit Singh Kainth, the National Scheduled Castes Alliance president, demanded the suspension of the Punjab minister for social welfare Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his involvement in the scholarship scam, saying that the additional chief secretary, social justice, empowerment and minorities, had already cited his role in his report to the chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bandh-call-by-dalit-outfits-against-hathras-incident-disrupts-life-in-punjab-s-jalandhar-phagwara/story-6PgsV0ICy9F8bTVRDQwcCL.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court grants pre-arrest bail to school manager booked for rape||The Bombay high court has granted anticipatory bail to a 63-year-old rape accused citing the First Information Report (FIR) registered against him about two years after the alleged sexual assault.Justice Bharati Dangre, while granting bail to the accused on Wednesday, said the FIR only “vaguely” refers to the incident that allegedly took place “in the month of May or June 2018, without any specific date or time”.The 63-year-old was booked in Maharashtra’s Rajgad on August 27 under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 376 (rape) and 354 (outraging modesty of a woman), and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on the basis of a woman’s complaint.Also Read: Woman thrown out of car, left for dead after rape attemptIn her complaint, the woman alleged the man allegedly forced himself on her on the promise of providing her work that she was looking for to support herself and her daughter after separating from her husband. She alleged the man also misbehaved with her 14-year-old niece.The man moved the high court for anticipatory bail , saying he was falsely implicated at the behest of a trustee who had been expelled for fraud from a school where he worked as a manager.The court found substance in his claim. The allegations under the POCSO Act in respect to the alleged misbehaviour with the 14-year-old also lack in detail and was reported after two-and-a-half years, said the court.Also Read: Man rapes his 10-year-old daughter, arrested from Mumbai’s Vakola areaExperts say it is not uncommon that victims of sexual assault don’t immediately file complaints with the police; it could be due to trauma or even the social stigma around filing a case that could hold them back from approaching the police. The court further said the accused’s custodial interrogation was not necessary as he is a “responsible person and is working with a public charitable trust as a manager. He has roots in society and his chances of fleeing the course of justice are minimal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-school-manager-booked-for-rape/story-mpiKwSbgpw8pa1bAsFxApJ.html
10-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s first woman cop to get top award||Nina Singh , a 1989-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer has become the first ADG-level officer from Rajasthan to receive the Ati Utkrisht Seva Medal (AUSM) by the Ministry of Home Affairs for professional excellence. Singh is Rajasthan’s first woman IPS officer. She is currently posted as ADG (Training) in Rajasthan Police. She is responsible for the formulation of policy and its execution. She has worked as Joint Director in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), New Delhi, and supervised several high-profile cases pertaining to anti-corruption, economic offences, bank frauds and sports integrity. She was the member-secretary of Rajasthan State Commission for Women, a watchdog body that works to protect the rights and interests of women. She has been closely associated with the police reform initiatives of Rajasthan. Singh also co-authored research papers with Noble prize winners in Economics, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-first-woman-cop-to-get-top-award/story-aLqaD0iGv9NUw9lNHJcb5K.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC frowns over continued closure of senior citizen tribunals||The Bombay high court has asked the Maharashtra government why senior citizen tribunals set up under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 have not resumed work yet.“Various authorities have resumed functioning physically or through video conferencing long ago, there is no reason for this tribunal to continue to be closed,” said the bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Milind Jadhav.The bench added that the Act of 2007, a beneficial legislation, is enacted for providing succour to senior citizens suffering because of the neglect by their children and there would be many senior citizens in need of immediate redressal.HC has, therefore, asked the state government to specify when the tribunals would resume functioning physically or through video conferencing as may be found fit.The court was hearing a petition filed by a former Uttar Pradesh minister presently residing in Mumbai, seeking a direction to his son to remove himself, his family along with their belongings from the former Bahujan Samaj Party leader’s flat in Mumbai.Also Read: Mumbai: BMC’s predictions fall short, Covid-19 cases increase faster than anticipatedHe had moved HC directly for the relief on the ground that the tribunals established under the 2007 act had stopped functioning since March 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. He had urged that in the circumstances, HC should pass appropriate orders, as prayed by him.Responding to the merits of the case, the former UP minister’s son argued that his father had been a member of a legislative assembly and also had been a cabinet minister and therefore he was not without support and it was not as if he was unable to maintain himself. He submitted that his father’s application for reliefs under the 2007 Act would not be maintainable.Also Read: Statewide bandh in Maharashtra over Maratha quota row todayHC refused to enter into the family dispute after noticing that both the parties had roped in the wife of the petitioner and were levelling various allegations and counter allegations.“We do not wish to adjudicate the issue whether the petitioner can seek this relief before the tribunal established under the Act of 2007,” said the bench.“Assuming he can, merely because the tribunal is temporarily closed, the writ jurisdiction cannot be exercised to issue directions to the private parties and adjudicate the disputed questions of facts. Neither of the party is living in penury, and what is raised before us is a purely domestic dispute,” it added.HC, however, found it necessary to look into the larger issue - the continued closure of the senior citizen tribunals and called for an explanation from the government. It has posted the petition for further hearing on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-frowns-over-continued-closure-of-senior-citizen-tribunals/story-8HGzMq3rmp72DQghReuLUO.html
10-10-2020||Dehradun||UP man attempts suicide after rape accusation: Police||A 23-year-old man attempted suicide in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor district, days after a 21-year-old woman registered a rape case against him, his brother, and father, police said. Police superintendent Swapn Kishor said on Friday they are probing the rape charges and have found the man attempted suicide on Thursday night. He added the accused was rushed to a hospital and his condition is now stable.Kishor said the man was booked for rape along with his brother and father on October 4. He said that the woman has alleged the three abducted her in December 2018, locked her up in their house in Bijnor, and raped her for two years. Also Read: 27-year-old unemployed engineer dies by suicide in DehradunThe woman told the police she later became pregnant and delivered twins, who are currently with the man’s family in UP, before escaping in August and filing the complaint in October. She “managed to escape... [to] Roorkee during the [Covid-19] lockdown, where she narrated her ordeal to her family. Her brother lodged the complaint on her behalf”, Kishor said. Another police officer involved in the probe into the case, however, said that the 23-year-old had earlier posted photographs with the woman on Facebook and described the woman as his wife. The officer added that in some other Facebook posts, the man said they had a court marriage after falling in love and that he was being framed in the case. “The probe will look into all these angles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/up-man-attempts-suicide-after-rape-accusation-police/story-SkvHeiB2xAlceLmkuCYsdP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC’s predictions fall short, Covid-19 cases increase faster than anticipated||On October 4, there were 22,000 Covid-19 more cases than the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had predicted in September. Prior to this, BMC had predicted the number of active cases would reach 26, 628 by September 15; however, the number of active cases was 30, 879 by then. This indicates more rapid growth of Covid-19 cases than anticipated by city authorities.The BMC had predicted that the number of Covid-19 cases would reach 191,000 by October 4, whereas the number of positive cases in Mumbai was 213,000 by then. The number of daily infections has been hitting a record frequently. On Wednesday, 2,838 Covid-19 cases, the highest so far, were reported in Mumbai, followed by 2,823 cases on Thursday and 2,289 fresh cases on Friday. The total number of cases has reached 225,000 in the city so far.The authorities’ predictions are crucial since they plan the scaling up of the health machinery, which comprises bed management, testing kits, and ventilators, based on them.Also Read: With 73,272 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 6.97 millionAccording to experts, prediction models fail due to irresponsible human behaviour with regard to following social distancing norms or wearing a mask. Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Apart from Covid-19 being unpredictable, the biology of the virus is not a mathematical model. Human behaviour is a key reason for viral transmission. If citizens act recklessly, don’t follow the rules of social distancing or wear masks, the number of cases is going to increase sharply. Any prediction will fail unless all citizens self-regulate. During the festival season, citizens did not wear masks or follow rules of social distancing, which led to the surge in cases in the following days.”The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai had peaked in May but gradually reduced after June. However, after the festive season, there was an increase in cases by the end of August. The daily number of Covid-19 cases has been reporting a sharp increase with over 2,000 cases being reported in Mumbai since the second week of September. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded its highest number of Covid-19 cases with 2, 848 fresh cases taking the total number of cases in the city to 219,000.Joshi added that people make simple mistakes like removing masks in enclosed places. “I want to advise citizens to not remove masks while speaking, or while they are in the toilet. Avoid removing masks as much as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-s-predictions-fall-short-covid-19-cases-increase-faster-than-anticipated/story-StROKjHchBkFAPpiffPYMI.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Statewide bandh in Maharashtra over Maratha quota row today||A statewide bandh is being observed in Maharashtra on Saturday, over the quota row. The bandh call has been given by several Maratha outfits; they are demanding restoration of reservation for their community members in jobs and education.On September 9, the Supreme Court (SC) had stayed the implementation of the law granting reservation to Marathas and referred the matter to a larger constitutional bench. The state government has not shown any “extraordinary situation” which warrants the reservation, the top court had said.Also Read: Maratha outfits turn down Maharashtra government’s decision to extend EWS quota to community, vow to intensify protestsVarious organisations have been pressuring the state government to demand removal of SC’s stay on the law. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had told the protesters earlier that the state government will move the Supreme Court again on the issue of reservation. The government’s decision to bring Marathas under the 10 per cent quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) also did not go down well with the community and community leaders staged protests outside residences of members of Parliament (MPs) and legislators.Also Read: What Uddhav Thackeray says on Maratha quota row“We have decided to turn down the government’s decision to bring us under the EWS quota as it does not serve any purpose. Our immediate demand is that the state government should immediately safeguard the interest of our youths who have secured admissions or government jobs under SEBC reservation stayed by the top court. Secondly, the schemes which are being shown as earmarked for the community are old ones and meant for other communities too. The state government can add 12% more seats in admissions to secure the quota for students from the community,” Maratha Mahasangh leader Rajendra Kondhare said.Amid protest against the state government for failing to present the case in front of the apex court, Ashok Chavan, who heads a state cabinet sub-committee on the Maratha reservation issue, said that it was fighting a legal battle and Maratha outfits should appreciate its efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/statewide-bandh-in-maharashtra-today-despite-ews-quota-extension-for-maratha-community/story-iZfsS9YeISTFg6INeNoRVP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP poll panel meets in Sonepat to discuss Baroda byelection candidate||A day after the BJP and its ally Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) decided to put up a joint candidate for the November 3 Baroda byelection, the state election committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party meets in Sonepat on Saturday to discuss the probable candidate. This will be the first meeting of the state BJP’s poll panel to shortlist candidates for Baroda. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is in Gohana to discuss his party’s agenda for the bypoll. He will be meeting state unit chief OP Dhankar, state agriculture minister JP Dalal, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, Union ministers Ratan Lal Kataria, Faridabad MP Krishan Pal Gurjar, former state finance minister Captain Abhimanyu, former education minister Ram Bilas Sharma in nearby Sonepat. Dhankar said the names of probable candidates for Baroda will be sent to the BJP’s central election committee that will take a final call. “On Friday evening, senior leaders of the BJP and the JJP met in Delhi. We have decided to announce a joint candidate of the coalition to fight on the BJP’s symbol. We are confident of winning this election”, Dhankar said. The Baroda assembly seat fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda, who represented the rural constituency in 2009, 2014 and 2019. The Indian National Lok Dal won the seat from 1977 to 2005. The saffron party’s nominee has never won from the Baroda constituency, which has 54 villages. Half the voters belong to the Jat community. In the 2019 assembly elections, Congress nominee Sri Krishan Hooda defeated wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt by 4,840 votes. The nomination process started from Friday and the form can be filed till October 16. Scrutiny of documents will be done on October 17. The withdrawal of papers will be allowed till October 19. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-poll-panel-meets-in-sonepat-to-discuss-baroda-byelection-candidate/story-K9JTbcTzn0mi3q9zt09ylO.html
10-10-2020||Lucknow||UP govt releases SOPs for festivals and political events, key detail here||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday released detailed guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for festivities and political activities, especially in view of the assembly bypolls in seven constituencies of UP to be held amid the coronavirus pandemic. The guidelines mandate separate entry and exit points for venues of all mass religious activities and political rallies and isolation rooms at all such places for any person displaying Covid-19 symptoms apart from other precautions. Though not mandatory, the guidelines ask organisers to consider CCTV surveillance systems to monitor adherence to Covid containment measures such as wearing masks and social distancing at the venues. The guidelines also ask organisers of religious or political mass gatherings to encourage pregnant women, persons above 65 years of age, children below 10, and those with comorbidities (serious illnesses) to stay at home and it also states that none of the organising members or staff should be in these categories as well. The Friday order clarifies that none of such public activities can be held without prior permission from the district administration and no such activities will be allowed in containment zones. The guidelines say that idols should be installed at open spaces, kept smaller; idols/tazia should not be installed/ kept at road crossings; small vehicles with minimum people should be in attendance for immersion processions, and routes for such processions should be planned in advance. Chief secretary RK Tiwari released the elaborate point-by-point guidelines following the order he had issued on October 1 that paved the way for unlocking almost all activities by allowing a graded reopening of schools, a partial reopening of movie theatres, and bigger gatherings, including political and religious events (Durga Puja, Ramleela, Dussehra, other festivals and political activities). Also Read: Consumers trim overall spending due to Covid-19The guidelines/SOPs state that the venues for religious events should be selected in advance with proper permissions in place and that the area (boundaries) of the venue should be earmarked. It’s mandatory for all such venues to have separate entrance and exit points; the venues should be adequately equipped with sanitisation systems, thermal scanning, physical distancing circles on the ground/floor, or hand sanitisation facilities. According to the guidelines, if any person -- be it among organisers, staff, or visitors shows any Covid symptoms, then he/she should be politely turned away and advised to seek medical assistance. Also Read: Kumaon literature festival kicks off Saturday In cases where community feast or food distribution is organised, then hygiene and social distancing should be maintained. It also states that it will be the responsibility of the organizers to provide for masks, sanitations etc to the staff at the venues and if any monetary transactions have to take place at the venues, then the organisers should arrange for contactless payments. The guidelines prohibit spitting in public places and direct all venues to have covered bins for the safe disposal of masks, gloves, or similar items. It also asks for mapping of nearest health facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-releases-sops-for-festivals-and-political-events-key-detail-here/story-SW0Tv9tgMn5amEdS5eqbvN.html
10-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to introduce extra trains, run for more hours from October 12||With the rush of passengers increasing during the festive season, the Kolkata Metro plans to introduce extra trains and stretch the timings of their operations from Monday.Instead of 122 trains, the Metro will now run 146 trains at an interval of eight minutes. The services will start from 8 am and continue till 9:30 pm from Friday to Saturday. The last trains will leave their stations at 8:30 pm instead of 8:00 pm.Services on Sundays will also be extended from October 18. Instead of 58 trains, there would be 64 trains on Sundays from 10:10 am to 9:30 pm. Each train carries around 400 passengers.Also Read: Phoolbagan station of Kolkata’s East-West Metro starts functioningMetro services resumed operations from September 14 over five months after they were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. From October 4, the services have been available on Sundays.The Kolkata Metro is the city’s lifeline and connects some of the major shopping destinations. With less than a fortnight left for the Durga Puja, the passenger count has been steadily increasing.While around 50,000 passengers normally take the Metro every day. On Friday, over 71,000 commuters availed the Metro services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-to-introduce-extra-trains-run-for-more-hours-from-october-12/story-qSsFUNALXb07agyVFWmmTI.html
10-10-2020||Education||Maharashtra relaxes admission criteria for engineering and professional courses||Admission to Maharashtra’s engineering colleges will now be easier for aspirants as the state’s higher and technical education department has reduced the cut-off by 5% for Class 12 scores.In a notification late Friday, the department announced modifications in the eligibility conditions and requirements for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate professional courses in Maharashtra’s colleges.For admission to engineering courses, the candidates should have obtained at least 45% (taken together) in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics in their Class 12 exams and a non-zero score in the state Common Entrance Test (CET). The cut-off for students from backward classes and economically weaker sections is 40%, the same as persons with disability.Also Read: UGC declares 24 universities as fake. Here’s full listEarlier, the cut-off was 50% in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics (taken together) in Class 12 exams for general category students and 45% for backward category students.Along with engineering, the cut-offs for admissions to undergraduate courses in Pharmacy, Hotel Management and Catering Technologies, Law, Fine Arts, and Design, have also been reduced by 5% in higher secondary exams. Sources in the government said they have reduced cut-offs to attract more students in these streams.Over the past few years, there have been substantial vacancies in Maharashtra’s engineering colleges. In 2019-20, almost 50% of the engineering seats in the state were vacant and in 2018-19, almost 56% were vacant. The number of vacancies was more pronounced in traditional engineering courses. The state government and the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE)—the governing body for all technical institutes—have introduced a slew of measures to fill the vacancies.Also Read: University of Mumbai’s final-year exams run smoothly; 2.09 lakh students take exams glitch-freeIn fact, Maharashtra is one of the six states that requested AICTE to not approve any newer engineering colleges.An official in the CET cell, requesting anonymity, said that engineering courses, particularly new ones such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, were still in demand.“This year, close to 5.32 lakh candidates have registered for the CET, which is almost a lakh more than 2019. This shows that students are interested in studying engineering,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/maharashtra-relaxes-admission-criteria-for-engineering-and-professional-courses/story-SyKxq4vU4NuVd9rSzeIZBN.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality remains poor for the fourth consecutive day||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the ‘poor’ zone on Saturday morning, with the air quality index (AQI) at 217, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data at 9am.Air quality enters poor zone between 201-300 mark. The average AQI has been in the poor zone since Wednesday, when air quality plunged into the ‘poor’ zone for the first time since June 28. On Friday the 24-hour average AQI was 202. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the central government’s air quality monitoring and forecast wing, said on Friday AQI is expected to remain in the poor category even though it could see a slight improvement on October 11 and 12. Air quality takes a sharp downward turn every year from October onwards, when a drop in temperature, change in wind speeds and direction, and smoke from stubble burning in neighbouring states, apart from local sources of pollution, combine to make Delhi one of the most polluted cities in the world.Also Read: Connaught Place will get smog tower in 10 months, says Kejriwal“Air quality is set to improve on October 11 to moderate category. The low pressure system formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify and influence air circulation in north India. A shift in Delhi’s surface wind direction, from north-westerly to southeasterly is likely by October 12. This could influence air quality in the coming week. Stubble burning fires have been observed around Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring border regions,” it said. According to experts, though faster winds play a major role in dispersing pollutants, they are not helping Delhi in the prevailing circumstances since winds are not strong through the day. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department, even though the average wind speed is 15-16 kmph during the day, the north-westerly winds bringing in fumes from stubble burning of crops in Haryana and Punjab is adding pollutants in the atmosphere to the northwestern region including Delhi-NCR. However, the wind speed is low from evening to morning -- thus, not allowing dispersion of pollutants -- and a drop in night temperature permits the pollutants to settle in the atmosphere. Also Read: 80 per cent trees felled for infra work to be transplanted in Delhi“The air quality may improve slightly on October 11-12 because of thunderous developments likely in the region. The wind direction will also change to southeasterly during this time. However, this pattern will again change from October 15, with a return of northwesterlies and a dip in both night and day temperatures,” said an IMD scientist. On Friday, the minimum temperature settled at 19.2 degrees C, two notches below normal while the maximum temperature was at 35.2 degrees C, a notch above normal. As measures to control air pollution, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had visited construction sites to check dust pollution. On Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also announced that the government would install a smog tower in Connaught Place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-remains-poor-for-the-fourth-consecutive-day/story-EBjmVKbg6FYGdGhQm3akaP.html
10-10-2020||Lucknow||UP clears tighter security for Yogi Adityanath through changes in green-book||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Friday approved an amendment to green-book (amended edition 2017) to further strengthen chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s security by changing the composition of his fleet and adding an additional vehicle to the motorcade. The green-book incorporates the security protocol to be followed for the protection of the chief minister.“A vehicle will be added to the chief minister’s fleet along with changing its structure,” said a senior officer of state government without divulging any further details for security reasons.Meanwhile, ADG security Binod Kumar Singh said the security headquarters had sent the proposal suggesting some changes in the chief minister’s motorcade which needed the state government’s approval.Also Read: Opposition parties nurtured criminals for 15 years:YogiHe said the changes were on the lines of the PM’s security ring and would require keeping the replacement vehicle closer to the CM from where it had been positioned earlier.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the meeting of the state cabinet that approved amendment to the green-book and six other proposals. The state cabinet’s approval of proposals came by circulation method.Also Read: Virtual expos revive UP carpet industry with orders worth Rs 250 croreThe state cabinet also approved a proposal for a light rail transit system to ease traffic in Gorakhpur city. Besides, the state cabinet also approved a detailed project report for the system. Apart from the light rail transit system for Gorakhpur, a proposal for demolishing some old buildings in Gorakhpur collectorate for the construction of new ones was also given the nod besides the decision to run government polytechnics and industrial training institutes (ITIs) on public private partnership model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-clears-tighter-security-for-yogi-adityanath-through-changes-in-green-book/story-62C7NBGHCYMBAvXpg750hP.html
10-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan priest burnt alive: Family refuses to perform last rites, seeks compensation||The family members of the priest, who was burnt alive in a village in Rajasthan, have refused to perform his last rites demanding compensation of Rs 50 lakh and a government job.“We won’t perform the last rites of the body till our demands are met. We want Rs 50 lakhs compensation & a govt job. All accused must be arrested & action should be taken against Patwari & policemen who are supporting the accused. We want protection,” Lalit, one of the family members of priest Babulal Vaishnav, told news agency ANI.Vaishnav’s hut in Bukna village was set on fire on Wednesday after he stopped five men who were seeking to encroach lands which were part of the temple where he worked as a priest. In his dying testimony, Vaishnav named six people, the police said.The priest died during treatment for burns at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital on Thursday.The Congress-led government in Rajasthan has come under severe criticism due to this incident. BJP leaders Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and Vasundhara Raje said on Friday that no one is safe under the current administration. Union minister Prakash Javadekar has asked Rahul Gandhi to help solve the rising crime rates in Rajasthan rather than spending time on ‘political tourism’ in BJP-ruled states.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, meanwhile, said that the culprits will not be spared. “The murder of Babulal Vaishnav in Sapotara, Karauli, is extremely unfortunate and condemnable; civil society has no place for such acts. The state government is with the bereaved family in this sad time. The main accused has been arrested and action continues. The culprits shall not be spared,” he tweeted.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Satish Poonia announced the formation of a three-member fact-finding committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-priest-burnt-alive-family-refuses-to-perform-last-rites-seek-compensation/story-uvbAfV4zG04vZI77nB4EsK.html
10-10-2020||Education||Delhi University’s first cut-off list likely to be released today: All you need to know||The first cut-off list for admissions to over 70,000 undergraduate seats in around 65 Delhi University colleges is likely to be released on Saturday, university officials have said.Last year, the first cut-off list was announced on June 28. This year, however, in the wake of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in March and the subsequent delay in board exams and their results, the admission process has been pushed to November. The academic session is slated to begin from November 18.While university officials have asked colleges to send their respective college-wise cut-off by Saturday noon, colleges have also expressed difficulty in doing so since they received the registration data only on Friday. Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai, who had earlier said that the cut-offs would be announced on October 10, said, “The announcement of cut-offs depends on data sent to us by colleges. We have asked them to submit the cut-offs to us by noon Saturday. But we can’t commit on any date,” she said.Also Read: UGC declares 24 universities as fake. Here’s full listHere are five things you need to know about the admission process this year:1) ADMISSION TIMELINESince the admission process is completely online, eligible applicants can seek admissions under the first cut-off list from Monday to Wednesday. The second cut-off list will be announced on October 19. While every year, applicants had to visit colleges to take admission, due to the pandemic this year, the university had made the admission process completely online. Now, students can upload a copy of their mark sheets and certificates on the university website and they can be physically verified once the session reopens.2) HIGH NUMBER OF APPLICANTS Despite the pandemic, admission to Delhi University colleges this year is unlikely to be easier than the previous years with the varsity receiving its highest-ever number of applications so far. University officials said they have received 353,153 applications for around 70,000 undergraduate seats. Colleges attributed this increase to several factors -- including longer registration period, lack of clarity over entrance exams due to Covid-19, inability to apply to foreign universities because of the lockdown and the delay in the admission process that has allowed students from multiple state boards to apply as their results had been declared till August.3) APPLICANTS FROM ACROSS STATESThe feasibility of an online admission process is also likely to attract more students from outside Delhi as they don’t have to consider the financial aspect of coming to Delhi to complete the admission formalities, college principals said. Around 60% of the students who study at DU are from outside Delhi.4) CUT-OFFS MAY REMAIN HIGHSeveral DU colleges on Friday said that the cut-offs are unlikely to come down from the last year and are, instead, likely to see a rise of 0.5 to 1 percentage point across courses. This could be attributed to an exponential increase in high scorers (90-100%) in the Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Examination this year. Some colleges are likely to keep cut-offs at 100% as well. “Cut-offs are set to rise exponentially this time as more number of students have scored high marks this year. We have decided to keep the cut-offs for at least three courses at 100%,” said an official from a South Campus college, requesting anonymity. 5) EXPLAINING HIGH CUT-OFFSSince DU does not have a “first come, first served policy”, colleges have to grant admissions to every student who clears the cut-off. The central university receives applicants from across states, which means that colleges have to consider the marking and result system of all boards before setting the cut-offs. The first cut-off list remains on the higher side, so that colleges can try to control the “overadmission” that happens every year. Last year, despite keeping the highest cut-off across courses and colleges (99%), Hindu College had said that it had admitted more number of students than the available seats for its Political Science (Hons) course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/delhi-university-s-first-cut-off-list-to-be-released-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-2SrGkTBoVPH7ssgS8Vfr8K.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||16,000 schools in Himachal Pradesh to hold PTMs next week to discuss resumption of Classes 9 to 12||Nearly seven months since educational institutions across Himachal Pradesh were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has sought the views of parents and teachers on resuming school for students of Classes 9 to 12. The state education department has convened three-day meetings in 16,000 schools of all 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh next week to seek suggestions from parents and teachers on the resumption of classes.“A circular has been issued to all schools, government, private and aided ones, to hold parent-teacher meetings on October 15, 16 and 17. We have asked both parents and teachers to give their candid views to find out ways to strengthen education at this critical juncture,” said state education minister Govind Singh Thakur.The school management will share the standard operating procedure with parents and teachers. The department has already issued a circular for 100% attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff in educational institutions that opened with 50% attendance on September 12.ONLINE AND DISTANCE LEARNING TO CONTINUE The suggestions from schools will be sent to the education department that will forward it to the government for its consideration. The Union home ministry had on September 30 issued guidelines for re-opening schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner, asking state and Union territories to decide in consultation with schools. The ministry emphasised on online and distance learning.The latest guidelines say that online teaching should be encouraged as it’s the preferred mode of teaching during the pandemic. The latest safety protocols set by the government say that apart from online classes; students preferring to attend classes physically may be permitted to do so. “But attendance must not be enforced. It should be entirely on parental consent,” the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-000-schools-in-himachal-pradesh-to-hold-ptms-next-week-to-discuss-resumption-of-classes-9-to-12/story-SHqmbR0Cg5gZ9zCCwSG8FP.html
10-10-2020||Bhopal||Compassion costs youth his life as beaten by police mercilessly, alleges family||A 30-year-old farmer’s compassionate act of giving water to a person lodged in a police lock-up led to his alleged merciless beating by police personnel inside a police station in Ujjain, 190 kilometres west of Bhopal, resulting in his death a few hours later, alleged a family in Ujjain and a farmer who claimed to be an eye-witness to the incident. However, the police claim he died due to cardiac arrest after drinking liquor.Subhash Prajapat, a farmer and resident of village Mundlasuleman said he was arrested by a team from Neelganga police station of Ujjain city on Wednesday night in connection with outstanding arrears of about Rs 28,000 against power bills issued about a decade back. On Thursday, he was produced before the district court, from where he got bail. His friend Rahul Thakur, 30, from his village stood as a guarantor for his bail in the court. He could be released from the police custody in the evening only after completing all the formalities.When he realised that his mobile phone was deposited in the police station he went back to the police station accompanied by his father Govind Prajapat and friend Rahul Thakur. Subhash Prajapat said, “I was asked by the police personnel at Neelganga police station to sign a register to get back my phone. I was in the process of doing it when a man lodged in the police lock-up wanted the water bottle I was carrying to quench his thirst. I was about to give my water bottle but a policeman abused me and asked me not to dare to do so. It was when Rahul in a spur of moment gave his water bottle to him.” Subhash alleged, “The police personnel in the police station dragged and lodged Rahul in the lock-up while showering abuses on him and started beating him in front of me. They shooed me away. Since I knew that the police personnel were not going to leave Rahul even if I get back to the police station, I contacted one of my acquaintances and sought his help to get Rahul released from the police station.” Also Read: MP government report: 90% schools without water tap, 40% without powerSubhash said, “On way back home, Rahul told me the policemen had beaten him mercilessly and made him sign some papers too, while threatening to send him to jail. Near Gondia Fanta village Rahul complained about feeling uneasy. I gave him water but he vomited and collapsed. His death was caused due to police personnel’s beating.” The deceased’s cousin Amit Thakur said the cops were not willing to lodge a complaint.“When we approached the police station the police personnel didn’t lodge the complaint. They said an inquiry would be conducted by Chintaman police station under which my village falls after the post-mortem report. This is a clear case of custodial death caused by police brutality. The police personnel should be immediately suspended, tried for murder and sent to jail.” Also Read: Madhya Pradesh: ‘Quarantined’ cop arrested with two others for illegal transportation of liquor He further claimed that the cops had destroyed crucial CCTV footage of the incident. “When we asked the police personnel at Neelganga police station to show us the CCTv footage they said the CCTv was not working since September 24. This is a case of manipulation and destruction of evidence by police itself.” The deceased’s friend Vishal Rawal demanded that an FIR for murder be lodged against guilty police personnel.Neelganga police station in charge Ravindra Yadav admitted that police personnel at the police station had scolded Rahul as he had allegedly given a cigarette and a bidi to the person lodged in the lockup which was against the rules but claimed that nobody beat him up. However, Chintaman police station was looking into the matter. City superintendent of police Rajnish Kashyap said, “Subash Prajapat, the farmer arrested, and those who came to take him home after bail from the court had a drink at a liquor shop. While they were returning home, the deceased had cardiac arrest and died. However, we have asked members of the deceased’s family to lodge a formal complaint and we will conduct an inquiry into it. On their demand we got the post-mortem videographed and they were satisfied that there was no injury mark on the body of the deceased.” According to family members of the deceased, Rahul was the main bread earner in his family. -Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/compassion-costs-youth-his-life-as-beaten-by-police-mercilessly-alleges-family/story-uwIIUgBsaLAROHu2M7S1zK.html
10-10-2020||Lucknow||Opposition parties nurtured criminals for 15 years:Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday alleged that the Opposition parties nurtured the mafia for 15 years but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government took strict action against gangsters and criminals active in the state.He was addressing a virtual meeting of BJP leaders and workers of Malhani (Jaunpur) assembly constituency where a bypoll is scheduled on November 3 along with six other assembly seats in the state. Yogi also alleged that earlier the mafia and criminal elements used to decide the policies of political parties.The criminals had grabbed the land of the poor to establish their empires in the past but they no longer had a free run, he added.In the new Uttar Pradesh, the BJP government was committed to eliminating criminals and demolishing their empires, he said, hinting at an ongoing drive against gangsters across the state.The chief minister said there was no alternative to development, adding the state government was working on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s motto of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’.During the Covid pandemic, the state government distributed pension among 87 lakh beneficiaries, gave electricity connections to four crore households and cooking gas connections to 41 lakh people, he said.Medical colleges were being set up in each division of the state to provide better healthcare facilities to the people, he said.Also Read: Ram temple construction: Carved stones being moved from Nyas workshop to Janmabhoomi He also said the construction of Purvanchal expressway, Bundelkhand expressway, Gorakhpur Link expressway and Ganga expressway was in full swing to provide better connectivity to people. Construction of airports in Kushinagar and Ayodhya had been expedited, he added.Hitting out at the Opposition parties, Yogi Adityanath said those who had no faith in development were bent upon vitiating the atmosphere with the politics of caste, religion and region.Anarchy and corruption ruled the roost when the current Opposition parties were in power earlier, he said, further alleging that development funds were siphoned off at that time.Also Read: BSP chief Mayawati asks Dalits to unite, win power“These parties had spread canards about the BJP government but their tricks would not work as people were well aware of the working of the state government,” Adityanath said.State BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh said mass contact and communication were the most important factors for campaigning during the Covid pandemic. Party leaders and workers should motivate the people to vote and a high polling percentage will definitely pave the way for BJP’s victory, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/opposition-parties-nurtured-criminals-for-15-years-yogi/story-w5kgakCOracBnTQ6o3pF4J.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Nagpur cops booked for parading semi-nude minors as bystanders made videos||A Nagpur police team has landed in trouble for parading a group of semi-naked minors with criminal record in the city recently. Senior police inspector Khushal Tijare, sub-inspector Vijay Dhumal and five constables of detection branch wing of Jaripatka police station in north Nagpur were booked under relevant sections of Juvenile Justice Act on Friday for exposing the identity of minors, parading them in semi-nude state on a busy road and assaulting them. Five minors armed with swords and other weapons had gone berserk inside a bar, where they were consuming alcohol at Jaripatka on September 23 after an argument with the owner of the bar, Sanjay Patil and waiters. The teenagers also robbed some cash from Patil before leaving. The entire incident was captured on CCTV. A team of police officials under Tijare acted swiftly on the police complaint lodged by Patil and nabbed the accused from an eatery at Patanswangi in Nagpur district the next day. Shockingly, all the five boys were paraded in a semi-nude state through a busy road while being brought to the police station. A crowd gathered at the location and cheered and captured videos of the police personnel’s move. Videos of the incident have gone viral on social media, with police personnel getting lauded and slammed in equal measure for their move. In the videos, the minors can be seen being paraded in their undergarments with their hands tied with ropes. Some constables even caned the minors as they marched through the busy street, with people filming them on their mobile phones. The cops also did not allow the minors to wear masks despite a spate of corona cases in Nagpur city. Also Read: Veteran writer protests for 20 hours after Mumbai jeweller refuses to speak to her in Marathi; Maharashtra CM assures her supportThe families of three minors filed complaints against the police personnel. Following the intervention of the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), a second medical examination of the minors was conducted at the Government Medical College and Hospital which revealed injuries from caning. When the entire episode was brought before the notice of Nagpur commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar, he immediately ordered an inquiry through the assistant commissioner Parshuram Karyakarta and sought an early report. The additional commissioner of police (Addl CP), Navin Reddy said the police personnel were booked after completion of his inquiry. The department is conducting further investigation into the incident and appropriate action would be taken against the police personnel, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpur-cops-booked-for-parading-semi-nude-minors-as-bystanders-made-videos/story-CGqERnW9C134W7R9YftDRM.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Of 822 tainted cops in Punjab, 17% being probed for corruption||A report submitted in the Punjab and Haryana high court shows that 17% (140) of the 822 policemen booked in the state are facing allegations of corruption, followed by 8% (68) being probed in drug cases.Department of home affairs deputy secretary Vijay Singh Chauhan has submitted the report after a high court order in September in which the state was told to submit details of FIRs against all serving state police officers along with the nature of criminal cases.Of the 822 cops, 18 are inspectors, 24 sub-inspectors, 170 assistant sub-inspectors and the remaining are constables and head constables. The report does not capture data of cops booked and working under Patiala and Rupnagar ranges and the commissionerate of police in Ludhiana. The report is silent on FIRs against senior officers of the rank of PPS and IPS. Punjab has 80,000 cops. The report shows that 27 (3%) of tainted cops are being investigated for allegation of rapes, gangrapes and sexual offences against minors. 18 cops (2.1%) are such booked and being probed for their role in murder cases and 29 (3%) are being probed for domestic violence cases. In other categories of offences, 538 cops are being probed. The data was sought on the plea of Moga resident Surjit Singh, who had approached the court challenging his dismissal order that Moga SSP had passed. Surjit had told the court that a criminal case against him was pending adjudication, and the dismissal order was discriminatory, as a large number of police officers, who are facing criminal cases are still in service.The data also reveals that out of these 822 cops there are 75 FIRs against cops working in battalions, 140 cops are being probed in the commissionerate of Jalandhar and 70 cops in the commissionerate of Amritsar. There are 82 cops booked for offences under the Faridkot range, 117 under the Border range, 55 under the Ludhiana range, 100 under the Bathinda range and 146 under the Jalandhar range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/of-822-tainted-cops-in-punjab-17-being-probed-for-corruption/story-WpCC1e7JXIwdqz7059TEZJ.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab past Covid-19 peak as daily case count comes down amid high testing||Punjab appears to have passed its Covid-19 peak as it has been witnessing a decline in daily addition of fresh cases in October even as the state health department maintained maximum testing capacity. Friday’s tally of 743 fresh cases is the lowest single-day addition in the state in the past 50 days even as the total number of samples collected the same day was 30,679. Since October 1, the state has added 8,573 fresh cases at a daily average of 952 cases against an average of 2,000 cases a day in September. In August, 37,873 cases were recorded at a daily average of 1,221. The state so far has reported 1,22,459 cases of infection. The health department officials involved in the pandemic management say it can be inferred that the coronavirus spiral is weakening in the state since there was a sharp decline in fresh cases despite high testing. “The trend across the world shows that cases have fallen after reaching their peak. Generally, the virus weakens after hitting the peak. The same appears to have happened in Punjab. Our calculations suggest that by November, the daily addition of cases will go down further,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. With a total of 367 deaths so far, the state has also witnessed a decline in daily addition of fatalities. However, Punjab’s case fatality rate (CFR) continues to be the highest in the county at 3.07%. Can the state witness second peak? The state nodal officer said a second peak of the coronavirus cannot be ruled out in Punjab as of states like Delhi, Maharashtra and Kerala witnessed surge in cases even after seeing decline for a while. “Scientists across the world have concluded that coronavirus will not be over until it is over. In many countries like the United Kingdom and the United States, cases jumped in the second wave. If such a scenario arises, we may see the second peak by November-end,” Dr Bhaskar said. Another senior official said the health department has started making arrangements to check such possibility. Plans are afoot to convert rural dispensaries into Covid clinics besides giving charge of testing to sarpanches amid a special campaign for wearing masks, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-past-covid-19-peak-as-daily-case-count-comes-down/story-O6JeGqqJaMRPTrLdcCuUjO.html
10-10-2020||City||Punjab sees six-fold rise in incidents of stubble burning in first 20 days of harvesting||The incidents of stubble burning in Punjab have witnessed a six-fold increase in the first 20 days of the harvesting season when compared with the previous two years. The satellite data shows that the state recorded 1,926 farm fires from September 21 to October 9, against 412 in 2019 and 399 in 2018 during the corresponding period. As per data, Amritsar (920), Tarn Taran (405), Patiala (153) and Gurdaspur (102) have recorded the highest farm fire incidents among Punjab districts. Farmers in these districts sow vegetables after paddy harvesting. “Amritsar had recorded 1,510 fires during entire kharif season last year. Therefore, this year’s number is alarming,” said an official. Satnam Singh Pannu, a farmer leader, said, “Farmers are also burning straw as a mark of protest as the government failed to compensate them for handling of straw last year.” The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) is sending daily inputs to the deputy commissioners and the field staff about the incidents of stubble burning in their areas. So far, 460 farmers have been challaned Rs 12.25 lakh for violations. PPCB secretary Krunesh Garg said, “It is not fair to draw a comparison between the data of just 20 days. The maximum fire incidents took place after third week of October and we have roped in all departments concerned to check such incidents.” “Of the 1,926 cases, nearly half are non-farm incidents,” he claimed. The Punjab government has deputed 8,000 nodal officers in paddy growing villages to check burning of crop residue this year. Stubble burning rampantin Pak border areas too Incidents of widespread stubble burning have been detected in the border areas of Pakistan and the neighbouring state of Haryana, showed the satellite images shared by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC). In satellite images captured on October 8 and 9, the PRSC spotted farm fires near the border areas of Lahore, Basirpur, Pakpattan, Burewala, Chenab Nagar and Bahawal Nagar in Pakistan. In Haryana, most of straw burning incidents are detected in the areas of Karnal, Pehowa and Ambala. Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, said, “The main problem occurs between October 15 and November 15 when calm conditions prevail in the northern region and the smoke settles as it is not disbursed properly, resulting in long spells of haze. Moreover, burning of crackers during the festival season compounds the problem.” She said burning of stubble leads to an alarming rise in fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and it is a matter of concern for cities like Amritsar, Ludhiana and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-sees-six-fold-rise-in-farm-fires-in-first-20-days-of-harvesting/story-S8nVKCW0N7X3UpoDcG5ccP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Now, industries in Chandigarh can apply for environmental consent online||For fast disposal of industries’ applications for consent to establish and operate, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday launched the “e-consent service”.With this, industrial units can now apply for no-objection certificate online at https://chocmms.nic.in/ instead of visiting the office of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC).Following the approval, the Consent Order can be downloaded from the web portal. The service is available for industries as well as diesel generator owners.Badnore said this was a huge stride towards transparency in governance and fast delivery of services to citizens. E-consent will not only substantially reduce the application’s processing time, but also allow officials to divert their energy to other productive works, he added.Before an industry is established and begins operations, it requires the consent of the CPCC to discharge any effluent (sewage or trade effluent) into a stream or well or sewer or on land, and/or emit air pollutants into the atmosphere.The consent issued by the CPCC under Section 25/26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, is known as ‘water consent’ and under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, is known as ‘air consent’.Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCC, said normally physical copy of the consent was issued after approval of the competent authority, which consumed substantial time of employees, leaving several important areas unattended. “Now, the e-consent will be generated and issued to the units automatically on the approval of the competent authority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-industries-in-chandigarh-can-apply-for-environmental-consent-online/story-eOLU49mE0nnXqm9iTwf7FP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage items to go under the hammer in London||Heritage items from Chandigarh, designed by Pierre Jeanneret and Le Corbusier, will be auctioned in London, England, on October 14.As many as 10 articles worth more than Rs 1.5 crore will be auctioned by auction house BONHAM. These include chairs, armchairs and tables designed for the high court and administrative buildings.“The government needs to urgently intervene in the matter. The recent ASI order regarding banning the export of heritage items through sea and air ports evidences that our nation is committed to stop cultural trafficking,” said Ajay Jagga, a city-based advocate and member of the Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh.Trafficking of Chandigarh’s cultural property is going on since 2007, with over 50 auctions having been held in various countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France.“The auction of Indian heritage is causing huge loss to nation’s prestige, apart from violating the ASI ban. It is appealed that all Indian embassies be alerted and UN may also be approached reminding its international commitment to UNESCO to combat trafficking of cultural objects,” Jagga wrote in a letter to Union minister of external affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-to-go-under-the-hammer-in-london/story-spVMOOxysl0YxoHZWKw5PP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area’s Covid tally below 200 again, three dead||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the tricity was below 200 for the second time since Sunday, with 180 people testing positive on Friday.On October 4, 184 cases had surfaced, the first time they had remained below 200 since August 6. The next four days, however, recorded 239, 246, 242 and 246 cases, respectively.Mohali led Friday’s Covid tally with 76 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 63 and Panchkula with 41.Three people succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh and Mohali on Friday. The two deceased from Chandigarh were a 79-year-old man from Sector 51 and a 50-year-old woman from Maloya, while the casualty in Mohali was a 67-year-old man from Dera Bassi.Chandigarh’s Covid count has reached 12,985, with 11,505 patients already discharged, leaving 1,292 active cases. The virus has claimed 188 lives in the city. In Mohali, the patient tally stands at 11,228 with the latest fatality taking the toll to 207.Among the 76 fresh cases here, 41 were from Mohali urban, 14 from Lalru, eight from Kharar, seven from Dera Bassi, three from Kurali, two from Dhakoli and one from Banur. The district now has 1,075 active cases with 9,964 patients already cured.Panchkula reported no death on Friday. With 41 new cases, its Covid tally rose to 6,492, of which 462 patients are still infected, while 5,930 have recovered.Among the new cases, one each was reported from Amravati, Devi Nagar, Nagal, Rajiv Colony, Sectors 9, 19, 21, 25, 26 and 27, while from Majri, Pinjore, Sectors 8 and 16 two cases each were confirmed. Barwala and Sector 12 had four cases each, and six cases each were reported from Sector 15 and Kalka.THREE-MONTH EXTENSION TO RETIRING DOCTORSThe UT administration on Friday granted a three-month extension to all retiring doctors and specialists under 60 till the end of this year. UT has adopted Punjab government’s decision of granting an extension to the retiring doctors of UT health department as well as doctors who are deputed from Punjab and serving in Chandigarh. However, doctors who have attained the age of 60 will be retired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-area-s-covid-tally-below-200-again-three-dead/story-ekMrsgWhTdXM8R6YdlON8M.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases in Chandigarh hit plateau, but there’s no room for complacency||The Covid-19 pandemic in the city has seemingly reached a plateau, with the growth rate of new infections falling from being the country’s highest at 5% in early September to 1% on Friday.From 12,212 cases on October 2, the tally rose to 12,985 on October 9, a weekly growth rate of 1%. This is in sharp contrast to the cases reported last month, when the infections were swelling at an average of 1,870 per week.It is also coupled with the downward trend shown in the number of active cases in the past three weeks, even as the recovery rate also stands at a sizeable 88%.“It is difficult to say how the situation will evolve from here on out, but the trajectory of cases shows that the curve is flattening. While the number of tests has decreased, the ratio of positive results has not shown a major jump. This is a positive sign and our fingers remain crossed,” UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said. Dr Amandeep Kang, UT’s director, health and family welfare, said the strategy of declaring affected areas as micro-containment zones had returned good results.“On Friday, 1,020 samples were collected and only 63 people tested positive. This is the second time in the last few days that the daily cases have remained below 100. But, with the festival season ahead, people should continue to exercise caution by maintaining distance, wearing masks and ensuring hand hygiene,” she said. ‘DON’T LOWER YOUR GUARD’However, experts have cautioned that with more curbs being lifted on commercial activities and schools reopening, chances of the infection growing again remained.“The pandemic is not over. Lowering out guard can prove risky. The festival season ahead will lead to crowding of public as well as indoor spaces, increasing chances of spread of infection. With the health services playing their role, residents also need to exercise precautions,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the community medicine department, Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. On health department’s plans to deal with more restrictions being removed, Dr Kang said, “We will focus on information and education activities. There are apprehensions that crowding at public places will increase, but people should not be complacent until we reach a level where negligible cases are detected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-cases-in-chandigarh-hit-plateau-but-there-s-no-room-for-complacency/story-Ko9sak4YE7GaUwjjCqTvuK.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Mritunjay Kumar elected as new president of Panjab University’s teachers’ body||Mritunjay-Naura group managed a clean sweep against the rival group of Mohammed Khalid in the elections of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), results of which were declared on Friday.Mritunjay Kumar, who was the vice-president in last year’s PUTA, has been elected as the new president of the teachers’ body. Kumar got 276 votes compared to his opponent Mohammed Khalid’s 235 votes. With this, the Rajesh Gill group, whom the Mritunjay-Naura group owes allegiance to, has registered a PUTA win for the fourth year in a row.Of the total 627 eligible votes, 520 (83%) were polled over two days of polling. Last year, approximately 94% polling was registered. Aged 43, Mritunjay is an assistant archivist at PU’s AC Joshi library. He has pursued his masters in history from Centre for Historical Studies at Jawahar Lal Nehru University (JNU) and a PhD from Panjab University.For the post of vice-president, with 268 votes, Supinder Kaur of department of laws, who is from Mritunjay group, emerged victorious against Amit Chauhan, who managed 242 votes. Biochemistry department’s Amarjit Singh Naura, who was contesting for the post of secretary, got 274 votes against MC Sidhu’s 240.With 288 votes, Sarvnarinder Kaur of biophysics department emerged victorious for the post of joint secretary against Anupam Bhari, who got 214 votes. Nitin Arora of economics department defeated Samarjit Sihotra to bag the treasurer’s post.Returning officer Vijay Nagpal said, “We were not expecting the voter turnout to be this high. We made many arrangements for the conduct of elections amid the pandemic and polling was conducted smoothly.”Mohammed Khalid, who lost to Mritunjay said, “We had a close fight, but the other group is backed by senators, so they managed to win the election.”THE NEW BODY’S PRIORITIES HT speaks to Mritunjay Kumar about the association’s plans to deal with the various issues being faced by the faculty:1. Despite many attempts, implementation of the 7th Pay Commission is still pending?We have already taken up the matter with the Punjab government and are sure that a decision will be taken in the coming months. If that does not happen, we will take up the issue again.2. A large number of teachers are awaiting CAS promotions?The pending interviews of CAS were earlier scheduled in March and April, but due to the pandemic, many are pending. We will take up the issue with the university this month itself.3. University has slipped in this year’s NIRF rankings, what will you do to ensure quality education at PU?We will work towards ensuring that no teacher faces any issue while getting an NOC for a research project. There are lots of vacant teaching posts in the university and we will also approach UGC to allow recruitments.4. What will be your immediate priorities?Immediate release of retirement benefits and provident fund, clinching of full pension after 25 years of service and leave encashment for 300 days. We will also work out the requirement of teachers regarding online teaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mritunjay-kumar-elected-new-president-of-panjab-university-s-teachers-body/story-SQ57X2byKg6QqQhuTup9VJ.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Graft case: Special CBI court grants anticipatory bail to Bathinda bizman||A special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday granted anticipatory bail to a Bathinda businessman in a graft case involving former deputy chief labour commissioner Mahesh Chand Sharma. Accused Lakhwinder Singh had moved court after he was named as an accused in the chargesheet filed by CBI. The CBI court of special judge Sushil Kumar Garg allowed his bail plea saying, “In an event of his surrendering before the court within 10 days, he shall be released on regular bail on furnishing the bail bond in the sum of ₹1 lakh with one surety in the like amount subject to the conditions that he will not leave the country without prior permission of the court, will not try to hamper with the investigation of the case, will not influence the prosecution witnesses and will appear on each and every date of hearing.” It may be mentioned here that CBI had in July filed a chargesheet against eight persons in a ₹1.3-lakh graft case, involving the then deputy chief labour commissioner Mahesh Chand Sharma. On May 30, 2019, CBI had arrested five people, including Sharma, the then labour enforcement officer Vivek Naik, Gurmeet Sidhu and Munish Garg of Advantage HR Solutions, along with Akhand Raj Singh of Nagarjuna Construction Company Limited, Bathinda. Sharma and Naik were caught red-handed receiving a bribe of ₹1.3 lakh from the two partners of the HR firm and employee of the construction firm. The bribe was allegedly meant for favourable labour report to the Bathinda firm, while the HR personnel were reportedly acting as middlemen in the garb of their Bathinda-based consultancy. According to the FIR, Naik had on May 8 conducted an inspection at the construction company and detected irregularities. Following this, firm employee Akhand Raj contacted Sidhu and complained that despite the quarterly payoffs, the inspection was carried out and the management had been asked to meet the officials personally. On May 15, Sidhu contacted Naik and allegedly discussed the bribe amount. On May 29, Sidhu allegedly collected ₹1.5 lakh from the deputy general manager of the company and told Akhand Raj to arrange ₹35,000 for two quarters of the year, and ₹35,000 for inspection. He was also directed to visit Chandigarh on May 30. The same day, the CBI laid a trap at a Panchkula hotel where the five accused were slated to meet and arrested them on the spot. Later, three more persons — Inderjeet Singh Baath, Lakhwinder Singh and Venkata Ramiah — were also made accused. CBI had said that their files were also pending with the deputy chief labour commissioner. They had agreed to give money for getting their work done. The eight accused have been chargesheeted under sections 7 (offence relating to public servant being bribed), 7A (taking undue advantage to influence public servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of personal influence) and 8 (taking gratification, in order, by corrupt or illegal means, to influence public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/graft-case-special-cbi-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-bathinda-bizman/story-cSHbRafp4KpW2A9F1eH2KL.html
10-10-2020||City||Ludhiana’s local population more prone to contracting Covid: Study||The local population is more prone to contracting Covid-19, suggested a study conducted by the community medicine department of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana. The study that covered Ludhiana’s population has also pointed out that while migrants are getting themselves tested, the native Punjabis have expressed reluctance in undergoing examination. Dr Anurag Chaudhary, professor and head of community medicine department, said, “It was found that as compared to migrants, the Punjabi population is at more risk. The prevalence of diabetes and hypertension was relatively less among the migrant labourers as compared to the locals. So, they are more vulnerable,” said Dr Chaudhary.The department had started screening from August 26 and carried out more than 8,000 rapid antigen tests. Among those who underwent tests, only 237 migrants were found positive. Dr Chaudhary said it was found that during initial days, in the first and second weeks of September, daily count of Covid positives detected was high, while the number started declining gradually by third and fourth weeks.“We had carried out testing drives in factories and labour quarters across the city to find out the prevalence of virus among the migrant and marginalised population. During these drives, migrants were more forthcoming in getting themselves tested, while the Punjabi workers were reluctant. Other health tests conducted on migrants showed that they had high immunity levels as compared to the locals,” said the doctor. Locals’ reliance on self-medicationIt was also found that rather than getting themselves tested, the native workers were relying on self-medication.“That is one of the reasons behind the high mortality rate in the district. There is prevalence of hypertension and diabetes among the local population due to its eating habits. Then there are issues of avoidance of tests and self-medication. These are the reasons why many patients are rushed to hospitals in critical condition,” said Dr Chaudhary.DMCH’s department of community medicine was enrolled by the state government under its ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign to carry out Covid testing on a wide scale and coordinate with the government and other agencies to arrest the growth of the virus further, he added. The doctor said that faculty, residents and staff members of the department of community medicine had been regularly visiting high-risk areas such as factories and other such establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-local-population-more-prone-to-contracting-covid-study/story-cMwx9qmjdH51fRCkli7YNO.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC taps into ₹10 crore fixed deposit to pay salaries, bills||Struggling to pay salaries, wages and its outstanding bills, Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on Friday was forced to tap into its fixed deposit (FD) savings before its maturity.The fund-starved corporation withdrew one of its FD of ₹10 crore for the purpose. The remainder, about ₹6 crore, will again be deposited as a fixed deposit, said a senior MC official requesting anonymity. Against the committed liabilities of ₹597 crore, MC expects to get less than ₹580 crore. However, during the Covid-19 crisis, MC has lowered its revenue collection projections and even the grant-in-aid has been cut by 20% on a quarterly basis. The corporation has to pay ₹420 crore as salaries, ₹50 crore as pensions, ₹120 crore as electricity bills, and ₹100 crore as fuel expenses.“In such a situation, the MC had to take money out of an FD to clear its committed liabilities. When the fund could not be raised from MC’s revenue, the accounting department decided to withdraw savings before maturity,” said the official. MC has sought ₹1, 232 crore under the revised budget estimates from the administration. Of this amount, ₹1,072 crore is under revenue head. Only ₹115 crore is to be utilised for development works. NO FUNDS FOR VILLAGE DEVELOPMENTNotably, the UT administration has refused to provide funds for development works in 13 villages and Manimajra, which were recently included in the MC. The civic body had sought ₹125 crore for the development work in villages and ₹13 crore for Manimajra. The administration has stated that provision of these funds would be considered after UT’s revised estimates are approved by the Centre, which is expected by January 2021.The MC’s request to waive the 20% cut in expenditure, mandated by the central government in UT’s expenditure, has so far elicited no positive response from the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-taps-into-10-cr-fixed-deposit-to-pay-salaries-bills/story-GlcO3DPqOglZnIRAhh1CUN.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Four Mohali fertiliser dealers lose licence over malpractice||The Mohali agriculture department has suspended licences of four dealers after irregularities were detected in distribution of urea in the district, deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said on Friday. For violation of Section 5 of the Fertilizer Control Order, 1985, the chief agriculture officer-cum-licensing authority has suspended licences of Thandi Fertilizers, Kharar; New Zimidara Khaad Store, Handsera; Chattar Sen Ramesh Kumar, Dera Bassi; and Aggarwal Khaad Bhandaar, Banur. Under the Centre’s direct benefit transfer (DBT) on fertilisers’ scheme, sale of fertilisers has been mandated with the use of biometric identification of farmer on PoS machines. Due to Covid-19 crisis, the biometric authentication of farmers on PoS was suspended by the government. Taking undue advantage of the situation, some of the firms were reported to have diverted the subsidised fertilisers, the DC said. Taking immediate cognisance of the matter, the officials of Mohali agriculture department were directed to conduct random checks and monitor sale of urea. The department examined the records of top-21 urea buyers and found out that eight dealers had made bulk purchases. A detailed inquiry revealed that four out of the eight dealers had logged fake sales entries of the urea sold. Verification from farmers brought to the fore the fact that they had made no such purchase and the fertiliser sellers had wrongly shown them as buyers. Subsequently, the firms concerned were issued show-cause notices and on not receiving a satisfactory reply, their licences were suspended, Dayalan said. “The administration will increase the frequency of raids to ensure proper and legitimate sale of fertilisers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-mohali-fertiliser-dealers-lose-licence-over-malpractice/story-WLp1l8hUg96koY6UZwf0RP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sector-35 man booked for cheating||A resident of Sector 35 has been booked for allegedly cheating a trader of ₹4.5 lakh, police said on Friday. In his complaint, Ashish Sharma of Sector 7 accused Manish Nagpal of misappropriating ₹4.5 lakh. Sharma, who is in business of liquor marketing in Chandigarh and Punjab and has seven vends, had got in touch with Nagpal through a property consultant in March 2020 when tenders for liquor vends were to be allotted. In order to open a vend in Sector 35, he had paid Nagpal ₹50,000 as booking amount and ₹4.5 lakh separately. They had decided that in case Sharma did not get the bid, the amount would be returned, otherwise it would be adjusted in the rent. The bid was secured for ₹2.88 crore later, but Nagpal refused to hand over the vend keys to Sharma. The FIR against him has been registered under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC on the directions of a court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-35-man-booked-for-cheating/story-KDKOpaIkJzL74YTlfRC9oJ.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Row over on-campus exams: Punjab Engineering College asks students to come up with plan of action||The students of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) have been asked to submit their plan regarding the semester exams scheduled to be held on campus in November and December. PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi met the representatives of students on Friday after students expressed resentment over the institute’s decision.The on-campus exam decision was taken in a meeting of deans and HoDs of the deemed to be university recently. According to the schedule communicated on October 6, the exams of the ongoing semester will be conducted in November and the examinations of previous semester, which were not held due to pandemic, are scheduled for December. “We have asked them to give us their plan of action for the examination in next few days,” Sanghi said. The next meeting of student representatives will be held on Wednesday. “We have also told them that we will conduct the examinations without compromising the sanctity of the process.” It has also been proposed in the meeting that students who have to appear in the pending exams may be given an option of completing the semester with pass/fail grade. However, no final decision has been taken so far in this regard. ‘No one will be forced’The students have been told that they will not be forced to appear in the on-campus examinations. Also, students who cannot appear in the exams may be given another chance later. Meanwhile, PEC dean of students’ affairs has also asked the students to give their and their parents’ consent to stay at the hostels. The students have to agree that they are not living in any containment zone and voluntarily confirm their travel to Chandigarh and stay at hostels. Examination scheduleFor BTech fifth semester, practical exams will be held from November 2 to 6, end-semester exams from November 7 and pending exams from December 11. The practical exams of BTech third semester will start from November 17. Their end-semester exams will start on November 22 and pending exams on December 21. The semester exams of BTech seventh semester are scheduled between December 5 and 9.For MTech third semester, pending exams will begin from January 4, and dissertation evaluation from January 11 to 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/row-over-on-campus-exams-punjab-engineering-college-asks-students-to-come-up-with-plan-of-action/story-63ceIm0uEnxv79Nf1Z7S3K.html
10-10-2020||City||Violation of allotment norms: HSVP issues show-cause notice to Panchkula hospital||Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has issued a show-cause notice to a Panchkula hospital for violating terms and conditions of allotment. HSVP has granted 30 days’ time to Ojas hospital management to reply. The notice was issued to Ojas Medical Services Private Limited, Sector 26, Panchkula after a complaint was received against them alleging that they have sold 54% shares to Alchemist Hospital in utter violation of the terms and conditions of allotment. The show-cause notice said that as per the terms and conditions of allotment, advertisement, and rules, regulations and policies of HSVP, the condition that the original allottees shall retain at least 51% shareholding in the Ojas Medical Services Pvt Ltd was violated. The notice seeks explanation as to why terms of allotment were violated by transferring more than 49% shareholding of the company in the name of person and other than the original allottees. On failing to reply within 30 days, HSVP would initiate further proceeding without any further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violation-allotment-norms-hsvp-issues-show-cause-notice-to-panchkula-hospital/story-UwgBAzA8oYIl3Tp5SxbczN.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Agri laws: Protesting farmers block highways in Mohali||Various factions of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday staged protests against the recently enacted farm laws and blocked Kharar-Landran road near Kharar and Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Lalru, causing inconvenience to the commuters.BKU (Sidhupur), BKU (Lakhowal) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha Mohali blocked Landran road for nearly one hour.They also burnt effigies to register their agitation. Naib tehsildar Puneet Bansal, DSP Manjeet Singh, and DSP Rupinderjit Kaur along with policemen managed the agitators and termed the protest peaceful. In Lalru, at least 130 protesters, led by BKU (Lakhowal) vice-president Manpreet Singh Amlala, blocked the highway, forcing police to divert the traffic. While addressing the farmers, farm leaders said they would even shut the Dappar toll plaza if their demands are not met. They also demanded the three bills be translated into Punjabi and distributed all across Punjab so that people can know what actually is there in them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/agri-laws-protesting-farmers-block-highways-in-mohali/story-UsEOviZPjpaWkRt3LSORFI.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Evidence of 15-year-old’s rape not found, say Mohali police||Evidence of sexual assault was not found in the medical report of the 15-year-old girl, who had on Thursday complained that she was gangraped by unidentified persons in a car when she went to Phase 3A from Chandigarh. She had accused the car-borne men of forcibly abducting her and committing the crime after sedating her. The girl said she was dropped by the accused after 15 minutes at a market near the spot from where she was abducted. Mataur station house officer Rajeev Kumar said, “The medical examination of the victim was conducted today at the civil hospital in Phase 6. The reports did not show any evidence of sexual assault. However, we are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area.” The victim’s mother had said that her daughter was unable to identify the suspects and the vehicle. The police had registered an FIR under sections 363, 366, and 376-D of the Indian Penal Code and relevant section(s) of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-evidence-of-rape-not-found-say-police/story-ilzF9m8OcDflNwhtI7711O.html
10-10-2020||City||Woman arrested for killing live-in partner||A woman was arrested for allegedly killing her live-in partner, Panchkula police said on Friday. Guddo, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun, had been living with Rakesh in a rented accommodation in Nada Sahib for the last three years. The victim, Rakesh, also from UP, was found dead in Nada Sahib where he worked as a mason on September 15. His autopsy report had attributed the cause of death to stab injuries, which punctured his vital organs. Guddo is a widow, while Rakesh was unmarried. His family had accused Guddo and her maternal uncles — Kamlesh and Meharban — of killing him. On the complaint of victim’s brother Kalicharan and on the basis of postmortem report, along with the opinion of forensic experts, police have now registered a case of murder (Section 302) under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Chandimandir police station against Guddo, Kamlesh and Meharban. Kalicharan claimed that Kamlesh and Meharban had objection with the live-in relationship of Rakesh and Guddo and had even threatened to eliminate him. Guddo, meanwhile, has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-arrested-for-killing-live-in-partner/story-WBGIEn5SihyGQtfePGQNiP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||RTE admissions in Mumbai: Civic body extends deadline till October 23||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education department has now extended the deadline for admissions under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota up till October 23.By Thursday, of the 1,328 waitlisted candidates selected for admissions to various schools in the city, only 92 confirmed their admissions. “The deadline for admissions which was earlier set at October 8 has now been pushed further as several students are yet to confirm their seats even as they have been selected for admissions. We are hoping that the numbers increase in the coming days,” said an official from the department.In the first round of admission under the quota, only 2,928 of the 5,371 students who were allotted schools, secured the admission. This year, over 14,000 applications came in from students in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region alone. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, parents were allowed to provisionally secure their admissions by sending documents to the respective schools online.Even as schools in the state began online in June this year, admissions under the RTE quota have still not completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rte-admissions-in-mumbai-civic-body-extends-deadline-till-october-23/story-c9hljsdaGpCVbte2KbKZrO.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Man rapes his 10-year-old daughter, arrested from Mumbai’s Vakola area||A 42-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping his own 10-year-old daughter by Vakola police on Thursday. A case of rape was registered after police received a complaint from survivor’s mother. According to woman’s statement to police, in the year 2009, she got married to the accused. But after a year they separated. Both the children stayed with the accused. On October 4, the accused sexually assaulted his daughter and threatened her to not reveal the incident to anyone. On October 6, the complainant took her daughter to her home, after which the survivor revealed her ordeal to her mother.An officer from Vakola police station said, “Following her statement a case under section 376 (rape), 376 (2) (F)(being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman) of Indian Penal Code and section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault),10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault), and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and arrested the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-rapes-his-10-year-old-daughter-arrested-from-mumbai-s-vakola-area/story-OG9BqfiHRlOdzl7L4UB8hJ.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Thane cops set aside Saturday to redress women’s grievances||With more than 500 woman-related grievances registered since May this year, the Thane police department has now allotted every Saturday to address these issues in the commissionerate.As per the police records, they have registered 502 official complaints since May, out of which 387 have being resolved. Most of the complaints were related to domestic violence, harassment, triple talaq and stalking.The police helpline has received hundreds of distress calls during the lockdown from women seeking advice or wanting to register a complaint. As women could not reach the woman redressal cell during the lockdown, most calls were made on police helpline numbers. With the mounting complaints, the commissionerate started the Saturday initiative since the last two weeks, wherein a panel of woman constables and police inspector addresses the grievances in each police station across the commissionerate.Assistant Police Commissioner, Sunil Bajare, said, “Every day, we receive two to three calls on our police helpline relating to woman issues. We don’t have the exact data on number of calls. However, most complaints were of domestic violence, dowry harassment, divorce or stalking. As per the guidelines of police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar, our teams used to counsel them or in case the matter was serious, we used to ask the local police station to go and resolve it. Registering a complaint is the last option. We prefer the matter be resolved amicably.”He informed that since May, though the calls received were many, 502 formal complaints were registered across five zones in the commissionerate in merely four months. Of these, 172 were of domestic violence. Last year, these complaints were recorded by the women redressal cell, which recorded more than 1,000 complaints in 12 months.Bajare added, “So far, we have resolved 387 complaints while the remaining are in the process. With the mounting figures, though, the commissioner suggested to dedicate one day of the week to these complaints. We have also joined hands with the NGOs and over the last two Saturdays, resolved the problems either amicably or by filing a complaint, if necessary. In the last two Saturdays, we have been approached by over 500 women across the police stations in the five zones.”Another factor leading to the decision was four cases of suicide by women below 30 after harassment by in-laws and triple talaq cases registered in Bhiwandi, Mumbra and Rabodi during lockdown. Police have reached out to several women who have complained on the helpline number and called them for counselling along with their family members to the nearest police station.An official added, “In the Saturday session, most cases were related to domestic violence, husband forcing divorce on the wife. A few girls also complained of being stalked, being sent lewd messages or forced to get married. We have called the complainants, the family members and also family members of the person against whom the complaint is made. We tried to settle some of them on the spot. Those that weren’t resolved amicably were sent to the concerned police station for legal action.”Earlier, these issues were resolved by the women redressal cell. However, during lockdown, it was difficult for the women to reach the cell.Police sub-inspector, B Chikne, of the cell said, “Most women could not reach us physically due to the lockdown and so most complaints were made to the local police station. We tried to counsel those who reached us and in case the matter was critical, especially in cases of extreme domestic violence, we have suggested to them to leave their homes and go to their parents’ place for safety. Since the Unlock began, women have started returning to the cell.”ACTIVIST SPEAK*** One of the social workers in Thane, Parikshit Dhume, who has started helpline to solve people’s problems during the lockdown, claimed that he has received 15,000 calls. About 45 per cent of them were women domestic issues and suicidal tendencies because of domestic problems. He said, “ Our helpline counsellors were really shocked when, in every 10 calls, two were of women facing domestic issues, torture and wanted to go out of the house and were asking for help. Some of them displayed suicidal tendencies. We forwarded such calls to police stations to handle the situation.”*** Another social worker from Zone 4 area of Thane commissionerate, Jyoti Ambekar, who works with police for solving these cases, said, “Although home may be considered a safe place for some, it is not the safest place for all. In fact, with Covid-19 lockdown in place, there has been an increase in domestic violence cases. Husbands were frustrated due to loss of job or do not have the habit to stay back home for a long day would harass the wife by shouting at her for small things, beating her, or intimidating her. These cases not only found in economically-weaker sections but also in the middle and upper-middle class. In other cases, women who are living alone get into trouble themselves by creating friendship with someone unknown and face trouble.”VICTIM SPEAK *** An Ambernath-based woman Kirti Jagtap (name changed), 28, said, “I got married three years ago and since then I have been suffering from domestic violence issues. I am a graduate and trying to pursue my education further to help my husband. But, he physically assaults me whenever he gets frustrated due to his job problems. In May, I approached the Ambernath Police station, I did not want to break my marriage, but also could not take the abuse. The police counselled us and convinced my husband to take up counselling from NGOs. The counselling helped and my husband no longer abuses me. Once lockdown is over, I will pursue my career. A female police officer regularly calls to keep a check on us.” CASE STUDY *** Ambernath police station senior police inspector S Dhumal said, “In one of the cases, in July, a 35-year-old woman complained about her husband beating her up for not making good food. The woman didn’t want to register a complaint. We called both of them and their parents, and did one-to-one conversation. Our team has given all knowledge of law and discussed the man’s real problem. We counselled them for two Sundays and later keep in touch with the woman to check whether he was behaving well or not. Fortunately, he understood and now everything is fine. Our woman constables are in touch with them over social media messengers.”*** In Dombivli, a Class 10 girl reported her mother’s ordeal over phone. Mahatma Phule Police immediately reached the girl’s house. A police officer said, “The husband would torture the woman over small issues by not allowing her to have lunch and would beat her too. The daughter, who could not bear the trouble, gave us a call. We went to their house, had a meeting with the person. He said that he has been facing anger issues as he lost his job. We tried to counsel him, called him to the police station thrice and now he is behaving fine with his wife, at least not troubling her.”HELPLINE: 100 and 103||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-cops-set-aside-saturday-to-redress-women-s-grievances/story-6xnfrVMaJvsnVOK1xzyJFP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Chhota Shakeel’s aide arrested by Mumbai crime branch in ₹9 crore cheating case||A close associate of gangster Chhota Shakeel has been arrested by anti-extortion cell officers of Mumbai crime branch.Kulvinder Singh Bains alias Jimmy Bains alias Ajay alias Pappu was wanted in a 2019 case of cheating a western suburbs builder Vijay Thakkar of over ₹9 crore in connection with a Juhu bungalow. The case was earlier probed by Mumbai economic offenses wing (EOW) but later it got transferred to crime branch given the underworld background of people involved in it.In this case of cheating and forgery, Bains and another suspect Sohail Bhamla were wanted and the EOW had opened a look out circular (LOC) against the two. Bhamla was detained last year at the Mumbai international airport, but EOW officials had let him go after an enquiry after finding no need of his arrest. However, this didn’t go well with the then commissioner of police Sanjay Barve who had suspended two EOW officers and ordered an inquiry. Few months later, the two officers were reinstated. “Bains, who is believed to be in contact with Bhamla, had been working for Shakeel since years. Few years ago, he had holed up in Australia for quite some time and on Shakeel’s instructions had gone to Kenya for a ‘operation’. However, an attack was carried out on him by a rival gang. After that he had escaped from Kenya and has been hiding in India. He remained mostly in the northern India states like Punjab and Delhi,” said a crime branch officer requesting anonymity.Based on specific information AEC officers learnt that Bains had been staying in Mumbai for quite some time. Hence, his location was tracked and on Monday night he was arrested from Andaaz Cafe in Andheri Lokhandwala. “His interrogation has revealed that he had taken Rs 5 crore from the complainant under the pretext of resolving his matter and cheated him,” said a crime branch official part of the investigation. He was produced before the court and was remanded in police custody up to October 13.In the past, Bains has been named in many underworld-related murder and extortion cases. He had even escaped from the police custody in 2000. In 2004 he was arrested by Delhi Police special cell from Pahadganj area of Central Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chhota-shakeel-s-aide-arrested-by-mumbai-crime-branch-in-9-crore-cheating-case/story-uq9SJNYjseRDkYHrNYCdrJ.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s blood banks run dry, stock to last only for a week||Even though the state government has begun to relax the lockdown, citizens are still hesitating to donate blood. Officials at the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) said the city’s blood banks have stock only for a week. The city’s daily requirement of blood is approximately 900 units. During the lockdown, the requirement was lower since public movement was restricted and hospitals received fewer non-Covid cases that required blood transfusion (like accident patients). With restrictions being relaxed, the demand for blood is now increasing. However, the city is not even receiving 50% of the required amount. Blood banks at major civic-run hospitals like King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Parel didn’t have any whole blood units as of October 8. KEM Hospital usually receives the highest number of patients in the city and it had only components of blood. “We got a message in the WhatsApp group of our medical college that the blood bank has dried up completely. So, around 20 resident doctors donated their blood,” said a resident doctor at KEM Hospital, who is also from Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD). To address the shortage of blood, SBTC issued a circular on September 29, asking organisers of Navratri events to set up blood donation camps. “Organizers of Navratri should create awareness regarding Covid-19, dengue, malaria instead of conducting garba and dandiya. They should organise blood donation camps,” read SBTC’s circular. “Since the outbreak [of Covid-19], blood donation camps are recording only 50% response from the public. Even though people are going out with the gradual relaxation of the lockdown, they refuse to donate blood. We have blood stock only for a week,” said Dr Arun Thorat, director, SBTC. Due to restrictions imposed by the National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC), private blood banks are not able to set up donation camps, which has impacted their collections and stock. Unlike blood banks attached to hospitals, private blood banks rely completely on voluntary donors. “Many of these charitable organisations are busy with Covid-19 duties. There is a fear among the public about contracting the virus through blood transfusions. ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] needs to raise awareness among people,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association ofMedical Consultants (AMC). Blood transfusion is the main treatment for patients suffering from thalassemia and haemophilia. Transfusion is frequently required for accident survivors, aside from those with other health complications. Often, patients require only freshly-drawn blood, which means the blood units cannot be more than a week from their collection date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-blood-banks-run-dry-stock-to-last-only-for-a-week/story-S4pz0sJBfSSwdjyp6dkcqN.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||History-sheeter held in Navi Mumbai; cartridges, pistol recovered||Panvel police, on Thursday, arrested a 38-year-old civil contractor-cum-history-sheeter for threatening a building material supplier at gunpoint to extort small-time civil contracts in Karanjade village.During the arrest process, police also recovered a loaded country made pistol with ‘Made in USA’ engraved on it from his house along with two rounds of cartridges.The accused, Rajesh Kaikade, alias Raja, was released on bail in a 2012 murder case a few months ago during the lockdown.Upon returning to his house in Karanjade, Kaikade soon got back to crime. He approached a building construction material supplier and demanded he get all the work contracts in the area.“The accused brandished a country-made pistol in front of the complainant and threatened to kill him. After the complainant registered a case, we went to arrest Kaikade. We are probing if he has threatened other developers and contractors as well” said Shatrughan Mali, inspector at Panvel city police station.When the police reached his house on Wednesday around 5 am, Kaikade tried to resist arrest. He did not open the door, after which police resorted to breaking it. Realising that there was no way to escape, he let the police officials in. When he was being detained, he allegedly hit his head on the window grill to hurt himself, police claimed.Kaikade suffered minor head injuries.His criminal history dates back to almost a decade and he has been arrested in heinous crimes including gang-rape and attempted murder as well.In 2012, Kaikade was arrested along with his two brothers and another person for killing former sarpanch, Sada Sable, who was then the vice-president of Karnala Sports Club in Karanjade.In 2009, Kaikade was also arrested in a gang-rape and murder of a 20-year-old woman. Kaikade and the trio, which included two minors, attacked the woman and raped her before strangulating her.Officials said Kaikade was also booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) but has been acquitted in that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/history-sheeter-held-in-navi-mumbai-cartridges-pistol-recovered/story-8IMaWXNtoq4niEhwGMjgpI.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maratha reservation: Maharashtra government postpones MPSC exams||Under pressure from the Maratha community outfits that are unhappy over the stay on quota by the Supreme Court, the state government on Friday postponed Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examinations scheduled to be held on Sunday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, however, said the decision was taken in the wake of the requests received from the students from across the communities seeking more time for the preparations in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.CM Thackeray said on Friday that the exams for the 200 posts are being postponed for one last time.“We have been talking to various organisations over the last few days. The students appearing for the exam had requested us to postpone as they could not get the time and a suitable atmosphere in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic as many schools, colleges, classes, study centres were defunct. Some of the students are infected by the virus. Keeping their interest in mind, we have decided to postpone the exams. The decision about the new date of exam will be declared after discussion with MPSC and departments concerned,” he said.Thackeray said that all those who are eligible for the exam on the age criterion this time will be allowed to appear for the exam once it is announced. This has been for the second time that the exam is postponed. Thackeray said that not only Maratha, but students from other communities too had demanded the postponement of the exam.CM Thackeray, his senior cabinet colleagues held rounds of meetings with various Maratha outfits and their leader over the last two days after they announced to boycott the exams and ransack the exam centres. Thackeray along with his cabinet colleagues, public works department minister and head of the sub-committee appointed for the reservation Ashok Chavan, water resources minister Jayant Patil, transport minister Anil Parab, interacted digitally with more about 65 leaders from various organisations on Friday, before the announcement. However, the Maratha leaders were divided over the postponement of the exam.The government, on Thursday, had met three delegations led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, BJP legislator Vinayak Mete and Maratha Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti chief Suresh Patil.The delegations had demanded the cancellation of exam in the wake of the stay given to the reservation by the Supreme Court last month. The leaders had demanded that the exam should be held only after the decision over the reservation was done in the Apex court.Reacting on the decision, BJP MP and Maratha leader Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje said that now they expect the state government to take steps to ensure the vacation of the stay on the reservation. “We had warned the government, but it was not a threat. You may call it a pressure tactic and there is nothing wrong in doing so in the interest of the community. The decision is a welcome step and it will prove in the interest of students from all communities,” he saidAshok Chavan said that the government was positive about the other demands by the Maratha community and decisions will be taken into them after due deliberation. Around 2.61 lakh students were expected to appear for the exam for 200 officers’ posts in various government departments.Meanwhile, CM Thackeray and his cabinet colleagues also met leaders from Other Backward Classes and Dhangar (Shepherd) community who have been protesting over reservation issues. OBCs are wary over the possibility of Marathas being included in the category if the SEBC reservation did not stand the legal scrutiny. Dhangars have been demanding their inclusion in the Scheduled Tribes category.JD Tandel, vice president, OBC Sangharsh Samanway Samiti said, after the meeting, “We were expecting a firm decision on our demands, but CM assured us to appoint a cabinet sub-committee to discuss our issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-maharashtra-government-postpones-mpsc-exams/story-shJCTgzQi3XK0SuVU6FMWI.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||40-year-old out on bail cheats women of gold in Kalyan||A 40-year-old man posing as a police officer and cheating elderly women for gold ornaments was arrested by the Bazarpeth police here.The accused is a history-sheeter and was released on bail in May to avoid over-crowding in jails after Covid-19 pandemic spread.Police said Rajendra, alias Raju Nair, 40 and a resident of Vashi, was arrested on October 6 and remanded to police custody till October 10.“We have arrested him and solved two cases he committed recently. We have recovered 34 grams of gold. He used to steal to fund his drinking habit and to look after his family,” said Yashwant Chavan, senior police inspector, Bazarpeth police station.Police said Nair committed two cheating cases in August and September. In August, he cheated a 70-year-old woman Lata Patavle and took her gold chain pretending to be a police officer. “He took gold ornaments weighing 17 grams and worth ₹50,000 asked the woman to bring the bills to check the originality. When the woman returned with the bill only to find the man missing, she approached the police and registered a cheating case.“Similarly, in September, he cheated an elderly woman of 17 gm gold. The woman claimed the accused pretended to be an officer and asked her the gold to check whether it’s real or fake,” said a police officer.Pramod Sanap, assistant police inspector of Bazarpeth police station, said: “We started the investigation and with the help of local sources, found about Nair being released on bail. We arrested him and he confessed to these thefts.”Nair had more than 10 cases of similar crimes against him in the past. He had been arrested earlier in cases registered at different police stations including Ulhasanagar, Central Line, Vitthalwadi, Kalyan, Vashi and Railways.“He was release in May but was not active on the field amidst lockdown. In August, after people started coming, out he started taking advantage,” added Sanap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-year-old-out-on-bail-cheats-women-of-gold-in-kalyan/story-II1efgCbFL4n5RO7MGiXsO.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Out on parole, murder convict attacks Thane cops||Two cops – sub-inspector Dattatray Sarak, 36 and constable Anand Bhillare, 52, of crime branch unit 1 – were injured after a murder convict, who had jumped parole, attacked them with a sickle when they tried to arrest him in Wagale Estate, Thane, on Friday.The cops, though injured, managed to arrest the convict, Navnath Dhangade 35.Sarak suffered injuries on his chest and legs while Bhillare injured his hands and legs in the attack. Both are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Vartak Nagar.The crime branch have been on the lookout for convicts who have jumped parole for the last two years. So far, they have arrested 12 of them who were convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.An officer from the crime branch said, “There are two cases including murder against the convict. He allegedly worked as a cleaning boy and would steal some equipment from the car. Along with his friend, he beat a man to death for finding out about the theft. He was awarded life imprisonment in the case and was serving his term in Thane Central Jail.”Sarak, who was heading the team, received information that the convict who was on 60 days parole from April 2, had not reported back to jail. Sarak said, “We received a tip off that Dhangade was hiding in a shanty near Lokmanya Nagar in Wagale Estate. We went there on Friday morning with a team of nine police officers at around 4 am.”An officer requesting anonymity said, “The house where he was hiding was in a blackout, though had no door. He came to know about our movements and as we tried to enter, he started attacking us with a sickle. The convict tried to flee after attacking two officers who raised an alarm. We cornered him from both sides, front and back and arrested him.”Deputy police commissioner, crime, Deepak Devraj said, “We have registered fresh cases against him, in Shreengar Police station under IPC Sections 307, 353, 333 and Arms Act 4 and 25. Our officers are undergoing treatment and their condition is stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/out-on-parole-murder-convict-attacks-thane-cops/story-CrkSCwxezuNXw14CHRV0hN.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||CBI searches HDIL offices in Yes Bank ₹200-crore loan fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday conducted searches at 10 of directors of Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) while investigating a fresh case registered by CBI alleging ₹200 crore loan fraud in Yes Bank. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) recently had registered a fresh case against Rakesh Wadhawan, his son Sarang, other directors, including Waryam Singh alleging ₹200 crore loan fraud.Wadhawans and Singh are presently lodged in jail in connection with Punjab & Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank Fraud case. The other accused who are named in the case are – Amanpreet Singh, Venkatavarthan N. Iyenger, Lakshminder Singh, M/s Ashok Jayesh & Associates (chartered accountant), Jayesh Sanghani and Ashok Kumar Gupta. In the FIR registered on September 23, the CBI has claimed that group of directors of HDIL who were on board of M/s Mack star Marketing Pvt Ltd (Mack Star) in connivance with auditors and officials of Yes Bank fraudulently obtained loan worth ₹200 crores from Yes bank during the period of 2011 to 2016.According to the FIR, Mack Star is a joint venture company of M/s Ocean Deity Investment Holding Pvt Ltd (ODIL- Mauritius based company) and companies which were owned and controlled by Wadhawans – promoters of HDIL.In the said joint venture the board of directors were – Rakesh, Sarang, Waryam, Amanpreet, Venkatavarthan, other senior members of board of directors of HDIL and Lakshminder.The agency claimed that the affairs were managed by all HDIL directors - Wadhawans from 2008 until January 2019. The complaint alleged that to overcome financial crises in HDIL, they took advantage of the controlling position and obtained six loans totalling to an amount of ₹200.3 crores from Yes Bank to pay their liabilities and loans which were outstanding with Yes Bank itself. The complaint alleged that the loan was obtained without the consent of ODIL. Further, the agency claimed that in January 2016, the investors came to know about the loan obtained by Wadhawans. It was claimed that even after alerting the bank, the bank disbursed loan of amounting to ₹19.60 crores to Mack Star. The CBI claimed that the bank officials granted a loan to HDIL without following due process of law. As per the terms, the contracting parties cannot take a loan on the name of the joint venture without the consent of the investors. The banks ignored the condition and sanctioned the loan without the consent letter of the investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-searches-hdil-offices-in-yes-bank-200-crore-loan-fraud-case/story-s7MpnpId0xz1I6xIQP0S9M.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Man sets dogs on Kalyan police to avoid arrest, eventually nabbed||The Mahatma Phule police here have arrested a 47-year-old man wanted for the last two years for allegedly arguing with the police. The accused, however, again had tried to escape arrest by letting his two Doberman dogs on the police on Thursday.Police said Firoz Khan, alias Firoz Mental, was arrested on Thursday evening. He has more than 22 cases including dacoity, robbery, rape, molestation and many others. He served imprisonment in four cases and completed his sentence.“In 2018, after he was released, he got into an argument and assaulted the police officers in court over demanding tiffin from home in jail. We were on the lookout for him since then. However, he managed to escape by various antics,” said a police officer.On Thursday after the police received information about Mental, Deepak Sarode and Ganesh Kumbar, both assistant police inspectors of Mahatma Phule police station, and their team raided his residence in Waldhuni, Kalyan.“Mental ordered his dogs to attack the police officers and ran away. We managed to arrest him after an hour’s search,” added Sarode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-sets-dogs-on-kalyan-police-to-avoid-arrest-eventually-nabbed/story-EgOYf1to3EqAuPX0z1OCkP.html
10-10-2020||City||Covid cases cross 19k-mark in Ludhiana even as virus spread slows down; 1 dead||Even as the number of Covid infections and fatalities in Ludhiana has seen a significant decline over the last few days, the tally of cases crossed the 19,000-mark on Friday with 98 fresh cases being reported.Besides this, another death was recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 791.The deceased is a 43-year-old woman from Raikot.The district now has 587 active patients while the cumulative tally stands at 19,040. Till date, a total of 3.15 lakh samples have been collected for testing in the district, health officials said.In a positive development however, the virus spread seems to have slowed down in the district. The jump from 18,000 cases to 19,000 cases took eight days unlike last month, when as many as 3,000 cases (from 12,000 to 15,000) were added in just nine days. In fact, it had taken just two days for the cases to jump from 15,000 to 16,000 and three days for the cases to rise from 14,000 to 15,000. (see box) Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma informed that till date, 45,089 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 2,335. On Friday, 118 persons were sent for home quarantine. As many as 17, 650 patients have recovered from the disease so far, depicting a recovery rate of 92.6 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-cross-19k-mark-in-ludhiana-even-as-virus-spread-slows-down-1-dead/story-eFMVLMvwCTTkHxuhAJpeNO.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||NMSEZ damaged Uran mangroves, wetlands, reveals RTI||The Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ), a proposed integrated industrial township across 4,000 acres in Uran, has undertaken illegal reclamation across three locations in the taluka, according to details revealed through a right to information (RTI) response from the state.Official records of the revenue department’s investigations over the past year submitted by the state mangrove cell in response to the RTI query by NGO Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP) show that NMSEZ undertook landfilling without permissions at Panje, Bhendkhal, and Pagote, and were also responsible for chopping mangroves over three acres at Pagote. These areas are located towards the eastern seafront of the Mumbai harbour in Raigad district.“NMSEZ has always been in denial that it has not done any environmental harm, but the RTI response amply proves the severity of environmental violations,” said Nandkumar Pawar, head, SEAP.Environment groups NatConnect Foundation and SEAP wrote to environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday ahead of World Migratory Birds Day (October 10), requesting the state to declare Panje a bird sanctuary and provide permanent protection to other affected areas.The RTI response further stated that inspection reports, as submitted by the Raigad collector, confirmed damage to ecologically sensitive zones, and NMSEZ had been booked for cases at Pagote and Bhendkhal. The truck driver of a dumper (dumping debris), which belonged to the contractor appointed by NMSEZ was booked for the violation at Panje.Panje and Bhendkhal have been proposed by the mangrove cell as conservation reserves and also demarcated as satellite wetlands of the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. However, no areas in Uran have been notified by the state environment department as wetlands under the 2017 wetland rules.Nidhi Choudhari, district collector and magistrate, Raigad, said, “On all complaints received on mangroves destruction, the administration has taken necessary action and filed a first information report (FIR) with the police department. In the NMSEZ case, an FIR was filed and the work was immediately stopped.”Ravi Kulkarni, general manager, NMSEZ said, “I am not aware of any environmental violations in Uran by NMSEZ. However, whenever there have been any complaints, we have forwarded the grievances to the revenue department or the forest department. In some cases, we have assisted both state bodies during their investigation.” The RTI response by the Uran regional forest officer also said as many as 5,333 mangrove saplings needed to be planted to compensate for the damage at Pagote. “Since the land is privately owned by NMSEZ, the government agency could not do the plantation,” the RTI response said.Neenu Somraj, member secretary of the Bombay high court (HC) appointed mangrove and wetland redressal committee and deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell), said, “Entire submissions from the revenue department are with us. Now, we have directed the local police to complete their investigation and the charge sheet for FIRs filed against NMSEZ. The committee has asked the police to submit their status report by the next hearing.”NMSEZ is owned 26% by state body City Industrial Development Corporation Limited (Cidco) and 74% by private investors. According to Cidco, 5,250 acres in Uran are proposed to be developed for industries and residential zones, of which 4,125 acres has already been handed over to NMSEZ, the special planning authority for the notified areas in of Dronagiri, Kalamboli, Ulwe (waterfront) and Ulwe (airport) nodes of Navi Mumbai, under the provisions of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966.An NMSEZ official requesting anonymity said, “No dumping of debris or site development work has been undertaken on NMSEZ land in Panje or any of the other Uran areas in the last few years. Also, there is no question of wetland destruction as these sites agricultural land acquired by the Maharashtra government and handed over to Cidco for development of industrial and residential areas.”Uran’s local fishing community has been opposing NMSEZ’s project citing loss of livelihood as their fishing areas are allegedly being reclaimed while environmentalists have opposed proposed activities since they impede migratory bird roosting. “The RTI clarifies that all our previous complaints stand vindicated, and it is now up to the state to take appropriate action,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nmsez-damaged-uran-mangroves-wetlands-reveals-rti/story-gyUqLpQU6rdBJUrJKTe0gI.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Veteran writer protests for 20 hours after Mumbai jeweller refuses to speak to her in Marathi; Maharashtra CM assures her support||Veteran Marathi writer Shobha Deshpande staged a protest for around 20 hours outside a jewellery shop in south Mumbai on Thursday afternoon after the owner of the shop allegedly refused to communicate with her in Marathi and drove her out of his shop.After the incident came to light, some party workers of the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) allegedly assaulted the jeweller, Shankarlal Jain, and forced him to apologise.Meanwhile, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray spoke to the 80-year-old writer on phone and assured her support over the issue.Deshpande has alleged that when she visited Mahavir Jewellers at Colaba, she asked the jeweller to speak in Marathi but he refused to do so and also refused to sell her any jewellery. They then asked her to leave after Deshpande insisted on seeing the registration certificate of the shop, the writer has alleged. Upset over the incident, Deshpande sat outside the shop in protest for at least 20 hours.“When I went to buy jewellery, he [Jain] started talking to me in Hindi. I told him to speak in Marathi. He said he will not speak in Marathi and that he was not even interested in selling his jewellery to me. I then asked him for his registration certificate, which he refused to show. Following this, I called the police, but they took his side, due to which I was forced to agitate,” said Deshpande.After the incident was brought to light, MNS workers reached the spot in large numbers and slapped Jain.“We will break his arrogance using our MNS style and will not allow this shop to open till they start talking to customers in Marathi,” said party leader Sandeep Deshpande.Sandeep said the writer suffers from multiple health issues and the owner did not consider her age or condition before misbehaving with her.Jain was later taken to Colaba police station. He later apologised for the incident. “I was born in Mumbai and respect the Marathi language. I am sorry for the mistake and will not repeat it,” said Jain.Thackeray during his conversation with Deshpande asked her to take care of her health.“You have done the right thing and we will support your cause,” said the CM.Deshpande then withdraw her agitation. “I am appalled by this attitude of openly insulting Marathi, which is state language. They [businessmen] conduct their business for decades in Mumbai and refuse to learn Marathi,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/veteran-writer-protests-for-20-hours-after-mumbai-jeweller-refuses-to-speak-to-her-in-marathi-maharashtra-cm-assures-her-support/story-qMzqO2Ex1lLeBlZy9MvodM.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||More Covid deaths among men compared to women, shows research by Mumbai civic body||A total of 5,110 of the 92,827 men – 5.5% – suffering from Covid-19 in the city died, while 2,655 deaths (4.6%) were reported among the city’s 57,436 women patients in this period, according to an analytical research conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) of the data from the start of the outbreak till September 6. Civic officials said higher mobility for work was one of the reasons behind the higher rate of Covid deaths among men. The research also revealed that proportion of women patients with co-morbidities is higher than compared to men. Shashank Joshi, member of state’s Covid task force, said, “It is absolutely true that there is a gender bias. Firstly, women are a biologically superior sex. Also, estrogen, which is a female hormone, is protective against Covid compared to testosterone (male hormone) which is detrimental to Covid and mortality too. The host immune response of men is weaker. So the cause for a higher mortality rate in men is purely hormonal.” The research also revealed that deaths up to the age of 60 are decreasing gradually for both men and women. BMC said the reason is improvement in availability of hospital beds and line of treatment “We have invested significantly in data analytics to get a fair idea of the Covid situation in Mumbai and accordingly frame our health policies. For instance, we have used something called as ‘predictive analytics’ to forecast case counts to appropriately plan for management of healthcare machinery. We have conducted artificial intelligence-based screenings, which included chest X-ray and retina scan to detect Covid and identify possible co-morbidities among high risk contacts,” said a senior civic official. A team of analysts were roped in to work on Covid data analytics in BMC’s Covid war room that was headed by additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-covid-deaths-among-men-compared-to-women-shows-research-by-mumbai-civic-body/story-0kajXD0F2RZnndNlg3J4gP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Shiv Sena MP seeks probe into misuse of social media platforms||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah and Union minister for information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad to investigate the misuse of social media platforms to “spread lies, and hate, and to destabilise governments as well as undermine constitutional institutions”. In her letter, the Rajya Sabha MP also called for formulation of guidelines urgently to hold social media companies accountable.Chaturvedi, in her two-page letter, referred to the 1 lakh “fake and illegitimate” social media accounts that were created to the intent to malign the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police. The Mumbai Police recently found that over 1 lakh fake social media accounts were created a day after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.“In context of the suicide of an actor in Mumbai, numerous social media accounts were used to spread conspiracy theories and cast aspersions on the efficiency of the Mumbai Police,” Chaturvedi wrote in the letter, adding that freedom of expression was used to throw up unsubstantiated and unwarranted allegations on the fair investigation through fake bots.Calling for guidelines to hold social media companies accountable, she said these companies operate on two pillars — calling themselves intermediaries, and second, they self-regulate through community guidelines. “The decade-old argument that as intermediaries they have no responsibility cannot be accepted anymore… Keeping in mind all of the above points, I urge the government to take urgent action on these matters and initiate a free, fair, and bipartisan investigation on the roles of these platforms to destroy basic tenets of democratic framework,” she wrote.She also said that if the heads of Facebook and Twitter can be called upon by the Unites States Congress to answer questions and are being investigated in an open forum, “Then why is it that the Indian government is even hesitating to ask them to explain their role in our nation?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-shiv-sena-mp-seeks-probe-into-misuse-of-social-media-platforms/story-4mWrSIr3WJI87WzntifuNM.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||CBI could be pressured to reject AIIMS report in Sushant Singh Rajput case, says Congress||Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is likely to face pressure from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which faced embarrassment in view of the AIIMS report in Sushant Singh Rajput death case.Sawant said BJP leaders supported the news channel facing probe for TRP scam just because it has been running their agenda. “By using social media and news channels in favour of them, the BJP has been trying to defame the state government ruled by opposition parties. The modus operandi was used in SSR case to create suspicious atmosphere against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. The fake accounts on social media were used to create a narrative against the state government, and the news channel was party to it. The BJP fell flat on its face in SSR case after AIIMS report stated that there was no possibility of poisoning in the actor’s death. We are afraid that BJP could pressure CBI to rubbish the AIIMS report to save its [BJP’s] face and avoid further embarrassment in Bihar Assembly elections,” he said.BJP has rubbished Congress claims calling it ‘hallucinations’. “The AIIMS report has not yet been submitted in the court. Let the court hear the case and the report go through scrutiny after CBI presents its probe report in the court. The Congress is jumping guns and has reached the conclusion out of its hallucinations. The truth will soon come out,” said BJP vice-president Madhav Bhadari.Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14, following which the Mumbai Police started a probe. Later, CBI and NCB started investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-could-be-pressured-to-reject-aiims-report-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-says-congress/story-OZEAaQmL9aotK7cyRtuy7L.html
10-10-2020||Kolkata||Vijayvargiya, Menon among 24 BJP leaders booked in Bengal for agitation amid Covid-19 pandemic||As many as 24 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national secretary Arvind Menon, have been booked by the Kolkata Police for violating Central guidelines on gatherings and political rallies during Thursday’s mega agitation amid Covid-19 pandemic.Organised by the party’s youth wing, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the agitation witnessed pitched battles between the police and the party workers in parts of Kolkata and Howrah. The BJP leaders were also charged with destroying public property and violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC, said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh.“This is nothing new for us. Police in this state has brought around 30,000 false charges against hundreds of our workers and leaders in recent past. We will fight it out in court. We condemn the manner in which the police attacked us yesterday. Neither democracy nor this government can be saved with such tactics,” said Ghosh.He claimed that the BJP workers were attacked without any provocation. “The police are behaving like Trinamool Congress cadres,” he said. Ghosh led a silent march in the heart of Kolkata on Friday evening in protest against the police action. More than 200 BJP workers took part in it. Around the same time, a candlelight march was organised at Titagarh in the North 24 Parganas district by Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh in demand for a CBI probe into the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla on Sunday.The Centre has banned gatherings and political rallies having more than 100 people under the National Disaster Management Act in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP and the BJYM claimed that more than one lakh people from Kolkata and adjoining districts took part.Also read: Video of Sikh man’s turban being pulled at BJP’s Kolkata march sparks outrageThe BJYM organised the ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (march to Nabanna) programme to raise its voice on issues ranging from alleged lack of employment opportunities in Bengal to law and order problems. BJP and BJYM leaders claimed that around 1,500 workers were injured during baton charge by the police who stopped them from moving towards Nabanna, the state secretariat in Howrah, violating prohibitory orders.Ghosh alleged that the police hurled crude bombs at BJP workers from a house in Howrah. The state police tweeted that the policemen seen in a video circulated by the BJP were throwing tear gas grenades. “This is a lie. Two BJP workers suffered bomb injuries at that spot,” said Ghosh.Interestingly, the BJP’s allegation - that a strong chemical was used by the police in the purple water that was sprayed on the agitators on Thursday - found support from its rivals.BJYM national president and Lok Sabha MP from Bangalore South, Tejasvi Surya said on Thursday he will urge the Centre to probe the matter.On Friday, the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR), the state’s most prominent human rights group that has targeted the BJP on various issues in the past, moved the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on this issue.“This use of coloured dye to mark the protesters is a crude violation of human rights by the government of West Bengal. International human rights movement since long opposed this type of coloured identification and division of masses by colour marking and use of colour dye in water cannons for identification or for any reasons cited,” Ranjit Sur, vice-president of the APDR wrote to the chairman of the NHRC.“Moreover the colours used in the cannons are not at all good for human use and contain lead particles which are poisonous. This type of colour dye develops health issues when in contact with human bodies. So in all respects, it is a violation of human rights of citizens,” wrote Sur.The Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), a partner in the Left Front, also condemned the use of the purple dye. “The BJP workers might have been unruly but all this might not justify the heinous use of brutality in spraying methyl violet on the demonstrators. The West Bengal Police indulged in a similar manner of criminal offence as so frequently used by the fascist tactics of the J&K Police. The RSP strongly condemns such high handed and brutal acts of the state police,” RSP state secretary Manoj Bhattacharya said in a public statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/vijayvargiya-menon-among-24-bjp-leaders-booked-in-bengal-for-agitation-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-el4TnKTTeBtGf9m9oAxe4I.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||To limit contact, CR installs communication system at booking windows of some Mumbai suburban stations||In a move to minimise contact between passengers and railway personnel, Central Railway (CR), as a pilot project, has installed a communication system on its booking windows and public reservation system (PRS).Speakers have been installed on the booking windows for passengers to commute with railway staff while buying the railway tickets. The communication systems are being installed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, Panvel, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Thane, Mulund, Kalyan and Ghatkopar railway stations.Earlier, open spaces in booking windows were used for communication between passengers and railway staff. These open spaces in the booking windows will be closed.“The speakers will limit transmission of the virus and also maintain safe distance with the railway staff,” said a CR offficial.CR recently installed flap gates at CSMT station to screen outstation passengers and study commuter movement.Meanwhile, 22 new local trains will be introduced on CR. The trains will be operated on the mainline, harbour and trans-harbour railway line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/to-limit-contact-cr-installs-communication-system-at-booking-windows-of-some-mumbai-suburban-stations/story-IcFtnl2E28J75cgh2tyf3M.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai’s final-year exams run smoothly; 2.09 lakh students take exams glitch-free||Amid flak for the manner in which the examinations of its distance learning wing was held and then deferred, the University of Mumbai (MU) has announced that online exams of affiliated colleges are running smoothly.In a statement released late on Thursday evening, the varsity announced that over the past two days — Wednesday and Thursday — more than 2.09 lakh students appeared for their exams without any glitches.It further highlighted that of the 1.03 lakh students from arts, commerce and science departments who had registered to appear for the exam, 1.01 lakh students appeared for the exam on Wednesday. Similarly, 1.03 lakh students attempted the examination on Thursday as well, confirmed MU.“The gap between registered candidates and those who finally appeared for the examination in the last two days is fairly small, and we assure that students who could not appear for exams due to whatever reasons will be given another chance to appear for the exam,” read the statement.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all final-year exams are being conducted online this year. While MU has decided the time frame, exam format and the time per exam in advance, all online exams of the affiliated institutes are being conducted by the institutes themselves.Most of the 800-odd MU-affiliated colleges started their final-year (summer 2020) exams between October 1 and 7 this year. As per government directives, colleges have to complete examinations before the end of October and results have to be declared by the first week of November.While exams of MU-affiliated colleges are running glitch-free, examinations of MU’s distance education wing, the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), were marred with errors. In a statement released on Wednesday, MU announced the postponement of all final-year exams for IDOL students. The new timetable is scheduled to commence from October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-final-year-exams-run-smoothly-2-09-lakh-students-take-exams-glitch-free/story-YOS9f00JwcxzJ27Cb76EIL.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Experts sound caution over Delhi’s new tree policy||Experts and green activists have sounded a note of concern over the Delhi government’s new tree transplantation policy, saying most native and old trees cannot survive translocation. The survival rate of transplanted trees is very low while the process itself incurs a high cost and so the 80% target set under the policy is not achievable, the experts cautioned. The new policy aims to preserve trees that are hundreds of years old, and which are affected by development projects. Under the policy, 80% of trees uprooted for any construction or development project must be mandatorily transplanted. In addition, it must be ensured at least 80% of the transplanted trees survive after a year, it says. Pradip Krishen, an environmentalist and author, said the policy is not reliable as there is neither as much experience or enough expertise on transplantation. “Older trees are susceptible to dying on being translocated, as they are not able to survive the shock of being uprooted. Trees with deep tap-root system do not have a chance of survival at all. This includes all native trees such as jamun and babool, among others. Only some ficus varieties such as peepal, bargad and pilkhan can survive transplantation,” Krishen said. Krishen said the policy should have been about how to integrate trees within development projects. “During the 1982 Asian Games, a stretch on Lodhi Road with a thick tree line was widened while keeping the trees intact. Solutions such as these could be found with political will, as trees are our heritage just like buildings and other structures.” The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.The new transplantation policy will be in addition to the existing one that mandates plantation of 10 trees for every tree that is cut. Warning that the policy would pave the way for the removal of thousands of trees for construction projects, experts said the government should implement provisions of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994, and make the Tree Authority more effective. They said the cost incurred in the scheme could be used for planting native species across the city’s degraded forests. “Transplantation is an extremely expensive and high-maintenance procedure and is not a viable option where large-scale tree felling of thousands of trees are involved. Therefore, it important to revive Delhi’s Tree Authority and strengthen policies that encourage tree protection rather than tree felling,” Kanchi Kohli, senior researcher, Centre for Policy Research, said. Citing from his experience, Vijay Dhasmana, curator, Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram, said they had transplanted 10 jamun trees that were being felled on the roadside, inside the park at least a decade ago. “Since the trees were being felled for a road project, we tried to save them by translocating them within the park. However, since native trees are too sensitive, 10 years later, now only three of those are left and are struggling to survive. So, if the policy is aiming at 80% survival of transplanted trees, it’s neither achievable nor feasible,” he said. Dhasmana said even though transplantation is better than just felling a tree, the survival rate and the kind of species that are known to survive post-operation is quite low.Others pointed out that a successful transplantation would depend on the species, age, size and health of trees besides other factors such as soil condition and expertise. C R Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem in Delhi University, said transplantation is the last option in any effort to conserve or secure greens in urban centres. “It is not an alternative option. Only young and shallow-rooted species are known to survive after being transplanted. The extent of mortality of a transplanted tree in case of old and full-grown trees is 99%,” Babu said. Babu said only some ficus species such as peepal, bargad and gular can survive on translocation. “However, transplanted trees take years to regrow and still don’t get a full shape or a canopy. At the same time, a young sapling can grow into a much healthier tree over time. Without a canopy, a tree cannot provide ecological services, which is the main function of it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/experts-sound-caution-over-delhi-s-new-tree-policy/story-sh5csmfZFkBItIgbxhoHhM.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Air Quality Index witnesses sharp spike in Mumbai, is highest since before lockdown began in March||The city recorded its worst air quality on Friday since before the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced in March. Reduction in rain activity and increase in emission sources owing to lifting of restrictions pushed up the pollutant-measuring indicator — air quality index (AQI) — to 118 (moderate) for PM2.5 (small pollutant particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments), as a thin layer of smog engulfed Mumbai’s skyline.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), it is the first time since March 19 that Mumbai’s AQI entered the ‘moderate’ category (101-200). It was 130 on March 19, after which till Friday, it had stayed below 101. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as ‘good’; 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’; 101-200 as ‘moderate’; 201-300 as ‘poor’; 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 400 as ‘severe’. The AQI on Monday was 50, which rose to 68 on Tuesday, 78 on Wednesday and 97 on Thursday before entering the moderate category on Friday.“This was expected as when conditions become favourable for monsoon withdrawal, there is a sharp drop in wind speed and rise in temperature, especially for a coastal city like Mumbai. This allows pollutant particles to get suspended close to the surface and form a layer of haze,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. “Pollution levels are likely to be in the moderate category for at least two to three days. But with a low pressure weather system over Bay of Bengal, the possibility of rain even around the Mumbai region could allow a marginal rise in wind speed.”An AQI of 104 (moderate) has been predicted for Saturday. Friday’s AQI, however, was an average from nine locations and not 10 as the AQ monitoring station at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) is under maintenance, said Beig. The highest pollution level was recorded at Navi Mumbai –186 (moderate), followed by Andheri 156 (moderate); Malad 152 (moderate); Chembur 149 (moderate); Worli 128 (moderate), while remaining areas recorded ‘satisfactory’ AQI levels.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Friday in Mumbai was 35 degrees Celsius at the Santacruz weather observatory and 34.6 degrees Celsius at Colaba, both 2.3 degrees Celsius above normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a yellow alert for the next five days for Thane and other districts in south Konkan. However, only light rain has been predicted for the city and suburbs over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-quality-index-witnesses-sharp-spike-in-mumbai-is-highest-since-before-lockdown-began-in-march/story-Seq0J45SyZqb0S38kubYyO.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Connaught Place will get smog tower in 10 months, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the state cabinet has approved setting up a smog tower in Connaught Place, and that the Delhi government has approved a budget of ₹20 crore for the project, he said which should be complete in 10 months. “The central government is already working on a smog tower in Anand Vihar. The one by the Delhi government will be set up in Connaught Place,” Kejriwal said in a video press briefing on Friday, adding that the move is in line with the government’s seven-point action plan for combating air pollution that was announced by Kejriwal earlier this week. The action plan also includes a separate strategy for dust control, management of 13 pollution hot spots, a war room to monitor pollution levels in real-time, a mobile app for registering complaints and a tree transplantation policy. Smog towers are structures designed to work as large-scale air purifiers. They are usually fitted with multiple layers of air filters, which clean the air of pollutants as it passes through them. Kejriwal however said the CP smog tower would work differently from the ones in China.“The smog tower in China sucks air through a panel in the bottom and releases clean air through a vent above, while the one in Connaught Place will suck unclean air through a vent located above and release clean air at a lower height,” the chief minister said. D Saha, former head of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) air laboratory, said smog towers are not suitable to Delhi’s meteorological conditions. “There is a constant intrusion of dust in Delhi because of various geographical and local factors. How much can a filter suck? A model such as this cannot be successful for a city like Delhi,” said Saha. A smog tower, hailed as Delhi’s first, was set up in the Lajpat Nagar central market in January this year by the traders’ association in Lajpat Nagar with the help of east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir. Residents and traders of the south Delhi area said the smog tower is useful and helps clean air in its immediate surroundings.General secretary of the Lajpat Nagar traders association , Ashwani Marwah said such initiatives were the need of the hour keeping in the pollution levels in the Capital. “It is just like a large-scale air purifier. When we keep air purifiers at home during the winter, then why not have such large-scale devices to clean up air in markets and such places where the daily footfall is high. I believe it’s worth the cost,” he said.The Supreme Court had on January 13 ordered the Delhi government to build a smog tower at Connaught Place in three months. On the same day, the court also ordered a smog tower to be installed in Anand Vihar by the Central Pollution Control Board within the same deadline. On July 21, the Supreme Court had noted that the authorities did not comply with the January 13 order. The apex court had warned it would initiate contempt proceedings against IIT-Bombay for threatening to back out of the proposal to construct smog towers in Delhi. Both projects are yet to materialise. A senior official in the environment department said the Connaught Place smog tower plan mentions a 20 metre-high device. “It is expected to reduce 50% of the particulate matter load in an area of 1 km in the direction of the wind, as well as 200m each along its sides and against the direction of the wind,” said the official, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/connaught-place-will-get-smog-tower-in-10-months-says-kejriwal/story-OAMi0IIyZg2UmZT80iLb4K.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Transfers in police ranks: Jai Jeet Singh appointed ATS chief of Maharashtra||The state government on Friday appointed senior Indian police Service (IPS) officer Jai Jeet Singh as the new chief of anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of the state. Singh, a 1990-batch IPS officer, was earlier posted as additional director general of anti-corruption bureau (ACB) during the previous shuffling of senior IPS officers. He is not new to ATS as he has served as additional commissioner of police in ATS in the past. Singh has served in Maharashtra in various capacities, including long stints in Naxal-affected districts.In his long service, tech-enthusiast Singh had also taken important assignments on central deputation and has served in Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and as centre director in National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), the apex technical intelligence agency under the Prime Minister’s Office.Singh will be replacing additional director general (ADG) Deven Bharti, who has been now made in-charge of Maharashtra State Security Board, which is considered to be a side posting. Under Bharti’s supervision, ATS on Thursday had arrested employees of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) for passing secret information about Indian fighter aircrafts and Ozhar aircraft manufacturing unit to Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI.Meanwhile, ADG Prabhat Kumar has been sent to replace Singh in ACB. Mumbai’s former joint commissioner of police (administration) Naval Bajaj, who had done impressive work in Covid management in the Mumbai Police, has been promoted to ADG rank and has been posted as ADG of the economic offences wing (EOW) of the state police. Like Bharti, he was waiting for the new posting.Konkan range special inspector general of police Niket Kaushik has been made the new chief of Mumbai Police EOW. He will be replacing Rajvardhan Sinha, who has been sent to the office of special inspector general of police, Prevention of Atrocities against Women.Dozens of other senior police officers of superintendent of police (SP) and deputy SP ranks were also transferred on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/transfers-in-police-ranks-jai-jeet-singh-appointed-ats-chief-of-maharashtra/story-KfIGbrGBGfPapOUg4FSOyK.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra police go paperless, digital is their new normal during Covid-19 pandemic||Statements recorded on WhatsApp, paperless administration, station houses outside the police station — these are just a few of the changes that Covid-19 is bringing to policing in Maharashtra. The state has one of the largest police forces in the country and has reported the most Covid-positive cases since the outbreak reached India. While Mumbai Police has already begun implementing some of these changes, all administrative processes at all police stations in the state are expected to go online by the end of October. “Covid-19 changed the demands and expectations of the police force,” said director general of police (Maharashtra) Subodh Jaiswal. Going forward, all administrative processes, including human resource management (like leave applications, budgets) will become paperless. “By the end of the month, we have planned to make all administrative process of policing across all police stations in the state go online. Not only will it cut down on the voluminous files, but it will also significantly reduce the manpower that was being used till now,” he said. Jaiswal said the shift to online is expected to increase efficiency and communication between different levels of police officers. “For example, if a senior officer wants a progress report of a situation on ground, he would be able to directly connect with his subordinate and call for the ground report on the spot. This not only would drastically change the response time, it will also help in better coordination in the force,” said Jaiswal. After the lockdown was imposed in March, the police was given additional roles like ensuring no crowds gathered; enforcing guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distance in public spaces; making regular announcements through the public addressing system; curbing Covid-related rumours; and assisting the civic body. With police officers working alongside frontline workers, the number of police personnel who contracted Covid-19 started rising. Dyaneshwar Chavan, additional commissioner of police (central region), Mumbai Police, said, “Seven hundred and fifty policemen contracted Covid-19 in the first three months of the lockdown, which induced a fear among others.” Till date, 24,581 police personnel have contracted Covid-19 and of them, 21,862 have recovered, while 257 (25 officers and 232 constables) lost their lives to the infection. Chavan said, “The recovery rate has helped to boost the confidence of officials to come back and carry out their duty without any fear.” Those above 55 are being assigned desk jobs to ensure their chances of being exposed to Covid-19 remain low. As a safety measure, those police personnel who are above 55 or have comorbidities were asked to remain at home since they would be more vulnerable to Covid-19. This meant there were fewer police on duty. “To deal with this situation, we had to change our working format and adopt an approach to multitask,” said Diwakar Shelke, senior police inspector at Dadar police station. Efforts were made to remove possibilities of contracting Covid-19 through contact or surface transmission. Shriram Koregaonkar, senior police inspector from Santacruz police station, said, “Earlier, we used to arrest any accused without hesitation. But now we are cautious and ensure that we are wearing gloves, face shield and regularly use hand sanitizers before and after arresting an accused.” Some stations have even changed their layout. Raju Kasbe, senior inspector from Samta Nagar police station, said, “Station house is where complainants come to lodge complaints, so we shifted it outside the police station and made a mark about eight feet from the bench where the officer sits to receive complaints.” Mumbai Police said that it has seen a change in the way the public interacts with police during the lockdown. “Our behaviour towards local residents underwent a change. We helped numerous citizens by distributing food, groceries, emergency passes or by helping them get medical aid. These acts have seen our bond with citizens strengthen. People are now more willing to help us with crucial information,” said Manjunath Singe, deputy commissioner of police (zone 8), Mumbai Police. The pandemic has also pushed the police to move from paperwork to electronic files. Rajvardhan Sinha, joint commissioner of police (economic offences wing), Mumbai Police, said, “We have started recording statements of people through Zoom or WhatsApp. In some cases, we send a questionnaire through email and record their answers as their statement.” Charge sheets will also be filed electronically in the near future. “Since courts have started video conferencing facilities and adequate infrastructure is being allotted for electronic filing, we are in the process of submitting charge sheets through e-filing. We also plan to record statements of witnesses in criminal matters electronically, modalities of which are being worked out,” said Jaiswal. During the lockdown, maintaining law and order has been relatively easy as citizens were restricted to their homes. As the lockdown is lifted, police will have to carry out Covid-related duties in addition to their regular roles. Chavan said a spike in crimes committed was likely, especially with growing unemployment, and Mumbai Police was prepared to tackle such an eventuality. “We’ve begun training officers to prevent robberies, property and body crimes. Squads like anti-chain snatching and anti-property theft have been mobilised to ensure citizens, who are now venturing out of their homes, are safe,” said Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-go-paperless-digital-is-their-new-normal-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-AN2MJqdQXKenTdQGXjY0OP.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||80 per cent trees felled for infra work to be transplanted in Delhi||The Delhi cabinet approved on Friday rules making it mandatory for at least 80% of trees affected by any development project to be transplanted, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced, in a move meant to address concerns regarding the city’s green cover.The rule is a part of a new tree transplantation policy that is one of seven initiatives announced by Kejriwal earlier this week to combat air pollution. The action plan includes a separate strategy for dust control, management of 13 pollution hotspots, a war room for real-time monitoring of pollution levels and efficacy of measures to fight pollution, and a mobile app for registering complaints.“This is the first-of-its-kind tree transplantation policy in Delhi. We will be the first state in the country to implement this policy,” said Kejriwal during a press briefing online on Friday evening.  Tree transplantation is known to be difficult. Experts say only a few species survive the process, which involves special machines to carefully remove trees along with some soil and the roots before they are moved to their alternate destination.The government, he added, will come out with a list of empanelled technical agencies that will carry out the transplantation and ensure the moved trees survive. “Services of the empanelled agencies can be availed for all projects that would affect trees. Payment to the agency will have to be done after one year of transplant, only after ensuring that 80% of the transplanted trees have survived,” he said.If a project affects 100 trees, 80 of these need to be transplanted, according to the new rule. Of the 80, 64 will need to survive.Any project by an individual or private entity that requires less than 10 trees to be cut will be exempted from the policy, which will now need to be notified to come into force. The policy will be in addition to an existing rule that requires a developer to plant ten saplings for every tree that needs to be felled for a project.Kejriwal also said that a dedicated tree transplantation cell will be formed by the Delhi government and local committees, which will include government officials, citizens and resident welfare associations to monitor transplanted trees and certify that the task has been done with due diligence. For each project, the listed agencies will have to conduct a study to ascertain suitable locations and any other factor involved, said a senior government official, asking not to be named. “The government has a plan of adding trees along several arterial roads also there is a list of spaces reserved for forestation drives. The list will keep evolving with time,” this person added.The policy was last tabled in a Cabinet meeting in May but it was held for further deliberations, said a second senior government official who did not wish to be identified. Between February 28 and March 15 last year, the draft of the policy was shared in public domain for suggestions and comments.C R Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem in Delhi University, said transplantation is the last option in any effort to conserve or secure greens in urban centres. “It is not an alternative option. Only young and shallow-rooted species are known to survive after being transplanted. Trees with a deep taproot system cannot survive translocation. The extent of mortality of a transplanted tree in case of old and full-grown trees is 99%. Only some ficus species such as peepal, bargad and gular can survive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/80-trees-felled-for-infra-work-to-be-transplanted-in-delhi/story-4x45kEmkYjDgRtBOjq8y4N.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Those who need DG sets must approach Epca directly for exemption: Haryana PCB||The Haryana state pollution control board (HSPCB) on Friday said that those who did not have regular power connections should approach the Supreme Court appointed environmental pollution control board authority (Epca) for exemption from its ban on diesel generator (DG) sets from October 15.A day earlier, the Epca had directed the Haryana government to strictly impose the ban on use of diesel generators in Gurugram and Faridabad in view of the rising levels of air pollution.On Friday, chief secretary Vijay Vardhan held a review meeting on the matter with the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, said, “The power department has assured that they are working on the necessary grid infrastructure for the uninterrupted power supply, which will help in reducing the usage of generator sets. In case, issues related to electricity connection between DHBVN and the condominium/industry remains disputed and unresolved then they will have to approach Epca to get exemptions.” Developers, residents welfare association (RWA) and DHBVN have a week’s time to resolve their issues before the graded response action plan (Grap) to tackle air pollution is implemented on October 15.“There are around 60 condominiums in developing sector and 15 in old Gurugram (sectors 1-57) where regular connections are pending because developers have not met the compliances,” said Vineta Singh, chief engineer, smart grid, who has additional charge superintending engineer, Delhi circle. According to her, the department will be sending the status report to the EPCA, while the developers and RWAs will also have to approach SC appointed pollution control authority. Talking to HT, Bhure Lal, chairman, EPCA, however, clarified that except the essential services like hospitals, nursing homes, healthcare facilities, railway and metro services, airports, elevators, and escalators there will be complete ban on diesel gensets. “Only the essential services or emergency services are exempted from the use of diesel generators. EPCA has already cleared its stance to power distributors. They have been given almost a year to improve the supply. On the issues of regular connections, state should answer as to why completion certificates were given to the condominium developers if they lacked basic infrastructure facilities like electricity supply. The pollution control has to ensure that gensets are banned from being operational.”A helpline will also be set up for Gurugram and Faridabad residents for queries on air pollution and control measures.HSPCB tried to wean off DG setsOn June 23, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had issued an order to five districts adjoining the national capital – Gurugram, Faridabad, Bhadurgarh, Sonepat and Panipat – on the usage of the DG sets that are already operational. The order stated that all DG sets in operation with capacity 500 KVA and above are required either to retrofit the emission control equipment having a minimum specified PM capturing efficiency of at least 70% (approved by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)) or shifting to gas-based generators within three months in the five districts.However, the order was withheld. Jai Bhagwan, senior scientist, HSPCB, said, “There were no specific guidelines by the CPCB to implement these directives, therefore it was put on hold.” Hemant Kaushal, project coordinator, centre of excellence on clean air, Indian Institute of Technology – Delhi, said, “Air pollution being a perennial problem is compounded this year with the Covid-19, which directly affects the lungs. Strict ban on DGs in Delhi-NCR is just one aspect of the multiple challenges faced in tackling air pollution. The onus is on the states this time to make sure the grid system is efficient, ensuring uninterrupted power supply.”According to Kaushal, ban on diesel gensets is a temporary solution. “A blanket ban on diesel gensets is not possible unless states like Haryana figure out a way to supply uninterrupted power so that the genset use is limited throughout the year not just during the GRAP implementation phase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/those-who-need-dg-sets-must-approach-epca-directly-for-exemption-haryana-pcb/story-O8QHBCgQi6ndWrJZkS2iiJ.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Work on elevated section of Sohna Road likely to start in next 10 days||The National Highways Authority of India ( NHAI) on Friday said that work on the elevated section of the Sohna Road is likely to start in the next 10 days. Officials said that changes in construction sequence and standard operating measures are being incorporated by the contractor as suggested by a technical committee appointed by the NHAI. The work on surface level has already commenced, officials said. “Work on the surface level has already commenced after measures pertaining to safety and security of commuters on the road and workers were taken by the contractor. The technical committee has also asked to streamline the process. This is being done gradually and most likely the work will start in the next 10 days,” said a senior NHAI official, not authorised to speak to media. The officials also said that given the high volume of traffic and constrained work environment, the possibility of mishaps at large construction sites is always high. “We are trying to minimise this issue,” he said. Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI, when asked about the resumption of work said matter was under consideration. The four-member technical committee had earlier said that quality of construction material, displaced stressing cables, and presence of cavity could have contributed to the collapse of span of the elevated road on August 22, which led to stoppage of work on the project. A senior official of Oriental Engineering, the contractor, said that all recommendations made by the committee are being implemented. The work on 6km Sohna road elevated road project was suspended after the collapse of the span between pier 10 and pier 11 on August 22. It was only last week that partial resumption of work on the surface level was allowed after the NHAI officials conducted an inspection of the project site. The total length of the project is around 21 kilometres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/work-on-elevated-section-of-sohna-road-likely-to-start-in-next-10-days/story-SGmyu400WCNqHT37jqaL8O.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||DG set ban: Residents, industries worry over power outages||The environment pollution (prevention and control) authority’s directive to ban diesel generator (DG) sets in the national capital region (NCR) from October 15 has Gurugram residents and industrials concerned -- how are they to deal with the daily power outages?A large number of condominiums in developing sectors in the city also don’t have regular power connections and rely on rural feeders for supply, which witness outages of four to five hours a day.The ban is part of Epca’s graded response acton plan (Grap) to prevent pollution in the region from reaching severe levels. However, use of generators for essential services such as hospitals, railways, metro stations, water treatment plants and sewage treatment plans are allowed. As per the pollution department, there are around 10,000 generators operational in the city, both in residential and industrial sectors. Around 6000 generators of more than 100 KWA capacity are used to augment power supply as backup for outages. At least 68 group housing societies don’t have regular power conenction, as per discom Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) data.Pravin Malik, president, Sare Homes residents welfare association (RWA), said that a majority of condominiums had rural area connections. “How will we run lifts, water supply, sewage treatment plant. Hundreds of residents are working from home and lack of electricity will make life even more difficult,” he said. RWAs demanded that authorities should encash the bank guarantees submitted by developers and lay the power infrastructure and build substations. Sourabh Kumar, another resident who lives near Dwarka Expressway, said voltage fluctuations have made work from home difficult and the ban would make it impossible. “A solution should be found to this,” he said. Industry associations based in Udyog Vihar and Manesar said the ban would impact production, which had just normalised after the Covid-19-lockdown restrictions were eased. “The factories, which work continuously and need uninterrupted supply, would face lot of problems. Covid-19 has already hit us bad and this will further lead to losses,” said Manmohan Gaind, general secretary, Manesar Industries Welfare Association. Ashok Kohli, president of Chamber of Industries Udyog Vihar, said that the government must promise 24-hour power supply. “What is the status of smart grid and why are there so many outages? Why would we use gensets if power supply is adequate,” he asked, adding that they already have received 20 to 25 complaints from members in this regard. The DHBVN, when asked about residents’ lack of power connections and dependence on gensets, said that they have given conenctions to every applicant who has complied with norms. “We will submitting these details with Epca in this regard. There were eight pending connections last year but none at present. All those who depend on gensets will have to approach the EPCA in this matter,” said Vinita Singh, chief engineer, Smart Grid, who has additional charge of superintending engineer, Delhi circle. Singh also said that work on smart grid project is progressing and they have set up 94 feeders out of which 63 have been activated. Bhure Lal, who heads the Epca monitoring committee said, “We have made our stand clear with electrity utilities clear in this regard. Our question is why completion certificate were issued to developers without even ensuring basic infrastructure.” He added that none of the stakeholder had approached them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dg-set-ban-residents-industries-worry-over-power-outages/story-8HUWWMgChRQU4abF8lm4LL.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 1.5 million Covid-19 cases, death toll nears 40,000||Maharashtra on Friday went past 1.5 million Covid-19 cases with an addition of 12,134 fresh infections, which took the state’s tally to 1,506,018. The state also reported 302 fatalities, pushing the toll closer to 40,000-mark at 39,732. Maharashtra has 236,491 active Covid-19 cases.Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to record the highest number of cases among cities and districts in the state as it recorded 2,289 fresh infections on Friday. The city’s tally rose to 225,073, while fatalities in Mumbai rose to 9,343 with 47 deaths reported on Friday. Active cases in Mumbai stand at 26,072, which is 11.58% of the city’s total cases.Friday also witnessed 17,232 patients being discharged, taking the total of recovered patients in the state to 1,229,339. The state’s recovery rate has improved to 81.63%. The number of daily cases reported across the state reduced in the first week of October compared to the first week of September. The state recorded 135,155 cases between September 2 and September 8, with an average of 19,307 cases a day, while 94,116 cases were reported between October 2 and October 8 at an average of 13,445 cases a day. However, the number of samples tested between September 2 and September 8 was 571,930 against 528,780 tests conducted between October 2 and October 8, according to data from the state health department. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, meanwhile, hinted about the possibility of a second wave. Speaking at the commissioning of a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Satara, Thackeray said there have been examples where with opening up of schools, restaurants, and other places, the infections have increased. Maharashtra has allowed restaurants and bars to start operations from October 5, but with 50% capacity.“We can become lax after hearing that cases are going down; jumbo facilities have been set-up; oxygen supply beds and ventilators are available, but our real test begins now. Wherever schools have reopened, cases have increased; children have got infected. Wherever restaurants and other such facilities have opened, Covid cases have gone up,” he said.Thackeray said till a vaccine is available, the only way to keep “the claws of Covid-19 away is to use masks, maintain physical distance, and wash hands”. Thackeray assured the people that the state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ will help safeguard them.“We do not know when the vaccine will be available. Some tests have started in our state too. But we do not know by when it will clear the testing stage… There is also the question of when the entire 12.5 crore population of Maharashtra will be vaccinated. The solution, which the world has experienced, is use masks, keep physical distance and wash hands regularly,” said the chief minister, adding that “Covid-19 may not be the last of such viruses to attack humans” and therefore getting habituated to a healthy lifestyle and sanitisation measures will help people safeguard against any such virus in the future. “Nobody can guarantee that an even deadlier virus won’t attack us. If some deadlier virus comes, we will have to again wait for a vaccine. If we have adopted a healthy lifestyle, and take care of our family through simple measures, we will be able to battle it. If we get into the habit of wearing masks, no virus will attack us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-1-5-million-covid-19-cases-death-toll-nears-40-000/story-GcKvT6tBK6HAsIxKCkk2GI.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s maiden cycle track faces a host of challenges||A week after the city’s first cycle track opened along Netaji Subhash Marg, cyclists were found to be facing a host of issues, such as encroachments by street vendors, cars driving on the cycle track, and the presence of illegal auto rickshaw stands. Acknowledging the issues, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials said that the project is still “a work in progress” and that changes are being made accordingly to address the issues.The 10km stretch between Huda City Centre (HCC) and Subhash Chowk was thrown open by the GMDA to the public on October 2.Cyclists said that in certain parts of the stretch they prefer to drive on top of the footpaths instead of the cycle track as they fear that they may come in the path of speeding vehicles.“In certain parts, the cycle track has proper bollards preventing cars from entering the track, while in some other parts, such as near Greenwood City, bollards are missing. At these points, cars can often be found parked on the cycle track or speeding through the track. In these patches, I prefer to cycle on the footpath rather than the track to avoid getting hit,” said Satish Yadav, a resident of Jharsa village.A few other cyclists said that apart from vehicles, they have to be wary of street vendors and illegal auto-rickshaw stands.“Near the Subhash Chowk flyover, auto-rickshaws can be often found parked on the cycle track, while near Unitech Cyber Park, street vendors are covering half the track. Despite being on a cycle track, I have to constantly remain on a high alert. Auto-rickshaw drivers may suddenly start their vehicle or, if I am not focusing properly, I may end up crashing against a street cart. Therefore, the safety aspect attached with a conventional cycle track is completely lost,” said Rintu Sengupta, a resident of sector 50.Cyclists also said that apart from cars, the bollards also allow enough space for two-wheelers to make their way through, and these vehicles remain a constant presence on the stretch.“We did not want to reduce the space between bollards or else a cyclist would have to get off the cycle to make their way inside the cycle lanes. This would have been a major inconvenience and defeat the entire purpose of a cycle track. To address the issue of two-wheelers, we are working on installing more signage on the stretch, both in Hindi and English, informing them that only the entry of cyclists is allowed on the track. We will also be launching a few awareness campaigns to inform people,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA.Regarding the issue of street vendors and four-wheelers occupying cycle tracks, Kundu said that GMDA is installing more bollards along the stretch that will prevent them from entering the lane altogether.“At a few points, due to shortage of workers, bollards couldn’t be installed around the time when the service was launched. These are in the process of being installed properly and would prevent four-wheelers and street vendors from entering the cycle lanes. We wanted to open the cycle lanes as early as possible to identify more and more issues face by cyclists on the stretch and keep these in mind when we are planning on building future cycle tracks across the city,” said Kundu, adding that there are 37 points along the stretch that are entry and exit points for residential and commercial buildings. The authority is working on a long-term project of building a service lane behind these buildings, wherever absent, for vehicles as well as re-engineering four intersections along the stretch to make them both pedestrian- and cycle-friendly.As per GMDA officials, around 650 kilometres of cycle tracks would be built in the city. In the first phase, cycle tracks would be planned around the Huda City Centre towards Golf Course Road, Paras Hospital, Signature Towers and MG Road.“About 12-14% of commuters use cycle as a mode of transport in the city by choice. Hence, making cycle tracks in the city was desperately needed as currently all roads have been designed keeping only vehicles in mind. The right of way (ROW) of cyclists and pedestrians also needs to be given importance along with vehicles,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, associate director, Nagarro, which is assisting GMDA with the cycle track project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-maiden-cycle-track-faces-a-host-of-challenges/story-QdCyk3mW0hdScENbcbseSK.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health department identifies 4 urban and 12 rural areas for sero survey||The district health department has identified four urban and 12 rural areas in Gurugram to conduct the third round of serological survey to assess the prevalence of the Covid-19 infection in the community. At least 750 people are going to be covered in the survey for which their blood samples will be taken to check the presence of antibodies developed against Covid-19. Through the blood samples, IgG (immunoglobulin G) antibodies are detected against Covid-19, which people might have developed without showing any symptoms of the virus, such as cough, cold and fever. IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 virus develops in the human body two weeks after the onset of the infection and remain in the body for a long time, indicating that the episode of the infection has happened in the past. A serological survey helps in gauging the extent of spread of and the actual burden of Covid-19 infection in the society.This time, the selected clusters are different from the ones in the previous surveys. These include Fazilpur, Khandsa, Naharpur and Rajendra Park in the urban areas and Gurugram village, Dundahera, Chauma, Garhi Harsaru , Chandu, Budhera, Bhondsi, Rithoj, Dhani Rithoj, Kasan, Manesar and Nainwal in the rural areas of the district.The district has gone through two rounds of serological survey earlier. The first survey was conducted on 450 people, while the second one was done on 850 people. The latest survey showed a sero-positivity rate of 10.8% in the district. The same of the state was 8%. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that the preparations for the sero-survey are already underway as they are awaiting confirmation on the final dates to start the survey. “The department has already received the testing kits and staff members who will be conducting the survey have been trained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-department-identifies-4-urban-and-12-rural-areas-for-sero-survey/story-E5Fprbe614y99lesCcyxkI.html
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man, accused of two dozen crimes, arrested||The police on Thursday arrested a man from Delhi, who is accused of at least two dozen crimes, including theft, loot, snatching, attempt to murder and illegal possession of weapons, in Gurugram, Delhi and Bahadurgarh. The police said the accused man had a reward of ₹10,000 for information leading to his arrest. Since 2014, he was among the list of the most-wanted criminals of the city police. According to the police, the crime branch of Sector 40 arrested the accused, identified as Prabhat Kumar alias Sonu alias Shakaal alias Bengali, a resident of Rohini, from Holambi Kalan area in Delhi after a tip-off. The police said he was declared a bad character – a person with a history of crime – at Maurya Enclave police station in Pitampura, Delhi. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “The accused has at least 24 first information reports registered against him in Bahadurgarh, Delhi and Gurugram. He had been active for over a decade and was on the run since 2014 after committing a series of crimes in the city.” The police said among other cases, he was first booked in a case on October 8, 2013 at Sushant Lok police station after allegedly stealing cash and jewellery from a locked house in Sushant Lok Phase 1. He was produced in a district court on Friday and sent to the police custody for two days. In another case of arrest, the crime branch of Farrukhnagar on Wednesday arrested a gang of two men, who were allegedly involved in snatching vehicles in Bilaspur, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar areas. The police said the accused men confessed to have stolen at least two motorcycles and a car in the past few months. The accused men have been identified by their first names as Satdev alias Maniya and Monu alias Keru, both from Tirpari village in Farrukhnagar. Inspector Indiwar, crime branch, Farrukhnagar said, “The accused men had assaulted a man near Jataula underpass in Pataudi on September 30 night and decamped with his car. Earlier, they had stolen a motorcycle each in Farrukhnagar and Bilaspur areas. Three FIRs have been registered against them at the respective police stations.” The police said in the last week’s incident, the victim had said in the police complaint that he was returning to his house in Pataudi in his car and had reached near the Jataula underpass when two men had signalled him to stop. When he stopped his car, the accused men pulled him out of the car and started assaulting him. After kicking him, they decamped with his car. The victim had gone to a nearby hospital and filed a complaint the following day. The police said the accused men were produced in a district court on Thursday and sent to police custody for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-man-accused-of-two-dozen-crimes-arrested/story-MLgBmdsRc5ssXkP8dpdjYP.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Translate worksheets before sending them to students, DoE tells Urdu medium schools||The Directorate of Education (DoE) Thursday directed all Urdu medium government schools in the national capital to translate online study material or worksheets provided by the education department into the language before sending them to students, in order to ensure uninterrupted learning amid Covid-enforced restrictions. A senior official at the directorate, requesting anonymity, confirmed that they issued the order after taking cognisance of a Hindustan Times report, dated September 29, that said students and teachers of least 20 Urdu medium government schools in Delhi were struggling without online study material or worksheets in the language. Officials at these schools, however, expressed reservations over DoE’s directions and said they do not have sufficient number of teachers, who are well acquainted with the language, to translate the material. In an order issued to all Urdu medium schools on Thursday, the DoE said, “The heads of schools (HoS) of all Urdu medium schools are directed to instruct teachers of their schools to translate the worksheets/activity sheets provided centrally and ensure that the same is sent to the students to facilitate the learning of students. It is reiterated that the teachers should be directed to send worksheets day-wise to students on WhatsApp groups.” With schools shut since March and classes being held online, government schools -- where most students do not have access to smart devices and the internet -- are dependent on worksheets or study material provided by DoE for virtual learning. These worksheets contain both notes and questions. Students can either access them on their class WhatsApp groups, or parents can pick up hard copies from schools. DoE has been providing worksheets every day on all subjects -- in both Hindi and English -- to all schools. However, there are no worksheets in Urdu. A teacher at an Urdu medium school in Old Delhi said of the 46 teachers in their school, only 20 can read and write the language. “Many of our subject teachers can’t read or write Urdu. They are verbally acquainted with the language. Translation work can only be done by teachers well versed in the language. Now DoE sends two worksheets for each class daily. How will it be possible to translate everything and send it to students the same day?” he said. Teachers of his school have already been translating parts of the worksheets and sending them to students. However, they are unable to send them the same day. An official at another Urdu medium school in the Walled City said they have only three teachers well-versed in the language at present. “We are short of hands. It would have been better if the DoE could send us worksheets in Urdu itself, as they doing for Hindi and English medium schools,” he said. An official from the education department, requesting anonymity, said, “The schools can assign the duty of translation to some teachers. Schools that have only a few teachers who know the language well may seek the help of other schools. The translated worksheets may also be shared among schools.” The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/translate-worksheets-before-sending-them-to-students-doe-tells-urdu-medium-schools/story-wznT2WfbqXw7Qp1f4nkJhP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||427 register for PG courses at Ludhiana’s SCD Govt college in 2 days||The online registration process to apply for admission to postgraduate courses at the two government colleges in the city has started. In two days, as many as 427 students have registered for the 11 PG courses offered by Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College. The last date to apply is October 15. As many as 99 students have registered for MCom against 40 seats. In MSc mathematics, 63 students have applied against 60 seats, in MSc, 25 against 60 seats and in MSc chemistry, 27 against 60 seats. In MSc information technology, which has 40 seats, 11 candidates have applied. In language courses, for MA (English), 54 candidates have registered for 120 seats, in MA Hindi, 10 against 60 seats and in MA Punjabi 22 against 60 seats.In MA economics, 60 candidates have applied against 120 seats while in MCom (business innovations), 47 students have applied against 40 seats. In MA geography, nine students have applied for 40 seats.Students can apply at www.scdgovtcollege.ac.in and e-mail the college to get queries cleared. As per the instructions from Panjab University, all admissions to postgraduate courses will be strictly on basis of results in graduation classes and no entrance test will be held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Those who applied for PG common entrance test (PG-CET) have been asked to apply afresh on the college website. As per instructions from PU, online classes will commence from November 2. Dharam Singh Sandhu, college principal, said, “We have received permission from PU to start the online admission process for PG courses. We are given a week’s time to students to apply.”The online registration process for Government College for Girls began at 4pm on Friday. The college offers eight postgraduate and diploma courses. Students can apply at www.gcgldh.org. The college has 60 seats in MA Punjabi, 40 each in MA fine arts, MA music instrumental, MCom, MSc IT, MSc Botany and PG diploma in computer applications and 20 seats in PG diploma in nutrition and dietetics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/427-register-for-pg-courses-at-ludhiana-s-scd-govt-college-in-2-days/story-87IDGoYTgX5t4Bwq6fsnVK.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 months on, Ludhiana MC fails to implement solid waste bylaws||Even after two months since the Punjab local bodies department notified solid waste bylaws in the state, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has failed to implement them in the city. This has resulted in flouting of solid waste management norms, littering and open dumping of garbage.As per the bylaws that were notified on August 11, the MC can issue challans for violations of solid waste management norms. Also, user charges were to be collected from residents for services including door-to-door collection of waste. The MC is adopting a lackadaisical approach despite the monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) having imposed bank guarantees of Rs 22 lakh on the civic body for its failure to implement solid waste management and upgrade sewer treatment plants (STP). The MC was directed to implement door-to-door collection and waste segregation in all wards by November 30, failing which bank guarantee of Rs 5 lakh would be encashed by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).The MC committee, which had recently visited Indore to study the solid waste management system in the cleanest city in the country, said that the MC will have to deal with violators strictly. Earlier, MC officials had claimed that an extensive challan drive will be started from September 15 onwards, but nothing has been done at ground level till now. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that initially the MC could not take any action as the bylaws were not notified. He added that the MC received a copy of notified bylaws in the last week of August. But now, the officials are not commencing the challan drive citing the ongoing awareness campaign, he said. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The civic body has started a 15-day awareness campaign, “My waste, May responsibility”. So far, we have received good response from the residents. Residents are also opting for waste segregation and nothing can be done without public participation at large. Soon, the MC will start the drive to issue challans to residents if they fail to follow norms.”Challans for violations The challan amount can range from Rs 250 to Rs 5,000 depending on the category of property and violation of the owner. Challans upto Rs 20,000 can be issued for sale of plastic carry bags and for burning garbage, challans upto Rs 25,000 can be imposed. The MC has also been directed to depute nuisance detectors in the city, who will keep a check and issue challans to violators. The local bodies department has also fixed monthly charges for door-to-door collection of waste and the charges vary from Rs 50 (for households up to 200 square metre area) to Rs 25,000 for a university. There will be atleast 5% annual increment in the charges. A resident organising an event at a public place will have to inform the civic body three days prior to the event and pay user charges for collection of waste which may vary from Rs 5,000 (for upto 100 participants) to 40,000 (for above 10,000 participants). If the person fails to clear the waste from the site or inform the authorities, action will be taken against by MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-months-on-ludhiana-mc-fails-to-implement-solid-waste-bylaws/story-gfXYd9gCmdRGfDarMemIVP.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||Section of Mathura Road near Ashram to be shut for two days||One section of the Delhi-Mathura Road — the section from Bhogal to Ashram Chowk — will be shut for vehicular traffic from 10am on Saturday to 6am on Monday to allow water pipelines to be repaired, the Delhi traffic police said on Friday. The movement on the opposite carriageway — from Ashram Chowk to Bhogal — will continue normally as similar repair works on that stretch are likely to be completed by Saturday.The traffic police had earlier closed the two carriageways, alternatively, between 10pm on 6am from Wednesday to Saturday for the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to carry out the repair works. The closure notice comes days after Delhi minister Satyendar Jain had said both carriageways be shut for 10 days to carry out repairs on the crossing, which has become a severe choke-point, with construction work, waterlogging and damaged roads slowing traffic down to a crawl. While the Delhi traffic police — the final authority on road closures — had said this would not be possible because of the traffic volume on the arterial road, experts concurred with the Delhi government’s view, saying that completely shutting the road was only the way out.The traffic police said it decided to disallow movement on the stretch for nearly two full days after receiving a request from the DJB on Friday during a joint meeting with stakeholders, including the Public Works Department and the MTNL. Data released by the traffic department shows that since the Covid-19 lockdown was eased and construction work on the stretch resumed with preliminary diversions, the intersection has been recording 11,600 vehicles an hour. SD Mishra, additional commissioner of police (traffic), on Friday said the decision to close one carriageway was taken because of the lighter traffic on weekends. Mishra said adequate arrangement, in terms of deploying traffic police personnel and putting up signboards, have been made to ensure the commuters are aware of the diversions. “All vehicles from Bhogal side to Ashram Chowk will be diverted on to Lodhi Road from Neela Gumbad (Subj Burj Circle). Those vehicles can then proceed onwards via Barapullah Flyover or Lala Lajpat Rai Marg,” Mishra said. All traffic from Bhogal T-point would be diverted from Mathura Road towards Neela Gumbad. Residents of neighbourhoods like Jangpura, Jangpura Extension, Bhogal, East and West Nizamuddin, who wish to travel towards Ashram Chowk, will have to proceed towards Neela Gumbad and then take Lodhi Road.Mishra said the problem with pipelines arose while widening both carriageways of the road between Ashram and Bhogal during the construction of the underpass. “The two carriageways were widened by removing the footpaths. In that process, the DJB pipelines laid under the footpaths came directly under the extended carriageways. Traffic load on Mathura Road caused the pipelines to begin leaking at a number of places,” said Mishra. That in turn, caused waterlogging and slush to build up at several points of both carriageways. “The resultant potholes and the shifting mud made traffic movement difficult, and increased the travel and wait time near Ashram Chowk,” Mishra said. “But, only the Ashram to Bhogal carriageway is going to be ready by Saturday morning. Work hasn’t begun on the opposite carriageway,” he added. Another problem that had cropped up was the damage to the MTNL cables, affecting 8,000 connections, and even they are likely to be fixed in the next two days, said the officer. Jain had visited the intersection on Wednesday after HT reported how the project to decongest one of the busiest junctions of the national capital had instead turned it into a traffic and pollution hot spot. “Closing the Ashram-Nizamuddin section of the Mathura Road for 10 days is the only way to address the chaos at the intersection with Ring Road,” Jain had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/section-of-mathura-road-near-ashram-to-be-shut-for-two-days/story-YjrERA1yMV9jSlxE0BquXN.html
10-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Durga Puja organisers issue fresh guidelines amid spike in Covid-19 cases||With Kolkata witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases ahead of Durga Puja, organisers have decided to cancel all cultural programs that used to be held in every locality on puja days to avoid crowding. This comes at a time when doctors have warned the Mamata Banerjee administration that laxity during puja days could result in a three to four-fold rise in Covid-19 cases. They have cited the example of Kerala where cases had shot up after Onam festivities and the government had to invoke section 144 to avoid gatherings. “This year, we have requested all puja committees not to organise any kind of cultural programs which are usually organised every evening on the sidelines of the puja. This would result in crowding as people would sit in front of the dais to enjoy the programs. The chief minister has asked us to avoid crowding at all cost,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab. This year, more than 37,000 pujas would be organised across the state, including more than 2,500 in Kolkata and around 1,700 pujas which are organised by women. The list doesn’t include those organised inside housing societies and houses. The forum has more than 370 of the city’s most prominent and biggest pujas under its banner, including the ones that are patronised by some senior ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet.Also read: Flipkart tells Nagaland customer no service outside India. Then apologisesWith the festive season going on and people crowding at markets for puja shopping, the number of new Covid-19 cases reported every day has already shot up alarmingly in the city. While on September 8 Kolkata registered 380 new cases of Covid-19, on October 8 the city registered 765 new cases. Durga puja starts on October 23. In mid-July, when Kolkata was registering less than 400 new cases every day, the forum had come up with a list of dos and don’ts for the puja organisers. Hence, a fresh list of dos and don’ts was issued on Friday, amid a drastic spike in Covid-cases. “Situations have changed now and cases are rising. We need to be more cautious. It has been decided that none would be allowed to enter the pandal without wearing a mask. The puja committees would deploy more volunteers to check this and whether safe distance is being maintained in queues. Hand sanitisers would be provided. Visitors won’t be allowed to stay inside the pandal for more than a few minutes,” said Basu. The West Bengal government has already cancelled the post-immersion carnival which had become a major crowd puller. Puja organisers have been asked to keep the pandals as airy and open as possible. CM Banerjee has already announced Rs 50,000 for each puja committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-durga-puja-organisers-issue-fresh-guidelines-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-wEjNsmOSThoq6wjRn8rvEN.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||DU likely to announce its first cutoff list on Saturday, some colleges may keep cutoffs at 100%||The long-awaited, first cutoffs for admissions to undergraduate courses in Delhi University (DU) colleges, expected to be released on Saturday, may remain high, with some likely to even touch 100%, according to colleges and university officials. The admission process under the first merit list, likely to be released by colleges by Saturday evening, will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday. The second cutoff will be announced on October 19. Officials at almost all colleges said the cutoffs for popular courses are unlikely to go down this time, and may, in fact, increase by 0.5 to 1 percentage points. Last year, the highest cutoff across all courses was 99%, for BA (Hons) Political Science, at Hindu College. Some colleges are likely to keep cut-offs at 100% as well. “Cut-offs are set to rise exponentially this time as more number of students have scored high marks this year. We have decided to keep the cutoffs for at least three courses at 100%,” said an official from a south campus college, requesting anonymity.DU dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said colleges have been asked to submit their first cutoffs by Saturday noon. “The announcement of cutoffs depends on data sent to us by colleges. We have asked them to submit the cutoffs to us by noon Saturday. But we can’t commit on any date,” she said. Last week, Bagai had said the admissions committee was making all efforts to announce the cutoffs on October 10. The university has received the highest number of applications this year as the registration process had continued for over three months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 353, 918 candidates have applied for the approximately 70,000 undergraduate seats. That is a jump of around 100,000 from last year when the university had received 258,388 applications. Principals of several DU colleges said cutoffs are unlikely to come down and it might even increase by .5 to 1 percentage points in the first list. St Stephen’s College had released its first cut-off list on Tuesday, with the highest being 99.25% for BA (Hons) Economics. The cutoffs announced by the college for most courses were higher than the year before. Rama Sharma, principal of Hansraj College, said, “We are still analysing the data from the applications provided by the university. We are not expecting any decrease in the cutoffs this year. For some subjects, it might go up by 0.5 to 1 percentage points and for others, it may remain the same as last year,” she said. The highest cutoff announced by the college last year was 98.5%, for BA (Hons) Economics. Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College, said the cutoffs might increase by around two percentage points in the first list. Expanding on the reasons, he said cutoffs are primarily decided on the basis of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)’s Class 12 results as a majority of applicants is from the CBSE stream. According to data shared by DU, of the 353, 918 applications received, at least 285,128 are from CBSE schools. “The number of students scoring 90% and 95% (in the CBSE stream) has also increased this year. That will reflect in the cutoffs as well,” he said. Compared to last year, the number of students scoring 95% and above has increased by 118.6 percentage points, and those scoring 90% and above by 67.48 percentage points. Vipin Aggarwal, principal of Aurobindo College, said, “Cutoffs are expected to be on the higher side than last year as more applicants will seek admission and the number of students scoring high marks has increased this year.” The highest cutoff for BA (Hons) English last year was 97.75%, as announced by Lady Shri Ram (LSR) and Hindu College. Shri Ram College for Commerce (SRCC) had the highest cutoff for BA (Hons) in Economics at 98.75%.For BCom (Hons), the highest cutoff was announced by SRCC and Kirori Mal College at 98.5%. The highest cutoff for BA (Hons) Psychology was 98.75%, announced by LSR. According to Delhi University rules, colleges are supposed to give admission to all applicants who meet the announced cutoff criteria and there is no ‘first come, first served’ policy. Many a time, colleges have to increase seats to accommodate the eligible students. “That is one of the main reasons why colleges fix such high cutoffs,” said a member of the DU admissions committee, who wished not to be named. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the university had also introduced changes in the admission process -- it had allowed candidates to apply for all courses this year. This was done to make the process easier for students as results of many state boards and the CBSE were pending at the time the registration process began,” said Suman Kumar, a member of the admissions branch, on condition of anonymity. Several teachers and principals said that too would contribute to colleges setting higher cutoffs. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “This year, the colleges will have to go by approximation since there is no data available on the number of applications for each course. That might lead to an increase in the cutoffs for all courses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-likely-to-announce-its-first-cutoff-list-on-saturday-some-colleges-may-keep-cutoffs-at-100/story-sXQo5P2hCOyfYT5ZvcUDcP.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashta government declares plan to form ministerial panel for OBC demands||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday declared plans to form a cabinet sub-committee to fulfil demands of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) community. He also assured that the reservation quota of OBCs will not be reduced. The decision was taken in a meeting with OBC community leaders.“I can assure that reservation of the community is not going to be reduced. I am also very much aware of the demands of the OBC community. A cabinet sub-committee will be formed to resolve pending issues and fulfil the demands. Immediate decisions on demands, that can be resolved without any hassle, will be taken. Priority will be also given for releasing funds for welfare schemes,” said Thackeray.As the state government is unable to implement the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act that provides reservation to Maratha community, following a stay by the Supreme Court, the OBC community is worried that if Marathas are made part of their community, it will ultimately reduce their quota.The OBC community is currently getting 27% reservation in government jobs and education. Marathas were given reservations of 12% and 13% in employment and education, respectively, in 2018, under the SEBC Act.JD Tandel, vice-president, OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, said, “We have strongly opposed any thought process of inducting Marathas into the OBC community. We also want a caste-based census to be conducted so that the actual population of the communities will come before everyone, and accordingly, we can demand our rights proportionate to our population.” In another meeting with Dhangar community leaders, the CM assured the government would hold discussions with legal experts within eight days on their demand for inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category.“The chief minister has assured that he will discuss our demand for reservation benefits in the ST category with legal experts. We have informed the CM that we were included in the ST category back in 1956 but are still considered as a nomadic tribe,” said Navnath Padalkar, state coordinator, Maharashtra Dhangar Aarakshan Kruti Samiti (MDAKS).Traditionally a shepherd community, Dhangars want to be included in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category which will make them eligible for up to 7% reservations. Currently, Dhangars are part of the Nomadic Tribe (NT) community and get 3.5% reservation in government jobs and education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashta-government-declares-plan-to-form-ministerial-panel-for-obc-demands/story-uFiOvxkpIKzEGGZLn3X1MP.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration exploring taller house options for stilt parking||In a city struggling with acute parking problems, the UT administration is exploring plans to allow taller residential buildings to create space for stilt parking – which is not permitted as of now.People in neighbouring states like Haryana too can build stilt parking – a partially covered space on the ground floor, usually in apartment blocks – with an additional floor to resolve the parking problem. UT adviser Manoj Parida has asked the urban planing department to consider relaxing height restrictions in residential units. “I have directed the UT chief architect to re-examine the issue of allowing increased height in houses,” he said on Friday.The development comes in the wake of the deadlock over the administration’s draft parking policy which recommends building stilts as a solution to resolve the parking mess. It also proposes relaxation in norms to allow for more space for vehicles in residential and commercial units.Why does height matter?The draft policy allows stilt parking but within the height permitted. It states, “Stilt parking at ground floor shall be allowed within the permissible ground coverage, FAR (floor area ratio) and height of the building.”FAR means the ratio of a building’s gross floor area to the total area of the land upon which it is constructedHowever, the thinking in some circles within the administration is that given the current height restrictions, allowing stilt parking will not make sense, and people will not opt for it. “Will people sacrifice their residential space for more parking space? This is not reasonable,” said a senior UT official on condition of anonymity.Notably, the planning department had earlier expressed reservations over allowing stilt parking or relaxations in height, with some officials saying there’s no such provision in the master plan and that it could go against the architectural vision of the city.The unresolved height issue has led to hurdles in implementation of the parking policy. Parking messParking remains a major problem in Chandigarh as it has the highest per capita car ownership in the country: Four per household according to the draft policy.For a population of around 11.35 lakh, there are more than 12 lakh motor vehicles registered in the city, states the 2019 report of the Chandigarh traffic police on Road safety in Chandigarh. Between 2010 and 2019, around four lakh new vehicles were added in the city.“The parking problem is severe in the city. People park their cars in front of their houses,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations. “Till we impose restrictions on car ownership, stilt parking is one of the solutions we have to explore.”The situation is worse in the Central and southern sectors “With cars parked on the streets, no space is left even for movement of emergency vehicles. This problem requires urgent resolution,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation.Sumit Kaur, former chief architect, UT administration, however, disagreed, adding: “We have already allowed increased in height in marla houses. The installation of solar panels, etc also added to the height. Any further increase will impact the streets.”Stating that instead of stilt parking and height relaxations, a change in city’s mobility culture is required, Kaur added, “Adoptions of a cycle culture is one of the options. Other solutions are also mentioned in the city’s master plan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-exploring-taller-house-options-for-stilt-parking/story-kpRLvuq9GVM0UP1zc5mVIL.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||AAP accuses BJP-run civic agencies of corruption, BJP says accusations frivolous||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) of corruption and alleged that civic body officials took bribes for issuing/renewing health trade licences of restaurants in the city. The BJP hit back and said the charges were “frivolous”. Earlier this week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had issued directions to the civic agencies asking them to do away with health trade licences for restaurants, citing requests from stakeholders in the industry who pointed out that the Food Safety and Standard Authority of India (FSSAI) already had protocols in place. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said Friday, “The BJP-ruled MCDs do not want to abolish licence raj; they want to continue to issue health trade licences to restaurant owners. CM Kejriwal told the commissioners of all three MCDs that the restaurant operators will not need to get health trade licences from the MCDs anymore. Under the law made in 2011, all restaurants are registered under the FSSAI and they are given a five-year licence, and yet the MCD is harassing restaurant owners.” “Every restaurant owner in Delhi has to pay a bribe of ₹1-5 lakh to an MCD official for renewal of health trade licences. The central government has already written to the MCDs asking them to stop this practice but the BJP-ruled MCDs continue with it,” said Bhardwaj, who is also the MLA from the Greater Kailash assembly segment. He further said, “It is shameful that the BJP is not paying the salaries of doctors ( in a reference to the strike by Hindu Rao Hospital doctors); the BJP-ruled MCDs are corrupt and incompetent. In the past five years, the AAP government’s revenue has doubled but in MCDs, only the incomes of councillors have increased.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Statements by MLA Bhardwaj are frivolous. It is strange that the AAP leaders don’t know the difference between trade licence given to shops and health licence given to restaurants, which involve public health.” “Obtaining a trade licence does not require traders to go to any inspector; it is issued online. Restaurants are given health licences as their businesses involve public health. Hence, periodic checks by municipal doctors and health inspectors are mandatory and licences are issued manually thereafter. AAP leaders should know that the world over, restaurants and hotels are issued licences in a similar manner,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-accuses-bjp-run-civic-agencies-of-corruption-bjp-says-accusations-frivolous/story-EnoFAAOyshqRRd77Nyjh3L.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||DDA allots land in South Delhi’s city forest for rebuilding Ravidas temple||A year after the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) demolished the Guru Ravidas temple in the Jahapanah city forest in South Delhi’s Tughlaqabad, in pursuance of a Supreme Court order, the land-owning agency has initiated the process to hand over the site to devotees. A proposal to change the land use and allot 400 square metres (sqm) of land in the city forest for the construction of a temple was approved by a DDA meeting, chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Friday. The L-G later tweeted, “Chaired Delhi Development Authority meeting. The Authority approved key proposals for allotment of land for construction of Guru Ravidas temple at Jahapanah city forest & reduction in Minimum Reserve Price for auction of land for Educational & Health facilities (sic).”While DDA has approved the land-use change, a nod from the forest department and other necessary permissions from other departments concerned are awaited. Last month, the DDA’s technical committee had approved a proposal to change the land use of a 400sqm plot, the site where the temple had stood, from “recreational” to “public/semi-public”. “The proposal to change the land use and allot it to the committee has been approved. Further processes such as obtaining approval from the forest department and the formation of the devotees’ committee, etc., will follow. We have written to the forest department. We will send the proposal to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for a final notification,” a senior DDA official said, on condition of anonymity. A second DDA official said, “As an exception in this particular case, the authority has dispensed with ”auction” as the only mode of land allotment.” Forest department officials did not comment on the issue. Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and MLA Somnath Bharti, who is a member of the DDA, said, “In the last meeting, I had observed that the DDA should consider giving the land back to the Guru Ravidas Samiti without any further delay. Today the DDA has passed the matter. We are happy that this historic work has taken place. The AAP raised the issue and the court also had a hearing on the issue. But today I am happy that due to the persuasion of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the DDA has passed these two decisions (land allotment and land-use change). Now there will be no problem in rebuilding the Ravidas temple.”In August last year, the DDA had demolished the temple in pursuance of a Supreme Court order. This had led to large-scale protests by devotees of Guru Ravidas in Delhi and several other parts of north India. In November 2019, the Supreme Court had allowed the reconstruction of a temple at the same location. But devotees of Guru Ravidas want the process to be expedited and items confiscated by the DDA at the time of demolition returned. “It has been over a year, but the DDA is yet to allot a site for the construction of the temple. Devotees want the area to be handed over at the earliest. We want the adjourning area, measuring 12,350 square yards, where the sarovar is located, to be developed and given to the committee,” said MR Balli, general secretary of the 11-member committee that was constituted following the apex court order. A senior DDA official clarified, “The land allotment is as per the Supreme Court order and as per the land allotment norms.” The DDA said the land parcel can be allotted to a registered religious committee only. “But currently, there is no such committee,” the official said. Balli said, “We were told about this issue. We have recently applied under the Societies Act to register our committee.”BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who is a member of DDA, said, “It is an important decision. Our government at the Centre had assured the devotees that all necessary measures would be taken. The land-use change has been approved and the authority has decided to give the land to the devotees of Guru Ravidas.”OTHER APPROVALS The DDA meeting Friday also approved a proposal to allow stockists and dealers of medicines to operate from residential areas. It gave a go-ahead for the development of a sports complex in east Delhi. “To provide modern sports facilities to residents of east Delhi, the land use of 19,800 sqm in Shastri Park will be changed from recreational to “public/semi-public”,” a third official, on condition of anonymity, said. The official added, “All land-use changes approved by the authority will be put in the public domain for suggestions/ objections. These will be sent to the ministry for a final approval and due notifications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-allots-land-in-south-delhi-s-city-forest-for-rebuilding-ravidas-temple/story-oxOSurBgI4SPNgCuPIyO3I.html
10-10-2020||Delhi||19-year-old man beaten to death in north Delhi by family of woman he was in a relationship with||A 19-year-old college student was beaten to death in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar earlier this week by family and friends of a woman he was in a relationship with, the police said on Friday. According to investigating officers, the woman’s family did not approve of their relationship. Though the teenager, Rahul Kumar, was rescued from the assault, which took place on Wednesday, he succumbed to his injuries at a hospital the next morning. The police have registered a case of murder and have arrested two adults and apprehended three minors. The five include the woman’s younger brother, relatives and friends. “They have all been booked for murder,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west). Kumar lived with his parents and a younger sister in Adarsh Nagar and was pursuing a BA course from Delhi University’s School of Open Learning (SOL). He would also give tuitions to supplement his family’s income, which was largely reliant on his father’s earnings as a taxi driver. Kumar’s uncle, Dharampal, said that about two months ago, his family got to know about his relationship with an 18-year-old woman who lives in nearby Jahangirpuri. “My nephew would give her English tuitions at a coaching centre,” said Dharampal, who is also a taxi driver. While Dharampal said his family did not have objections to the relationship, Arya said the woman’s family was against the couple speaking to each other. “The woman’s family wanted Kumar to stop speaking to the woman. We were worried about his safety,” Dharampal told the police in his statement. Dharampal said he received a phone call from a friend around 7pm on Wednesday that a group of men were thrashing Kumar, not far from their house. Kumar was allegedly lured out of his house on the pretext of offering him a tuition opportunity. “I rushed to the place to see four or five people kicking and punching my nephew. I intervened, and the woman’s younger brother said they were beating him up because he had refused to stop seeing the woman. I managed to rescue my nephew after pleading with them to let him go. They left after threatening us,” Dharampal alleged. Kumar was taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital where he was discharged after first aid. “At night, his condition deteriorated. We took him back to the hospital on Thursday morning, but he died during treatment,” said Dharampal. The local police, meanwhile, were tipped off about the assault by the hospital authorities on Wednesday night itself. “While there were no visible injuries, doctors opined that he died of internal injuries. So, we registered a murder case and caught five suspects involved in the assault,” Arya said. Since the victim and the woman he was in a relationship with belong to different communities, the police have deployed police personnel in both neighbourhoods. “There is no communal tension, and this is just a precautionary measure,” another senior police officer said. Dharampal said he too didn’t see the murder as a communal issue. “We are an educated family and don’t see issues that way. We just want justice for our boy, irrespective of which community the attackers belong to,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-man-beaten-to-death-in-north-delhi-by-family-of-woman-he-was-in-a-relationship-with/story-Uzc0tb3q4Vu5XazhENBM0N.html
10-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud: Republic TV’s chief financial officer, 2 others summoned by Mumbai Police||A day after the television rating points (TRP) fraud was unearthed, the Mumbai Police on Friday summoned Shiva Sundaram, chief financial officer (CFO) of Republic TV, Sam Balsara, founder, chairman and managing director of Madison World, and Shashi Sinha, CEO of IPG Mediabrands, to record their statements at the crime branch office in south Mumbai at 11am on Saturday. The Mumbai Police on Thursday said TRPs were being manipulated by at least three channels and arrested four men, contending that the manipulated audience numbers were crucial because they directly translated into advertising revenue. The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has contracted Hansa Research Private Limited to monitor various channels and programmes through 30,000 barometers installed across India, based on which the council awards ratings to channels. Of the 30,000, 2,000 barometers are installed in Mumbai, which are handled by 20 relationship managers. “While investigating a complaint filed by Hansa group on October 6, we found some channels were paying former Hansa employees. They, in turn, were paying certain households to keep certain channels like Republic switched on to show higher TRPs,” Mumbai’s police commissioner Param Bir Singh said on Thursday, adding that apart from Republic, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema were also found to be gaming the system. According to the latest TRP ratings, Republic is the most watched English language news channel. Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, put out a video message on the channel’s website denying the allegations and stating the “channel’s name was not mentioned in the FIR”. He claimed the channel was being targeted for its coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput case, and added that the channel would sue the police. Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said, “The trio has been called to record their statements under section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code.” Calls and text messages to Sundaram went unanswered. Sinha said, “Mumbai Police have called me to be present at their office. I have no idea what they have called me for what they will ask me, so I can’t say anything as of now. I will go and meet them.” Balsara said, “I am a client of BARC. Mumbai Police has requested my help to aid the investigation, which I am happy to do.” Meanwhile, Mumbai Police produced the four arrested accused – Vishal Bhandari, 20, Bompalli Rao Mistry alias Sanjiv Rao, 44, and owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema, Shirish Shetty and Narayan Sharma, respectively – before Esplanade court which remanded them in police custody till October 13. Nitin Deokar, deputy general manager of Hansa Research Private Limited, who filed the complaint at Kandivli police station, had alleged in his compliant that Bhandari was working as a relationship manager in his organisation from November 2019 to May 2020. Deokar in his complaint stated that during an internal inquiry, they found that Bhandari used to take money from one Vinay Tripathi, a wanted accused, and used to pay households where barometer was installed and asked them to allegedly watch India Today. Param Bir Singh on Friday clarified that there was no evidence against India Today. “Hansa Research Private Limited received a complaint against Bhandari, stating he was paying several households to tune into certain channels. India Today’s name came during their internal inquiry based on which an FIR was filed. We took Bhandari’s custody and have recorded the statements of witnesses. We have not found any evidence to substantiate the claim that India Today was involved in manipulating TRPs,” said Singh. “During further inquiry, Bhandari took the name of Rao and said he was currently working for him. Rao is in direct contact with several owners of channels and is involved in manipulating TRPs,” said a crime branch officer. “When Mumbai Police visited the residence of one of the viewers mentioned in the FIR, Kandivli resident Tejal Solanki, in whose house a barometer was installed, we found that India Today was not subscribed. During the inquiry, Solanki and a senior citizen in her residence told us they were asked to watch Republic TV,” said a crime branch officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trp-fraud-republic-tv-s-chief-financial-officer-2-others-summoned-by-mumbai-police/story-6cVHLBOa9ClftR0tAOHcpO.html
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi man kills self in Zirakpur, sister, brother-in-law booked||Mohali: A 48-year-old Delhi resident allegedly shot himself dead with a revolver at his sister and her husband’s house at Maya Garden society in Zirakpur on Thursday evening. The couple were booked later for abetment to suicide on the complaint of the wife of the deceased.Gurbakshish Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Dera Bassi,said the man reached his sister’s house at around 4pm and shot himself with a revolver a few hours later at 8pm. Police said it appeared he had financial problems with his sister, but it was something which had to be verified. “On the complaint of his wife, we have booked the brother-in-law and sister for abetment to suicide. No suicide note was found. We have handed over the body to the family members after the postmortem,” Gurbakshish Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-man-kills-self-in-zirakpur-sister-brother-in-law-booked/story-ULIUHKppCRbJ5DfJvAQ8bL.html
10-10-2020||City||IAS officer Sudhakar Shinde passes away in Pune due to Covid-19||IAS officer Sudhakar Shinde,35, passed away due to Covid-19 in Pune. Shinde was a 2015 batch IAS officer from Tripura cadre. Pune Municipal Corporation chief engineer and coordinator for Covid-19 confirmed that the IAS officer passed away due to the virus infection. A Ruby Hospital official on anonymity said, “The officer was brought in from Aurangabad in a serious condition. He passed away before we could start any treatment.” Shinde’s nephew Vikas Shinde said, “The officer was admitted at Aurangabad hospital and brought to Pune when his health condition worsened.” According to an official, the officer is from Marathwada region and came to Maharashtra on leave of 15 days from Tripura. Shinde was tested Covid positive after his visit from native place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ias-officer-sudhakar-shinde-passes-away-in-pune-due-to-covid-19/story-WB4VAUjsXSn2b6ZpzXaSeL.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 1,900 fresh Covid cases, 38 deaths on Friday||Pune district reported 1,900 positive cases and 38 deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday as per the state health department. The data takes the total progressive positive count to 312,346. Of these total cases, 251,978 have recovered, 6,172 declared dead and 54,195 are active cases. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 713 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 163,617 and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the death toll to 3,702. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 444 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 80,084 and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the death toll to 1,116. Pune rural reported 743 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 68,645 and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the death toll to 1,354.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-1-900-fresh-covid-cases-38-deaths-on-friday/story-AiE0Y30XYMqlZlPm4FEcvM.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Three Pimpri-Chinchwad corporators succumb to Covid, 26 recover from infection||Covid-19 has claimed the lives of three corporators in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last six months. Of the 128 corporators in 32 wards (each ward is divided into four divisions and each division has one corporator), 29 corporators, including the three who passed away, were tested Covid positive.Since the virus outbreak, these public representatives have been working actively in their areas and providing assistance, to residents. “Most of the corporators got infected while carrying out their public responsibilities. After getting detected, they spent 14-day quarantine in Covid care centres,” said Anna Bodade, PCMC assistant municipal commissioner who also completed the quarantine treatment at a Covid care centre after being tested Covid positive.On Friday, 444 people were tested positive for Covid and 8 people died taking the total positive case count to 80,084 and death toll to 1,116 in PCMC.The three PCMC corporators who lost the battle to corona were – Dattatray Sane (Chikhali) and Javed Shaikh (Akurdi) from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Laxman Unde (Dighi-Bopkhel) from Bharatiya Janata Party.Six former corporators who died due to Covid infection were Rangnath Fuge, Sahebrao Kharat, Eknath Thorat, Laxman Gaikwad, Sulochna Bade and Hanumant Khomne.Recovered from coronavirus infection BJP corporators Chanda Lokhande, Sharada Sonawane, Kamal Gholap, Seema Sawle, Asha Shendge, Sujata Palande, Nirmala Kute, Sadhana Malekar, Bhimabai Fuge, Swinal Mehtre, Neeta Padale, Uttam Kendle, Shailesh More, Vilas Madigari, Babu Nair, Tushar Kamte, Ambarnath Kamble, Santosh Kamble, Sagar Angolkar and Sashikant Kadam, Shiv Sena corporators Rahul Kalate and Nilesh Barne, and Nana Kate, Sheetal Kate, Dabbu Aswani and Anuradha Gophane from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) recovered from Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-pcmc-corporators-succumb-to-covid-26-recover-from-infection/story-QiSNUxILuIIWWVXHbQYmYP.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Passengers relieved as first special from Pune reaches Mumbai post relaxations||A sigh of relief was the palpable emotion in Pune on Friday, as Pune commuters boarded a train to Mumbai for the first time in six months. The Central Railways began its run of special trains, one to replace the Deccan Queen and one in place of the Indrayani, from Friday.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the train services between the two cities were stopped.The Mumbai-Pune Superfast Special Daily’ (train no. 02015) departed from Pune railway station at 6.35 pm. Its halt stations and timing are the same as the Indrayani Express train (train no. 22105/22106). There were 12-second class seating coaches and two AC chair cars in this train.“It feels good to travel to Mumbai after almost six months. Railways had taken all the necessary safety precautions at the railway station and even inside the train,” said Sagar Abanwe, passenger.“I am travelling to Mumbai for the weekend as it is my hometown and I am working in Pune. Travelling by train is convenient and affordable,” he said.“At least 10,000 people travel on the Pune-Mumbai route daily for business and office word. We are happy the train service has resumed and we are taking all necessary Covid-19 safety precautions,” said Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group.“There is no change in the ticket fare. The ticket price is Rs105, one has to pay Rs30 extra if the booking is done through an agent,” she said.Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division, said, “The train will run with full capacity of 1,450 passengers. There is a good response to the trains running towards Mumbai and other destinations as well.”“The ticket fares are the same and we request the passengers to take benefit of the services,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-relieved-as-first-special-from-pune-reaches-mumbai-post-relaxations/story-QYJroTm7UBcguooWQyR2TK.html
10-10-2020||City||Minor files rape case against 34-year-old in Pali near Mumbai||The Pali police in Raigad on Friday arrested a 34-year-old labour contractor on charges of raping a minor following the complaint of a 16-year-old tribal girl. According to police, the accused Nitin Patil and the girl were living together since January 2019 at his house, where Patil’s parents also stayed with him. Patil allegedly raped the girl on multiple occasions until October. In her complaint, the girl said she was scared and hence did not file a complaint till now. “We received her complaint on Tuesday and after preliminary investigation, we have arrested the accused. Initially, she had approached the Kasa police from where the case was transferred to Pali, where the alleged incident took place,” said Kirankumar Suryawanshi, deputy superintendent of police, Roha. Following her complaint, the police have booked Patil under sections of rape and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The girl has been handed over in the custody of her parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-files-rape-case-against-34-year-old/story-auyD48pAeqNBBwwxTgo72L.html
10-10-2020||Pune||Malls, shops in Pune allowed to open till 9pm||Malls, market complexes and shops can remain open till 9 pm from Saturday. The authorities had earlier kept the shop timings from 9 am to 7 pm as part of the restrictions in place to check Covid-19 spread. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday issued the circular allowing shops and malls to remain open till 9 pm. Representatives of political parties had demanded the administration to relax shop timings from 7 pm to 9 pm. BJP leaders and trader unions met the municipal commissioner on Thursday and put forth their demand. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Friday instructed the municipal commissioner to increase shop opening duration in view of the upcoming festival season. With the state government allowing hotels and bars to operate dine-in services till 10 pm, traders also sought relaxation in shop timings. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne who led the traders from Tulsibaug market said, “Along with Tulsibaug traders, I requested the commissioner to increase the shopping time. With shops allowed to remain open for more time, even customer rush will decrease and help in following the social distancing norms as part of coronavirus prevention norms.” Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “PMC had allowed shops and malls to open till 9 pm, but owners need to strictly follow guidelines issued by the state government and civic administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-shops-in-pune-allowed-to-open-till-9-pm/story-iJ1fYRpg5HxuRVSTiyUbsN.html
