11-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Kalanagar flyovers to be completed by December 31: MMRDA||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing the Kalanagar Junction decongestion plan, is expecting to complete work on three flyovers in the area by December 31. On Sunday, MMRDA announced that 73% of the total work has been completed. On Saturday night, Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray attended the girder launch for one of the Kalanagar flyovers. The ₹103.73-crore project will help decongest the junction, which faces traffic snarls. The first flyover will have two lanes and allow commuters travelling from Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) junction towards the Bandra-Worli sea link to skip both the BKC and Kalanagar Junction. A second two-lane flyover will be constructed for traffic from the sea link towards BKC. The third two-lane flyover will direct traffic from Dharavi junction towards the sea link. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “Once the flyover is open for traffic, it will provide major connectivity to Mumbai region and bring substantial infrastructure growth to the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-kalanagar-flyovers-to-be-completed-by-december-31-mmrda/story-2ynW76bYx3ZeTXyOmTUe1O.html
11-10-2020||City||Ex-employee booked for ₹11 lakh theft from Vasai ATM||Sagar Gadigaonkar, a resident of Virar and former employee of CMS Logistics, has been booked for allegedly robbing nearly ₹10.92 lakh from an out-of-order ATM of Development Credit Bank (DCB) in at Fatherwadi, Vasai (East) on Saturday morning. “We searched Gadigaonkar’s flat in Virar and found ₹10.70 lakh. The accused is absconding, and we have charged him under sections 380 (theft), 454 and 457 (trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said Vilas Chowgule, senior inspector, Waliv police station. Prior to losing his job with the logistics company, Gadigaonkar used to load the money into the ATMs and knew the password of the DCB centre, said Chowgule. Due to the lockdown and unemployment, Gadigaonkar decided to loot the ATM centre. The faulty ATM was to be replaced on Saturday by the logistics company. The matter came to light when staffers of the logistics company reached the ATM to take custody of the money but found that the machine had been opened and the cash stolen. The CCTV cameras installed inside the ATM kiosk had stopped working two days before the theft and were taken for repairs. “The thief knew about the development, and hence we suspected it was an inside job,” said Chowgule. The ATM had not been working for two weeks and Ajay Gaikwad, area manager of CMS Logistics, who reached the spot, said that his technical team was supposed to remove the money and replace it. He said there was around ₹11 lakh in the machine at the time of the theft.“As the ATM centre was closed, we suspected that the thief may have entered the kiosk disguised as a technical staffer,” said Chowgule, adding that police are now on the lookout for Gadigaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-employee-booked-for-11-lakh-theft-from-vasai-atm/story-CycWF45OdTpq3ZoBnJCbuK.html
11-10-2020||City||Five succumb to virus; 91 more test positive in Ludhiana||After witnessing a steady decline, the Covid casualty rate in Ludhiana went up again as five patients succumbed to the virus on Sunday even as 91 fresh infections were detected in the district. The district’s tally currently stands at 799 while the cumulative count of cases is 19, 174. The number of active cases is 487 while 17, 882 patients have recovered so far.It is for the fifth time this month that the number of new infections stayed below 100. The deceased include a 65-year-old male from Shakti Nagar, a 71-year-old female from Millar Gunj, a 73-year-old male from Samrala, a 64-year-old male from Akal Nagar on Rahon Road and a 62-year-old female from Mohalla Borra.Sharing details, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said that a total of 102 patients (91 new patients from Ludhiana and 11 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours. He further said that till date, a total of 3, 24, 462 samples have been taken for testing. He said that on Sunday, 4, 263 samples were sent for testing and the results are expected shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-succumb-to-virus-91-more-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-Aa6rHEwQaYjpTpfkgjTaDI.html
11-10-2020||City||5 men attack auto dealer in full public view, vandalise his car||In a shocking incident, an auto dealer was brutally thrashed on Dhandhra road even as bystanders looked on helplessly. The incident, which took place on Saturday evening, has been caught on closed-circuit television cameras installed in the area. The men also vandalised the car of the victim, identified as Lalit Verma, 38, of Golden Avenue of Dhandra Road. Verma is a trader of second hand scooters and motorcycles.On his complaint, police have booked Manjot Singh of Punjabi Bagh of Jawaddi and his four accomplices, who are yet to be identified.Verma told the police that he had borrowed Rs 1 lakh from Manjot some time back. The money had been returned but Manjot was demanding Rs 40,000 more. On Sunday morning, the accused rang him up and threatened of dire consequences if he did not pay up. Later in the evening, when he was returning home, Manjot and his accomplices intercepted him on Dhandhra road and started attacking him.CCTV footage from the area shows that onlookers made no attempts to rescue him. However, once the attackers left, they informed the police, who took Verma to the hospital.Dugri station house officer inspector Surinder Kumar said after receiving the medical report and recording the statement of the victim, the police have registered a case against Manjot Singh and his four unidentified accomplices under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-men-attack-auto-dealer-in-full-public-view-vandalise-his-car/story-UM0QWdBFGpFOGPMlUqSYoI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two men held for robbing bike in Ludhiana||Two men were arrested on Sunday for robbing a motorcycle at Dhandhara Road four months ago. They were also involved in snatchings in the Khanna area, police said. Two motorcycles and four mobile phones have been recovered from their possession. The accused have been identified as Lovedeep Singh alias Ashu and Gurdev Nath, both residents of Khanna. Their accomplice, Ranjit Singh, is yet to be arrested. Based on information obtained during questioning, police arrested a shopkeeper, Kamal Singh, who bought stolen mobile phones from the accused.Sub-inspector Labh Singh, station house officer at City 2 police station, Khanna, said that police arrested the accused near Shiv Dyala Temple in Khanna following a tip-off.He added that more important information has been expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-men-held-for-robbing-bike-in-ludhiana/story-caLzbFl7ZxnVQuzX5mbDFN.html
11-10-2020||City||Protesting farmers lay siege to Ladhowal toll barrier, force free passage of vehicles||Besides upping the ante against the Centre over the three new farm laws, farmers unions have taken to clearing the traffic chaos on the Jalandhar- Delhi national highway by laying siege on the Ladhowal Toll Plaza and forcing the free passage of vehicles.The protesting farmers say the maintenance work on the stretch near Sutlej River is proving to be a bottleneck on both sides of the highway and that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has deliberately started the work now so as to give an impression that the protests are leasing to traffic problems. Amrik Singh Kadian, who is heading the farmers’ protest at Ladhowal toll plaza, said, “The NHAI has deliberately initiated the construction work now to make it look like the farmers are causing the traffic jams. We have urged them to postpone the project for a few days but the authorities did not pay heed to our request. Finally, we were forced to deploy some of our supporters to help the local police in regulating the traffic.”Commuters meanwhile are thanking the farmers. Karanpreet Kaur, a city resident who was returning from Amritsar today, said, “The traffic has been restricted at Ladhowal and Phillaur side of National Highway. And it gives an impression that farmers have blocked the toll plaza. But on reaching the toll plaza, we found that farmers actually helping to ease the traffic chaos.” Another commuter Akshit Taneja said, “I am thankful to the farmers for not letting the toll authorities stop the vehicle. First of all, it takes half-an-hour from Ladhowal village to reach the toll plaza at Sutlej Bridge. If the toll would have been operational, it would have made the matter worse and the vehicles would have to stop which would have further compounded the problem.”When contacted, Chanchal Rathore, in-charge of the Ladhowal toll plaza, said that he was sitting in a meeting and did not answer HT’s query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-farmers-lay-siege-to-ladhowal-toll-barrier-force-free-passage-of-vehicles/story-cKHFxqIfO16a9wJ9VjejYO.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab edu dept launches initiative to improve English of govt school students||: With an aim to develop English communication skills of students of Classes 6 to 12 from government schools, the Punjab education department has come out up with a new initiative – “English Booster Club”. In this, guided videos, listening tapes, sentences and phrases will be shared by state resource groups throughout all government schools in Punjab to enhance listening skill, pronunciation and vocabulary of students.English Booster Club (EBS) will be launched in government schools on October 12 at district level. Meetings of district and block mentors are already underway to chalk out a time table for different activities and plans for their implementation.As per officials, English has always been a top priority for parents while choosing the best school for their wards. So, they believe that improving the standard of English, especially spoken English, in government schools would not only help increase enrolment, but also send a positive message in the society that government schools are at the same level as private ones.Chander Shekhar, state resource person, said that in the first phase, formation of EBCs at school, district, block and state levels will be ensured.Activities such as tongue twisters, rhymes and songs for imitation to enhance listening skill, pronunciation and vocabulary will be organised. In phase 1, the objective will be to ensure proper functioning of English Booster Clubs. In Phase 2, focus will be on weekly spoken English programmes which will include vocabulary, sentence structures, situational conversation and listening tasks.District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We have received instructions from the state education department to form English Booster Clubs and we have held a meeting with the district and block mentors to inform students regarding these clubs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-edu-dept-launches-initiative-to-improve-english-of-govt-school-students/story-ixNDXUpnrZsxsfRDN8jvbI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||NRI lodges case against siblings, sister-in-law for jewellery theft in Ludhiana||A Non-Resident Indian (NRI) has lodged a theft case against her sister, brother and brother’s wife, accusing them of stealing 420-gm gold jewellery and some property-related documents from her house in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.The complainant, Harjit Kaur, 48, said that she is settled in the United States and had come to Ludhiana in December 2019 for her son’s wedding.During the visit, she had purchased some gold jewellery and kept it in an almirah along with some property-related documents. But when she visited the city again in September 2020, she found that the jewellery as well as the documents were missing. When she asked her siblings, who had been living in her house as caretakers, they started abusing her and then left home. Following this, she lodged a complaint against her sister, Gupreet Kaur, brother Manjinder Singh, and his wife, Amardeep Kaur—all residents of Ramgarh Bhullar village of Jagraon.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Malkit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the trio. During preliminary investigations, police found that the trio had mortgaged the gold for a loan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nri-lodges-case-against-siblings-sister-in-law-for-jewellery-theft-in-ludhiana/story-SvgrbYiUygV8nRwzHzC7gI.html
11-10-2020||City||INSPIRE Award-MANAK: Only 35 schools in Ludhiana have sent their nominations so far||Only 35 of the total 806 schools in Ludhiana have so far sent their nominations for the INSPIRE Award-MANAK (Million minds augmenting national aspirations and knowledge), an initiative of the department of science and technology, Government of India. The awards, for which students of Classes 6 to 12 are eligible, are aimed at fostering a culture of innovation and creative thinking. Students are required to come up with original technological ideas and innovations to solve everyday problems. While the last date for submitting nominations was September 30, it was further extended to October 15 to give students more time. However, not many schools have shown interest.Of the total 12,136 schools in the state, only 1,491 schools have sent their nominations till date.In Punjab, the highest number of nominations has come from Amritsar, which has sent 231 proposals so far. District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said, “We will send a reminder to all schools so that maximum students can share their ideas. School heads and teachers of maths and science can help students send their nominations for this award.” Students can visit http://www.inspireawards-dst.gov.in to register themselves and send a mail to inspire@nifindia.org for any queries. Selected proposals will be awarded with Rs 10,000, to be used for further developing the project for participating in the district, state and national-level exhibitions and competitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inspire-award-manak-only-35-schools-in-ludhiana-have-sent-their-nominations-so-far/story-ASKT4fZW7ZTXKdRyZSFtPK.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana veggie trader shot at by father’s biz partners||Two persons have been booked for assaulting a vegetable trader and opening fire at him. The accused have been identified as Shintu Kumar and his accomplice Sonu, who are also in the vegetable business.Complainant Manpreet Singh, 28, of Kuliyanwal village, stated that his father, Kamaljit Singh, was a business partner of the accused. However, a few days ago, they called off the partnership. On October 6, when Manpreet went to talk to the duo about the matter, they started attacking him with sharp-edged weapons and also shot at him with a countrymade pistol. The bullet, however, missed the target and Manpreet managed to escape on his motorcycle. He immediately went to the police station and lodged a complaint against them.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Subhash Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the case has been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act. Meanwhile, Shintu Kumar also lodged a complaint that he had been attacked by a group of miscreants, who asked him for money. He claimed that when he refused, the miscreants attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and fired at him. However, police have not found any proof to support his claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-veggie-trader-shot-at-by-father-s-biz-partners/story-I4LRZ8krk8cQ6myPxvpRnJ.html
11-10-2020||Gurugram||Delhi post office employee hitchhikes, gets assaulted and robbed||A 54-year-old man, working at a Delhi Post office, was assaulted and robbed of his belongings after he tried to hitchhike his way home on Monday night, police said. According to the police, the victim, Satish Kumar, of Sector 5, works in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri as a sub post master and was on his way home, when the incident took place. Kumar said around 7.20 am, he flagged down a private car near Iffco Chowk. He asked the driver to drop him at Mahipalpur in Delhi. “When he boarded the Honda Amaze car, four people, including the driver, were already sitting inside. After driving for half a kilometre, two men who were sitting inside asked him to hand over his belonging and when he refused, they started assaulting him. The driver took a U-turn below Shankar Chowk even as the men kept on hitting the victim, as he resisted . Kumar then asked the men to stop the car at which the driver told him that they would kill him if he didn’t hand over the cash. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects took Rs 27,000 from Kumar’s pocket and dropped him at Shankar Chowk flyover, after making two rounds. The suspects and their vehicleshave been captured in CCTV footage from different locations. Kumar has told the police that the two ‘passengers’ blindfolded him and assaulted him brutally and that he has suffered injuries all over his body. “The men threatened him and snatched away his cash, which belonged to his office. The men kept assaulting him until he handed over all the cash he had. The suspects kept threatening him against disclosing the incident to anyone throughout,” Sangwan said. The men threw Kumar out of the car on the flyover, from where he managed to take a lift and returned home. After a discussion with his family members, he reported the incident to the police on Saturday. A case under sections 392A (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 17/18 police station against four unidentified persons on Saturday. The police said they are yet to trace the number of the car. “We have checked CCTV camera footage in the area to ascertain Kumar’s claim and found them to be correct. Teams have been formed to arrest the new lift and loot gang,” Sangwan said. The police said this is the second such incident reported this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-post-office-employee-hitchhikes-gets-assaulted-and-robbed/story-CxDkMwbVedqUyi9LczPxNO.html
11-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s test positivity rate at 7%, says health dept||The total tally of Covid-19 patients in Gurugram has reached 23,527, with 241 new infection detected on Sunday. Of these 2394 are active cases, while 184 have succumbed to the illness. Nearly 92% patients (which is 2208) of the total active cases are under home isolation, 16 in Covid Care Centres, and 170 seriously ill patients are admitted in hospitals.Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “Cases are growing at an average test positivity rate of nearly 7.6%. We have been retaining the positivity rate at 7-8% for nearly two months now, with daily growth fluctuating between 0.90 to 1.5%.” The positivity rate of the state is 6.46%. Across the state, Gurugram has the highest number of active cases, followed by Hisar, Faridabad, Rewari and Rohtak. Nearly 23% of the 10,573 active cases in the state are in Gurugram.According to Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, testing in Gurugram is higher than any other district in the state. “We are conducting on an average 3000 Covid-19 tests everyday (including Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction and Rapid Antigen Test) in government set up and private diagnostic facilities. Still the positivity rate is at 7%, while the mortality rate is less than 0.79%.” On Sunday, 2223 RT-PCR and 684 antigen tests were being conducted in the district.The recovery rate is nearly 88% in the district, with 285 patients recovered on Sunday. Till now, 20,949 patients have recovered from the illness. The overall recovery rate of the state is 91.45%. On the other hand, as final dates for the third round of serological survey are awaited from the state health department, lab technicians in the district will be undergoing the training for the next two days to carry out the survey. Health officials said that they prepared to carry out the survey as they have received the kits for testing the blood samples of 750 people, who might have developed antibodies against coronavirus disease (causing Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-test-positivity-rate-at-7-says-health-dept/story-C7csfguq7xpPfGIZUAsJdN.html
11-10-2020||Patna||Woman gang-raped in Buxar, child strangulated to death||A 35-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and her six-year-old son brutally murdered by seven men in Bihar’s Buxar district late on Saturday. All seven men gang-raped the woman in an inebriated state in the evening. More horror was to follow when one of the seven men strangulated the child to death, fearing his cries would alert the villagers staying near the house. Later, they stuffed the child’s body inside a bed-sheet to dispose it at a deserted spot. The matter came to light on the wee hours of Sunday when Murar police recovered the body of the minor from a canal with the unconscious mother after locals spotted them. A case has been lodged against two named and five unknown men on the basis of the statement of woman’s father Rajkumar Ram. In his FIR, Raj Kumar said that the incident took place at around 11 am when his daughter, along with child, were on their way to the bank to deposit Rs 6000. When she reached the bank of the canal, two men, identified as Bhola Yadav and Mina Ram, and their five associates forcibly took her to an isolated place and allegedly gang-raped her and killed her child. Also read: Bihar polls - Raghopur, Hasanpur seats to decide fate of Lalu’s two sons“The miscreants, then, tied her hands and feet and threw her in the canal,” the FIR stated. Station house officer (SHO) of Murar police station, Manoj Pathak, said that the woman’s condition is critical while a complaint has been lodged against the accused. The woman has been rushed to Sadar Hospital for medical examination. Buxar SP Neeraj Kumar Singh said that one of the named accused has been arrested and raids are on to nab other culprits. Singh said that police waited for the medical examination of the victim as well as the postmortem report of the child. Second gang-rape within three days in PatnaIn another incident, a 14-year-old woman was allegedly raped by an auto-rickshaw driver and three others on Saturday night in a godown at Lekha Nagar locality under Danapur police in the state capital. Rajesh Kumar, Tulsi and Kallu Kumar have been arrested after the locals informed about the incident. The victim, a native of Bihiyan police station area of Ara, had taken an auto from Saguna More and was going to Danapur Junction. The auto driver suspected to have informed his friends in advance about the woman passenger. He stopped the auto at a secluded place near Lekha Nagar where three of his friends were already present. The victim told the police that the accused were calling each other by their names thus the accused were identified. In her statement, the survivor claims that the accused may have pre-planned the heinous act. “The crime spot where she was taken was isolated which is why no one could hear her screaming,” said an official adding that the police suspect that the spot could have been used previously for such crimes. “There was no one around who could hear me screaming for help and they seemed perfectly confident that no one would come to my rescue,” the victim said in her statement. “They must have planned the whole thing and were only waiting for a target,” she added. Danapur SHO Ajit Kumar Saha said that the incident took place at around 8.30 pm when the victim, working as a maid-servant at Ashiana More, hired an auto-rickshaw but auto driver mislead her and went towards Lekha Nagar. The victim raised an alarm and subsequently some passerby reached and informed Danapur police. She was referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital from Danapur Sadar hospital for medical the examination, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/woman-gang-raped-in-buxar-child-strangulated-to-death/story-ckEX09qvpPiPy6Io9OYI9K.html
11-10-2020||City||10 booked for attack on tea shop owner in Ludhiana||The police here on Sunday booked 10 persons for allegedly attempting to murder a 60-year-old tea shop owner, two days after he was attacked. One of the accused was identified as Rohit Kumar of Indira Colony. The victim got paralysed after the accused brutally assaulted him with baseball bats and sticks at his tea shop in Sundar Nagar on Friday night. The attack came hours after the victim’s son had an altercation with a scooter-borne man for driving rashly. Complainant Raju Khaneja, son of the victim, told the police that on Friday afternoon, he had confronted a scooter-borne man who was driving rashly. He had returned to his shop after onlookers intervened and had seen the man follow him before driving away. Later, the accused turned up with his accomplices and assaulted his elderly father. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO at Daresi police station, said that efforts were on to identify Rohit’s accomplices. The SHO added that a case, under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), and 149 (unlawful assembly), of the IPC was lodged. A hunt is on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-booked-for-attack-on-tea-shop-owner-in-ludhiana/story-emfAgZiwFKSb76sVG52DcI.html
11-10-2020||City||9 deaths, 569 fresh Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 569 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally of positive cases in the UT to 83,633.Nine more people succumbed to the virus and the death toll rose to 1,322, officials said. They added that 362 people have tested positive in Kashmir and 207 in Jammu.October has witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. In September, the UT recorded a daily average of 1,245 cases which have gone down to 778 daily cases so far in October.As many as 890 people recovered from the virus on Sunday taking the overall recoveries to 71,845 which account for a recovery rate of 85.9%, which is the highest so far.For the past 20 days, the recovery rate has continuously improved. So far in October, 14,921 patients have been cured as against 8,563 fresh infections. A government spokesperson said 460 people were discharged in Jammu division and 430 in Kashmir. Of total, 43,238 people have recovered in Kashmir and 28,607 in Jammu so far. At present, there are 10,466 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT so far have crossed 18.39 lakh.Meanwhile, officials said of the nine deaths dueto the virus in the UT — five were in Jammu and four in Kashmir division. With this, the number of total deaths has reached 1,322 — 893 in Kashmir and 429 in Jammu.In October so far, 141 persons have lost their lives due to Covid. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 108, followed by 24 in Poonch. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 147 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 48. Srinagar tops the case tally with 16,650 cases and 316 deaths. Jammu is at number two with 15,268 cases and 222 deaths. Till date, 6.12 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 24,668 in home quarantine, 10,466 in isolation, and 48,306 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.27 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-deaths-569-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-j-k/story-kEiX0VLdSuJW8GOATaQ78L.html
11-10-2020||City||When 400-500 people cycle together, it relays a sense of unity: J&K L-G||Hundreds of children and youth participate in a cycle race, ‘Pedal for Peace’, on the banks of Dal Lake in Kashmir on Sunday.The race, organised by the J&K Police, was first such event in the Valley in over a year due to restrictions after the revocation of Article 370 and then the Covid-induced lockdown.“Through Pedal for Peace, we are attempting to lay the foundation of peace, brotherhood and happiness. It is an attempt to spread the message of love among people,” said lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha, who was the chief guest at the event. He distributed prizes among the winners at Police Golf Course in Srinagar.“When 400-500 people cycle together, it is not just a race or a competition. It relays a sense of unity. The race generates an energy which affects one and all,” he said.The events included races for sub-junior boys/girls, junior boys/girls, senior men/women and veteran men.“I’m extremely happy as I stood first. It was fun to do this after sitting at home for months amid lockdown,” said Rubab, a junior category participant.J&K DGP Dilbag Singh was also present. “Unfortunately, with Covid-19, there was a break in physical activities. There is some relaxation now and we have resumed sporting activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/when-400-500-people-cycle-together-it-relays-a-sense-of-unity-j-k-l-g/story-SlFuIlz5GCW48qT31y69VI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to reopen labs for research scholars on October 15||Panjab University has allowed research scholars to return to laboratories from October 15.However, for now, only those who have been enrolled for more than three years will be allowed, with the consent of their parents, it was decided in a meeting held on Sunday. The varsity has more than 3,000 research scholars, who have lost access to labs amid the Covid-19 lockdown.According to Unlock 5 guidelines of the Centre, higher educational institutes have been given the option to allow PhD scholars and postgraduate students in science and technology streams to return to labs. The varsity has not taken any decision on postgraduate students yet. Research scholars have held several protests demanding reopening of labs and hostels, and have got the support from various student bodies. PU had constituted a committee to examine a way out. “We are allowing research scholars to visit the campus in a phased manner, on the condition that they should not demand hostel accommodation immediately,” said Sukhbir Kaur, dean students’ welfare (DSW), women. The committee in its meeting on Sunday decided that hostels will be reopened for research scholars in a phased manner in November, if the situation allows. Only one mess will be made functional, from where food will be supplied to all of them. Two sub-committees have been constituted to formulate the standard operating procedures (SOPs), separately for labs and hostels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-reopen-labs-for-research-scholars-on-october-15/story-eQEuf3ewo2JHMx9BVoM5jK.html
11-10-2020||City||Himachal records 2 deaths, 164 more Covid infections||Two more deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported in the state on Sunday, taking total death toll in Himachal to 245.One death each were reported in Shimla and Hamirpur districts. A 72-year-old man suffering from co-morbid-diabetes mellitus died in Shimla, while a 74-year-old man suffering from type II diabetes mellitus and hypertension died in Hamirpur.Also, 164 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday, taking total Covid-19 tally to 17,408. Of these, 2,687 patients are active while 14,451 patients have recovered till date.Out of new 164 cases, 44 have been reported in Kangra, 26 in Solan, 19 each in Shimla and Sirmaur districts, 13 each in Mandi and Hamirpur districts, 10 in Kullu, nine in Bilaspur, eight in Una and three in Chamba district. Meanwhile, 190 patients also recovered in the state on Sunday.With 3,320 cases so far, Solan remains the worst-hit district to date, followed by 2,638 cases in Kangra district. Apart from this, as many as 2,096 cases have been reported in Mandi, 1,990 in Sirmaur, 1,656 in Shimla, 1,019 in Hamirpur, 1,009 in Bilaspur, 970 in Chamba, 870 in Kullu and 218 in Lahaul-Spiti district. With 207 cases Kinnaur is the least affected district.Till now, 3,24,507 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the state out of which 3,06,967 have turned out negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-records-2-deaths-164-more-covid-infections/story-2MCDsPvDghAKomHt54ZWSL.html
11-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Raghopur, Hasanpur seats to decide fate of Lalu’s two sons||With the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) issuing symbols for the candidates for the second phase of Bihar assembly polls, all eyes are on two constituencies, Raghopur and Hasanpur, from where jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s sons, leader of the opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav will contest. Reliable sources said Tejashwi will file his nomination papers from Raghopur assembly seat on October 14 while Tej Pratap Yadav will file his papers from Hassanpur seat on October 13. “Tejashwi will file his papers on October 14 and also address a public meeting in his constituency, as per schedule so far,” said a senior RJD leader, wishing not to be quoted. This time, Tej Pratap, a sitting MLA from Mahua assembly seat in Vaisali district, has changed his constituency to Hasanpur assembly seat in Samastipur district probably to ensure a safe win as the constituency is considered an RJD stronghold with sizeable number of Yadav and Muslim voters. Sources said the RJD has given ticket to Dr Mukesh Roshan from the Mahua seat this time. The party has not released the official list of candidates for the second phase yet. Sources said the RJD is contesting 64 seats out of 94 constituencies going to polls on November 3.Also read: In Bihar, a battle between the old and the newThe contest in Raghopur will be a keenly fought one between Tejashwi and BJP’s nominee Satish Kumar who had been defeated by the 30-year Yadav scion in 2015 assembly polls. Satish, however, had shot to fame in 2010 assembly election when he had defeated former chief minister Rabri Devi by a margin of 13,006 votes. Insiders in the RJD said the leader of the opposition has high stakes in the poll given the Yadav scion is the face of the Grand Alliance (GA) and the chief ministerial candidate of his party. The exit of senior RJD leaders in the constituency, like former minister Uday Narayan Rai alias Bhola Rai, and a large number of RJD junior leaders at the block level a month back to join the ruling Janata Dal (United) has caused trouble for the RJD. Rai is considered a grassroots leader with a good hold among political workers and organisational set up in Raghopur constituency. Sources said, the JD(U) was eyeing the seat to field its own candidate but it went to the BJP. The JD(U) is contesting four seats in Vaisali district. “The contest is tough this time in Raghopur for Tejashwi as the BJP and the JD(U) are again fighting together this time. The traditional vote base of the RJD, especially Yadavs votes, will be crucial and any division in the core vote base could spell trouble for the party,” said a senior RJD leader. BJP candidate, Satish Kumar, also belonging to Yadav caste, is also banking on caste votes apart from that of the EBCs, minorities and upper castes. On the other hand, the contest in Hasanpur assembly seat would be also interesting to watch as Tej Pratap is pitted against Janata Dal (United) sitting MLA Raj Kumar Ray. Ray had won the seat in 2015 election by a margin of 29,600 votes by defeating his nearest rival Binod Choudhary of BLSP. Tej Pratap had indicated his plans to contest from Hasanpur seat in Samastipur district by holding a roadshow in the constituency last month. RJD leaders admit the poll outcome of the two seats, Raghopur and Hasanpur, is important for the party as a loss of any of the Yadav scions would cause embarrassment for jailed RJD chief and raise a question mark on party’s hold among its core voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-raghopur-hasanpur-seats-to-decide-fate-of-lalu-s-two-sons/story-2dCLW6h1rBCwhEu3zjnSaL.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College issues SOPs for semester exams||With semester examination at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, scheduled from November, the institution has formulated standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Besides the SOPs, circulated to all deans and heads of departments recently, general guidelines have also been drafted for adherence by staffers and students during the conduct of practical and end-semester examinations. Examinations of the ongoing semester will be held in November and pending exams of the previous semester, which could not be held due to the lockdown, are scheduled in December.As per the general guidelines, faculty members and students have been asked to avoid touching walls, doors and other surfaces while passing through corridors and doorways. It has also been made mandatory to wear face masks in public places all the times.Air-conditioning has to be avoided as much as possible and use of natural ventilation has been suggested. Faculty members have been directed to avoid group formation.According to the SOPs, staffers on examination duty have been directed to download Aarogya Setu application. Examination halls will be sanitised before and after each exam and thermal screening of every entrant into the hall will be conducted. The sitting arrangement will follow social distancing norms and separate arrangements will be made for students having Covid-like symptoms.Sharing of stationery items has been discouraged during the exams. Also, students should leave the examination hall immediately after submitting the answer sheets one by one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-issues-sops-for-semester-exams/story-EJ5zR7ir7JDRcgBTysiZ5I.html
11-10-2020||City||Due to stigma associated with mental diseases, people don’t seek help’||Suicide is a leading cause of death in the age group of 15-29, said professor and head of the department of psychiatry, Dr Dinesh Dutt Sharma, during a webinar held to mark World Mental Health Day at the Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, on Saturday.He added that mental health problems and suicides have increased during the pandemic.Dr Sharma said that due to lack of information about mental diseases, stigma associated with the disease, and lack of adequate treatment, people do not come forward.“Around 70-80% people who die by suicide are likely to have psychosis. Depression is the most common psychiatric condition associated with suicide. Thus, early detection is crucial,” he said.“Warning signs should be taken seriously and immediate crisis intervention is important. For immediate assistance, one can contact medical helpline 104 issued by the state government,” he added.He stressed on need to make people aware and sensitised towards mental health. He emphasised on including exercise, yoga, balanced diet, and social interaction in one’s lifestyle to improve mental health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/due-to-stigma-associated-with-mental-diseases-people-don-t-seek-help/story-GXxEnr2uoZYB7BZUhoM5WP.html
11-10-2020||City||One held in Zirakpur road rage case||A day after a 35-year-old man was shot dead in a case of road rage in Zirakpur, the Mohali police on Sunday arrested Ramesh Kumar, one of the co-accused. The main accused, Happy Brar, who is a businessman from Faridkot in Punjab, and five others, including a woman, are still absconding. They all have been booked for murder.Belonging to Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba district, Ramesh Kumar runs a car accessory shop in Phase 7, Mohali, and was presently living in Zirakpur. He will be produced in court on Monday, said police.The brawl took place on VIP Road in the wee hours of Saturday after a Toyota Fortuner being driven by Brar denied passage to another Fortuner being driven by victim Anil Thakur’s friend Vinay. Thakur, 35, had rushed to the spot after getting a call from a friend, and was shot dead in the melee. It was Brar who allegedly opened fire from his .12 bore pistol, hitting Thakur in his chest and abdomen. The accused later fled the scene in the SUV.A senior police officer said Kumar is being questioned to know the whereabouts of the accused, and raids are on to arrest the six remaining accused. The victim’s friends are also being quizzed to get more details about the incident, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-held-in-zirakpur-road-rage-case/story-8Bdw6PEEcwZor2pZPCVQmL.html
11-10-2020||City||Shops shut on Shimla’s Mall Road, weekenders sulk||Tourist influx was witnessed in the city on Sunday, but the government order to shut shops, especially on Mall Road and Lower Bazaar, dismayed the visitors and the business community alike.Shops and commercial establishment wing of the labourer and employment department had ordered closure of all business units on Sundays while shopkeepers for long had been demanding to amend the Himachal Pradesh Shops and Commercial Establishment Act, 1969, applies to a shop or a commercial establishment located within the limits of Shimla municipal corporation and other municipal areas and cantonment limits in the whole state. All the shops in the Lower Bazaar and Shimla’s iconic Mall Road remained closed on Sunday.Jagmohan Singh, 40, a tourist from Delhi, said, “I came here with my family to enjoy the weekend, but when I reached Mall Road in the afternoon, I was surprised as all the shops were closed and we could not buy anything as souvenir from here.”“We had no choice but to visit Lakkar Bazaar to buy a few wooden items and eat food. The government should alter its decision. Locals can have information on the shops being shut on Sundays but tourists have no idea,” rued Parkash Yadav, a tourist from Bihar.Nearly 14,000 tourists visited Shimla in the last three days.Meanwhile, shopkeepers on Mall Road are demanding the government to amend the law. “It is time to change the Shops Act and allow them to open all week. The business community of Shimla is looking up to the government for certain relief measures,” said Karan Nanda, who owns a readymade garment shop on Mall Road.Shimla hotel and restaurateurs association president Sanjay Sood said, “Himachal being a tourist state we expect that positive decisions are taken for all stakeholders. It is unfortunate that shops are being forced to shut on Sundays in Shimla.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-shut-on-shimla-s-mall-road-weekenders-sulk/story-UL0M6pAxmOuE2sV3mqfnDI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||36 construction workers test Covid +ve in Mohali||As many as 36 people working at the construction site of the upcoming Amity University in Sector 82, Mohali, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. These were among 97 fresh cases reported in the district, which took its tally to 11,415, of which 1,017 cases remain active. With 124 patients being discharged, the total number of recoveries reached 10,190.In Chandigarh, 85 people tested positive, taking the count to 13,162. As many as 11,787 have been cured, including 125 discharged on Sunday, leaving 1,184 active cases.Panchkula district reported 37 new cases, including 23 in the main city. As many as 6,593 have tested positive so far, of which 6,068 have recovered and 424 still hospitalised.3 more succumb in tricityThree people succumbed to Covid-19 across the tricity on Sunday, with a casualty each being reported from Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. The death toll stands at 191, 208 and 101, respectively, in the three areas.Those who died have been identified as a 34-year-old man from Sector 50, Chandigarh; a 72-year-old man from Orissa who was residing in Zirakpur, Mohali; and a 69-year-old woman from Sector 7, Panchkula. All of them were suffering from comorbidities, such as hypertension and diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/36-construction-workers-test-covid-ve-in-mohali/story-k5Jv1e4Y7vEm4iPA3UGVbI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gears up for Cycles4Change Challenge||For promoting Cycles4Change Challenge in the city, Chandigarh Smart City Limited organised a cycle rally on Sunday.KK Yadav, chief executive officer, CSCL, flagged off the rally from New Lake in Sector 42.The challenge is an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission under the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, to inspire and support cities to implement cycling-friendly initiatives in response to challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic.Yadav said as part of the challenge, the city is gearing up to launch a pilot project with 10 docking stations and 100 bicycles at various parts in the city. He said a Best Photo and Video Challenge has also been launched for residents to showcase their creativity. The last date for submission is October 31. The details are available on CSCL’s website and social media pages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gears-up-for-cycles4change-challenge/story-uwkY9EFyoAZ4fUvi4IhPjO.html
11-10-2020||City||Himachal govt committed towards women’s welfare, says Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday congratulated the girls and women of the state and urged the people to work collectively towards ensuring gender parity in the society and reaffirm commitment to ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’.On the occasion of International Day of the Girl Child, the CM said let us pledge to provide our girls a world which is safe, equal, progressive and full of opportunities.He said the state government was committed for the welfare and development of girl child and several schemes have been launched for their socio-economic upliftment.Under the Beti Hai Anmol Yojana, Thakur said the lump sum assistance grant to the girl child born in a BPL family has been increased from ₹10,000 to ₹12,000. As part of the Mother Teresa Asahaya Matri Sambal Yojana, the assistance amount given for the upbringing of two children has been increased from ₹4,000 to ₹6,000 per child per year, the CM informed.He added that under the Mukhya Mantri Kanyadan Yojana, the grant for marriage of destitute girls has been increased from ₹40,000 to ₹51,000, which benefited about 10,000 beneficiaries. He said the Saksham Gudiya Board has been constituted with an aim to empower girls and adolescent girls in the state and to curb the crimes against them.He said Sashakt Mahila Yojana was implemented in the state with the aim of making adolescent girls and women between 11 years and 45 years aware of their rights and developing their skills and connecting them with economic activities.Thakur said Mahila Kalyan Board has been reconstituted under his chairmanship to suggest policies for the empowerment and protection of women. Similarly, under Mukhya Mantri Bal Uddhaar Yojana, an annual scholarship of ₹10,000 was provided in the financial year 2019-20 to the children of Bal Evam Balika Ashrams, who have secured the first two positions in classes 2 to 8, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-committed-towards-women-s-welfare-says-jai-ram/story-6aIbSGkyAWHlidH61iKtPO.html
11-10-2020||City||₹411 crore loan fraud: Rice exporter surrenders before Karnal court||The managing director of Ram Dev International, Naresh Kumar, on Sunday surrendered before the district court in Karnal, four years after getting booked in a Rs 411 crore loan scam, police said.Sandeep Kumar, in-charge of Karnal police’s economic cell, said Naresh Kumar surrendered before the district court, which has sent him to seven-day police remand for interrogation in the case. Police said efforts are being made to arrest other people involved in the scam.The CBI had registered a case on April 28 against Ram Dev International and its directors Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Sangita, for allegedly cheating a consortium of six banks to the tune of Rs 411 crore. The company was engaged in export of basmati rice to the West Asian and European countries. The case was registered on the complaint of DFSC Karnal under Sections 406, 420, and 120B of the Indian Penal Code. A special audit had revealed that the borrowers falsified the accounts, fudged the balance sheet and unauthorisedly removed the plant and machinery in order to gain unlawfully at the cost of bank funds.The commission agents of Karnal grain market alleged that the accused had also duped over 100 arhtiyas of Rs 9.50 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/411-crore-loan-fraud-rice-exporter-surrenders-before-karnal-court/story-oTpx1mSFTCMT9KRbdvXBRI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||P’kula authorities readying for Covid surge during festivals||Though the number of Covid-19 cases have fallen in Panchkula district, authorities are staying prepared for the festive season beginning in about a week, should there be a surge in infections.“We witnessed a surge in September, which is phasing out in October, but a next surge is expected so we are not letting our guard down. If we go by the predictions of epidemiologists there is a likelihood of a second surge in the next two months because of festivals and winter,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.She said health authorities were gearing up to keep ICU beds and other infrastructure ready.Asked if the administration was working on any plan to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the festive season, Kaur said: “Yes, we have started sampling at the Mata Mansa Devi Temple where 150 samples were taken today. All were found negative. We will continue to do random sampling of shop owners, vendors and people attending congested places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/p-kula-authorities-readying-for-covid-surge-during-festivals/story-WjN7gpO3NtaXKMz6o0S4zH.html
11-10-2020||City||Former CM Hooda slams Haryana govt for tardy paddy procurement in mandis||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday slammed the state government for alleged tardy paddy procurement and failure to protect the interests of farmers.Hooda, who visited the grain markets in Kurukshetra district, said farmers have been suffering due to poor arrangements of the state government at the mandis. “There is total collapse of the mandis (grain markets) in the state as there are no purchases, no MSP for farmers, no gunny bags to pack whatever crops arrive, no gate passes, no lifting and no payment to farmers who sell their crops,” he said.“It seems as if farmers are being harassed intentionally as there were also complaints regarding the online portal, gate passes, deduction in MSP and waiting for hours to sell the produce,” Hooda said.He also claimed that it is for the first time that Basmati is being sold below MSP. “This has led to a situation where the farmer is selling his crop to private agencies at whatever price they are offering. This indicates a lot about working of the new system,” he said.The former minister said the government should buy paddy, millet, maize and cotton as soon as possible and give farmers the benefit of MSP. “On one hand, BJP MLAs are protesting against the chaos in the mandis and on the other, their party leaders are holding rallies in Gohana. This shows everything is not well in the BJP,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-cm-hooda-slams-haryana-govt-for-tardy-paddy-procurement-in-mandis/story-mwsNy2cmk9pdbcKX4SS4NP.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala farmers familiarised with straw collecting machines||In a move to curb stubble burning which causes high levels of pollution in the region, the agricultural and farmer welfare department has launched a pilot project in two Ambala villages to familiarise farmers with chaff cutters and balers – machines that compress crop residue into compact bales which are easy to store or transport. These are now being taken to a sugar mill in Naraingarh for power generation.As part of the project, farmers will be encouraged to sell their paddy stubble to the mill in Banondi village through a private firm.Deputy director of agriculture (DDA) Girish Nagpal said the project had been started in the village panchayats of Bada and Ugada in Ambala district.“Stubble worth Rs 1,800 per tonne is being delivered to the sugar mill under a contract, after which the profit will be given to the farmers after deducting the expenses of the baler machines. Broadly, farmers will get a profit of around Rs 500 per acre from this project,” Nagpal said.Bara Village sarpanch Vikas Behgal said that a baler, cutter and stringer (to tie the bales) were available in the village.“Farmers are exhibiting interest in the machines as they had no option to manage the stubble and no one was happy to burn it. I can say that not a single acre has been burnt here and won’t be burnt in the future too,” Behgal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-farmers-familiarised-with-straw-collecting-machines/story-2gWG9CHy3ZoOMtZlADLp6N.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 men held in plush Mohali society for IPL betting racket, drug dealing||Two men from Haryana were arrested at the tony Homeland Heights in Sector 70 late on Saturday evening in police raids for running a betting racket involving Indian Premier League (IPL) matches and alleged smuggling of drugs, including heroin, while two others managed to escape from the spot.Police recovered 15 mobile phones, laptops and 570 gram heroin from their possession.The men who were arrested were identified as Vipin of Patel Nagar in Hisar and Rakesh Manchanda from Faridabad. Tarush Dhawan of Kaithal and Malkit Singh of Kila Lal village in Gurdaspur district were absconding.Police raided the Homeland Heights apartment after receiving a tip-off that online betting was taking place there. Rajiv Kumar, station house officer, Mataur police station and Gursher Singh Sandhu, DSP (City1), led the police team and nabbed the suspects, said Harwinder Singh Virk, superintendent of police (City), while addressing mediapersons on Sunday.“The suspects were also involved in large scale drug smuggling,” said Virk.Investigations revealed that the men had been living in the apartment for two months and had placed bets on around 35 cricket matches so far. They used to stake around Rs 4 lakh to Rs 5 lakh on a single match and carried out transactions through Google Pay and Paytm, said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police.Searches are being conducted for the men who were absconding, he added.A case under Sections 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 13, 3/67 of the Gambling Act and 21, 29-61-85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against the suspects at the Mataur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-men-held-in-plush-mohali-society-for-ipl-betting-racket-drug-dealing/story-sgiJuEPX9NSCFLM6teR1mK.html
11-10-2020||Jaipur||One more accused arrested in Karauli priest death case||The Rajasthan Police on Sunday arrested one more accused in the murder of the priest who was allegedly burnt alive by people angry at his opposition to the encroachment of temple land in state’s Karauli district.“The arrested accused has been identified as Dilkhush Meena alias Dhillu. Another accused had been arrested in past and six teams of police are looking for the remaining accused,” said a district police official.On Saturday evening, the family members of the deceased priest had called off their protest after the state government assured them of compensation and action against the accused.Also read: Kanhaiya, former student leaders to campaign for Left parties in BiharBabu Lal Vaishnav, 50, died during treatment for burns at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital late on Thursday, a day after Kailash Meena and others from his family allegedly set the priest’s hut on fire. In his dying testimony, the priest named six people for setting him on fire, the police said.The incident sparked protests by the villagers and family members of the deceased who refused to perform the last rites till the state government fulfilled their demands - compensation of Rs 50 lakh, a government job for one of the family members and early arrest of the accused.Later in the day, district collector Siddharth Sihagand, superintendent of police Mridul Kachawa met with Vaishnav’s family members and accepted the demands. “The family members will be given a relief compensation of Rs 10 lakh, a contractual government job for a family member, and financial help under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana,” said Kachawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/one-more-accused-arrested-in-karauli-priest-death-case/story-euLgQwSZ7OFwnWaJXrjk2L.html
11-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police arrest 4 people who looted jeweller to clear debt worth Rs 5 lakh||Dehradun police arrested four people on Sunday for allegedly looting a jeweller after firing at him to clear a debt of Rs 5 lakh in business caused by the lockdown. The four accused, including three residents of Delhi, were arrested by the police in its investigation on the firing and loot incident which took place on September 22 and involved a motorbike-borne jeweller in Patel Nagar area of Dehradun, the police said. Shweta Chaubey, superintendent of police (city) said, “The four accused arrested were identified as Naeem, Nadeem, Faizal Choudhary and Rahul Sharma. Naeem, the main accused, is a resident of Dehradun while the remaining three are residents of Delhi.” “After the firing and loot incident, in which the jeweller sustained a bullet injury to his leg, the four accused were identified after probing the CCTV footage and getting information from the informers. Based on that, Rahul and Nadeem were arrested from Delhi and Bulandshahr respectively,” said Chaubey. Also read: BJP releases list of 46 candidates for second phase of Bihar electionsShe informed that following their arrest, another accused, Faizal, surrendered in the local court in Muzaffarnagar a few days ago while the main accused, Naeem who planned the loot, was arrested from Saharanpur on Saturday. “During the interrogation, Naeem told the police that he runs a handcart of garments in Dehradun and had incurred losses worth Rs 5 lakh due to the lockdown. He then planned to loot the jeweller to clear his debt for which he contacted the other accused who were known to him,” said Chaubey. The four then, as per the plan, conducted a recce of the jeweller’s shop at GMS Road area for around 8-10 days before committing the crime on September 22. “The police also recovered some gold jewellery from them. All the accused have been sent to the jail after being produced before the court,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-arrest-4-people-who-looted-jeweller-to-clear-debt-worth-rs-5-lakh/story-yG640FeHkgoBxHjiXaS3vL.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Passenger gives birth on Ambala station platform||With women Railway Protection Force (RPF) constables holding a curtain and other women from the parcel office attending to her, a Bihar-bound passenger coming from Punjab’s Ludhiana delivered a baby girl on a platform at the Ambala Cantonment Railway Station on Saturday evening. RPF officials swung into action upon being alerted at 4:30 pm that Mariam Khatoon from Bihar’s east Champaran area had gone into labour and was about to deliver a baby on platform number two and four, in front of the parcel office.The RPF constables covered the area with a curtain and with the assistance of the parcel officials, Khatoon delivered a baby girl at 4:40 pm. An ambulance called by the station superintendent reached the station at 4:50 pm and mother and child were taken to the Civil Hospital at Ambala Cantonment, railway officials said. Khatoon was accompanied by her husband and two female travellers who praised the RPF and other personnel for their support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-delivers-baby-on-ambala-station-platform/story-YOsOf7maA3o5o96Yu6VJBO.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three missing boys reunited with parents in past one week: Haryana Police||Two minor boys from Uttar Pradesh and another hailing from Jhajjar were reunited with their parents in past one week, Haryana police said on Sunday. A police spokesman said a 10-year-old boy, who had been missing for last two years and was living at the Children’s Home Jhajjar, was reunited with his family after his adoption process had been completed and the adoptive parents were looking forward to take him to Australia. “The anti-human trafficking unit has reunited this boy with his family in UP,” he added.He said as per the information provided by this boy, his father was traced in Lakhimpur Kheri near Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh. The boy’s family told the police that he had gone missing from Delhi two years ago. “The boy was handed over to his family on October 5,” the spokesman said, adding that the Haryana police have been constantly working to rescue and reunite missing children with their families.In another case, the anti-human trafficking unit reunited a 14-year-old mentally retarded boy, who had been missing for past seven months, with his family. The boy was living in Ashiana at Panchkula. The spokesman said based on the kind of dialect he was speaking, the UP police at Saharanpur was contacted. “After investigation, it came to fore that the boy had been missing from Sheikhpura. His family was traced and contacted via a video call. The family identified the boy and he was handed over to his parents after legal formalities,” he said.Also, a eight-year-old boy was reunited with his parents in Jhajjar within three days after he went missing. Rajasthan police had received information that a child was found at the railway station and the Bahadurgarh railway police was contacted. “He was traced as the child’s mother had come to the police station to register a missing report. Haryana police received necessary orders from Bikaner authorities and handed over the child to his parents,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-missing-boys-reunited-with-parents-in-past-one-week-haryana-police/story-CYVHG1Nl3JzuI1vcocFCRM.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Why we need to act now to save juvenile delinquents||They are young, just beginning life, so the figures released by the National Crime Records Bureau related to juvenile crimes and Chandigarh Police apprehending eight juveniles for rape and registering 117 cases against others in the city for various offences in 2019 are definitely a cause for concern. The number of rape cases had come down last year as against five in 2018 and seven in 2017, and other offences too showed a dip from 137 in 2018 and 159 in 2017. But the fact that 209 juveniles were arrested last year is a telling commentary on the negative influences on youngsters today. Last year, one juvenile was apprehended for outraging a woman’s modesty and two for kidnapping, against five caught for the former offence and three for the latter in 2018. In 2017, police had detained seven juveniles for rape, three for outraging modesty and five for kidnapping. Thirty six others had been caught for theft, 14 for burglary and three for murder. Refraining from commenting on sexual offences a senior Chandigarh police official on condition of anonymity said, “Minors take to thefts to make easy money.” Many of those apprehended admitted to having committed thefts to buy expensive phones or branded clothes and shoes, while a few were lured into crime to fund their craving for drugs. In fact, the ones involved in robbery and murders were also doing it to buy drugs, he added. The police are making efforts to mainstream many of these offenders by training them in various skills under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana to improve their lives and keep them away from crime and drugs. NGOs had also been roped in to help the police survey 22,000 children, 3,000 of whom from six peripheral areas were identified as high-risk. They have been enrolled with police help in vocational courses. For an understaffed police force that’s also under tremendous pressure to handle rising crime rates in the city, these are commendable efforts, but a lot more needs to be done to save these young lives. SAVE LIVES Can juvenile delinquents be mainstreamed? What immediate interventions can help mainstream juvenile delinquents? Send your responses with a photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-why-we-need-to-act-now-to-save-juvenile-delinquents/story-qInFKC2GGRnFC3C11aNkCP.html
11-10-2020||Pune||Salesman in police custody for duping jeweller of ₹2.2 crore||A temple jewellery salesman has been remanded to Pune police custody by a local court on Saturday for duping a jeweller of ₹2.2 crore over the past year.The arrested man has been identified as Anand Suresh Gundesha (42), a resident of Bhaktipujanagar in Kolhapur. He was remanded to three days in police custody. A complaint was lodged by Somwar peth-based jeweller Debu Mujumdar (48), according to police.“He used to work for the complainant a few years ago. He then started his own business and retained his employer as a client. They did not deal in money, but in left over gold of temple jewellery from normal gold jewellery. The accused took jewellery from the complainant and sold it to other dealers and split the returns. During the lockdown, he already had backlog payments from the past years, and then he defaulted on paying multiple times saying he has not received the payment in jewellery from his clients in other cities. But the other jewellers claim to have paid him. We will be questioning more jewellers soon,” said police sub-inspector Yashpal Suryavanshi of Faraskhana police station who is investigating the case.The total value for which the jeweller was duped is estimated to be around ₹2,20,17,440.A case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Faraskhana police station against the salesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/salesman-in-police-custody-for-duping-jeweller-of-2-2-crore/story-mCzIaZ6eDYJcy8G7hjULdJ.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers leaders in Punjab invited by Central govt for talks||Over a week after the rail roko (stop train) agitation was launched against the three farm laws passed by Parliament, farmer leaders have been invited to Delhi by the Central government on October 14 for a ‘dialogue,’ it has been learnt. In a letter dated October 10, Sanjay Agarwal, secretary, agriculture ministry, invited the farmers to Delhi.Confirming the development, Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Dakaunda, said, “we have received an invitation from the Central government. The government has considered our agitation and called for a meeting. However, in an earlier invitation the government was trying to convince us about the benefits of anti-farmer laws. But the farmers’ protest forced the government to call for a meeting.”The farmers have also organised a meeting on October 13 of all the 30 farmer organisations in Jalandhar to discuss the campaign against the farm laws. “We will also discuss the matter at the meeting,” Singh added. The Punjab government has appealed to the farmers to stop the rail roko agitation as it was impacting the supply of coal and other goods in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-leaders-in-punjab-invited-by-central-govt-for-talks/story-YOGrjjLML0OStCGylJDYLP.html
11-10-2020||Lucknow||UP: Temple priest shot at in Gonda; admitted to hospital||Samarth Das (35), a priest of Ram Janki temple in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Gonda district, was shot at by armed assailants while he was sleeping in an open verandah on the temple premises on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, said police. The attack was allegedly due to a land dispute with a local muscleman, Amar Singh, the police said. Das is undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow. His condition is stated to be critical, the police added. Gonda superintendent of police (SP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey said a first information report (FIR) under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been registered against four persons at Etiathok police station and two suspects had been taken into custody. He said further raids were in progress in a bid to arrest the other two suspects. Also read: BJP leader Satish Poonia slams Rajasthan police after priest’s deathBaba Sitaram Das, the head priest of the temple, has alleged that Singh was behind the attacks on him in the past and the recent attack on Das. He said the goons had shot at Das while he was sleeping at around 2.30 am and beat a hasty retreat. The incident occurred, when two home guards were deployed for his security at the temple’s entrance. He said he was also attacked by the goons last year and a police investigation was still in progress. Initially, two constables were deployed for his security but the security detail was removed under Singh’s influence. Singh is alleged to be involved in grabbing over 150 bighas of land that belongs to the temple trust, which the priests have been opposing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-temple-priest-shot-at-in-gonda-admitted-to-hospital/story-4vnnTGqxuuIvDSvUskj3WM.html
11-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Rare day-flying moth sighted in Uttarakhand’s Garhwal Himalayas for first time||Achelura bifasciata, a rare day-flying moth, was spotted last week in Uttarakhand’s Garhwal Himalayas. Experts said that the moth was last spotted in the Kumaon region in the 1890s following which the sighting occurred last week in Tehri Garhwal district’s Sreedev Suman Titli Park, a habitat for butterfly created by local residents. Sanjay Sondhi, the co-author of “Butterflies of Uttarakhand --- A Field Guide” and a trustee of Titli Trust, a nature conservation organisation, said that the moth was never reported to have been spotted in Garhwal. Also read: Brahma Kamal flowers bloom in Chamoli, Uttarakhand“There are old records of the insect to have been spotted in Nainital by GF Hampson, a Britisher, who had compiled a book on moths in 1893. However, this is the first time the moth has been sighted and that, too, in such large numbers in the Garhwal Himalayas in Uttarakhand. The moths are bitter in taste for predatory birds. As a result, the insects are free to fly around during the day,” said Sondhi.The experts also spotted a rare butterfly called Tawny Rajah. This large orange coloured butterfly is rarely seen in the Garhwal Himalayas and there have been a handful of published records in Uttarakhand in the last few decades. Arun Gaur, director, Devalsari Paryavaran Sanrakshan Samiti, who was one of the first few persons to have spotted the moth , said, “A different kind of moth in large numbers was seen hovering in and around the park for the past 15 days. We did not know that it was a rare moth. But, we had never seen the insect before and that’s why we decided to seek the experts’ opinion.” Sondhi, too, weighed in on spotting the moth. “The moth is found in the north-eastern parts of the country. However, it has been spotted in Uttarakhand after almost over a century. This has been possible due to the efforts of the local community, who has worked tirelessly to conserve many such small species to whom no one pays attention to on a daily basis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-rare-day-flying-moth-sighted-in-uttarakhand-s-garhwal-himalayas-for-first-time/story-qqu6ZdNw3y7DjwH9WPQOHM.html
11-10-2020||Pune||City receives 11mm rainfall in 30 minutes||A total of 11mm rainfall was noted in the city in half an hour around 3pm which caused water logging in few areas while other parts of the city received light rain.The areas of Kothrud, Baner, Warje, Sadashiv peth saw heavy rains while light rainfall activity was noticed in parts of Kharadi, Katraj, Sangvi, Kondhva, Pimpri and Chinchwad.The area around Marketyard, Salisbury Park, Gultekdi had a thick cloud cover but no rain activity was noticed until 5:30pm.“The moisture level is increasing but it is not that much and temperature is high so it is triggering local convective activity which is also resulting in the formation of cumulonimbus cloud development so it is raining in the afternoon time with thundery activity. It will continue in the same manner for the next 48 hours,” said Anupam Kashyapi, India Meteorological Department, Pune.At Singhad road and Bavdhan, few tree felling incidents were reported due to rain and since it was only heavy rain and no presence of thunderstorm, there were no major trees falling activity in other areas.Moderate rain is expected in the city on October 14 and 15 while in few places at ghat areas there are also chances of heavy rain. “Basically, one system is followed by one more in the Bay of Bengal so for the next four five days, its impact will be seen in Maharashtra, Pune district, the city with rain associated with thunder activity,” added Kashyapi.The maximum temperature of the day was 33.8 degree Celsius and minimum temperature of the day was 22.4 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-receives-11mm-rainfall-in-30-minutes/story-YhAL7cLXPuXJPLmgYv4tLJ.html
11-10-2020||Pune||Maratha leaders, organisations split on MPSC postponement||The Maratha organisations and leaders are now divided over the issue of cancelling the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) preliminary examination which was scheduled for October 11. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray postponed the MPSC examination on the request of various Maratha organisations on Friday. Sambhaji Brigade’s former leader Pravin Gaikwad, said, “I was of the view that MPSC examination should be conducted as per schedule because students have been preparing for it since the past six months. More than 23 per cent of students from the Maratha caste are getting selected in these examinations, instead of blocking their future in 11 per cent reservation, let them give the examination.” Gaikwad said, “I am of the view that in the next five to ten years, a lot of opportunities are going to open in the industrial sector. We should prepare our students in a way that they can get chances in the industrial sector easily based on their skills. We offer to give protection to students if the examination was conducted, but now the state government has postponed it.” BJP MP Sambhaji Raje Bhosale and MLA Vinayak Mete welcomed the state government’s decision to postpone the MPSC examination and demanded that now the state government must concentrate on getting a reservation for the Maratha caste. Meanwhile, OBC leader and Cabinet Minister Chhagan Bhujbal criticised the state government’s decision and said that ideally, the examination should be conducted at the right time. Maratha organisations had warned the state government that if the MPSC examination wasn’t postponed, the exam will face disturbances. Thackeray’s decision of postponing the exam hasn’t gone down well with the students who were set to appear for it on Sunday. Ramesh Desale who is preparing for the examination, said, “As the examination was scheduled, I decided to stay in Pune and prepare for it. There are many difficulties to manage food and other things in this Covid-19 situation, but we were preparing for the exams. If there was a problem with the reservation issue, the government can keep the exam and put results on hold. They can announce the results as per the new reservation policy.” Another MPSC aspirant, Kishor Sanap said the postponement is disturbing news for him. “ Actually, it is very disturbing if the examination got cancelled two days before the scheduled date. It would be very difficult to start again with preparations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maratha-leaders-organisations-split-on-mpsc-postponement/story-Il61bAjZOzdA4JzkFjVhWK.html
11-10-2020||Kolkata||Sikh turban row: Bengal home dept accuses BJP of communalising issue||The West Bengal home department on Sunday afternoon said that a certain political party was adding communal colour to the October 8 incident in Howrah, where a Sikh man’s turban came off ,when the police were trying to arrest him on charges of carrying a pistol.The incident occurred during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) march to Nabanna, the state secretariat. Videos of the jostling and the Sikh man’s clothes being pulled by policemen have since gone viral. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh and several members of the Sikh community have raised their voice against the incident. They have said it was an insult to the Sikh community and the accused, Balvinder Singh. The BJP has started a campaign on this issue. “Our Sikh brothers and sisters live here in West Bengal in perfect peace and harmony, in happiness and tranquility, with respect from all of us for their faith and practices. A recent incident when one isolated individual got caught with one illegally carried firearm in an agitation that was not authorised and is now being twisted out of context, distorted and given communal colours in fractious and partisan interests,” tweeted the state home department. “One political party is giving communal colour to the subject in narrow partisan interests in a manner that Bengal does not believe in. Policing was done as per law, but highest respect for the Sikh panth and ways from the state government is affirmed,” the tweet added. Bengal BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “Tweets will not help. The nation has seen the videos. The police have hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community.” Earlier, Ghosh had said that Singh is the bodyguard of a BJP youth front leader and works for a private security agency. He has a valid licence for the pistol, Ghosh had claimed. However, police have found that the licence was issued in Kashmir and it is not valid in West Bengal. “The Sikh community has been insulted. We saw in the videos that the man was isolated from the rest of the people and dragged along the ground. The turban did not fall off by accident,” Union minister of state Babul Supriyo told a TV news channel. “From lawlessness to the arrest of al-Qaeda terrorists, there is every reason to impose President’s rule in Bengal,’’ he said. Saugata Ray, a Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member and a party spokesperson, said, “Babul Supriyo is new to politics. He has not studied the Constitution. Before enforcing Article 356, an advisory has to be issued under Article 355. That has not been done.” The October 8 incident has triggered an uproar. “Please look into this matter @MamataOfficial this isn’t done,” former Indjan cricketer Singh had tweeted on Friday evening, tagging Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He had also posted tweets and news video clippings tweeted by BJP’s Delhi unit secretary Impreet Singh Bakshi. The same tweets and videos were also shared by BJP national secretary Arvind Menon and other party leaders. “In Bengal, is there no respect for people from other religious faiths except for a specific one?” tweeted Menon. Members of the Sikh community have also staged two protests in Kolkata. The agitation was marked by “unprovoked” baton charge and use of tear gas by the police that left 1,500 people injured, the BJP has alleged. At least 24 BJP leaders, including the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Menon, have been booked for violating the Central government’s guidelines on gatherings and political rallies owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The agitation was organised by the party’s youth wing, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM). It was marked by pitched battles between the police and the party workers in parts of Kolkata and Howrah, where Nabanna is located. The BJP leaders were also charged for destroying public properties and violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sikh-turban-row-bengal-home-dept-accuses-bjp-of-communalising-issue/story-GUwwvzDKFubojiLH3J2YbP.html
11-10-2020||City||Centre’s bid to impose property tax in J&K raises parties’ hackles||The Centre’s decision to impose property tax in the union territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) has evoked sharp response from political parties. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had empowered the UT administration last week to impose the property tax following an amendment to the J&K Municipal Act, 2000 and J&K Municipal Corporation Act, 2000 through the J&K Reorganisation (Adaption of State Laws) order, 2020.The property tax will be levied on all lands and buildings or vacant lands or both that fall within the jurisdiction of civic body areas unless exempted under this act or any other law.Ali Mohammad Sagar, general secretary, National Conference (NC), lashed out at the Central government for the imposition of property tax amid a coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced downturn in economic activities and soaring unemployment. “Far from doling out fiscal help and other supportive measures, the Central government wants to suck the life and blood of people.The measure will push the people to the wall,” he alleged at a meeting held at the party headquarters in Srinagar on Saturday.Other leaders branded the policy decision as a great injustice by the Central government, when the public is struggling to make both ends meet.Mohammad Khurshed Alam, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader and a former lawmaker, compared the Central government’s decision to the exploitative taxation regime during the erstwhile monarchical rule in J&K.“The property tax order smacks of the despotic and anarchic rule that the people of J&K had suffered for hundreds of years. This decision is nothing but a revival of that dark, dreadful and disastrous era of Kashmir’s blood-soaked history,” Alam said.“Is this the roadmap of Naya Kashmir, which the government had unveiled in Parliament on August 5, 2019?” he questioned.MY Tarigami, a leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), CPI (M), questioned the Central government for its haste to impose property tax “undemocratically”, when it “owes the UT GST (Goods and Services Tax) money”.“Why is the Central government in such a haste to take such measures in absence of a democratic process? The people’s representatives must be given an opportunity to discuss these issues. It has become a habit of those in power in Delhi to issue orders, irrespective of their impact or public opinion,” he said.“The CPI (M) objects to the Central government’s decision amid the Covid-19 pandemic. We are facing several key challenges such as an acute shortage of oxygen in Kashmir, which have been glossed over,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-s-bid-to-impose-property-tax-in-j-k-raises-parties-hackles/story-Qqg2eN8rkLmjVn1dXDiLGI.html
11-10-2020||Dehradun||Posters put up along Indo-Nepal border to nab Covid +ve Nepalese prisoner||Posters have been put up along the Indo-Nepal border in a bid to nab a Nepalese prisoner, who had managed to escape from a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care centre (CCC) in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur a fortnight ago, a police official said. “Posters have been put up along the Indo-Nepal border to nab the Nepalese prisoner, who had absconded from CCC along with two other inmates. A prize will be given to a person who can give information or help in his arrest,” said Devendra Pincha, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Udham Singh Nagar district. Three Covid-19 positive prisoners, including a Nepalese national, who were lodged in central jail at Sitarganj was admitted to the CCC in Rudrapur. They managed to escape on September 26 by breaking the window of the washroom.Two of the absconding inmates have been arrested from Delhi and Sambhal in western Uttar Pradesh (UP), said the official. Devendra Dhanuk, a resident of Bajhang district in far western Nepal, is still at large. He was imprisoned for 10 years by a court for possessing banned narcotic substances and was lodged in the central jail in Sitarganj. “Five teams have been formed. They are conducting raids in several places in Uttarakhand and UP. Dhanuk may flee to Nepal. We have put up posters on the border depicting his face and other physical descriptions,” said Pincha. The Indo-Nepal border has been sealed since the end of March because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Udham Singh Nagar police authorities are also in touch with their counterparts in Nepal in their bid to arrest Dhanuk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/posters-put-up-along-indo-nepal-border-to-nab-covid-ve-nepalese-prisoner/story-Uh9DA8o0yffh9xontX5bIP.html
11-10-2020||City||SBS Nagar residents complain of contaminated water supply||Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar-Block E have written to the principal secretary of the local bodies department, alleging that they are being supplied contaminated water for the last four days.The residents said that there is a foul smell in the water and many residents have been falling ill. They added that they are already worried due to the Covid-19 pandemic and rising dengue cases, and now fear the spread of water-borne diseases in the area.Arvind Sharma, a resident of the area, said, “I got infected with dengue some time ago and now this contaminated water supply is taking a toll on the health of the residents. My grandson was vomiting on Saturday morning and many others in our locality are also falling ill. But the authorities are not paying heed to the problem.” Officials of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) said that Punjab water supply and sewerage board (PWSSB) officials are trying to locate the fault. The sewerage board officials, however, blamed the ongoing construction work on Pakhowal Road ROB/RUB. PWSSB executive engineer GP Singh said, “Sewer lines had got blocked at a certain point due to the ongoing construction work on Pakhowal road. There is no fault in the water supply line but clogged sewer lines have resulted in the problem. It would be resolved soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sbs-nagar-residents-complain-of-contaminated-water-supply/story-u9WM2qbovPQ615e7fYSCfJ.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government to open two more coaching centres under Super-100 programme||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Sunday said two more coaching centres will be opened in the state under the Super-100 programme to prepare government school students for competitive examinations. As many as 25 students of Haryana having government school background made it to the IITs in the recently held competitive examinations after undergoing coaching at the Super-100 programme coaching centres in Panchkula and Rewari. The education minister said looking at the increasing interest of students and results in the competitive examinations, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given approval to open two more coaching centres. The state government had started Super-100 programme in 2018 to prepare students of government schools to get admission in higher educational institutions after Class 10. He said in the last six years under the leadership of CM Khattar, the state government had introduced several reforms in the field of education that have not only improved the standards at government schools but also increased the interest of students in government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-government-to-open-two-more-coaching-centres-under-super-100-programme/story-qMVvUA10j4bv8givN5wNPP.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former CBI chief’s suicide: Guards quizzed, mobile phone to be sent to forensics dept||Investigations into the October 7 suicide of Ashwani Kumar, 69, formerly Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) as well as Manipur and Nagaland governor, continued with the police recording the statements of three security guards at his residence in the Old Brockhurst locality of Shimla on Saturday and taking his mobile phone and medical records in their possession.The phone and the viscera preserved after Kumar’s autopsy will be sent to the Central Forensic Laboratory in Junga for assessment.Earlier, police recorded the statements of Kumar’s son Abhishek, who is the a vice president of a Mumbai-based multinational firm and Abhishek’s wife. The family members have denied any foul play but sleuths are probing all angles to ascertain the circumstances that led to the death of a man known for his ‘integrity “and “professionalism.” Suffering from depressionKumar was believed to be suffering from depression and had reportedly been on medication. His suicide note, too, hinted at lows. “I am fed up with my disease and disability. I don’t want to be a burden on my family. There is no point to carry on with life. My soul will soon embark upon a new journey,” he had written in the note, which will be assessed by hand writing experts. “All the relevant statements are being recorded. We have taken the consent of the family to examine the medical records of the ex-governor,” said superintendent of police, Shimla, Mohit Chawla. Chawla said it was clear from the evidence that no outsider had entered Kumar’s house.According to the statement of Kumar’s daughter-in-law to the police, he had gone to the attic of his three storey house for meditation in the evening and when he didn’t respond to calls the family members broke open the doors to find his body hanging.He had reportedly developed early symptoms of Alzheimer’s. Security guards at Kumar’s residence told the police that they were present at the gates most of the time and rarely went inside the house. Ashwani Kumar, a 1973-batch Indian Police Service officer, held many high-ranking posts at Himachal Police, CBI as well as the elite Special Protection Group. He was the director of the CBI between August 2008 and November 2010. The first CBI chief to be appointed governor, he was sent to Nagaland in 2013 and to Manipur briefly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-cbi-chief-s-suicide-guards-quizzed-mobile-phone-to-be-sent-to-forensics-dept/story-o0jm59TSKbzrrlzfPqKmfN.html
11-10-2020||City||Gun shots fired at BJP leader’s house in J&K’s Poonch; searches launched||Gun shots were fired at the house of a BJP leader at around 3.30 am in Balakote area of Poonch district on Sunday, following which, security forces launched a cordon and search operation.A senior police officer said that five rounds were fired at Zulfikar Pathan’s house. “We are investigating the matter, “ he added. At least one round pierced through the window of the house. Sources said Pathan’s PSO also fired in the general direction of the gun shots. A search operation has been launched in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gun-shots-fired-at-bjp-leader-s-house-in-j-k-s-poonch-searches-launched/story-acTYSblUlKE0F1luuYhOvO.html
11-10-2020||Pune||11,031 driving licenses suspended in six months in Pune||The city police and regional transport office have suspended 11,031 driving licences in six months between January and June 2020. The driving licences were suspended for rash driving, signal jumping, illegal passenger traffic, drink driving and using mobile phones while driving or riding.According to data provided by traffic police as many as 4,092 driving licences were suspended of violators for using mobile phones while driving or riding, followed by 1,683 persons for driving under the influence of alcohol and 1,752 licences were suspended for riding without a helmet.Licences were also cancelled for signal jumping in 1,541 cases, rash and negligent driving in 571 cases, ferrying illegal passengers in 687 cases and overloading in 705 cases.The state government had received 36,204 proposals for cancellation of licences and of that 34,991 driving licences were cancelled. From Pune police commissionerate, the traffic branch had submitted 11,924 proposals of which 11,031 driving licences were cancelled.Prashant Inamdar, convener, Pedestrian First, said, “The steps are effective for bringing down the accident rate, but what is needed is holistic planning and full-time officers to handle the traffic department. Also, besides fining more awareness must be created for bringing down the accident rate in Pune.”According to a senior official from the regional transport office (RTO) data for July to September will be published by the end of October or the first week of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-031-driving-licenses-suspended-in-six-months-in-pune/story-swGnyqVUy3miqYONbrP5aK.html
11-10-2020||Pune||Defective wheelchair ramp at Pune civic body causes inconvenience to end users||A wheelchair ramp hurriedly constructed for physically disabled persons at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is creating more hurdles for them rather than providing an easy access to the corporation building. A visit to the spot revealed that the ramp constructed at a cost of Rs 12 lakh had the surface coating of tiles which were slippery and could endanger the lives of the visitor.Also, the ramp has two manhole covers located at a short distance which puts a serious question mark on the overall safety and security of the end user. The ramp was constructed in 2019 after the civic body came under heavy criticism from different human rights organisations calling for immediate construction of a wheelchair ramp for handicapped persons.Also, the disabled person who wants to visit the municipal commissioner finds it difficult to reach the lift as it is located far away from where the ramp ends. Similarly, a number of regular visitors park their vehicles near the ramp entrance jamming the access route. There is no dedicated space for wheelchair parking as the existing spot does not have a roof as a result, the chair gets wet during the rainy season and hot during the summers.Prahar Apang Kranti Andolan spokesperson Rafique Khan, said, “The current ramp is fraught with defects and a single person cannot use it unless he or she is accompanied by an assistant. There is every possibility of a physically disabled person skidding off the ramp, if the anti skidding measures are not put in place at the earliest. Similarly, a sound roof is needed to protect the end users from heat and rain. We have been facing serious difficulties while using the ramp and the administration must take strong steps to mitigate our grievances.”Radhika Suryavanshi, a disabled person who visits the PMC regularly, said, “We need direct access to the municipal commissioner, but the current ramp is away from the entrance and causes a lot of difficulties. The PMC has provision for only one wheelchair and the number of disabled persons visiting the building are more in number. Also, the parking being done by the general public increases our woes as we have to virtually crawl through the cramped space to reach the building. It seems that the ramp was constructed just to show that they have complied with the ministerial orders, but actually, it is causing more harm to us than providing relief.”City engineer Prashant Waghmare, said, “We have instructed the building planning department to look into these issues and accordingly take strong and immediate steps to provide relief to the physically disabled persons by removing the barriers and addressing their woes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/defective-wheelchair-ramp-at-pune-civic-body-causes-inconvenience-to-end-users/story-GvXNb0nHS2fAWmyHCiycSJ.html
11-10-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Hold protests but follow Covid-19 regulations, say Pune residents||While the authorities have relaxed restrictions as part of India’s fifth round of unlock regulations for October, holding protests by political parties, organisations and social bodies pose risk of Covid infection as social distancing norms are often ignored. As health experts warn of a likely rise in Covid-19 cases, should there be a ban on mass protests? Readers share their views...Protests needed to bring change Mass protests need to be aggressive in nature for it to have an effect. Online protests do not even get registered, let alone make any difference. For example, if the authorities physically see residents supporting a cause, it has a direct impact. Slogans have an impact. On the issue of online university exams, we organised many protests. Over 1,000 students supported our cause, but we took adequate steps to ensure that protestors follow social distancing norms, and we succeeded. We followed the rules. After all, the collector or vice-chancellor will not pay attention to a Google Meet call or a Zoom meeting for a protest. Dayanand Shinde Nothing is precious than life At the time when the world is fighting Covid-19 and our economy is touching a new low, I do not think mass protests should be allowed. A deadly virus is killing people. Making space and fulfilling requirements for medicine and hospital beds is of utmost importance. A more formal process needs to be followed to make your demands heard. Risking each other’s lives is of no use. No topic is more important than a person’s life. Even if one decides to hold a protest, precautions should be taken. There will be few people who will come together while prescribing to the social distancing norms and use masks. But an emotionally charged mob is bound to flout these rules. The students’ protests in universities are bound to happen too as the exam process has had multiple glitches, but one must take ample precaution to check the spread of virus. Rushi Pardeshi Hold agitation by following precautionsAccording to information regarding Covid-19, precaution is the best way forward right now. There are various points of reference. In various countries, many ways have been adopted to tackle the coronavirus. In India, the people who live hand-to-mouth coupled with a government that cannot provide for everyone, there are various unique problems. From March 22, everyone has been a patient and over 90 people have died while travelling on Shramik special trains launched for migrants. Maratha reservation, Hathras are topics that cannot be expected to go unheard under the guise of Covid-19, it is not possible. We used the “chatri (umbrella)” pattern to protest for rickshaws in July and maintained social distancing. Most of our meetings have also shifted to a place where social distancing is possible. Likewise, there are various ways in which we can hold protests. Next week, we are going to sing abhangs in front of Shiv Sena office while maintaining social distancing to get our message across. We need to be creative, but saying no to protests is not correct. Nitin Pawar Social distancing, mask should be the norm In the Covid-19 times, protests against injustice have been going on for some time. Democracy gives us the right to protest, but the pandemic has spread and affected people across the world. Many were infected forcing authorities to declare lockdowns with the most affected being slum dwellers and daily wage labourers. Once jobs were lost, their protests began. Food is a necessity and job loss directly affected the capacity of providing food. Still, the first and foremost requirement should be using mask and following social distancing norms. One must follow these norms. The aim of some political protests has only been to be visible on visual media. In some other protests, the use of masks and social distancing is often ignored. Even the relaxations of lockdown rules have led to a large number of people on the streets. Residents on streets are often seen not wearing mask which could pose risk of virus spread. Bhagwan Vairat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-hold-protests-but-follow-covid-19-regulations-say-pune-residents/story-07w2qywBGYmf7G2hmSE02O.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Lawrence Bishnoi aide and former student leader shot dead outside Chandigarh mall||In a suspected case of gang rivalry, Gurlal Brar, 26, former state president of the Students’ Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was gunned down in his Toyota Fortuner SUV outside the Playboy Nightclub at City Emporium Mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1, on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Three motorcycle borne assailants fired at Brar, known to be a close associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.Soon after, gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group took to social media, owning responsibility for the killing “to avenge” the murder of their associate Lavi Deora. Members of Bishnoi’s gang had killed Deora at a fair in Faridkot’s Kotkapura on July 15, 2017, in which Brar had reportedly played an active role.“Brar was a close associate of Bishnoi. We are looking into rivalry of gangs,” said senior superintendent of police, Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Four persons were detained for questioning in connection with Brar’s death, including a bouncer at a disco near the crime spot. Sources said he was a member of Bambiha’s gang. Brar was shot dead as he was waiting to hand over his SUV to a friend. He had first visited Playboy Nightclub on Saturday night and left briefly to go to Para Club close by for a woman friend’s birthday party, returning to the Nightclub after the cake cutting ceremony, police said. Before leaving Para Club he had asked a friend to pick him up as he was to hand over his SUV to another friend. Past midnight, at around 12:30 am, he was in his white Fortuner SUV outside the mall when the motorcyclists pumped bullets into him and sped away.Brar was taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), where doctors declared him “brought dead”. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act has been registered at the Industrial Area police station against the unidentified assailants on the complaint of Vikas Tiwari of Hallomajra, an eyewitness to the shooting.Tiwari, a driver, said he and three other drivers were at the Playboy Nightclub on valet parking duty and had seen three men on a motorcycle. Two had walked up to Brar’s SUV and fired before all three fled.Man who arranged for gunmen lives abroadThe post, allegedly by Bambiha’s gang is in Punjabi in English script. It says: “Lucky got Brar killed to avenge Deora’s death and that he had spoken against the gang members (Bambiha) at a club in Chandigarh.” Sources say Lucky lives abroad and that he had arranged for the gunmen to kill Brar. The post has a number of hashtags, including #Respect women and #avoid drugs. Seven shells recovered from the spot, body had six injuries Brar’s body had six bullet injury marks, said superintendent of police (City) Vineet Kumar. These were on the head, chest, neck and arm. Police recovered seven shells from the spot. Brar’s weapon missing Police sources revealed Brar was fond of weapons (many of his social media posts show him brandishing a few). Strangely however, no weapon was recovered from the crime scene even though Brar never travelled without a gun. “The licence of a weapon was found but no firearm,” said a senior police officer. Became party president with Bishnoi’s support Brar and Bishnoi worked closely in student politics and it was because of the latter’s support that Brar was elected state president of SOPU in 2016. From Kotkapura in Faridkot, Brar was helping out his family with farming but living in Mohali. He was very fond of body building and weapons and was friends with gangsters Bishnoi and Sampat Nehra. Was recently booked for misbehaving with girlsBrar had, a few days ago, been booked for assaulting and threatening a group of girls outside another nightclub in the area where he was gunned down. Accompanied by another person named Mohit and a woman, he had, on September 27, misbehaved with a group of girls outside Para Nightclub. A 30-year-old woman from Panipat district in Haryana had complained that the trio had slapped and threatened her, her sister and friends and police had registered the case.  Gang violence in the pastThere have been a number of incidents of gang violence in the city. On March 16 this year, Surjit Singh, who used to supply bouncers, was gunned down in Sector 38. His name had cropped up in the murder of another bouncer Amit Sharma, alias Meet, who was shot dead in a gang war in Panchkula in 2017. On September 28 last year, property dealer Sonu Shah was shot dead at his office in Burail, in another alleged case of gang war||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-panjab-varsity-student-leader-shot-dead-outside-chandigarh-mall/story-8ud5eHhZCoBIV8HyktdAWK.html
11-10-2020||Delhi||Restaurants in Delhi face harassment due to ‘licence raj’: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday claimed restaurants in the city face harassment due to ‘licence raj’ and hoped the municipal corporations will soon comply with the FSSAI directive to discontinue issuing food licences.This comes days after the Delhi government announced the abolition of police licenses and health trade licences, issued by the BJP-ruled municipal corporations, for restaurants. It set a 10-day deadline for the abolishment of health trade licences.The corporations have alleged that the decision is a “ploy” to weaken the civic bodies and said they will seek legal opinion to “counter” the move.“Restaurants contribute to Delhi economy and taxes in a big way. They face harassment due to license raj. All governments should work together to remove harassment. Centre (central) government body FSSAI has directed MCDs to stop issuing food licenses. I hope MCDs will comply soon with Centre’s directions,” Kejriwal said in a tweet on Sunday.The Delhi government’s decision to abolish licences for restaurants was taken at a meeting chaired by Kejriwal. It was attended by restaurant owners.In the meeting, the restaurateurs had said the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) already issues food safety and hygiene licences. Issuing of health trade licences by local bodies duplicated the task and was irrelevant.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash had said he has sought legal opinion to counter the government’s move.South Delhi Mayor Anamika alleged that the AAP government is doing politics over the issuing of health trade licences.“They are misleading people by saying no licence should be there to run restaurants. The licences are issued by the corporations under the DMC Act 1957 to ensure the safety and comfort of people by ensuring adherence to various parameters,” she said.The health trade licence is issued online for ease of doing business and there is no interference by any officer. The entire process is transparent, she added.Anamika said these licences cover various parameters like structural safety of a restaurant building, safe drinking water to prevent water-borne diseases, health check-up of waiters and delivery boys, solid waste management and sanitation.Restaurateurs have welcomed the government’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restaurants-in-delhi-face-harassment-due-to-licence-raj-arvind-kejriwal/story-EbIOn6BJUmEjAwI8YgwjaM.html
11-10-2020||City||SVAMITVA scheme to end disputes in villages: PM Modi||A property card will be given to each house in every village of the country in the next four years under the SVAMITVA (Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas) scheme, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, adding that it will become a means of ending disputes in villages.These cards are physical copies of property titles of the villagers’ homes and the area surrounding their respective houses (as opposed to cultivated land). Under the scheme, land parcels in rural areas were mapped using drones. Addressing the beneficiaries, the prime minister said, “One lakh property cards (SVAMITVA) have been distributed among the beneficiaries today. Efforts are on to provide property card to each house in every village in the next four years.” Also read: PM’s top quotes from SVAMITVA eventOf the one lakh property cards, 39,989 were distributed in 346 villages in 37 districts of UP. Beneficiaries were also handed over the hard copies after getting a soft copy. “When one becomes the owner of his house, one’s self-respect is restored. One feels secure and strong,” PM Modi said, while interacting with the beneficiaries.Calling the distribution of property cards another historic step towards a self-reliant India, the prime minister pointed out that the day also marked the the birth anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan and social reformer Nanaji Deshmukh, two leaders who worked tirelessly for rural development.“Nanaji used to say that when the people of the village remain trapped in disputes, neither will they develop nor the society. I believe that the ownership plan will also be a great means of ending many disputes in our villages. Raising the voice of the villagers and the poor has been a shared pledge of Jayaprakash Babu and Nanaji’s life,” he said.The scheme’s pilot project is being implemented in 763 villages which comprise 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and two from Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/svamitva-scheme-to-end-disputes-in-villages-pm-modi/story-mAU7PROL58MSVk5AM39VWK.html
11-10-2020||Lucknow||UP by-election: Scuffle breaks out at Cong’s Deoria office over ticket distribution||A minor scuffle was reported at the District Congress Committee (DCC) office in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria on Saturday, when Tara Yadav, a woman party worker, opposed the Congress’s decision to deny her a ticket and field Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi in the upcoming by-election for the Deoria assembly seat on November 3.The party workers had gathered at the DCC Deoria office for a programme that was organised to welcome Tripathi. Sachin Naik, secretary, All India Congress Committee (AICC), also attended the programme. It has been alleged that Yadav targeted Naik and later she was roughed up by the party workers. A video of the scuffle has gone viral.“Yadav came inside the meeting hall to give a bouquet. However, she started opposing the party’s decision to deny her nomination for the upcoming Deoria bypoll and field Tripathi in her place. Those present at the meeting protested against her unauthorised entry,” said Dharmendra Singh, president, DCC Deoria. National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma has taken cognisance of the video. “How come all these sick people are in politics...?? Will be taking cognisance,” she tweeted.Reacting to the incident, UP Congress Committee spokesperson Zeeshan Haidar said, “Whatever happened in Deoria is most unfortunate. The UP Congress is going to act against all those behind the incident. For us beti-bachao-beti-padhao is not a mere slogan. We actually mean it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-by-election-scuffle-breaks-out-at-cong-s-deoria-office-over-ticket-distribution/story-mSrejsUPI4mwsYmxcJQMtL.html
11-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Don’t issue licences to restaurants, CM Kejriwal tells civic bodies||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged the national capital’s civic bodies to comply with the directives of the Central government and discontinue issuing food licences to restaurants. “Restaurants contribute to Delhi’s economy and taxes in a big way. They face harassment due to licence raj. All governments should work together to remove harassment. The Centre government body, FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority of India), has directed the civic bodies to stop issuing food licences. I hope the civic authorities will comply with the Centre’s directions soon,” Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday.Earlier, the Delhi government had announced the abolition of police and health trade licences that are issued by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations for restaurants. It set a 10-day deadline for the abolishment of health trade licences. The decision to do away with the “licence raj” for restaurants was taken at a meeting chaired by Kejriwal last Wednesday. Representatives of Delhi’s restaurant owners had attended the meeting.Also read: Restaurants in Delhi may open 24x7 soonThe restaurateurs had said the FSSAI authorities were the issuing authority of food safety and hygiene licences. However, the issuance of health trade licences by local bodies duplicated the task and was redundant, the restaurateurs had cited.However, Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), countered the Delhi government’s allegations on Saturday and said the latter was playing politics over the issue.“Health licence is crucial to ensure hygiene standards of the premises and the safety of visitors to restaurants. The process of granting licences is online and transparent. The public health department ensures if an establishment is safe,” she said. She pointed out that the licence helped ensure an eatery is equipped with the supply of potable water supply and also disposal of solid waste in a bid to prevent any kind of contamination.“We ensure that operational measures are looked after by local civic bodies and are not overlapping with FSSAI’s requirements,” the mayor said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday had said that the FSSAI, a statutory body under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW), had sent a letter to the commissioners of all three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs). “It is informed that with the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006, … and Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration) Rules 2011, the sole authority for issuance of licence/registration of food business operators in India vests with the registering authorities/central or state licencing authorities duly appointed under the provisions of the said Act by the respective commissioner of food safety,” the letter stated. “In view of above legal position, it is requested to immediately look into the matter and ensure that no separate/additional food licences are issued by your offices and any food business operator who is doing business under your jurisdiction or is planning to start new food business may be directed to obtain the same from FSSAI,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-don-t-issue-licences-to-restaurants-cm-kejriwal-tells-civic-bodies/story-UpnEZR8JY6ncHSU0oKGyHO.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Aarey Metro car shed to be moved to Kanjurmarg||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced the scrapping of the Metro car shed at Aarey Milk Colony and said that it would be moved to Kanjurmarg, in eastern suburbs.In his address to the state, the CM said that two Metro corridors -- Colaba-Bandra-Seepz (Metro 3) and Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli (Metro 6) will be integrated. “I am happy to announce that Aarey car shed is now being moved to Kanjurmarg. The plot in Kanjurmarg is government land and it will be provided at zero cost for Metro car shed. The money used to construct the building -- Rs 100 crore-- will not go waste either. That building will be used for a public purpose,” Thackeray said.Also read: Aarey Colony areas adjacent to Sanjay Gandhi National Park to be reserve forest, says Maharashtra governmentThe car shed at Aarey was opposed by environmental activists and citizen groups. Before 2019 assembly elections, Shiv Sena had announced it would not allow a car shed in Aarey Colony. The CM also reiterated that the government has decided to withdraw cases lodged by police against citizens and activists who had protested against Metro car shed at Aarey Colony.With the decision to move Metro 3 car depot from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, the underground Metro project is set to see delays and cost overruns.The chief minister said the government had earlier declared 600 acre of Aarey land as reserve forest but now it has been increased to 800 acre. He said that the will be no infringement on rights of tribals in the area.“Biodiversity in Aarey needs to be conserved and protected. Nowhere is there an 800-acre jungle in an urban setup. Mumbai has a natural forest cover. We know that jungles are converted to cities, but here, city is converted to a jungle. We need to preserve what we have and carry out development in the remaining area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-aarey-metro-car-shed-to-be-moved-to-kanjurmarg/story-4BieWQqbliAqDzZEy0EHBL.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Neither CM nor PM talking to stakeholders’: Badal on protests against farm bills||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said that neither Prime Minister Narendra Modi nor Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh have taken any steps to address the issues raised by farmers.Speaking to news agency ANI, Badal said, “Captain Amarinder Singh should have gone to Delhi. Neither the chief minister is ready to do anything, nor the Prime Minister of the country is ready to do anything.”He further added, “It is very sad that the central government has not yet found a way to resolve these laws (agricultural laws) in collaboration with farmer organisations or other political organisations. I request the PM to call a meeting of all organisations and listen to their doubts.”The passage of the bills saw SAD ending its 25-year-long friendship with Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), and its leader and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigning from her cabinet post.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had criticised Badal on several occasions despite SAD moving out of the NDA. He called the exit from the alliance a compulsion. “The SAD decision to quit NDA was just the culmination of their saga of lies and deception, which eventually led to them being cornered on the issue of the bills,” Singh had said.He had said that SAD leaders should beg for forgiveness from the nation’s farmers for supporting the passage of these bills.The Centre passed three bills to push agrarian reforms in the monsoon session of Parliament. The government has come under criticism from farmers’ organisations as well opposition parties after the passage of these bills. Several protests and rallies have been held in Punjab, Haryana and other states by farmers to voice their grievances against the new laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/neither-cm-nor-pm-talking-to-stakeholders-badal-on-protests-against-farm-bills/story-M9PEUE0HHnuPbgvZk3ajQI.html
11-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Education minister Sisodia reviews content of upcoming ‘Deshbhakti curriculum’||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday reviewed the content of the upcoming Deshbhakti curriculum and the progress of the new education board. The Delhi government had announced last year about the introduction of the new education board and Deshbhakti curriculum. The curriculum and Delhi Examination board committees were constituted in July to recommend a new curriculum for students up to the age of 14 years and the setting up of the board. Both committees are likely to submit their recommendations by mid-November.“A 360-degree assessment will be the basis of the Deshbhakti curriculum. A student’s deshbhakti will be judged by a teacher on the basis of the following parameters such as inclusiveness, gender, different forms of discrimination, integrity, care for public property and natural resources,” said Sisodia.The Delhi Examination board would look at the 360-degree assessment, including self and peer group. “I have often come across teachers and parents only talking about subjects and marks obtained by students during parent-teacher meetings (PTMs). The conversation between parents and teachers will encompass an all-round growth and development of a child as per our new curriculum and assessment model,” he said.“The era of one-time assessment through an examination is being done away. We require a system, where we can track the journey of a child, a 360-degree view, capturing different aspects of learning. It is possible to implement such a system through an effective use of technology,” he added. Sisodia has asked the committee members to create tools for parents that would enable them to track the progress of their children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-education-minister-sisodia-reviews-content-of-upcoming-deshbhakti-curriculum/story-qaO4uxlP8k0AzOafTIznnJ.html
11-10-2020||Lucknow||Still for 20-yrs, Allahabad varsity wants 108 yr-old clock to tick again||Efforts are on to get the iconic tower-clock located atop the senate hall building in Allahabad University’s arts campus ticking again. The clock, which resembles the Big Ben of London, has been dead for nearly two decades. Now the building works committee of the central university has approved a proposal worth Rs 1 crore to get the clock repaired and back in working condition.The task of repairing this iconic clock would be given to the Indian national trust for art and cultural heritage (INTACH) based in Delhi, which will get it repaired by an expert agency, said AU officials.AU registrar, NK Shukla said, “The building committee has approved the proposal, which, when passed by finance committee and executive council, would be sent to INTACH for getting the clock repaired by an expert agency.”The clock, manufactured by JG Bechtler Son & Company, Allahabad was installed atop the senate hall building in 1912. When it stopped working in 1999, an expert from the local Katra market, Mustaffa Bhai, repaired it. But, after a few years, the clock again stopped working. Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: CBI registers case, begins investigationIn 2012, Prof CK Dwivedi and his team from JK institute of applied physics had successfully replaced the mechanical parts of the clock, converting it into a single-chip computer including a micro-processor, input-output interface, timing circuit etc. The main machinery was fitted with new gears and micro-motors which were systematically upgraded so that the time piece would give accurate time. Quartz crystal, widely used in time pieces for giving accurate frequency in clocks, was also fitted in the repaired clock.Also Read: Jabalpur medical college doctor served notice for taking part in Hathras protestLater, the varsity authorities also gave it a facelift by covering its four sides with polycarbonate sheets, replacing the old glass sheets and there were further plans to add LED lights to all the four sides apart from cleaning of the huge bells and to revive the system of hourly, half-hourly and quarterly ringing of bells as it used to be in its prime form.However, despite all the efforts, the clock failed to function. The recent initiative by the officiating vice-chancellor Prof RR Tiwari has lent a ray of hope that the clock may start ticking once again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/dead-for-20-yrs-allahabad-varsity-wants-108-yr-old-clock-to-tick-again/story-uT7LJPpjOrEJTYkfxn90EM.html
11-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Army jawan kills JCO in Katni ordnance factory; goes into hiding||A junior commissioned officer (JCO) of Army posted at an ordnance factory in Katni, 462 km east of Bhopal, was allegedly shot dead by a jawan posted at the same factory after an argument between the two on Saturday evening. The jawan has been hiding somewhere in the factory since, with a rifle and catridges, said police. “After killing JCO Ashok Shikara, 45, the accused, Sakar Singh, 40, who is from Defence Security Corps (DSC), fired at least five more rounds in the air and threatened the factory personnel around not to come in his way. He has been hiding somewhere in the factory for the past 18 hours and we are trying to nab him,” said Katni’s city superintendent of police Shashikant Shukla. Also read: Army foils Pakistan’s attempt to push arms into Kashmir, recovers four AK 74 riflesHe said, “Singh has a rifle and several live cartridges. We have sealed the factory and are trying to nab him. Police are also using drone cameras to locate the jawan.” “The officers on duty informed the Madhav Nagar police station in Katni late on Saturday that JCO Shikara and Singh had had an argument during the evening parade at around 6 pm. After the parade, Singh fired at least four rounds on Shikara from his service rifle, killing him on the spot. Later, Singh fired at least five shots in air and hid in the factory,” said the officer. (With inputs from Monika Pandey in Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-army-jawan-kills-jco-in-katni-ordnance-factory-goes-into-hiding/story-wzxA4T4yvg6M4shweVoIsI.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Soon, traffic police to levy parking fine, not BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities, which had initiated a penalty for parking vehicles within the radius of one kilometre (km) of the civic body’s Public Parking Lots (PPLs) in July last year on the grounds of encroachment, are set to withdraw the fine. The BMC is in the process of entrusting the responsibility of levying the fine to the Mumbai Traffic Police (MTP) and also towing away of vehicles that are found parked illegally. MTP will tow away the vehicles that have been declared as scrap and are found parked by a roadside. Initially, the fine amount was fixed at Rs 10,000, later it was brought down to Rs 4,000, which would remain unchanged, BMC officials said.Also read: BMC looks for more space near 8 PPLsPraveen Pardeshi, the former commissioner of BMC, had justified a year ago that the civic authorities would tow away vehicles that are found parked illegally. The BMC authorities had introduced the fine in a bid to reduce congestion on Mumbai’s roads and also promote the use of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses.However, the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation has also led to an acute staff crunch. “We are overburdened with work for the past seven months because of Covid-19. We have taken the decision to hand over the responsibility of slapping fines on errant vehicles to Mumbai Traffic Police. The talks have been progressing for the past month and the handover is likely to take place in the next 10 days,” said a BMC official, requesting anonymity. In September, the BMC had prepared a document to this effect. “It was observed that the manpower at the ward level of BMC for effective enforcement against unauthorised parked vehicles is inadequate. There is no dedicated wing for executing said works at the ward level. However, dedicated personnel is available with the traffic police department. The department may be assigned for towing away vehicles that are parked illegally,” the civic body had stated. The BMC had introduced the fine on July 7 in Mumbai’s four major arterial roads such as Link Road, SV Road, LBS Road and Maharshi Karve Road. Later, the rule was relaxed and parking vehicles within the radius of a km of the civic body’s PPLs was reduced to 500 metres.The slapping of the exorbitant fine had led to an uptick in the usage of PPLs. HT had reported on January 11 that BMC’s implementation of fines for illegal parking near 26 PPLs showed positive results.According to the civic body’s data, the occupancy rate of PPLs last December had increased up to 40%-50%. Sunil Sardar, deputy chief engineer, solid waste management (transport wing), BMC, said the transfer of the responsibility to Mumbai Traffic Police is likely to take another 10 days. Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Matunga, spoke up on behalf of the Mumbaikars. ‘The public does not care much about which authority is levying a fine. Implementation holds the key and the public gains at the end of the day,” he said.“I have been complaining about two motorcycles parked illegally on a pavement in my neighbourhood. But BMC authorities are yet to act. They have cited that it is under the jurisdiction of Mumbai Traffic Police, who is yet to get on with the job. The public is suffering because of the inaction,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-soon-traffic-police-to-levy-parking-fine-not-bmc/story-eSRYVDaaoGq3J8tc83kTAP.html
11-10-2020||Lucknow||Navratri awareness drive for kids, women safety post Hathras shocker in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to hold a special awareness and empowerment drive for women and children between October 17 and 25, coinciding with the Shardiya Navratri, which celebrates victory of goddess Durga over the demon Mahishasura, symbolising the victory of good over evil. The drive has been announced in the backdrop of the uproar over a 19-year old Dalit woman’s alleged gang-rape and murder in Hathras. The state government has since set up a special investigating team (SIT), recommended investigation by CBI and arrested all the four accused. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the special awareness drive will aim to boost the morale of women and children and empower them by making them aware of their rights. The idea is to also highlight the state government’s sensitivity in handling cases related to them while ensuring the strictest action against the culprits.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: CBI registers case, begins investigationAwasthi said that along with the director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi, he held a meeting to prepare an outline for the drive. He said that additional DG (Women Power Line-1090) Neera Rawat made a presentation on carrying out the drive successfully.“For wider reach of this special awareness drive, 11 other departments like medical education, technical education, vocational education, higher education, basic education, secondary education, labour, employment exchange, Panchayati Raj, rural development and information and public relations department have also been roped in for this nine-day campaign,” the ACS emphasised.Also Read: Jabalpur medical college doctor served notice for taking part in Hathras protestHe added that rights and laws related to women and children will be publicised through police stations and other government departments; posters will also be put up at different schools, colleges, universities and other training centres and at Panchayats, where women’s involvement is in large numbers in urban as well as rural areas.A senior police official said that workshops will be organised to make women and children aware of security measures to keep them safe and to sensitise them to speak out when they are victimised instead of keeping quiet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/navratri-awareness-drive-for-kids-women-safety-post-hathras-shocker-in-up/story-IsFxd8pOuALcLEWMsPtwCJ.html
11-10-2020||Patna||Minor gang-raped in Bihar, accused pressure kin for compromise, 4 held||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by five persons in Bihar’s Fatuha, near capital Patna, leading to arrests of four accused after the survivor’s father reported the incident to police on Saturday evening. Based on the complaint, police registered a case under sections 376 D (gang rape) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the India Penal Code (IPC), and 5/6 of the POCSO Act against the accused. The parents of the teenage survivor, in their complaint, stated that the accused abducted her before sexually assaulting her and left the victim in an unconscious state at the crime spot. Her parents said the accused and their family prevented them from reporting the crime to the police and pressured them to arrive at a compromise.Patna’s Rural SP Kantesh Kumar Mishra said that four of the accused were arrested and their blood samples were collected. Raids are on to nab the fifth culprit.The girl was sent to the hospital for medical examination. “Her statement was recorded under section 164 of CrPC before the court of Patna city judicial magistrate,” he added. Also Read: Hathras case exposes rift among local BJP leaders; its Rajvir vs Rajvir In another case of rape of a minor in Katihar district, the police are yet to take into custody a 15-year-old minor accused, who allegedly raped the 9-year-old, who is under treatment at Katihar medical college and hospital for the last 20 days.The survivor’s family has accused the investigating officer of the case of apathy. However, sadar SDPO Amarkant Jha has assured that the accused will be held soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/minor-gang-raped-in-bihar-accused-pressure-kin-for-compromise-4-held/story-8YuNNLcy8JrcLMCwXeWAsM.html
11-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi air quality remains poor for fifth consecutive day on Sunday||Despite a forecast of marginal improvement, Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the ‘poor’ zone on the fifth consecutive day on Sunday morning. The air quality index (AQI) was at 220, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data at 8 am; hardly a drop from Saturday when the 24-hour average at 221. Air quality enters the poor zone between 201-300 mark. Delhi’s average AQI has been in the poor zone since Wednesday, for the first time since June 28.Also read: Air Quality Index witnesses sharp spike in Mumbai, is highest since before lockdown began in MarchThe System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecast wing, had said that AQI could see a slight improvement on October 11 and 12.“AQI is forecasted to marginally improve to the moderate category for Saturday; further AQI is forecasted to improve by October 12, but in the moderate category. The low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify to depression and move west northwestwards and influence the circulations in North and central India. A shift in Delhi surface wind direction, northwesterly to southeasterly by October 12 is forecasted. This could influence air quality positively in the coming week. Stubble burning fires observed Friday around Punjab, Haryana, and neighboring border regions with SAFAR synergized fire count estimated as 253 on October 10 but with marginal impact in Delhi AQI,” it said.Air quality in the capital worsens every year from October due to various factors, including a drop in temperature, change in wind speeds and direction, and smoke from stubble burning in neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab, and local sources of pollution.Experts note that though faster winds play a major role in dispersing pollutants, they are not strong enough through the day to help Delhi currently.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department said that even though the average wind speed is 15-16 kmph during the day, the north-westerly winds bringing in fumes from stubble burning of crops in Haryana and Punjab are adding pollutants in the atmosphere to the northwestern region, including Delhi-NCR. However, the wind speed is low from evening to morning -- thus, not allowing dispersion of pollutants -- and a drop in night temperature permits the pollutants to settle in the atmosphere.“The air quality may improve slightly on October 11-12 because of thunderous developments likely in the region. The wind direction will also change to southeasterly during this time. However, this pattern will again change from October 15, with a return of northwesterlies and a dip in both night and day temperatures,” said an IMD scientist, adding that a significant deterioration in air quality is not likely in the next 10 days.On Saturday, the minimum temperature settled at 21.5 degrees C, one notch below normal while the maximum temperature was at 35.2 degrees C, a notch above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-remains-poor-for-fifth-consecutive-day-on-sunday/story-OQs8b6BI8GdyS4F34ZMOFL.html
11-10-2020||City||CDS visits Jammu amid Pak’s ceasefire violations, reviews security on LAC, LoC||General (Gen) Bipin Rawat, the chief of defence staff (CDS), arrived in Jammu on a two-day visit on Saturday amid a spike in skirmishes with Pakistan along the 744-kilometre (km) Line of Control (LoC) and protracted Sino-India stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.“He was accompanied by Northern Army commander Lieutenant (Lt) Gen YK Joshi from Delhi. He visited the headquarters of 16 Corps at Nagrota, where he reviewed the prevailing security scenario along the LoC south of Pir Panjal. Lt Gen Harsha Gupta, the GOC of the 16 Corps, briefed him about the security scenario and measures to effectively counter Pakistani shelling,” said Army officials.He was also briefed about the Sino-Indo stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and arrangements being made for a long haul in view of the ensuing winter, when mountain passes to Ladakh are snowed under and road connectivity gets blocked.Mercury dips to sub-zero temperatures during the harsh winter in Ladakh. Several war veterans and defence experts anticipate a “hot” winter along the LAC in Ladakh this year.China reportedly has deployed around 60,000 troops besides tanks and armoured vehicles in Ladakh. India and China are in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation in the hostile terrain of Ladakh. Gen Rawat’s visit comes days ahead of the General Officer Commanding (GOC)-level talks with China slated to be held on October 19.On Saturday evening, Gen Rawat also paid obeisance at the cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi. In a separate incident, Pakistan violated ceasefire again in Khari Karmara area of Jammu’s Poonch district on Saturday.“At about 6:30 pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation and targeted Indian posts and villages. Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” said a defence spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cds-visits-jammu-reviews-security-on-lac-loc/story-G0UyDVsv786yWX1T7RazEK.html
11-10-2020||City||Uttarakhand: Police question guards posted at ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar’s residence||Police have recorded the statements of three security guards, who are posted at the residence of the former director of the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) and ex–Nagaland governor Ashwani Kumar (69), who died by suicide at his residence in the posh Brockhurst locality in Shimla last week. Police have taken into possession of Kumar’s mobile phone, which will be sent to the Junga-based Central Forensic Laboratory (CFL) for examination.They have also preserved his viscera for forensic investigation. Police have recorded the statement of his son Abhishekh, who is a vice-president in a Mumbai-based multinational company, and his daughter-in-law. The family members have denied any foul play in his death, but investigators are probing all angles to ascertain the circumstances that led him to take the drastic step. Kumar was known for his “integrity” “and “professionalism”. Police have also got hold of his medical records. Also read: On ex-CBI chief’s ‘suicide,’ Shiv Sena asks why no one interested in knowing exact reason behind his deathKumar was said to be suffering from depression and had also been on medication. His purported suicide note also hinted at depression. “I am fed up with my disease and disability. I don’t want to be a burden on my family. There is no point to carry on with life. My soul will soon embark upon a new journey. No weeping, no crying over my demise. No rituals and no ceremonies. Call the police and handover my body for medical experimentation. God bless you all .Bye-bye forever,” he had written in the one-page suicide note, which will be examined by handwriting experts. “All the relevant statements are being recorded. We have taken consent from the family to examine the medical records of the ex-Governor ‘’said Mohit Chawla, superintendent of police (SP), Shimla.“The case is under investigation. It is clear that no outsider barged inside his house,” he said.The daughter in-law has reportedly told the police that Kumar had gone up to the attic of his three- storey house for meditation in the evening when he died by suicide. Later, his family members found the door of the attic bolted from inside after he didn’t come down from there for a while. They found him dead after they broke open the attic door. Kumar was suffering from Alzheimer’s disease. His mother, too, had suffered from the similar ailment. Earlier, on the day that Kumar had died by suicide, he had gone to the mall in Shimla for a stroll. The Himachal Pradesh government had provided security guards at the former Governor’s residence. The guards, who were questioned, had reportedly told the police that they stayed outside the house and rarely visited his residence. Kumar, a 1973-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, had held many senior positions in Himachal Police, the CBI and the Special Protection Group (SPG). He was the CBI director between August 2008 and November 2010. In March 2013, he was appointed as the Governor of Nagaland. He was also the Governor of Manipur briefly the same year.Kumar was the CBI director, when the agency had arrested Amit Shah in connection with the Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter killing case in Gujarat. He had also dealt with the Arushi Talwar-Hemraj murder case during his tenure as the central probe agency chief. Kumar had also served as the vice-chancellor (V-C) to the Alakh Prakash Goyal (APG) University, which is located on the outskirts of Shimla, but had quit the post two years ago. APG university is under the scanner for selling fake degree certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-police-question-guards-posted-at-ex-cbi-director-ashwani-kumar-s-residence/story-EvKehITKs5sHY7WwbKvngO.html
11-10-2020||Kolkata||Manish Shukla murder case: BJP MP Arjun Singh says Bengal CID plotting to frame him||BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh on Saturday alleged that the West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is “plotting” to frame him in the Manish Shukla murder case.BJP councillor Manish Shukla, who was a close aide of Singh, was shot dead in Titagarh on October 4.“I got hold of a chat of senior CID officers where they were discussing whether Arjun Singh has been framed.Going by this conversation, I am sure they (CID officers) are conspiring to frame me in the case,” Singh said.The BJP lawmaker accused the CID of not nabbing the “culprits” who are “roaming freely” in the area.Senior Trinamool Congress leader Nirmal Ghosh dismissed Singh’s claims and said the investigation agency is doing its best and Shukla’s murderers and the conspirators behind the killing will soon be behind the bars.“We have better things to do rather than reacting to what Arjun Singh is saying. He is a ‘bahubali’ (strongman) in the area. The CID is on the right track. Soon, people behind this murder will be brought to the book,” Ghosh said.CID sleuths are planning to go to Bihar’s Nalanda in search of other people involved in Shukla’s murder, sources said.The agency has arrested three persons so far in connection with the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/manish-shukla-murder-case-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-says-bengal-cid-plotting-to-frame-him/story-wR6BsYDjuYJq6MGNfupRqN.html
11-10-2020||City||CBI begins investigation as Lakshadweep sees 3rd largest sea cucumber seizure this year||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) began its probe into illegal sea cucumber trade in Lakshadweep on Saturday as 10 fresh consignments were traced and seized by the local forest department.This is the eighth case and third largest seizure this year involving 220 large processed (taxidermied) sea cucumbers worth Rs 1.56 crore seized by the Lakshadweep forest department at south Agatti Islands.Also read: 22 dead sea cucumbers worth Rs 20 lakh seized in LakshadweepWith Saturday’s haul, 2,500 sea cucumbers weighing 1,500 kg and worth Rs 7 crore have been seized so far this year. Forest officials said the illegal trade skyrocketed in 2020. Damodhar AT, secretary environment, forest and chief wildlife warden, Lakshadweep administration said, “What we have caught so far this year is meagre quantities. There are huge consignments getting transported weekly by other means directly from international waters adjacent to our uninhabited islands.”He added that a CBI team had begun investigations after reaching Kochi on Saturday. “We expect at least 20-24 people to be arrested as the team makes their way to Kavaratti Island on October 13,” said Damodhar.Sea cucumbers are single branched marine organisms (invertebrates) high in demand across south-east Asia, mainly China, for food and traditional medicine. They are protected under Schedule I under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972 so their trade is banned. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change imposed a total ban on harvesting and transporting sea cucumbers in 2001.The latest case was busted following a tip-off. Forest department officials were told to be on high alert for the movement of boats near Agatti Island between October 7 and 9. “On Friday, a team led by Agatti range officer in-charge Mohammed Sinan Yafus, ten fresh consignments weighing 155.5 kg were found packed in fish presentation boxes after processing sea cucumbers in preservatives. They were ready for transportation on fish export vessels from a fish landing jetty at Agatti to China and other south-east Asian countries,” said Damodhar.The forest department suspects that sea cucumbers were poached from Vellakkara near Bitra, Perumalpar, Thinnakara and Suheli, all uninhabited islands. “Most of such illegal trade consignments from various Islands come to Agatti where boats travelling in domestic waters supply ice to local fishers and in exchange, corrupt fishermen fill up those boxes with dried and processed sea cucumbers,” said Damodhar.While a first information report (wildlife offence report) has been filed at Amini court, all suspects have escaped the island, the forest department said. “Due to inclement weather conditions, inadequate manpower and non-availability of patrolling vessels to move our central flying squad with adequate forces, the department is facing difficulties in preventing such large scale poaching, and needs immediate support,” said Damodhar.According to Hong kong-based non-profit environmental group OceansAsia, sea cucumbers are typically sold dried, canned, frozen, or as powders and extracts. With a spike in demand and prices over recent years, a kilogram of dried sea cucumber is sold for as high as Rs 65,000-68,000 per kg in international markets.“As there is a huge economic value involved, these poachers have all the modern boats and weapons to hunt sea cucumbers in Lakshadweep waters. Lack of trained investigation team and the legal expertise in dealing with criminal cases at different courts has had a demoralising effect on efforts by our frontline staff to nab such criminals,” the chief wildlife warden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbi-begins-investigation-as-lakshadweep-sees-3rd-largest-sea-cucumber-seizure-this-year/story-0xXY6nISP7D0Rf0zjCCWyM.html
11-10-2020||Delhi||3 friends from Delhi killed in crash trying to save a cow on road||Three women from Delhi were killed while another sustained injuries when their car overturned while trying to save a stray cow from being hit on the highway in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna district, 214 km north of Bhopal, on Saturday, said police.All the four women were friends and had driven to Omkareshwar from Delhi to visit a famous temple. The accident took place while they were returning to Delhi, said Rajesh Gupta, in-charge, Chachauda police station in Guna district.The deceased were identified as Santosh Kumari, 48, Gayatri Singh, 42, and Poonam Bharti, 40. Bindu Sharma, 40, who was driving the car, sustained injuries and was hospitalised in Gwalior. Her condition was said to be stable, said the police officer.Also Read: ‘Women from Bangladesh trafficked, pushed into sex trade and drug peddling’: MP Police Santosh Kumari died on the spot while Gayatri and Poonam succumbed to their injuries on the way to the hospital in Gwalior.The police officer said Bindu Sharma told the police that she swerved the car’s direction and pushed the break after spotting a cow on the road. However, she lost control over the car and it hit the divider on the road before overturning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3-woman-friends-from-delhi-killed-in-crash-trying-to-save-a-cow-on-road/story-SL2PprYBa8b31qR7XT9WiK.html
11-10-2020||City||Hisar trader sent to seven-day police remand for killing friend||A day after Haryana Police arrested a 35-year-old trader, whose relatives had claimed that he was burnt alive by three unidentified men after being robbed near Bhatla village in Hisar district’s Hansi, the trader on Saturday confessed that the burnt body was of his friend Ramlu. Hansi superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh said the accused, Ram Mehar of Datta village, who runs a factory in Hisar’s Barwala town, was arrested from Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur and produced before a local court which sent him in seven-day police remand. The SP said that the trader had confessed to burning down his car and stuffing his friend’s burnt body inside it. The friend was identified as Ramlu of the same village. According to police, the trader had first strangulated Ramlu and then set the body afire. “The motive was to claim ₹1.5 crore from insurance companies so that he could repay his debt,” the SP said, adding that the trader had suffered huge losses in the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-trader-sent-to-seven-day-police-remand-for-killing-friend/story-OY2LDBVD8rszUfW5R9dJpK.html
11-10-2020||City||Nepalese man kills fellow national after drunken clash in Kurukshetra||A 32-year-old Nepalese native was allegedly stabbed to death by his friend, also a Nepalese, in Shahbad town of Kurukshetra. The incident allegedly took place following a late-night drunken clash, police said. The deceased has been identified as Chander Kumar of Adham district of Seti Aanchal area of Nepal. The accused, Vinod Kumar, also hails from the same village, and has been arrested. The duo had taken a fish farm on contract in Mathana village of Kurukshetra. The body was found on a road in Shahbad with multiple injuries. CCTV footage from a nearby shop showed Vinod attacking the Chander with a stone before fleeing. Case of murder registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nepalese-man-kills-fellow-national-after-drunken-clash-in-kurukshetra/story-WoyMid6WhYVZu20ofhYudO.html
11-10-2020||City||Locals in Haryana’s Kanalsi village flag fresh mining violations across Yamuna||Residents of Yamunanagar’s Kanalsi village have claimed that mining contractors are constructing illegal bunds across the Yamuna, in blatant violation of environmental norms, so as to reach the riverbed to carry out sand excavation. This even as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a joint committee under the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) after receiving similar complaints of illegal mining activities in July this year. Pictures and videos released by river activists and residents of the village purportedly show contractors using heavy machines and trucks to carry out mining in the flowing river. When contacted, Bhim Singh Rawat, associate coordinator of South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), said, “The pictures from the site are extremely shocking. Contractors are violating several norms by carrying out midstream mining, constructing a bund (partial), plying heavy vehicles inside active current and deploying heavy machines in the river channel. They also did not install closed-circuit television cameras at the mining site, which is mandatory.” “These activities will have an adverse impact on the aquatic biodiversity and also destabilise the river banks, leading to erosion,” he said. When contacted, Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said, “The matter was highlighted by some people and teams have been formed to look into the matter but as of now there are no reports of violations of the norms.” Earlier in July, while hearing a complaint on large-scale mining on Yamuna banks, filed by a local farmer Kiran Pal Rana, the NGT bench headed by chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel ruled that with regards to the area under Haryana, the joint committee, comprising CPCB, Haryana state pollution control board (HSPCB) and Yamunanagar district magistrate, should furnish a factual and action-taken report within three months, and scheduled the next hearing on January 6, 2021. In the complaint, Rana had alleged that illegal mining activities have not only changed the course of the river but in the last two years, six children have died by falling into the deep mining pits in Yamunanagar, Panipat of Haryana and Shamli of Uttar Pradesh. Reacting to the fresh violations, HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “I have directed the regional officer to take immediate action. He has taken up the matter with the district administration, mining and irrigation department for action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locals-in-haryana-s-kanalsi-village-flag-fresh-mining-violations-across-yamuna/story-IR4R5DsHXxruLrvMw7tx4K.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Malpractices in property registration: Divisional commissioners asked to complete probe by October 16||Following the expiry of the six-week deadline to probe malpractices in the registration of sale deeds in Haryana, the revenue department has asked the divisional commissioners of Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Hisar, Gurugram and Faridabad to complete the probe and submit their reports by October 16. The inquiry is being conducted into the violation of Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act during registration of sale deeds from April 3, 2017 to December 31, 2019. The six-week deadline expired on September 24. Additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal in separate communications to the six divisional commissioners and principal secretary, town and country planning, has asked for the inquiry to be completed by coming Friday. The inquiry was to be conducted from April 3, 2017, the day an amendment in the Section 7-A was notified by the BJP government in the state, to water down the HDRUA provision. The detection of widespread malpractices in execution of sale deeds had cast a shadow on the functioning of the revenue department headed by deputy chief minister, Dushyant Chautala. The state government had got criminal cases registered against six serving and one retired revenue official for executing registration of sale deeds of properties without obtaining no-objection certificates (NoC) in notified urban areas of Gurugram district. Subsequently, it was decided that a statewide probe should be conducted for registrations done with effect from April 3, 2017. The town and country planning (TCP) department was also asked to conduct an inquiry into the role of its officials. The stipulations in Section 7-A of HDRUA Act pertained to grant of a NoC by TCP before registration of land in notified urban areas. The 2017 amendment of Section 7-A of HDRUA Act led to two modifications in the provision. First, it decreased the size of notified urban area land holding for which NoC is required from less than one hectare (2.5 acres) to less than two kanals. Also, the definition of land for which the NoC was required was changed from vacant land to agricultural land. The 2017 amendment, officials said, worked to the advantage of real estate developers who were able to circumvent the requirement of NoC by converting agricultural land into uncultivable (gair mumkin) in revenue records.Amendment in urban area law undone As a corrective measure, the assembly during its one-day monsoon session in August had passed a Bill to undo the 2017 amendment in the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act. The amended law entailed a change in definition of notified urban area land and size of the holding for which the NoC was required. The land holding for which NoC is required is now less than one acre instead of less than two kanals and the notified urban area land definition has been changed from agricultural to vacant again. Vacant land has been defined as land wherein either no construction of any nature exists or such construction was in existence which is either uninhabited or not fit for human habitation and stands constructed without following the due course of law. Also, now NOC will be required for transfer of land through gift deed. Meanwhile, suspended naib tehsildar Jagdish Chand was reinstated on October 6 as no evidence was found against him by the Gurugram divisional commissioner. On being asked about the technical glitches affecting the registration process post incorporation of safety measures in software, the ACS, revenue, said most of the snags have been sorted out and registrations were being done in a smooth hassle-free manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/malpractices-in-property-registration-divisional-commissioners-asked-to-complete-probe-by-october-16/story-eEAFA4l89NqCPcIcOJxIIL.html
11-10-2020||Election:||Sachin Pilot, Ghulam Nabi Azad among Congress’ star campaigners for Bihar||Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the 23 dissenters who wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the party’s organisational structure, and Sachin Pilot, who revolted against Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, are among the 30 star campaigners of the party for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections. The list of star campaigners, submitted by the Congress to the Election Commission of India on Saturday, also includes Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, former party chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary incharge of UP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.In their letter to Sonia Gandhi on August 7, the 23 dissenters had called for an introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan. Two other signatories of the letter, Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Raj Babbar, also feature on the star campaigners list.Apart from three chief ministers – Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) – the Congress star campaigners also include former Bharatiya Janata Party leaders Shatrughan Sinha, Kirti Azad and Udit Raj. The three leaders had joined the Congress ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Former Mumbai Congress president Sanjay Nirupam and poet Imran Pratapgarhi, who contested the last Lok Sabha elections from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, are the other star campaigners. A Congress functionary, familiar with the matter, said it is unlikely that Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh will visit Bihar for campaigning, but did not rule out the two leaders addressing virtual rallies. He said Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi are likely to campaign in Bihar and some other states where by-elections will be held on November 3, including Madhya Pradesh. In view of the risk of transmission at election rallies amid the coronavirus disease pandemic, the EC has reduced the maximum number of campaigners for recognised parties from 40 to 30. For unrecognised parties, the number has been fixed at 20. The Congress is contesting on 70 seats as part of the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ or ‘Grand Alliance’, playing a second fiddle to Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which is fighting on 144 of the total 243 seats. The other constituent of the ‘Grand Alliance’ -- Communist Party of India (CPI), the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) or CPI(ML) -- are together contesting on 29 seats. Bihar will vote in three phases between October 28 and November 7. The results will be announced on November 10. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday partially modified its latest Covid-19 guidelines to allow political rallies in 12 states where elections are scheduled to be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/sachin-pilot-ghulam-nabi-azad-among-congress-star-campaigners-for-bihar/story-6qYHIJRO7At3tzF2y5ZPYL.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,158 fresh infections, 10 deaths in Haryana||Haryana reported 1,158 Covid-19 infections and 10 deaths on Saturday. The fresh cases pushed the cumulative number of infections to 1, 41,090. A medical bulletin said that 1, 301 infected persons recovered on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1, 28, 841. The number of active cases was 10, 677. The recovery rate was 91.32 % and the case fatality rate stood at 1.11%. Among the 10 patients who died on Saturday, three were from Fatehabad, two each from Ambala and Yamunanagar and one each from Faridabad, Gurugram and Hisar. The medical bulletin said there were 265 critically ill patients, including 35 on ventilator support. Three districts Gurugram (264), Faridabad (149) and Hisar (112) reported more than 100 cases whereas substantial numbers were reported from Rewari (87), Sonepat (70), Panchkula (64) and Rohtak (60).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-158-fresh-infections-10-deaths-in-haryana/story-YntW81CgfIcoBHp82p2vgL.html
11-10-2020||City||60-year-old woman killed, son injured in Panchkula hit-and-run||A 60-year-old woman of Neelo Kheri in Karnal was killed and her 35-year-old son suffered injuries after their Activa scooter was hit from the rear by a speeding car bearing a Haryana registration number on Saturday.The deceased, Kulwant Kaur, was riding pillion with her son, Satwinder Singh, when the accident took place at around 9am on the Sector 8/9 dividing road here.A police official said, “The woman-son were on their way to the civil hospital in Sector 6.” Satwinder is undergoing treatment, he added.The police do not have details of the person driving the car, but said “it was a woman, most likely a city resident.”A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Another case was registered on Friday after a 51-year-old man, working as a driver in HUDA, died after a speeding pickup truck hit his Santro car near Chandimandir toll plaza.The deceased, Amrik Singh, was declared brought dead by the doctors at Panchkula civil hospital. A case was registered under Sections 304A and 279 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-woman-killed-son-injured-in-panchkula-hit-and-run/story-QUXrI9qlMu3j5xKwDfLyxI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to recruit 80 more faculty members in 30 departments by year end||For the second time this year, the management at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has started the process of recruitment of faculty members for its 30-odd departments.As many as 81 vacant positions of assistant professors are expected to be filled before year-end, officials said.Most vacancies have been advertised by the department of anaesthesia and intensive care, followed by gastroenterology and internal medicine departments with four vacancies each.Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said they were expecting to fill all the positions during the drive. Earlier, many positions were left vacant as no suitable candidate was found, he said. “Majority of the positions being offered are new vacancies, and dozens of those, which we were not able to fill the last time.”With this, the number of faculty members is expected to reach 661 from the present strength of 581. “In the last two and a half years, the faculty strength has doubled from just 280 to the present 581. Last year, 80 doctors were recruited and the process is expected to continue as we open new departments and increase research work. Also, the number of patients have increased manifold, so more recruitments are important to sustain the system,” said Dr Jagat Ram.The institute spends around 70% of its total budget on staff salaries, which means of the total ₹1,551 crore sanctioned in this year’s budget, ₹1,076 crore will be spent on them. In fact, the institute has sought ₹100 crore more in the supplementary budget from the Centre to pay all the salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-recruit-80-more-faculty-members-in-30-departments-by-year-end/story-0aF7TD7faIGY0IjJykoyjO.html
11-10-2020||City||Covid testing for safer Navratras begins in Panchkula||To ensure a safe Navratras that begin on October 17, the district health department has started conducting Covid-19 testing of the staff at Mata Mansa Devi, Panchkula, and Kali Mata Temple in Kalka.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said that 100 staffers of Mata Mansa Devi temple were tested on Saturday, and in the coming days, the entire staff of Kali Mata Temple will also be tested.“It will not be possible to test every visitor, but teams will be deployed and random sampling will be conducted. Persons with symptoms will be identified and their tests will be conducted,” she said.Two days ago, Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, too, had directed the officials to constitute teams to test devotees visiting the two temples.MS Yadav, CEO of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said: “The Board has been facilitating online darshans since June 8 and even during Navratras, devotees will have to obtain an e-token from the website.”He said the number of devotees has increased from 4,500 to 11,000 a day. “Only those with online registration will be allowed to enter. No offerings will be allowed. The temple will give its own parshad. Also, masks, social distancing will remain mandatory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-testing-for-safer-navratras-begins-in-panchkula/story-m16R9vaIkOzDuRrlG52frI.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three held for duping migrants in Chandigarh||Three members of a gang, that targets migrants and dupes them of money and valuables on the pretext of arranging bus tickets for travelling back to their home state, were held, the police said on Saturday.With the arrest of the three—Manoshwar Pashwan, 50, Mohamd Jamshed, 25, and Santosh Paswan, all from Bihar—the police claim to have solved two cases of duping. The accused were produced before the court on Saturday from where Santosh was remanded to four days in police custody, and the other two were sent to two-day police remand.In the first case, on October 9 Ram Sagar Paswan of Bihar and his nephew Ram Babu Paswan were duped of ₹4,000 cash and mobile phones. On October 7, the accused targeted three migrants from Uttarakhand and duped them of ₹32,000 and mobile phones.Both the cases under sections 406, 420 and 120 B of IPC were registered in police station sector 31, Chandigarh. Inspector Paramjit Kaur Sekhon, station house officer (SHO), Sector 31, said, “The accused would lure the migrants on the pretext of booking their tickets for Uttarakhand or Bihar. After identifying their targets, one of the accused would pose as the conductor and another as a passenger to win their confidence.”The accused used to find their prospective targets on the bus stand in Ram Darbar, the SHO said, adding that the migrants would be asked to hand over the mobile phones for the OTP for online tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-for-duping-migrants-in-chandigarh/story-yxhpyZS4nT9cTjrTYjR0hN.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||209 villages in Thane rural keep coronavirus at bay||Dalkhan village in Shahapur Taluka (more than 60kms from Kalyan city) does not have any Covid positive case since the last 20 days. However, in August, they had 53 positive cases.This was possible after several villagers and social organisations pooled in funds to set up a small health care centre with two beds, oxygen facilities and an ambulance, helping in early testing, isolation and timely treatment. The villagers who had to visit other towns or villages for medical facilities could now get it in the village itself.Like Dalkhan village, there are 208 more villages within Thane rural that are now Covid-free due to various such initiatives.Dr Rupali Satpute, chief executive officer (additional charge), Thane Zilla Parishad, said, “More than 250 villages exist within Thane rural. Among these, 209 villages do not have a single Covid positive case for more than a month. Any area with a positive case would immediately be declared as a containment zone and sealed. For the next 14 days, regular screening and contact tracing were done in these zones. There are around 428 more containment zones within the rural areas where screening is going on.”In Dalkhan village, every positive patient was immediately rushed to the hospital. They have a doctor who visits the health centre twice a week. Here, those with fever or any other health problems get consultation and medicines. If anyone has fever-like symptoms for more than two days, he/she is sent to the hospital at the earliest, thus arresting the spread of the virus.Bhagwan Mokashi, sarpanch (additional charge), Dalkhan village, said, “We did not demand funds from the government to set up a health centre during the lockdown but used various other sources and managed to provide a facility within the village. This helped in providing timely treatment. All our social health workers helped in contact tracing and screening of the villagers. As soon as we found any patient with symptoms, he/she was immediately taken to a hospital in the ambulance. Having such basic facilities at our service helped ensure that the cases do not spike.”A team was formed for conducting screening and testing across rural areas of Thane. This team included medical officers, social health workers, teachers and anganwadi helpers. They visited these villages and conducted screening of all those who have symptoms. The villagers were also advised as to how to maintain hygiene and keep mouth and nose covered during this pandemic.Youngsters spread awareness Kon village in Bhiwandi involved youngsters to create awareness about the pandemic. The Sarpanch of the village being a doctor helped the social health workers to train.“We conducted regular checks of the market places and involved vigilant residents of the villages to ensure social distancing was followed. Moreover, all the poor or destitute who were finding it difficult to get food during the lockdown were provided with food grains and basic essentials. Apart from tracing, screening and testing, our main focus was also for the people to understand the pandemic, gauge the symptoms and follow the norms. These were observed well,” said Dr Rupali Karale, sarpanch, Kon village, Bhiwandi rural.The village set up a website for all the Covid-related updates and information during the lockdown. This helped people staying indoors to get Covid updates on their smart phones. People were informed about the positive cases so that whoever came in contact could isolate immediately.“If any cluster of cases was noticed or any particular village had a spike in the number of cases, we immediately conducted a testing camp in these areas. In these camps, each person who had come even remotely in contact with a positive patient and those with any kind of symptoms were tested. If anyone tested positive, he/she was immediately shifted to the hospital,” said a senior officer from Zilla Parishad.Green flag flying highThe zilla parishad had asked villages in July to hoist a green flag in the gram panchayat if they did not have a single Covid case in 28 days. Currently, there are 209 villages in Thane rural areas that have hoisted green flags, “Special efforts were taken to remove the fear in the minds of the residents regarding Covid. Creating awareness and efforts to trace, track and test as soon as possible helped us hoist 209 green flags across Thane rural,” said Satpute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/209-villages-in-thane-rural-keep-coronavirus-at-bay/story-Cfgjei9Sf6Y6NYMjrugthO.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||Dogs ‘kidnapped’ from Thane; case against security guard of housing society||A case has been registered against a security guard of a housing society in Thane for allegedly kidnapping eight street dogs and leaving them at an unknown place in Ambernath. The role of the society members is under scrutiny. Ambernath police are yet to arrest anyone in the case, but investigation is on.According to Ambernath police, two days ago, animal activists Archana Nair and Mukund Pande approached them with the complaint of eight street dogs being kidnapped. Members of the society allegedly took away these dogs and left them in a different area with the help of a security guard as these dogs were creating dirt inside the society.Ambernath police station senior police inspector, S Dhumal, said, “We checked the CCTV footage and found three to four times the security guard has taken two dogs each time in an auto rickshaw somewhere. The animal activists on their own found three of the eight dogs in Kalyan. Those three found were injured and in bad condition. Therefore, we have registered a case initially against security guard under IPC Section 428. Further the roles of society members are under scrutiny.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dogs-kidnapped-from-thane-case-against-security-guard-of-housing-society/story-aV5tcbdv6g8ekZkESOjdKI.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body warns schools over fee demands||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner Abhijit Bangar has warned schools of strict action on receiving complaints of parents over not allowing children to attend online classes. A meeting between NMMC and private school management was held recently after the civic body received complaints from parents.Bangar said, “Education is a basic right and as per Section 16 of RTE, no child admitted in a school shall be held back in any class or expelled from school till the completion of elementary education. Hence, if any school denies any child from attending exam, attending online classes or receiving mark sheets over non-payment of fees, action would be taken.”He added, “We have sent several notices to schools in the past but a direct communication was needed. The management brought forward their issues. They said that they have to pay salaries and maintain laboratories. We asked them to have a meeting with their contractors and amicably find a solution. We have asked the management to see the whole situation in an empathetic way as each household is undergoing financial crunch during the pandemic.”Some parents had complained of schools asking them to take loans to pay fees. This was not acceptable by the NMMC chief.Meanwhile, due to a stay by the High Court on the issue of reduction of the fees by school during the pandemic, NMMC did not ask the schools to reduce fees. But, it appealed to schools not to pressurise parents for fees and to give them time for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-warns-schools-over-fee-demands/story-mPfjKssZWZzUPSwteraytO.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||No mask, no ride: Konkan taxi-auto union begins drive||The Konkan Auto-Taxi Mahasangh has decided that it will not allow any passenger to travel in its vehicles without a mask. This decision has been taken by the auto and taxi drivers unanimously keeping in mind the pandemic situation and the safety of the driver and passengers.Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) also provided stickers and posters to create awareness on the importance of wearing masks.“Since the last one week, we have started this campaign in Thane, Kalyan, Dombivli, Ambernath, Badlapur and Navi Mumbai cities. Currently, we have around one lakh vehicles that are a part of this campaign,” said Prakash Penkar, president of Konkan Auto-Taxi Mahasangh. “We noticed that some despite having a mask don’t wear it. This can pose a health risk to not only that individual flouting the norms but also to others. Hence, we have initiated this campaign. We are getting a good response as people are cooperating with our requests to wear masks,” added Penkar.The civic body is also appreciating the efforts taken by the auto-taxi union and supporting them by distributing posters and stickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-mask-no-ride-konkan-taxi-auto-union-begins-drive/story-eVUZxiRKhqoUVxOpJ7NAyL.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||Seven persons injured in scuffle, acid attack in Bhiwandi||Seven persons were injured in a clash that also involved an acid attack on Friday night. The incident occurred when allegedly attempting to resolve a conflict between two groups in Anjurphata Bhiwandi. The injured were immediately shifted to Bhiwandi-based hospital. Narpoli police are investigating the case.According to the police, a conflict started when one of the victims, Nikhil Sharma, a resident of Tadali Sainagar area, had an altercation with another person Abdul Rahim Khan, 30, over a trivial issue while returning home from office on Thursday. Sharma was allegedly beaten up in the scuffle that night. Police said, “Both groups are known to fight over petty issues.”On Friday, Sharma, his friends Abhishek Sharma, Rohit Pandey and Suraj Patel, along with two-three other friends, went to the Anjur Phata residence of Khan. At that time, Salim Pathan 37, his friend was there.Sharma went to confront him about the incident and started an argument outside Khan’s house. “A scuffle started between the two groups leading to injuries to seven persons. Acid was also thrown during the attack by Pathan and Khan. One of the women who tried to intervene was pushed by these men and was injured after falling on the roadside,” said police.Narpoli police are yet to arrest the accused Pathan and Khan.Narpoli police station senior police inspector, Maloji Shinde said, “Both the parties are known to get into such scuffles with each other. Some of them have minor injuries on hands but two of them have further serious injuries on other parts of body too. We are investigating from where Khan brought this acid. His friend Salim said that it was brought for some work. We have registered case in the matter and investigation is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-persons-injured-in-scuffle-acid-attack-in-bhiwandi/story-evv8rwv09igbOPWevcG9IP.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||Complaints of illegal parking near Kalyan railway station on rise||With more people moving out for work after relaxations in lockdown, the road outside Kalyan railway station is obstructed with illegally-parked two-wheelers throughout the day.This has irked other commuters, auto rickshaw drivers and pedestrians as there is little space for commuting. Commuters claim that no action has been taken on these vehicles.The road also has a No Parking sign board. However, the entire road has two-wheelers parked.Rupali Kadam, 35, who travels to Mumbai by local train from Kalyan, said, “The authorities should tow these illegally-parked vehicles, especially during the peak hours. It is very difficult to walk along the station road because of this illegal parking. Once the trains resume for everyone, the situation will be chaotic.”Kadam added that no traffic police is seen stopping this illegal parking.Auto rickshaw drivers claimed that the lane they use to form a queue has been taken over by the private vehicles parked illegally.“Those autos that ply for emergency have no way to reach the station now as the road is blocked with illegal parking. All our three stands were closed during the lockdown. When lockdown was relaxed, people started parking everywhere including the space where rickshaws used to stand. We have requested the traffic police to take note of this and clear the area,” said Santosh Navale, representative, Autorickshaw Driver Owner Union, Kalyan.Sukhdev Patil, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan (W) unit, said, “The reason behind increase in illegal parking on road is because of the closure of the civic body’s parking lot near the station. We have asked the civic body to start it soon so that vehicles can be parked there on a daily basis.”An official from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) who did not wish to be named said, “The civic body will hold meeting in the coming days and then decide whether to open the parking lot or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/complaints-of-illegal-parking-near-kalyan-railway-station-on-rise/story-mV6XAxQfgMt7oljDWSWxxH.html
11-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP manipulation probe: Republic TV CEO being questioned by Mumbai Police||Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani is being questioned by the Mumbai Police in connection with the TRP manipulation case. Khanchandani reached the Mumbai Police headquarters on Sunday morning after being summoned.The summons were sent on Saturday to him and five others - Republic TV COOs Hersh Bhandari and Priya Mukherjee, channel’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh, CEO of Hansa Research Group Praveen Nijhara and another employee - in connection with the case.All six were asked to report on Sunday.Meanwhile. Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, has denied all allegations and put out a video message on the channel’s website on Friday stating the “channel’s name was not mentioned in the FIR”. He claimed the channel was being targeted for its coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput case, and added that the channel would sue the police. Mumbai Police officers said Singh was being summoned for the second time after he was issued a summons on October 9 to which he responded saying he was out of the city till October 16.But a second summons has been issued by the crime branch for him for October 11 at 9am. Earlier in the day, Republic TV’s chief financial officer (CFO) Shiva Sundaram wrote to Mumbai Police, stating he would be available to join investigations by October 14-15 and has asked the Mumbai Police to not proceed with the probe till a writ petition in the matter is heard by the Supreme Court. “I refer to the above summons issued by you on October 9, 2020 asking me to be present at your office on October 10, 2020 at 11pm for the purpose of your investigation in the subject First Information Report. At the outset, I would express my commitment to cooperate in the said investigations,” Sundaram says in his letter. The letter then goes on to request Mumbai Police to halt investigations till the hearing of the writ petition filed before the Supreme Court. “I wish to bring to your notice that a writ petition under Article 32 has been filed before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (Provisional application number 7848/2020) in relation to the above referred matter and we have requested for an early hearing and it is likely to be listed by next week. Given that the matter is to be listed soon before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, I request you to not proceed any further with the investigations in so far as Republic TV and its employees are concerned. We will join the investigations subject to the orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.’ The letter ends by stating, “I would also like to inform you that on account of some personal commitments I am scheduled to travel outside Mumbai for the next few days and accordingly will only be available in Mumbai by 14-15 October, 2020.” Also read | TRP manipulation case: What has happened so farBharambe confirmed receiving the letter. “CFO of Republic TV, S Sundaram, gave a letter to the police to reschedule the summons which was issued to him on October 9 to join the investigation,” Bharambe said. Meanwhile, Sam Balsara, founder, chairman and managing director of Madison World, reached Mumbai police headquarters to aid the investigations. The alleged fake TRP case was registered after Mumbai Police claimed to have busted a TRP manipulation racket following a complaint by TV viewership measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). The police said Republic TV and two other local Mumbai channels were involved in manipulating the crucial data which indicates which TV programmes are viewed the most and is often used by advertisers for decisions related to ad spend. Crime branch ropes in EOW to probe money trail Mumbai crime branch, which is probing the financial angle, has also roped in the assistance of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) after it found that more than a crore of rupees was transferred to the bank account of accused Bompalli Rao Mistry alias Sanjiv Rao in the past ten months. The agency has also written to the GST office and income-tax department for a comprehensive investigation into the financial aspect in the TRP fraud case. “The money was deposited in five to six transactions, and the crime branch is tracking down the source of the money. Some amount was deposited by owners of Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi. There are a few others transactions which we are currently studying,” said a senior crime branch officer. Crime branch officials said that Mistry used to give ₹20,000 to arrested accused Vishal Bhandari every month to distribute it to households where barometers were installed. Crime branch officials added that statements of 33 of the 83 households controlled by Bhandari have been recorded, and seven teams have been formed to arrest six accused wanted in five different states. Two of the wanted accused have been identified as Dinesh Vishwakarma and Vinay Tripathi, both former employees of Hansa Research Private Limited. Vishwakarma, crime branch officials said, had recruited Vishal Bhandari in March 2019 and used to give him money to distribute in household where barometers were installed from November 2019 to May 2020. Inspector Sachin Vaze, who heads the crime intelligence unit (CIU) and part of the investigating team, said, “Five to six accused are wanted in the case. The crime branch have formed several teams and they are currently in five states to trace the wanted accused”. Police have recorded the statement of 33 households out of 83 who were monitored by Vishal Bhandari, added Vaze. Head honchos of advertising firms asked to submit details Crime branch officials said that Sam Balsara, founder, chairman and managing director of Madison World, and Shashi Sinha, CEO of IPG Media brands, were questioned for close to six hours. Balsara and Sinha have been asked to submit details of how many advertisements they had received in the past two years, and to which channels the advertisements were given. Crime branch officials have also asked them to submit the rates at which the advertisements were given to the channels and the revenue they collected from the advertisements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-summon-republic-tv-ceo-five-others-today/story-oYNypZrKEGCLIxXyrobJYO.html
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: The Social Dilemma is actually personal||Dilemmas of various kinds perennially dot our lives. Relationships, careers, pass-times, pursuits, interactions and even our personal spaces allow us the liberty, and often create the necessity, of having to take decision after decision. Mundane matters – which route to follow to a destination, which menu item to choose, which clothes to wear and which friend to chat with, also provide us with the opportunity to flex our decision-making muscles, so to say. The recently popular Netflix film, The Social Dilemma, highlights the specific quandary that we the people face in today’s social media driven time capsule. Privacy issues as well as mental health and specifically addiction related issues have been raised by this film. The documentary highlights the so called terror that users face due to their own browsing habits. The film cautions virtually the whole world to back off in its usage of those social media power houses, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and the like. Big Brother is always said to be watching. Our every move, our every choice, is known to these big bad guys, according to The Social Dilemma. This is a film based on damaging video statements given by former employees of Facebook, et al, against the social media world. Thus, advertisers are said to be sharks waiting to swoop upon us the moment we click a button. Algorithms which are used by these social media giants are alleged to be designed to extract every fraction of monetary resources that we possess. Political and financial bigwigs are supposed to be biding their time until we divulge our true nature. The Social Dilemma has truly set the cat among the pigeons and deflated the cushy bubble of virtual reality that several people were living in before they viewed the film. One youngster I know well, and I dare say there are many like him, has actually deleted his beloved social media accounts, so petrified was he by these scary ‘revelations.’ The film has jolted the millennial in particular. That young person who was born with technology in his palm now discovers that technology can harm him no end. His beloved Instagram, where he virtually lives, is supposedly inhabited by monsters disguised as advertisements, leading links, suggestions etc. which can gobble up his peace and his freedom. The Netflix film has thus rattled and shaken a large number of people across the world. The response of Facebook to these forceful allegations has been to send out a typically pointed denial which virtually scoffs at the main thrust areas of The Social Dilemma. Facebook also points out that Netflix is using algorithms similar to its own to target potential viewers who would be keen to view a film like The Social Dilemma! There are always two sides to a coin. Shades of grey everywhere. Just how much danger am I in, if Instagram knows that I love idlis, cricket, coffee, and books, not necessarily in that order? Let us therefore take a reality check here, unencumbered by being obsessive users, or alleged perpetrators of stress creating models, in the social media realm. The fact remains that our own choices determine how we interact with the world. When we choose to eat a burger and drink a Coke, we know that they’re not good for us, unless we consume them infrequently. Similarly, we should be able to control the time we spend on the internet, and the desire to overdo our involvement with it by avoiding the urge to post personal pictures etc. which need not be posted. Even if there is a whirlpool, a mass of quicksand, waiting everywhere in the virtual world, to pounce upon our weaknesses, we can avoid it. We must choose not to overdo anything. We must choose to be disciplined. We must choose to distance ourselves from our smartphones for large amounts of time, every day. Balance, as always, is the key. Very few people can remain devoid of social media usage today. I am to attend an online birthday party for a childhood friend, tonight. The social media world is not really demonic in nature, unless we allow it to be. The choice is ours. Be sensible, or be taken for a ride. vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-the-social-dilemma-is-actually-personal/story-0NFoi7ioJ81WwNlkp3D0DM.html
11-10-2020||Pune||Traffic violations rise in September on Pune-Mumbai Expressway||There has been a substantial surge in traffic violations on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway after the e-pass travel restriction was suspended by the state government since September 1. The highway police took action against 15,187 violators and Rs 4,61,900 was collected in fines in September, while in August, action was taken against 9,619 violators and Rs 1,12,300 was collected in fines. In July, when most activities were shut due to lockdown, 9,265 people were penalised and Rs 1,57,300 was collected in fines. Fines from people were collected for crossing the speed limit, overtaking from the wrong side, driving on the wrong side and no seat-belts. Many were also fined while not having e-pass during the lockdown. The rise in fine, according to the highway police, is mainly attributed to increased traffic movement on the expressway after the government revoked all the restrictions. As railway service was suspended during September, most people chose road transport, say, officials.“People flout traffic rules even after confiscating their licence or imposing fine on them. Police patrolling on the expressway is taking stringent actions, still, people are reckless while driving,” said Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of police, traffic, Mumbai. The fine collected in September is equivalent of February when Covid pandemic was yet to affect India. In February, 15,781 violators were fined to the tune of Rs8,84,500.By March, when Maharashtra started witnessing Covid cases, as a result of which government invoked curbs, the traffic violations were also reduced drastically (see box).Of the nine months starting January till September, least number of violations were recorded in April when only 94 people were fined. It was during April, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) demolished the British-era iconic Amrutanjan bridge near Khandala as it was causing hindrance to traffic. “In India, we still don’t have rules like other countries where people who violate traffic rules are banned from filling petrol or they have to pay extra taxes. The condition has improved in the last ten years, but people need to be more respectful to traffic rules,” said Upadhyay. Jagdish Pardeshi, assistant police inspector, highway police, Dasturi, which looks after a 12km stretch on the expressway, said, “Traffic has increased after the suspension of e-pass. People argue with traffic police after violating the rules and hesitate to pay fine. There are also many cases where people are yet to deposit their fine amount.” “During lockdown, people in the name of essential services also tried to drive between Mumbai-Pune route who we caught red-handed,” added Pardeshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/traffic-violations-rise-in-september-on-pune-mumbai-expressway/story-wE3RtssuEApTJ3REN4B3aK.html
11-10-2020||Lifestyle||Are restaurants all set to bounce back as Delhi gets ready to eat, drink and repeat 24X7||In a move to boost the restaurant sector, chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a meeting with members of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), officials and restaurateurs, have decided to allow Delhi restaurants to be open 24x7, along with open spaces such as terraces and balconies to be used, and abolition of certain licences. Severely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, the restaurant business is struggling to survive as many popular eateries have also been forced to shut down. This move is being welcomed restaurateurs. They believe that the permission and restrictions ease will benefit to earn more revenue, and bring the city’s dining scene back to life. Vishal Anand, director, Moonshine Food Ventures says, “Restaurant industry has been under the permit raaj for a long time but this is a welcome move by the Delhi government. This step will definitely give a much needed boost to the much affected food and beverage industry and create a positive business environment, which is the need of the hour.” READ: Restaurants in Delhi may open 24x7 soonThe move for restaurants to operate round-the-clock will also benefit professionals from the hospitality sector as employment will be generated. Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle Restaurants says, “This not only gives us benefit to earn more revenue but also this generates more employment.We have always admired the nightlife culture of other countries because of such free spirited rules, getting timings restrictions ease in our own Delhi will surely give elevate industry. Echoing the same thought, Zorawar Kalra, Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd feels that the ease of doing business will ensure more people opening their restaurants. He adds, “We welcome the opportunity to operate 24x7. Keeping in mind the safety of our patrons and our team we will study our various locations and choose where all this new opportunity can be implemented.”Apart from providing job opportunities, the massive step will directly contribute in increased income for the grappling industry. Akshay Anand of Ophelia feels that it was much needed as this move will all together change the dynamism of industry. He says, “Lot of people work in shifts , hence this move will get us more clientele as well, hence more revenue generation. Also this will add charm to the nightlife as well. We will be taking safety measures and more health measures in check so that our staff remains happy.”READ: Maharashtra announces guidelines for timings of restaurants, barsFor a restaurant, the operational timings currently are from 11am to 11pm and 11am to 1am for bars, but will the time extension impact the functioning of fine-dining restaurants and small establishments? “As far as timings are concerned, we being fine dining anyway, won’t open for whole night but this move is really encouraging. We will extend the timings may be to 2 am so that we can cater to the crowd that likes to eat out late in the night, says Amit Bagga, founder Daryaganj. Chef Radhika Khandelwal, owner, Fig & Maple also believes that being open 24x7 might not help smaller businesses, “A small establishment like ours won’t go for a 24 hour operation. We will instead look at extending hours of space, especially if the bars can be open post 1am but easing of license will be a big help.” For Nikhil Arora, co-founder, The Tummy Section, this might be an opportunity to come up with disruptive ideas in the restaurant sector. He says, “This decision will help in to get some more unique concepts by young restaurateurs and entrepreneurs in F&B industry which will be great to watch in coming months.”Yangdup Lama, founder of Sidecar and Cocktails and Dreams, Speakeasy too welcomes the positive move but states, “This help in ease of doing business during difficult times but one needs to understand that with 24 hours concept, it might not boost sales but add to the high cost of running operation which also goes up.”Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/are-restaurants-all-set-to-bounce-back-as-delhi-gets-ready-to-eat-drink-and-repeat-24x7/story-gXz459ljOhGrDC0Bnin5HK.html
