12-10-2020||Mumbai||State has authority to restrain schools from collecting hiked fees: Maharashtra government to Bombay high court||The state justified the May 8 government resolution which restrained private unaided schools from collecting additional hiked fees for the academic year 2020-21 from parents and students by stating that the fee hike recommended by the PTA executive committee in January 2020 was for the academic year 2019-20 and hence the schools cannot be aggrieved by the restraining GR. The counsel for the state argued that though there was a reasonable restriction in the Fee Regulation Act, under the peculiar circumstances it was well within its right to restrain the schools from collecting additional hiked fees. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the response of the state to the petitions filed by various private unaided schools and school groups challenging the May 8 GR was informed by senior counsel Anil Anturkar for the state that the GR was valid. He submitted that nowhere in their petitions had the schools explained the provisions under which they were claiming a right to collect additional hiked fees. While responding to the contention of the schools that the fee hike for the academic year 2020-21 was approved by the Executive Committee of the Parent Teachers Association (PTA) that was duly appointed by the school managements, Anturkar submitted that it was not possible for an EC of a previous year to approve the fee hike for the next year and the same would be applicable for the academic year it was approved in. He further submitted that the claims of the school that they had declared the fee hike under provisions of section 6 (1) (a) and (b) of the Fee Regulation Act of 2011 could not be valid as the amendment was introduced only in August 2019 by which time the academic year had started. Anturkar submitted that as the amendment expected schools to declare fee hike over a period of five or ten years, the schools could not take benefit of the same as it had to be implemented either at the time of admission of a student to Class 1 or Class 5. Anturkar further stated that the restriction in the GR was valid as parents had lost their jobs or their salaries had been cut, hence paying additional hiked fees would not be possible for them. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought to know from the schools under which provision of the Fee Regulation Act they were claiming the hiked fees for the academic year 2020-21 and posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-has-authority-to-restrain-schools-from-collecting-hiked-fees-maharashtra-government-to-bombay-high-court/story-h6hsWT0NkUzYB1S1YGP50J.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud probe: Mumbai crime branch makes fifth arrest||The Mumbai crime branch investigating the manipulation of television rating points (TRPs) by three channels on Monday arrested Vinay Tripathi, a former employee of Hansa Research Group, from Mirzapur district in Uttar Pradesh. Tripathi is the fifth person to be arrested in the case. He will be produced in the local court at Mirzapur, which will take his transit remand and bring him to Mumbai on Tuesday evening. “Tripathi was a relationship manager in Hansa and left two years ago. He was in touch with Bhandari and used to pay money to Bhandari to distribute in households where barometers were installed. He is part of the TRP fraud and was in contact with some owners of channels or their employees,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Earlier, the crime branch arrested four accused – Vishal Bhandari, 20, former employee of Hansa; Bompalli Rao alias Sanjiv Rao, 44 (on October 6); Shirish Shetty, owner of Fakt Maratha; and Narayan Sharma of Box Cinema (on October 9). They have been remanded in police custody till October 13. The crime branch also froze bank accounts of Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema and their owners on Monday. They also seized Rao’s bank account, said Nandkumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (crime). The crime branch also issued a tender looking for firms to do a forensic audit. “A tender has been issued today for forensic audit because the transaction of TV channels run into a few hundred crores, so a forensic audit of all bank accounts related to the channels is necessary in the case,” said Thakur. Meanwhile, the crime branch on Monday recorded the statement of Praveen Nijhara, CEO of Hansa Research Private Limited, and deputy manager Nitin Deokar. “We have asked them to submit some documents to the crime branch for inquiry,” said Vaze. Vaze added CEO of Republic TV Vikas Khanchandani and the news channel’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh were called at 5.30pm. “They have informed they are on their way,” said Vaze. Meanwhile, chief financial officer of Republic TV Shiva Sundaram informed the crime branch he would be coming to Mumbai on Tuesday evening, and join the investigation later in the evening on Tuesday. “He could not come because three members of his family were Covid positive. He has informed us that he is ready to cooperate in the investigation,” said Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-probe-mumbai-crime-branch-makes-fifth-arrest/story-3v5vEvd8Gytc1eLXXv4VnN.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||70-yr-old man succumbs, 98 test positive for Covid in Chandigarh||A 70-year-old man from Sector 50 succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 192 in Chandigarh. With 98 people testing positive — less than 100 for the third consecutive day — the total reached 13,260.As many as 11,898 (89.7%) patients have recovered so far, including 111 discharged on Monday. The number of active cases has dropped to 1,170 (8.8%), while fatality rate stands at 1.4%. Meanwhile, 144 people were discharged while only 58 tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali district, with no casualty being reported. Among the fresh cases, 42 surfaced in Mohali city alone. The number of active cases has come down to 931 (8.1%), as 10,334 (90.1%) patients of 11,473 tested positive so far have recovered while 208 (1.8%) have died.Panchkula, too, reported no casualty while 47 fresh cases surfaced across the district, taking the total to 6,640.While 6,147 (92.6%) patients have been cured, 101 (1.5%) have died, leaving 392 (5.9%) cases still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-yr-old-man-succumbs-98-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh/story-jMGoOrXJShrNuEb3HM6n9H.html
12-10-2020||City||Allow shops to remain open till 11pm in Thane, traders tell TMC||After Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) permitted the hotels, restaurants and bars to remain open from 7am to 11.30pm, the traders in Thane have now come forward requesting the civic body to allow them to remain open till 11pm.On Saturday night, TMC employees acted against a shop in Naupada for remaining open beyond 7pm. The action was met with protests from several shopkeepers in the area who demanded extension in timing for shops.Mitesh Shah, a member of Gokhale Road Traders Union, said, “If restaurants are allowed to be open till 11.30pm, why aren’t we permitted? Most people prefer shopping after work hours. If the corporation gave an extension to the hotel business, taking into consideration the losses they face, we should be given similar extension.”Shopkeepers association secretary of Thane, Chetna Dixit added, “Does the corporation believe that the virus will spread through shops which remain after 7pm and not spread by restaurants that are open till 11pm? We want similar rules for everyone. The present time limits are not convenient for the shopkeepers or the consumers.” Deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, Sandip Malvi said, “We are conducting meetings and discussions with the traders and soon a decision regarding the extension of time will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-shops-to-remain-open-till-11pm-in-thane-traders-tell-tmc/story-RWBX03Z9P9fI2efv3XaWgN.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Executive producer Kshitij Prasad moves NDPS court for bail||Kshitij Ravi Prasad, a former executive producer of a popular film production house, has approached the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court for bail, pleading that he has been falsely implicated in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The plea is scheduled for hearing on October 14. Prasad was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 26 for allegedly receiving contraband from the alleged peddlers who had supplied charas to actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik.NCB alleged that Prasad’s role was revealed during the interrogation of Sanket Patel, one of the alleged drug peddlers. Patel claimed that he had delivered ganja (marijuana) to Prasad at his residence in Andheri on the instructions of Karamjeet Singh, an alleged drug distributor with a local network catering to the Bollywood fraternity. Patel had further stated that he delivered ganja around 12 times to Prasad from May to July. Prasad has refuted all the allegations and claimed that during the interrogation, when Patel was first brought in to identify him, he failed. “When the applicant [Prasad] was confronted with the accused Sanket Patel during his interrogation, the said accused categorically stated that he did not recognise the present applicant. Thereafter, the respondents instructed the applicant to leave the room and when he was called back after a few minutes, the said accused Sanket suddenly purported to recognise the present applicant,” read the bail plea. The bail plea further claimed that according to NCB, Prasad allegedly bought 50g of ganja 12 times from Karamjeet through Patel between May and July and paid ₹3,500 per packet, totalling a sum of ₹42,000. “That total amount of ganja alleged to have been purchased by the applicant is 600g, which would still be a small quantity, which at the most would squarely fall within the ambit of section 20(b)(ii)(A) (relates to production, manufacturing, possession, sale, purchase, transport or uses cannabis), which is punishable with a maximum imprisonment of up to one year or with fine, or both. Hence, the allegations against the present applicant make out an offence for a small quantity at the most,” Prasad claimed in his plea. He has further claimed that NCB has mechanically booked him under section 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders). Prasad has alleged that during his interrogation, he was “coerced by the agency to falsely implicate Bollywood actors Ranbir Kapoor, Dino Morea, and Arjun Rampal”. He alleged that the NCB consistently threatened and coerced him to make statements against Karan Johar and other senior production executives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-executive-producer-kshitij-prasad-moves-ndps-court-for-bail/story-35dbX4HCd0kmGtVZHJvjxH.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||HSVP asks architects to focus on structural safety of buildings||To prevent structural damages to residential buildings, particularly like one that happened after the rains on August 19 and 20, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has asked architects to focus on the structural safety of buildings and implement the design submitted at the time of obtaining completion certificate.The decision comes after a HSVP-appointed technical committee, probing the damage and tilting of three houses in HSVP sectors, found that the structures had a weak foundation, leading to the damage.HSVP officials said that it was observed that submission of structural safety certificates was not being taken seriously by architects and that there were discrepancies in what was being submitted on paper and what was taking place on ground.To prevent repeat of such incidents, HSVP officials held a detailed meeting with architects and asked them to ensure that the structural safety certificate are submitted as per the plan and implemented as per the approved design. The architects have also been directed not to apply for occupancy certificates(OC) before the building is complete.Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP, said that action would be initiated against architects if it is found that OC had been sought for incomplete building or false pictures were uploaded, as was found in some cases in the past. “To ensure structural safety, it has been decided that the architects will also have to upload the detailed structural design while applying for a building plan. They will also have to ensure that the building has been constructed as per approved design,” he said.Another decision taken by the HSVP is that at the time of applying for an occupation certificate, the allottee will have to submit an undertaking duly attested by 1st class magistrate that the premises shall not be used for any other purpose other than the allotment conditions. The allottee shall not raise any extra covered area after receiving the OC.While applying for the OC, architects will also have to submit the plot size as per the verified demarcation plan, the authority said.Kalia said that the objective of this decision is to prevent the commercial use of houses, which are in residential sectors. “We want to ensure that commercial activities are not carried out in residential areas,” he.said.The committee formed by HSVP had submitted in its report that the foundation of the buildings that tilted in August was not laid at hard form strata and that the construction was not done under technical supervision of an architect or structural engineer. It is due to this reason that HSVP has now decided to obtain structural safety certificate from architects to ensure such incidents are not repeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-asks-architects-to-focus-on-structural-safety-of-buildings/story-1PZpfMBWiMXD3tZd2f2UHO.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Noida: 35-year-old businessman found dead in his car||Noida: A 35-year-old businessman was found dead in mysterious circumstances in his car parked in the basement of his Sector 107 house on Sunday morning, the police said. The deceased was identified as Sundar Pandit who owns a tile manufacturing business. The police said that he was a resident of Barola under Sector 49 police jurisdiction, but also had a house in Sector 107 which comes under Sector 39 police jurisdiction.According to police officials, they came to know about the incident on Sunday night. “The family did not inform anyone about the death, and it was through social media that we came to know about the incident,” said Sudhir Kumar, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.According to the police, Pandit’s body was found in his car by his brother after which the family called a doctor who declared him dead. The family, however, did not inform the police about the incident and went on to perform his last rites. By the time the police found out about the incident, the cremation was done, the officials said.“The family members have alleged that he would often consume alcohol. According to them, he must have done the same on Saturday night and then fallen asleep in his car. They further claimed that his death must have been caused due to suffocation in the vehicle whose AC was running,” said Kumar.The police officials said that the circumstances surrounding Pandit’s death are mysterious, but the family has not filed any complaint and without an autopsy the exact cause of death would remain unclear.However, a spokesperson for the Noida police said that a probe in the matter is underway despite the family’s reluctance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-35-year-old-businessman-found-dead-in-his-car/story-BYdYKKFHjEp2V7FLYocPYJ.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Three children including siblings go missing from Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Two minor siblings went missing from their home in the Surajpur industrial area on October 6, the police said.According to officers, 11-year-old Sanam and his nine-year-old brother Aryan had gone missing while playing outside their house. Their family members had launched a search but failed to trace them, after which they had filed a complaint in Surajpur police station. The children’s father, Ashok Singh, said that the two had jumped off the boundary wall on October 6 at 7am. Singh worked as a security guard in a factory in Surajpur, which has been closed for some time. He used to live with Aryan inside the factory premises, while his wife and elder son Sanam had come from Mainpuri a month ago. “The children were playing in the factory compound and we were inside the house. After sometime, when we came out, they were nowhere to be found. We checked the main gate but it was locked from inside. We checked the CCTV footage and found them jumping over the boundary wall, which would be about three-four feet high,” he said. The family launched a search in the nearby areas but could not find them. Police said that they scanned the CCTV footage of nearby areas and found the children were last seen walking towards Pari Chowk in Greater Noida. Harish Chandar, DCP (Central Noida) said a police team has launched a search for the missing children. “Primary investigation shows the two siblings were seen walking on their own. We have shared their pictures with neighbouring police stations, railway stations and bus stop coordinators. We are trying to recover them,” he said.Meanwhile, a three-year-old boy has been missing for three months from Greater Noida, police said. The child’s father Shahid Ali said that his son, Shadab, has been missing from Haldoni village in Ecotech 3 area. His said the boy had gone to the local weekly market with some other other children on July 7. “All the other children had returned home but my son did not,” he said. He has announced a reward of ₹2 lakh to anyone who finds his son. DCP Chander said that separate FIRs have been registered for two incidents, under Section 363 (abduction) of the Indian Penal Code, and police teams are conducting searches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-children-including-siblings-go-missing-from-greater-noida/story-5XoN8FkxI2MzX1ybsBQXcL.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||After aide shot dead in Chandigarh, Lawrence Bishnoi gang threatens bloodshed||A day after Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide and former student leader Gurlal Brar was shot dead outside a mall in Chandigarh, a Facebook page in the jailed gangster’s name threatened a bloodshed on streets, while another of his aides, Monty Shah, was booked for making a murder bid on a rival in Burail on Sunday night. A case was registered against Monty Shah on Monday on the complaint of his cousin Praveen Shah and bouncer Tirath, who are both witnesses in the murder case of property dealer Rajveer, alias Sonu Shah, who was shot dead at his office in Burail, Sector 45, on September 28 last year. According to the chargesheet filed in January, Bishnoi was the one who had ordered the hit.According to the police complaint, Tirath spotted Monty Shah approaching his office holding two pistols on Sunday night. Tirath then ran inside the office where Praveen was also present, and they hid themselves. CCTV footage shows that later, Monty returned to his vehicle, in which two more people were waiting for him. Though the footage also showed Monty brandishing weapons, police have found no evidence of firing yet. However, a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code besides the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector-34 police station. Praveen, who is Sonu Shah’s brother, and Tirath in their complaint to police alleged that Monty wanted to eliminate them as they are main witnesses in the property dealer’s murder in which Bishnoi is the main accused. After Sonu’s murder, Praveen had even demanded police protection.“As of now, we are looking into personal enmity angle owing to business rivalry. Our prime focus is to arrest Monty,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. However, senior police officials privy to the case said the gang war angle cannot be ruled out though it is too early to say anything. ‘Rules of the game have changed’Meanwhile, on Monday, a post shared on a Facebook page in the name of Lawrence Bishnoi threatened retaliation for Gurlal Brar’s murder. HT could not independently verify antecedents of those running the social media page.Brar, 26, former state president of the Students’ Organisation of Panjab University, was gunned down in his Toyota Fortuner SUV after he came out of Playboy Nightclub at City Emporium Mall in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.Three motorcycle borne assailants had fired at Brar, known to be Bishnoi’s close associate. Soon after, slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group took to social media, owning responsibility for the killing “to avenge” the murder of their associate Lavi Deora at a fair in Faridkot’s Kotkapura in 2017, in which Brar had reportedly played an active role.The Facebook post, which also carried a photograph of Brar with Bishnoi, declared the beginning of a “new war”, while issuing a warning to those who are “not with us”. The post in Hindi then went on issue threats of a bloodshed on the streets, adding that the “rules of the game have changed”. Another post shared on behalf of Bishnoi’s aide Bhola Shooter carried the picture of Brar’s dead body and warned the perpetrators of retaliation. “We are verifying the veracity of these threats,” said SSP Chahal, adding that police have got some leads in Brar’s murder case.The shooters are yet to be identified, though an abandoned motorcycle has been recovered from near the Transport light point. Police are verifying whether it is the same motorcycle used in the crime that took place just one-and-a-half kilometre away. Brar’s postmortem has been conducted, though the details are awaited. According to initial reports, he had received six bullet wounds on the head, chest, neck and arm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-aide-shot-dead-in-chandigarh-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-threatens-bloodshed/story-HkBkgQqh2vNRww79OE2cbM.html
12-10-2020||City||Survey in Gurugram district identifies 800 severely malnourished children||Gurugram: At least 800 severely acute malnourished (SAM) children have been identified in a recent survey conducted by the district women and child development department. Covering more than 51,000 kids (from infants to five years of age), the survey has been conducted in the district for the first time, especially to identify severely malnourished (low weight- for-height) and stunted (low height-for-age) children, according to officials. Survey data shows that out of the 51,923 children, 3,619 were stunted, 803 were severely malnourished and 1,377 were moderately malnourished. Among them, about 52% are male kids. Of the 803 severely malnourished, 298 were traced in Sohna block, followed by 211 in Gurugram block, 149 in Pataudi, and 64 in Farrukhnagar. At least 81 from other rural pockets. Sunaina Khatri, district programme officer, women and child development department, said the team is analysing the reasons behind the malnourishment — the socio-economic status of the family, hygienic condition of the home, awareness about balanced diet among other factors. “We have tried to cover maximum rural areas where we have an existing anganwadi. The figures are likely to change as due to migration, people who left Gurugram might come back again. Since it is for the first time that such an extensive survey has been conducted, it is difficult to say anything on the complexity of the problem for a district such as Gurugram,” said Khatri. The new survey was conducted over the last two months by the department under the Poshan Abhiyan or the National Nutrition Mission. Until then, the department was taking data of National Family Health Survey (NFHS) 2015-16 for all policy-related matters, where the sample size of the survey was less, according to Khatri. “Although the Poshan Abhiyan was rolled out in 2018, it kickstarted in Gurugram in September 2019. The survey under it had to start in February this year. It had to be put on hold due to the outbreak of the Covid-19,” said Khatri. In February, the department received all the equipment required to measure the exact height and weight of the infants and those below five years of age. “Earlier we had only one lifting weighing scale. There was no equipment to measure height and find stunted or wasted kids,” said Khatri. Therefore, to trace malnourished children, the department received proper baby weighing machines, infantiometre to measure the height of an infant and stadiometer to check the height of children above one year who can stand. “Due to Covid-19, it was a challenging task for the team to take measurements of the child as parents did not allow to touch the kids. In rural areas, it is difficult as villagers have inhibitions. The ground team managed to do it as they carried machines with them and sought help from parents in taking the measurements,” said Sushma, one of the supervisors. Taking the issue on a priority, the district administration is trying to take assistance from private hospitals. Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, said it is critical to identify malnourished kids in the district for they are not missed out. “To address the situation of malnourishment, the district administration has reached out to private hospitals to help our teams. We are yet to get confirmation but the issue will be taken on a priority,” said Panwar.Anganwadis where children used to get hot cooked meals at the village level and in urban slums under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) have been closed for several months due to the Covid-19 situation. “Since Gurugram block is mostly urban, there are hardly any anganwadis except in areas near slums. In other blocks like Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar, there are proper anganwadis where cooked meals were served to the children and lactating mothers before Covid-19,” she said. Presently, the department is only providing fortified milk powder to the families of the affected children registered under 1333 anganwadis of the district.Basanta Kumar Kar, who has worked for more than two decades on malnutrition in South East Asia, said, “The numbers are high if stunting and SAM figures are combined. Severely malnourished children should be sent to the nutrition rehabilitation centre for proper monitoring and care, while steps should be taken to prevent moderately malnourished kids from getting severely undernourished. These kids should be monitored regularly, ensuring they get proper nutritional supplement along with maintaining basic hygiene and sanitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/survey-in-gurugram-district-identifies-800-severely-malnourished-children/story-3BOrbTKpbXb5FZIt0FtndP.html
12-10-2020||Noida||21 injured as tractor rams tree in Noida||Noida: As many as 21 labourers were injured when the tractor they were travelling on lost control and crashed into a tree in Sector 15 on Sunday evening.According to police officials, the accident took place when the labourers, 10 of them women, were returning to their homes in various parts of Noida after finishing work at a construction site near the Dalit Prerna Sthal.“There was some problem with the steering wheel of the tractor. The driver lost control of the vehicle, but had enough time to crash it into a tree so as to not cause a bigger accident. Due to the crash, the tractor stopped and all of us sustained injuries. But we were lucky not to have suffered too much damage,” said Mahesh Singh, one of the passengers who is a resident of JJ Colony.The police said that they received a call on the police helpline about the incident after which a team was rushed to the spot.“There were 21 people on the vehicle and all of them had some injury or the other. They were taken to the district hospital, from where all of them, except one, were later discharged after treatment. One woman in her twenties had serious injuries, and she is still undergoing treatment,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.“It seems that there was a malfunction with the steering wheel of the tractor that led to the crash. No other cause has been found. No complaint has been filed in this case yet,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/21-injured-as-tractor-rams-tree-in-noida/story-LJBZTql0o5SwtDV6Ti320L.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Noida’s urban villages await property ownership cards under SVAMITVA scheme||NOIDA: Even as the Uttar Pradesh government has begun giving property ownership cards to beneficiaries in several villages of the state under the Centre’s Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme, the urban villages in Gautam Budh Nagar await for their turn. According to officials, the scheme is yet to be implemented in the district due to some legal complexity. The state government is yet to decide as to when this scheme that empowers farmers will be executed at the ground in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, where the UP Industrial Development Act-1976 is into effect in most of the villages, the officials said. At least 274 villages in the district -- 54 villages in Noida, 124 in Greater Noida and 96 in Yamuna Expressway areas -- are notified, while 88 others are not notified, said officials. The term ‘notified villages’ means the industrial authority of the area takes care of civic amenities and handles the developmental works in such villages and village head (Pradhan) elections do not take place. While the villages which are not notified are governed by the ministry of panchayati raj, the officials said. Out of the 88 villages that are not notified and have elected village heads under the Panchayat Raj system, six are in Bisrakh block, 48 in Dadri area and the remaining are in Jewar. “So far the scheme is meant for villages, which are not notified by the three industrial authorities. The survey work is underway with drones in 10 villages of the district. The villages which are notified in the district will be able to get the benefit under this scheme only after a decision taken by the UP government,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. The legal complexity may affect the interests of thousands of the farmers, who have given their land for the development of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas.“We were the first one to start an agitation in 2013 demanding unique property title to houses located in urban areas so that farmers are empowered. But due to legal complexity, this scheme is not being implemented in the district that defeats the purpose. We hope the UP government will address this issue at the earliest,” said Raghuraj Singh of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti. The Noida authority’s chief executive officer, Ritu Maheshwari, said they do not have any ‘idea’ on this issue. The Greater Noida authority is also not aware as to how this will be implemented in villages here. However, the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority CEO Arun Vir Singh said, “District magistrate may be working on this.”If the SVAMITVA scheme is implemented, the house owners in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas will be able to take loan from the banks and will have a sense of security.“The scheme is a great step because it will solve legal disputes over the property and redefine the character of urban villages in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas,” said Ajaypal Sharma, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union -- GB Nagar. Meanwhile, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh on Monday discussed the issue with villagers and the Noida authority CEO via video conference. “Giving a unique title to property in villages is a progressing and historic move. And we are taking steps so that it can be implemented in villages at the earliest. We want the villages must get all the civic facilities at par with sectors. And we are working in that direction,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-urban-villages-await-property-ownership-cards-under-svamitva-scheme/story-hj2g5Jzawirpp78zAKXy0K.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks actors Richa Chadha and Payal Ghosh to settle the issue by October 14||The Bombay high court (HC) directed actors Richa Chadha and Payal Ghosh on Monday to arrive at a settlement and file the consent note by Wednesday. The observation was made after Ghosh alleged Chadha’s comments to the media had led to Ghosh being trolled on social media, which Chadha has denied. While hearing the defamation suit filed by Chadha against Ghosh, actor Kamaal R Khan and a news channel, the bench of justice AK Menon was informed that both actors needed more time to finalise the terms of consent. Chadha had claimed damages worth Rs 1.1 crore. Advocate Nitin Satpute, representing Ghosh, alleged that after last week’s hearing, Chadha had told the media she’d won the case whereas the court had asked Ghosh if she was willing to apologise to Chadha and withdraw her allegedly defamatory statement. Ghosh had said she is willing to tender an apology to Chadha. On Monday, Satpute sought directions asking Chadha to refrain from making such statements and to apologise to Ghosh. Chadha’s legal counsel, Saveena Bedi, denied her client had made any such statement and said there was no question of Chadha apologising to Ghosh. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “If you are settling the matter, is it not better that you avoid making public statements? Rather than talking to others, talk to each other.” Satpute informed the court that Ghosh needed time to prepare the consent note after consultation with Chadha, which the court permitted. He also reiterated that his client is willing to withdraw her statement and apologise to Chadha, subject to certain conditions including the agreement that Chadha will not file any criminal case against Ghosh after this matter is settled. The court also continued the injunction on channels and media portals against sharing and airing the statements made by Ghosh about Chadha till the next hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-actors-richa-chadha-and-payal-ghosh-to-settle-the-issue-by-october-14/story-JoyUdFXMrRSNfYQfvH0GPP.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Noida NGO helps 100 visually impaired students learn through online classes||Noida: As schools remain closed due to the Covid lockdown, learning has become a difficult task for students, especially for visually impaired students. To overcome this problem, a Noida-based NGO is helping more than 100 visually impaired students continue the learning process through online classes. The NGO – Saksham Resource Centre – has also provided laptops and mobile phones to students to enable them to join online classes from home. Brij Bartwal, principal of Saksham, located in Noida Sector 51, said the lockdown had stopped the teaching and counselling of students in March. “We had over 100 special students and they stopped coming for classes. Some of them returned to their native places in Bihar, Bengal and other states with their parents after the coronavirus outbreak. This badly affected their studies,” she said. The officials then held a meeting with NGO management and decided to launch online classes. The NGO, which works for inclusive education with assistive technology for the visually impaired students free of cost, provided mobile phones to 14 students and laptops to six students. Other students had managed mobile phones on their own. “We provide education using sign language and braille to children. We provide computer classes for them using a special software, Non Visual Desktop Access (NVDA), which allows blind and vision impaired people to access and interact with Windows. Physiotherapy and occupational therapy sessions, and life-skills training programmes, are also held to make them self-reliant,” she said.The NGO first resumed classes on WhatsApp video call. “Later, we shifted to Microsoft Teams, which facilitates recording of live lectures, and joining of multiple persons in the group,” Bartwal said. The online classes have helped the students immensely. The resource centre caters to children in the age group of six months to 20 years. It has 25 teaching staff and 15 non teaching staff. It runs batches in two shifts 9 am – 2.30 pm and 2.30 pm to 5 pm. The students attending regular schools join the second shift while others join the first shift. “We get students mostly from the villages belonging to the low income group. We sometimes recharge their mobile phone internet bills to ensure they join online classes,” she said. The NGO is supported by different companies through their CSR initiatives.Suraj Thapa, a class VI student in a private school in Noida Sector 27, has been associated with Saksham for over six years. “I have learnt braille and computer basics at the NGO. I study in a private school with normal students. Saksham has empowered me. It has a conducive learning environment for blind students,” he said. Suraj lives with his mother, who is single parent, in Hoshiyarpur village.Saksham was founded by Dipendra Manocha and Rummi K Seth in Delhi in 2003 and the Noida centre was started in 2006. The school provides free education to students. So far it has trained over 500 special students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ngo-helps-100-visually-impaired-students-learn-through-online-classes/story-NVws0VmEEOPnmez8Uo1aKI.html
12-10-2020||City||Brace for heavy rain in Mumbai and suburbs tomorrow: IMD||Mumbai: The city and suburbs can expect heavy to very heavy rain on Thursday and heavy rain on Wednesday and Friday owing to intense rain-bearing weather systems over the east coast.The weather bureau has issued alerts for localised flooding across isolated areas between Wednesday and Friday. This has also delayed the withdrawal of the season so far.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Thursday and the next three days for south Konkan and central Maharashtra. A yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) has been predicted for Wednesday when thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds can be expected while heavy rain has been predicted for Friday in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar.IMD officials said Mumbai, Thane and Raigad could receive heavy rain spells between October 14 and 15. “Maharashtra is already witnessing an enhancement in rain activity with thundershowers over interior parts of the state. This is likely to enhance further with a deep depression located over the Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast moving land from the Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a trough from the cyclonic circulation (weather system) associated with the depression over south-central parts of the country (AP, Rayalaseema and north interior Karnataka). These factors are likely to enhance rainfall for Maharashtra and the Konkan coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.According to IMD’s state-wide warning, the entire state is under a yellow-alert warning while an orange alert has been issued for Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Osmanabad, Solapur, Latur and Nanded districts. On Wednesday, warnings are in place for all south Konkan and south-central Maharashtra districts.Meanwhile, no rain was recorded on Monday but air quality improved. The air quality index (AQI) dipped to 87 (satisfactory) on Monday. It was 90 (satisfactory) on Sunday, 121 (moderate) on Saturday, the worst since March this year. An AQI of 77 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brace-for-heavy-rain-in-mumbai-and-suburbs-tomorrow-imd/story-xE8RSx9cDdcfp6sEBZ1DPL.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG to survey internal roads for setting up cycle tracks||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will undertake a survey of internal roads with the aim of setting up cycle tracks across the city. A direction in this regard was issued by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh during the civic body’s House meeting in Sukhrali on Monday.At the meeting, Mahesh Dayma, MCG councillor of Ward 30, had proposed an agenda for constructing cycle tracks on the Golf Course Road (GCR) and Golf Course Extension Road (GCER). With both the stretches falling under the ambit of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) jurisdiction, MCG commissioner directed officials to conduct a survey of stretches falling within MCG’s jurisdiction where cycle tracks can be set up.“Following the success of city’s first cycle track along Netaji Subhash Marg, we realised that such a project is a must on all civic roads, provided there is adequate space to ensure all safety measures. Hence, a direction has been sent to MCG officials to survey the municipal roads across the city and identify stretches where establishing such cycle tracks is feasible. We want to design our roads in such a manner so that along with vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians can also be catered,” said Vinay Pratap Singh. He said that the survey will be started with immediate effect.All master roads, stretches that carry intercity traffic such as GCR, GCER, MG Road, fall within the jurisdiction of GMDA while stretches carrying intracity traffic such as sector roads and village roads are under the MCG.GMDA has plans for constructing 650 kilometres of cycle tracks across the city, including tracks on Sohna Road, GCR and GCER in the second phase.In the first phase, cycle tracks originating from Huda City Centre (HCC) towards nearby areas such as Subhash Chowk, Signature Towers, IFFCO Chowk, DLF Phase 1/DLF Phase 4 crossing, Kanhai traffic lights will be built by GMDA. In this regard, GMDA has already launched a 10km cycle track between HCC and Subhash Chowk — the first cycle track in the city on October 2.“A minimum of 30 metres of road width is required for setting up cycle tracks. Most municipal roads in Gurugram are 12-20 metres wide. It would be more feasible for the MCG to regularise speed limits on such stretches as per the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) guidelines so as to ensure safety of cyclists, and to build cycle tracks on the few internal roads which are more than 30 metres wide,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, associate director, Nagarro, which is assisting GMDA with setting up cycle tracks on master roads across the city.Bhatt said that as per the IRC guidelines, the speed limit on municipal roads is 30 kmph, which further reduces to 20 kmph when passing hospitals and schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-survey-internal-roads-for-setting-up-cycle-tracks/story-HT3LqtuK6o3T7GmheKQ1sM.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Over a dozen Bhondsi Jail inmates to be questioned in drugs smuggling case||A day after a 52-year-old jail warder deputed at Bhondsi Jail was arrested for allegedly supplying drugs to the inmates, a probe has revealed that he was promised ₹15,000 per delivery by one of the inmates, said the police. The police suspect that the arrested jail warder was supplying drugs to the inmates for the past 10 days and had plans to allegedly smuggle mobile phones inside the jail as well. However, he was caught before he could do so.According to the police, the jail warder, Prem Chand of Mahendragarh, retired from the Indian Army and joined the prison department on a contract, said the police. Chand was arrested from Bhondsi Jail crossing, while receiving drugs from a Rewari-based drug peddler. The police had recovered 110 grams of sulfa and 24 grams of smack packed in a packet from his possession. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Chand came in contact with Deepak alias Deepu alias Churari of Rewari, who offered him to pay ₹15,000 for smuggling drugs inside the jail and ₹20,000 for supplying four mobile phones. “The inmate used to pack the drugs in smaller packets and sold them further for ₹1,000 per 10 grams of drugs and a mobile phone for ₹50,000,” he said. Sangwan said the arrested warder’s plan was to smuggle drugs and mobile phones at least four times a month and earn at least ₹1 lakh through these illegal means. He had prepared a list of inmates who were dealing in drugs and mobile phones inside the jail to earn quick money. “We are investigating if he has any links with the former deputy jail superintendent Dharambeer Chautala, who was arrested on July 23 for smuggling drugs and mobile phones to inmates,” he said. The police have also prepared a list of over 12 inmates who are suspected to be in touch with jail officials and former deputy jail superintendent Dharambeer Chautala. They will be questioned by the crime investigation unit and senior officers to know more about the drug trail inside the Bhondsi jail, said the police. A team was formed on Monday to question the inmates and the police are suspecting that more jail officials might be involved in this racket. Jail officials are under the police scanner as the cases of smuggling drugs and mobile phones are increasing despite strict surveillance, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-a-dozen-bhondsi-jail-inmates-to-be-questioned-in-drugs-smuggling-case/story-Z8xsOeAl1ao0eaxSrBh80L.html
12-10-2020||City||Gurugram air quality enters ‘poor’ zone for first time this season||Gurugram: For the first time this season, air quality entered the ‘poor’ category in Gurugram with the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily evening bulletin recording an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 259, a significant rise from Sunday’s AQI reading of 187. Neighbouring Delhi recorded an AQI of 261 in the ‘poor’ category, the worst this season.Experts and officials said this was to be expected as the city has consistently recorded pollution levels in the upper end of the ‘moderate’ category since October 6, coinciding with a dip in temperature and a reduction in wind speed. They, however, said Gurugram may see cleaner air days over the next week before the full impact of stubble burning in paddy-growing states, mainly Haryana and Punjab, is felt around Delhi-NCR.The maximum temperature recorded was 34.8 degrees Celsius while the minimum was 16.8 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD website.Higher concentrations of PM2.5 (recorded as the primary pollutant in Gurugram on Monday) were felt in the early hours of the morning, peaking around 8am, with concentrations of PM2.5 exceeding the 300ug/m3 mark in the vicinity of at least three official air quality monitoring stations in the city. “North-westerly winds are prevailing, and they are fairly calm. While there may be some small impact farm fires, the reason for Monday’s spurt in AQI is not actually stubble burning. Rather, negligible wind speeds and a nip in the air have allowed pollution from local sources to accumulate. The IMD has predicted a change in wind speeds and directions this week, so we can hope for some improved air quality, but not for very long,” said Sachin Panwar, an independent air quality scientist based in Gurugram, adding crop fires are likely to peak next week, mid-way through this season’s harvest.Elaborating on this, Sumit Sharma, director of the earth science and climate change division at TERI, said, “As of October 8, there were only about 250 farm fires visible in a 400km x 400km quadrant around Delhi. So the intensity is not so much as of now. What has likely happened in Gururgam is that emissions from local sources — vehicles, diesel generators, biomass burning and so on — have been subject to two meteorological adversities: a drop in temperature and a drop in wind speed. So there is no horizontal diffusion of pollutants taking place (by wind) or vertical diffusion (by temperature).” The ministry of earth science’s early air quality warning system for Delhi, issued daily, also noted on Monday, “The wind speed has slowed down, particularly in evening and night, which will help in accumulation of pollutants over Delhi-NCR and deteriorate air quality.” However, as per CPCB’s forecast, Gurugram is expected to see ‘moderate’ air over the next two days, between 160 and 190 on the AQI bulletin. During this period, the India Meteorological Department has predicted an increase in wind speeds over Delhi-NCR, from 4kmph on October 12 to about 8kmph on October 14. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, corroborated the experts’ accounts. “This is not a stubble burning issue yet. Over the past week, the atmospheric temperature has dropped by more than degree and there has been a fall atmospheric pressure all across north India due to the onset of winter, leading to extremely slow winds. We will begin measures for local dust control once we have received directions from the Environment Pollution Control Authority in Delhi. The directions are awaited. The Graded Response Action Plan will be put into effect by the end of this week,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-air-quality-enters-poor-zone-for-first-time-this-season/story-RIzLBDYHa8BvotEUWjqV2M.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||HSVP rakes in ₹250 crore from auctions of plots||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has managed to earn ₹250 crore in the last four auctions held since July. The authority managed to sell both commercial and residential properties at these auctions at a premium. HSVP officials said that due to the strong response from buyers, the authority has now identified several large properties in the city for a mega auction to be held on October 23. In this auction, properties in the commercial sectors of the city will primarily be auctioned. Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP, said that in the previous auctions, the authority managed to earn over ₹250 crore by selling both commercial and residential properties despite market sentiments being low. “The reason for the enthusiastic response is that HSVP properties have premium locations and offer good value for money to the investors. The properties were of different sizes and were rightly priced which helped in their sale,” he said. To offset the large amount of loan burden, the authority has been on a spree to identify its properties and sell them to raise funds. Since last month, the authority had also started an exercise to get its plots measured so that these could be listed in auctions. As per the details shared by the authority, the auction held on July 15 generated a total revenue of ₹15 crore, the one on August 14 generated ₹49 crore. Similarly, the auction on August 28 generated ₹127 crore, while the one on September 29 generated a total revenue of ₹66 crore. HSVP has also listed 23 large commercial properties that would be put on auction on October 23. As per the details shared by the authority, Sector 29 has the maximum number of plots and these include three for shopping complexes, two for shopping malls and three for office towers. In Sector 43, there are sites for two commercial complexes. A number of large sites are also spread across the city, said officials, adding that the auction has already generated interests among prospective buyers. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, said that given the strong response of buyers, the authority is expecting to sell large commercial sites in the upcoming mega auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-rakes-in-250-crore-from-auctions-of-plots/story-bVbvaXhLBeVDdvJLDfL1nM.html
12-10-2020||City||Delhi entrepreneurship university may begin first academic session next year||New Delhi: The first academic session of Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University is expected to start from next year, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday.Addressing a digital press briefing, Kejriwal said the board of the university has been constituted and its members held the first meeting on Monday. “The Delhi skill and entrepreneurship university has been established through an Act of the Delhi legislative assembly. I am glad to announce that the university has started functioning today. The first academic session is expected to start next year. It will be done in close consultation with companies who will be treated as customers in this endeavour, so that courses are in tune with industry demand. The courses which will be taught in the university will be designed in a manner that the students get jobs based on the design and curriculum of the course,” Kejriwal said. The government has appointed Dr Neharika Vohra, the head of the Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship (CIIE) at IIM-Ahmedabad, as the vice-chancellor of the university.The board members include Pramath Raj Sinha, founding dean of the Indian School of Business and founder of Ashoka University; Genpact founder Pramod Bhasin; Naukri.com founder Sanjeev Bikhchandani; entrepreneur Shrikant Sastri and IP University founding vice-chancellor KK Aggarwal.Kejriwal said the sole objective of the university is to ensure a conducive environment for those seeking to become entrepreneurs.“Students will be imparted skills and training at the university so that they can easily get a job as soon as they pass out from the institute or can pursue business by getting hands-on business training,” he said. A senior official in the education department said the university will have multiple campuses or centres across Delhi and the admission process along with its schedule will be prepared by the board in the coming months. “The main campus will be located in southeast Delhi, even as there will be multiple centres in different parts of the city. The admission schedule will be rolled out next year, 2-3 months before the start of the academic session,” the official said. The chief minister said that those designing courses will show the curriculum to industry bodies and companies and seek their feedback on who job-oriented it is. “The university should also address the qualitative gap that exists in the skilling sector. This was seen when all industries, businesses, shops, and markets were shut down during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, and people lost their jobs. With the easing of lockdown restrictions, I met people who did not have jobs, and those who had businesses but did not have people to work for them. It means that both were available, but they could not come together on a platform. We then started a job portal and created a common platform for both job-seekers and job-providers. As a result, there were lakhs of jobs available for job-seekers in Delhi. This is the same concept,” Kejriwal said. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said the university will focus both on quality and quantity — providing high-quality courses in the entire spectrum of skill training, from traditional skills to those of the future, and ensuring that the intake of students is large enough to cater to the existing demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-entrepreneurship-university-may-begin-first-academic-session-next-year/story-ftexHsp7GOPUPNZmC3xqPK.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Yeida close to finalising layout of its township for farmers in Jewar Bangar||GREATER NOIDA: As the farmers are set to get more land for residential purpose in new township to be developed in Jewar Bangar, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority is likely to finalise the layout for the same this week, officials said on Monday.Earlier the farmers were supposed to get 50% residential land of covered area in their respective village houses. But now, as per the revised scheme, each farmer who has given his land/house for the proposed international airport at Jewar will get 50% of the plot area.“Due to this change, we are revising the layout of the township planned on 48 hectares for those farmers whose land and houses are coming in way of the airport project. Once the layout is finalized, we will issue a tender to select an agency that will develop this township,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The UP government has already sanctioned Rs 350 crore for the development of the township that will be one of its kinds for multiple reasons, said the officials, adding that the township will be having a temple and a mosque catering to both the community members.Apart from this, the proposed township will have all the basic facilities such as schools, primary health centre, parks, sewage system, among others, at par with an urban area, the officials said.“We have decided to develop the best township for the farmers at Jewar Bangar, which will have all modern facilities that an urban area can dream of. We will keep in mind while developing it that the farmers do not face any hassle living in it,” said the Yeida CEO.The authority increased the plot size after demands from the farmers. “Many farmers have small built-up area covered between walls whereas their plot sizes in villages are larger. If the government had calculated on the basis of covered area, many farmers would have suffered. But now with bigger size of plots, our children may manage living in it,” said Trilok Kumar from Banwaribas village whose land was acquired for the airport project.On Monday, the authority took a meeting with Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh and town planning officials on this issue and expedited the work so that it can make way for the airport project. On September 7, a concession agreement was signed with Switzerland company Zurich Airport International AG that is scheduled to start work at the airport project site by mid-2021. Therefore, Yeida wants to develop the township at Jewar Bangar village well on time so that the farmers shift into this new township and vacate their houses in villages, which will be demolished paving the way for the airport work to be started at the site.“It will be one of its kind townships for the farmers in the country,” said a Yeida official, not authorized to speak to media.The authority has also decided to compensate the farmers adequately so that they remain happy as they have given their land for the development of the airport project. “We have requested Yeida that they should do justice with farmers, whose houses, shops and other buildings have to be demolished to make way for the airport site. We want that farmers should not feel cheated once they leave their houses for the airport and shift into the new township,” said the Jewar MLA after the meeting.Out of 8,971 total farmer families, houses of 3,627 families will be destroyed completely, the officials said.The administration has acquired 1,334 hectares of land in six villages -- Rohi, Parohi, Ranhera, Kishorpur, Banwaribas and Dayanatpur. A total of 8,971 farmer families will be affected as they have given their agricultural land and houses paving the way for the development of the Noida International Greenfield Airport project at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yeida-close-to-finalising-layout-of-its-township-for-farmers-in-jewar-bangar/story-lBKBysuG5yvAaIw9WEKTtO.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bullets replace all that’s beautiful in Chandigarh as gangs hold sway over city||The murder of Gurlal Brar, a former student leader and close associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi outside a mall in Industrial Area in the early hours of Sunday, again highlights how Chandigarh has, from Le Corbusier’s planned and organised city, become a haven for gangsters.The mushrooming of high rise buildings and housing societies in the periphery areas helps criminals find hideouts easily without tenant verification as strict police checks have stopped being the norm. Paying guest accommodation and even university and college hostel rooms are, therefore, safe areas for gangsters.“People renting out their houses skip the tenant verification process so it’s easy for gangsters to camp in the tricity without being noticed. Porous borders, too, make it easy for members of various gangs to flee without fear of being caught,” says a senior Chandigarh police official. “The anonymity factor is attracting criminals to the tricity and markets and pubs in the periphery operate without any checks. The apartment culture too facilitates movement of gangsters. No one notices as neighbourhood ties are not as strong as before,” says Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP). Stressing on the need to strengthen basic policing, Satinder Singh, Mohali SSP, adds: “Active night life attracts both youngsters and criminals alike. Co-ordination for quick sharing of information will help block escape routes.” Terming the tricity a “Centre point for gangsters wanting to maintain a low profile and hide,” a senior Punjab police official posted in Mohali, says, “Many gangsters now active in Punjab and Haryana have studied in Chandigarh and have taken to crime during their student days.”The macho image propagated on social media by some criminals, flaunting guns and pistols and showing off bulging muscles and sculpted bodies, has a fan following among youth.“These criminals lure youngsters who for a ‘kick’ get hooked to crime, little realising the repercussions. Many students help them by getting them accommodation, updating their social media accounts and arranging for logistical support,” shares a Chandigarh police officer. Gangsters of ChandigarhLawrence Bishnoi Born in 1992 in Ferozepur district, Bishnoi was a Punjab police constable’s son and once considered close to Neeraj Bawana, a gangster active in the Ferozepur area. Currently lodged in a jail in Rajasthan, Bishnoi is in touch with his gang members and is still active on social media. Named in a number of murder and attempt to murder cases, he is wanted by Haryana, Punjab Rajasthan and Chandigarh police. In 2015, while in Punjab police custody, he made an unsuccessful escape attempt in Banur, Punjab. Sampat Nehra Nehra, born in 1990 in Rajgarh in Rajasthan, is the son of a retired assistant sub-inspector of Chandigarh Police. A national level athlete, he studied at Chandigarh’s Sri Guru Gobind Singh College in Sector 26 and led Lawrence Bishnoi’s gang after his arrest. Nehra was booked in two cases in Chandigarh, including an extortion attempt against the owners of chemists Kumar Brothers. Wanted in a number of cases, including murder, by various police forces in the region, Nehra was arrested by Haryana Police’s special task force from Hyderabad in Telangana. Deepak Tinu A sharpshooter for the Nehra gang, Tinu is notorious for never missing a target. He is currently lodged in jail after his arrest by Bhiwani police. Tinu escaped police custody from the Sector 6 Civil Hospital in Panchkula in 2017. Among the murder cases he was involved in, one of his victims included the member of a rival gang, Lavi Deora, in Kotkapura. Bharat Bhushan alias Bhola shooter Involved in many criminal cases in Chandigarh, Haryana and Punjab, Bhola used to provide money, logistic support and manage communications between Bishnoi’s gang members. Bhola came into the limelight for his involvement in a robbery at the Sher-e-Punjab Gun House at Kotkapura in Punjab. Ankit Bhandu A Bishnoi gang sharpshooter, Bhandu was shot dead in an encounter in Zirakpur in February 2019. From Sherewala village in Abohar district of Punjab, Bhandu was president of Students’ Organisation of Panjab University, Rajasthan, even though he was a school dropout. He had taken over the operations of the gang after Bishnoi’s arrest and was arrested by Fazilka police in July 2015 and jumped bail from Kapurthala jail in October 2017. Arrested again, he escaped during an encounter by a joint team police from Sriganganagar in Rajasthan and Haryana in August 2018. Davinder Bambiha Gangster Davinder Bambiha, 25, was shot dead in a police encounter at Gill Kalan near Rampura in September 2016. He has been “virtually” kept alive by his gang members who post his pictures regularly on social media. From Bambiha Bhai village in Moga district and wanted for six murders, Bambiha studied up to Class 12 and his gang gained notoriety in 2013 after a shootout at Paonta Sahib. A man named Lucky now manages the gang’s operations from abroad. Dilpreet Singh Dhahan He gained notoriety after taking responsibility for shooting and injuring Punjabi singer Parmish Verma at Mohali in April 2018 as part of an extortion racket targeting such celebrities. Soon after the attack on Verma, singer Gippy Grewal too lodged an extortion complaint with the police. On April 9, 2017, Dhahan was caught on camera shooting at a Hoshiarpur sarpanch outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh. He was arrested after he sustained injuries during an encounter in the city.Kali RajputRavinder alias Kali Rajput’s name cropped up in an extortion case following the kidnapping of a Burail hotelier in December 2017. A resident of Balongi in Mohali and a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, Kali, police sources say, helped Bishnoi escape police custody in January 2015 from Banur. There are about five cases of extortion, murder and attempt to murder registered against Kali in the tricity. Bhupesh Rana In April 2018, Bhupesh Rana, a Monu Rana gang member active in Haryana, was murdered in broad daylight a few metres from the police station at the busy Barwala market in Panchkula by a rival gang. Rana was allegedly involved in the murder of a member of the Bhupi Rana gang in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bullets-replace-all-that-s-beautiful-in-chandigarh-as-gangs-hold-sway-over-city/story-Br68dVCB2Km7Od130kG7oN.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Noida: An online interactive community that is helping netizens relieve their stress during Covid times||NOIDA: Till July 5 this year, Noida-based Divya Shah, 32, followed the ‘mind your business’ mantra in her life. But when stories of depression and suicides started pouring in amid Covid-19 outbreak and helplessness started increasing, someone suggested this former TV journalist to kick off a community interactive online platform. And from there, began the unique journey of her online interaction on the zoom platform, and by Tuesday – the 100th day of its inception – it had over 300 visitors. Divya has christened this platform as Radio Diva. Divya said after kicking off the interactive programme, there was literally no looking back. “Gradually for me, and many others, it became a habit of sorts. These 100 days of being our own true self and falling in love over and over again, is really a unique experience,” she says. Radio Diva, Divya says, is an online platform where she connects everyday – mostly on audio – through a link shared on WhatsApp to its members. “On this platform, we talk about everything under the sun except the C, i.e. Corona – which is ‘THE’ virus for all of us,” she said. According to her, topics in this community radio range from anger, to the right usage of words, body shaming to virtual trips to mountains and beaches. “Everyone gets an opportunity to express their opinions and vent out their emotions, and many times just agree to disagree. The highlights of this programme is that we have dedicated days for real heroes, counsellors, singing, mushaira and story telling,” says this former TV journalist. Delhi-based psychologist Gareemaa Sehgal, who is also an active member of this community interaction, said what you wish to ignite in others must first burn inside of you. “This programme is one such platform that has pulled out people from the uncertain dark Covid-19 nights and installed hope and possibilities, love and compassion, friendships in everyone who has come across it,” she said. Echoing similar views, Guwahati-based mental counsellor Dr Varghese Mandapathil, said it was during the lockdown that Divya started this community platform, changing setbacks into a comeback. “The love spread through this programme has struck deep roots into the hearts of people who are part of this community interaction. It helped people to realise the power of their dream and come out of their comfort zones to live a happier life,” he said. Visitors to this platform, which caters to cross-sections of society, say that during the pandemic, especially during the complete lockdown, it helped them to remove negative thoughts in their minds. “A few friends and acquaintances joined and friends of friends pitched in and the community kept growing. People talk of isolation and loneliness as the side effects of lockdown. I can vouch with confidence that all the ones who attended the show on a regular basis surely feel fortunate to be part of this happy community that each one has together created and contributed to,” Divya says. About the future of Radio Diva, she said that like RWAs, every society must have a radio platform like this also. “Why can’t two strangers be friends without judgements? I want every society to make a platform to meet and greet and learn from each other’s wisdom even if it’s just for half an hour. Let the happy community grow, let good things also go viral,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-an-online-interactive-community-that-is-helping-netizens-relieve-their-stress-during-covid-times/story-tP9K9t80IEFlegQIL6Oh2J.html
12-10-2020||City||DDA to review ‘pay for preferred flat’ scheme||New Delhi: New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is going to review its recently announced plan to allow applicants to select the location of their flat on payment of Preferential Location Charges (PLC). The matter was discussed in the recent on October 9 authority meeting in which BJP and AAP MLAs, who are members of the DDA, raised concerns about the scheme, said a senior DDA official.The DDA is headed by the Lieutenant Governor.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “The matter was raised in the meeting. We will hold a meeting with the two representatives and review it.”The land-owning agency, for the first time, had come out with the scheme to ensure better response to its housing schemes. As per the plan, an applicant can give his/her preference of the location (floor level, corner house, facing the green area, etc) by paying an additional charge of between 1.5-3% of the total cost of the house, if he/she is successful in the draw of lots conducted by the DDA for the housing scheme.The DDA had approved a PLC of 3% of the total cost of the flat for ground floor, 2.5% for flats facing green areas, 2.5% for flats on the first floor, 2% for corner flats and 1.5% for second floor flats. An applicant can opt for multiple preferences and will have to pay accordingly, said a DDA official aware of the development. For instance, for a first floor flat facing green area, an allottee will have to pay 5% of the total cost of the house as PLC.BJP MLA and DDA member Vijender Gupta, who raised the matter in the recent authority meeting, said, “The maximum a person has to pay is 3% to book a location of his/her preference. This way a lot of people would apply and draw of lots have to be held. Moreover, those who can’t afford to pay PLC will be deprived of an opportunity to own a flat on the ground or first floor, or a corner flat. There is a need to review the scheme. I had asked for a committee to be formed to review it.”AAP MLA and DDA member Somnath Bharti said the DDA’s mandate is to provide “affordable housing”. “DDA is supposed to provide affordable flats. Unlike private builders, it is not in for making profits. Moreover, on one hand we are trying to lower the rates of flats to dispose them of, and on the other hand we are trying to increase the prices by allowing PLC. We have to evaluate the scheme,” said Bharti.The decision to allow PLC was taken in the authority meeting chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal last month.Currently, the DDA has close to 10,000-15,000 vacant flats and close to 40,000 flats in various stages of construction. The agency has flats either ready or nearing completion in Dwarka, Jasola Vihar and Narela. In the next housing scheme, DDA plans to offer 400 MIG in Jasola Vihar and 200 HIG flats Dwarka.While DDA officials say that this is to help applicants, Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with DDA, said, “DDA’s mandate is not to make profit but to provide affordable housing to people. By allowing people to select the location by paying PLC, they are denying opportunities to those who don’t have money to pay such charges. Under the previous allotment, all applicants had equal opportunity to get a first or a ground floor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-to-review-pay-for-preferred-flat-scheme/story-TtcVt0fuNDIwO0K7Jw86iM.html
12-10-2020||City||Construction worker sleeping on roadside crushed to death by crane||New Delhi: A 31-year-old worker employed by a private firm constructing a drain along GT Karnal Road in outer Delhi’s Alipur was crushed to death, allegedly by a crane hired by the same contractor, while he was sleeping on the roadside early Sunday, police said.The crane driver allegedly abandoned the vehicle about a kilometre from the spot and fled. “We have identified the crane driver and are trying to find him,” Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), said.The victim, Manoj Saini, is a native of Akbarpur in Uttar Pradesh and was among a group of workers camping at the site since over a month to build the drain. “The work had been outsourced to a private firm,” the DCP said.According to one of his colleagues, on Saturday night, Saini had gone off to sleep on the roadside while the others found it a little bit cold and preferred the tents.Around 3.30 am, one of the workers woke up and checked on Saini. “He wasn’t responding when I called out to him. He was covered in a blanket and I thought that he must be sleeping. But when I checked again sometime later, I found him to be crushed and dead,” said the worker who didn’t give out his name.The worker alleged that the way the blanket was placed on top of Saini’s body, it indicated the crane driver had placed it to avoid an immediate detection of the death.But the DCP said the workers themselves covered the body with a blanket until the police arrived.The workers informed their contractor about the death after which the police were alerted around 7.45 am.While the cause of the death wasn’t immediately clear at that time, the police found tracks of a large vehicle leading away from the body.They followed the tracks to find an abandoned crane about a kilometre away. “There were blood stains on the tyres of the crane, confirming the vehicle had crushed him,” said another investigator who didn’t want to be identified.The police registered a case of causing death due to negligence and seized the crane. “The crane was being used to drop pipes for drainage construction at the site and belongs to the same firm that employed Saini. It appears that after dropping the pipes, the crane crushed the Saini,” the DCP said.While the driver is yet to be nabbed, investigators suspect the presence of dust along the roadside due to the construction work affected visibility, leading to the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/construction-worker-sleeping-on-roadside-crushed-to-death-by-crane/story-HvFdrHr1KiRlMR1PTLYugM.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Discom fines billing agency ₹10 lakh over wrong meter readings, faulty power bills since March||NOIDA: Taking serious note of the instructions given by Uttar Pradesh energy minister Shrikant Sharma, power distribution company Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) said that it has imposed a fine of ₹10 lakh on a billing agency since March.Officials of the PVVNL, which caters to Noida and some parts of Greater Noida, said that the fine has been imposed for incorrect meter readings and untimely disposal of electricity bills by meter reading company Inventive Software Solutions Private Limited.The imposition of the fine on a billing agency by discoms, however, is not a new phenomenon in the state.“According to the agreement, in case of any fault in metre reading or billing, the billing company is bound to pay the penalty. The fines are imposed if the company prepares the electricity bills without taking proper meter reading, or issues bills against surrendered connections. Discoms can also fine agencies for issuing bills based on false meter reading of closed meters,” PVVNL chief engineer (Noida) Virendra Nath Singh said.Singh further said that nearly 5,000 consumers in Noida have complained about wrong bills or indiscriminate meter reading since the outbreak of Covid-19. “The billing company has been asked to correct the bills and meter reading without any delay. The officials concerned have also been warned to deliver the monthly electricity bills to consumers on time,” he said.The chief engineer further said that at present, meters of over 12,000 consumers in Noida are not working properly. “As a result, consumers are facing difficulties in depositing their electricity bills on time. Necessary guidelines have been issued to replace these faulty meters and they will be replaced within a month,” he said. When contacted, Lokesh Kumar, the in-charge of the Noida office (Sector 67) of Inventive Software Solutions Private Limited, said that as per the agreement with the discom, the company has no option other than to face the penalty. “Whatever fine is imposed on us, we will immediately clear it,” he said.The state energy minister, on a number of occasions, had expressed anguish over the dilly-dallying approach of the UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) in executing agreements finalised with billing agencies. Last week, he had pointed out delays in arrangement of downloadable bills in urban and rural areas. “If electricity bills are not provided to consumers for more than three months then the recovery of unpaid meter readings will be done from billing agencies,” he said, while expressing concern over the billing agencies not being able to collect mobile numbers, meter numbers and GPS location of meters within the stipulated time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-discom-fines-billing-agency-10-lakh-over-wrong-meter-readings-faulty-power-bills-since-march/story-tJ49hc7ayJS6GMEbcB5KiJ.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: High-rise societies far from ready for DG set ban under Grap||Ghaziabad: Ahead of October 15 when the ban on diesel generator (DG)-sets comes into effect in the National Capital Region (NCR), the Ghaziabad district magistrate, during a review meeting of pollution abatement measures, asked resident welfare associations (RWA) to install smaller sets for emergency services such as lifts, among others. The Environment (Pollution and control) Authority (Epca), in its communication to the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary on October 8, had directed for a ban on DG-sets.Ghaziabad district has about 300 high-rise societies, a majority of which have multiple residential towers which are dependent primarily on DG-sets for power backup. The Epca on October 8 had exempted essential/emergency services from the ban. “We have suggested to RWAs to install smaller capacity generator sets wherever possible for operation of lifts and other emergency services. Otherwise, the directions of Epca will be complied with and there will be strict implementation of measures under the graded response action plan (Grap),” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. “We will ask the electricity department to ensure that there are no power cuts. We have also asked RWAs to provide heaters in the guard room so that instances of wood-fuelled fires are fewer,” he added.According to officials of the electricity department, Ghaziabad has a base of about eight lakh domestic electricity consumers, 90,000 commercial establishments, and another 13,000 industrial connections which primarily depend on DG-sets. Residents of high-rises, meanwhile, said that electricity connections run on DG-sets are common for lifts, lighting in common areas and apartments as well.“So far we have not received any notice about a ban on DG-sets from October 15 otherwise we would have given our representation. Use of smaller diesel generators will not be possible as many societies have multiple towers, where a huge investment and separate electricity cabling will be required for the smaller sets. Further, in many societies, the wiring for these is underground and in-built and cannot be separated so easily for lifts, etc,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners. The residents said that there is an average of about two hours of power cut in trans-Hindon areas and that use of DG-sets must be allowed. A common connection from DG-sets to apartments and essential services is common in high-rise societies in areas like Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara, where implementation of the ban will become tricky for the administration. On the other hand, in areas such as Kaushambi, RWAs said that they have separate connections for running essential services and power supply to apartments. “We have 22 high-rise societies in Kaushambi where connections from DG-sets for essential services like lifts, water pumps, etc are separate from those for flats. After Grap comes into effect, we will run only essential power supply from DG-sets while households will run on their individual power backups,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWA. The electricity department officials, on the other hand, said they are supplying an average of about 23.45 hours of electricity supply daily. “On our part, we have a lesser number of faults and none of our transmissions or distribution substations is overloaded. In the coming winter season, the demand will further go down and there will be no issues of outages, etc. Further, there is no building in the city which is without an electricity connection,” said RK Rana, chief engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited. The DM has directed officials to keep a tab on restaurants, hotels, dhabas, eateries, etc., to ensure that they stop the use of tandoors which use wood or coal as fuel. “Officials will ensure that such establishments use PNG or LPG instead of coal or wood. Different directions have also been given for mechanical road sweeping, water sprinkling, etc. The chief secretary, in a video conference on Monday, asked us to keep strict tabs on stubble burning,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-high-rise-societies-far-from-ready-for-dg-set-ban-under-grap/story-VDJ4VBN8yTR2UVuWaclv6H.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad air plunges to ‘very poor’ after seven months||Ghaziabad: For the first time since February, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Ghaziabad deteriorated to the ‘very poor’ category, on Monday. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the primary reason for the rise in pollution levels is the increasing instances of stubble burning in states such as Punjab and Haryana. Going by the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) figures on Monday, AQI levels in Ghaziabad stood at 302, just under the ‘very poor’ category. According to the records of CPCB, Ghaziabad AQI was observed in the ‘very poor’ category last on February 26. That same month, the city saw 11 days of ‘very poor’ category AQI. On Monday, the city was among the only four – Baghpat, Kurukshetra and Panipat – across the country to have ‘very poor’ air quality. “The AQI levels are being affected primarily by the trend of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana. They are also aided by the north-westerly winds which are bringing in pollutants. Further, wind speed has plunged to five-six kilometre per hour (kmph), which has further led to slower dispersal of pollutants. Apart from these, local pollutants have also aided to the deterioration of air quality,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, New Delhi. Official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agro-Ecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (Creams) Laboratory – a Division of Agricultural Physics, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, in New Delhi, show that from October 1 to 11 Punjab recorded at least 1,804 instances of stubble burning, as compared to 508 during the same period last year. In Haryana, such instances during the same period this year have been 488, while 546 were recorded during the same period last year. “We are expecting a change in wind direction – from north-westerly to easterly – with high wind speed in the next two-three days. This will lead to a spike in pollution levels but thereafter, it will become better,” Srivastava added. Meanwhile, the two neighbouring cities of Noida and Greater Noida stood under the ‘poor’ category, with AQI levels at 274 and 292, respectively, on Monday. According to the official records of the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB), Ghaziabad recorded 67 days in 2019 under the ‘very poor’ AQI category, while it reeled under the ‘severe’ category on a total of 31 days. AQI under the ‘poor’ category was recorded on a total of 112 days last year.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Experts, however, stressed on the need for a uniform pollution abatement policy for the entire National Capital Region (NCR), not just for Delhi. “For instance, if we implement the odd-even system only in Delhi, it will not have much impact on air pollution prevalent in other areas of NCR. So, there is much need for uniform pollution abatement policy for the entire NCR, which should cover at least 100km of area. If the various districts implement different policies at their local level, it will not have much impact on the reduction of pollution,” said Ashish Jain, founder and director of Delhi-based Indian Pollution Control Association.“In cities such as Ghaziabad, and further in western UP, we have issues related to operation of diesel vehicles and brick kilns, which aide pollution,” he added.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the conditions are better this year, as compared to the previous year. “The rise in AQI levels is due to localised conditions prevailing at Loni and Sanjay Nagar. There are some construction activities going on in Loni which we will tackle, while a team was sent to Sanjay Nagar where there is a bus stand and loose soil close to an air quality monitoring station. Last year, we had requested the CPCB to allow us to shift the Sanjay Nagar station elsewhere but they had denied. So, our teams are taking up resolution of issues and will get these resolved in a couple of days,” the DM said.Two of the monitoring stations, out of a total of four, which largely affected the AQI level of Ghaziabad, are the ones at Loni and Sanjay Nagar. These two stations recorded high levels of AQI under ‘very poor’ category, with 326 for Loni and 337 for Sanjay Nagar according to the figures of CPCB on Monday.Meanwhile, the AQI for the other two stations in Ghaziabad, located at Indirapuram and Vasundhara, was 286, and 265, respectively, on Monday, according to the CPCB’s daily 4pm bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-air-plunges-to-very-poor-after-seven-months/story-fxKG1Ttf8C0hB9OmEkIboO.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at hospital in Mulund, near Mumbai; no one injured||A level zero fire was reported at Apex Hospital in Mulund on Monday evening at around 6.15 pm, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB). According to MFB, the fire was reported due to overheating of the generator. No injuries were reported due to the incident, however, a total of 40 patients including Covid-19 patients were shifted to other hospitals nearby including Mulund Covid-19 jumbo centre as a measure of precaution.An MFB official said, “The fire is brought under control, however, as a measure of precaution the patients were shifted. The generator caught fire as it was being used since morning due to power failure. Further, the investigation is ongoing. All patients and staff of the hospital are safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-hospital-in-mulund-near-mumbai-no-one-injured/story-N0vCkwV0qCyi78ntQdKDeO.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain likely to lash Mumbai, IMD upgrades forecast to orange alert||The city and suburbs can expect heavy to very heavy rain on Thursday and heavy rain on Wednesday and Friday owing to intense rain-bearing weather systems over the east coast.The weather bureau has issued alerts for localised flooding due to intense rainfall across isolated areas between Wednesday and Friday. This has also delayed the withdrawal of the season so far.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Thursday and the next three days for south Konkan and central Maharashtra. A yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) has been predicted for Wednesday when thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds can be expected while heavy rain has been predicted for Friday in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar.Also read: Andhra HC orders CBI to act against YSR leaders, others who attacked judgesThe IMD officials said Mumbai, Thane and Raigad could receive heavy rain spells between October 14 and 15. “Maharashtra is already witnessing an enhancement in rain activity with thundershowers over interior parts of the state. This is likely to enhance further with a deep depression located over the Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast moving toward land from the Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a trough from the cyclonic circulation (weather system) associated with the depression over south-central parts of the country (AP, Rayalaseema and north interior Karnataka). These factors are likely to enhance rainfall for Maharashtra and the Konkan coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.According to IMD’s state-wide warning, the entire state is under a yellow-alert warning while an orange alert has been issued for Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Osmanabad, Solapur, Latur and Nanded districts. On Wednesday, warnings are in place for all south Konkan and south-central Maharashtra districts.Meanwhile, no rain was recorded on Monday but air quality improved. The air quality index (AQI) dipped to 87 (satisfactory) on Monday. It was 90 (satisfactory) on Sunday, 121 (moderate) on Saturday - the worst since March this year. An AQI of 77 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-likely-to-lash-mumbai-imd-upgrades-forecast-to-orange-alert/story-polnDwfvHvAUlNE4OdBdOL.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||PUMEET: Varsity extends registration date till October 14||Panjab University on Monday decided to extend the last date for registration for the Panjab University Migration Engineering Entrance Test (PUMEET) till October 14.In an official communique, PU said that it has extended the last date of registration for PUMEET till October 14 and that the last date for submission of fee through net banking is October 15. Candidates have been requested to keep visiting the concerned website http://pumeet.puchd.ac.in for further information.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the varsity has scrapped PUNEET this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pumeet-varsity-extends-registration-date-till-october-14/story-PeYARjLVkEviVQIkJ1GV4M.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Second case of firing in city within 24 hours, TikTok star hurt||Saurav Gujjar, 25, a TikTok star, was injured in firing after an argument over currency notes falling from a person’s pocket at a Sector 9 bar on Sunday night, barely 24 hours after the gunning down gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide outside a mall in Industrial Area.The incidents were unrelated, police said.  Gujjar, a choreographer with a dance academy and a resident of Zirakpur, was injured after a bullet hit his thigh outside Eskobar at about 11.45pm as he talked on his mobile phone.He had reportedly had a confrontation with a man named Mosin from Ludhiana at the bar over currency notes one of the men had dropped while dancing. Gujjar is being treated at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where his condition is said to be stable. Police have recovered one shell from the spot.“The accused has been identified as teams are out on raid to arrest him,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. A case under sections 307 and the Arms Act was registered at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/second-case-of-firing-in-city-within-24-hours-tiktok-star-hurt/story-9L7S6YhhEliX9ej78uyt9K.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former bank employee dies by suicide in Panchkula hotel||The body of a 34-year-old Daria resident whose services had reportedly been terminated by a private bank in Chandigarh some months back was found in a hotel room in Sector 10, Panchkula, on Monday, in what’s suspected to be a suicide case.Police estimated death to have occurred due to poisoning two days ago. A note was also found in the room.The man went missing from his home on October 10. Searching for him for the last two days, his family found his car at the hotel parking lot . After the family checked with the hotel authorities and the room was opened, the man’s body was found on the bed. “It’s likely that he consumed poison on the night of October 10. We have sent the body for post-mortem,” a police official said.The note recovered in the hotel room mentioned how his bank terminated his services eight to 10 months ago on fraud accusations, how others were involved in the fraud, and that he felt humiliated before his friends because of it, the official added.An FIR has been filed under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. According to police, no one has been named so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-bank-employee-dies-by-suicide-in-p-kula-hotel/story-J9vvPlDDrDITmNXM2J56kM.html
12-10-2020||City||Railway ticket-booking gang busted; five held with 42 mobiles, 13 ATM cards stolen from migrants||New Delhi: Police on Monday said they had busted a gang of cheats and thieves who impersonated passengers, railway employees or ticket agents and duped migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh by promising them confirmed train or bus tickets to their hometowns during the festive season. Five members of the gang, including two brothers, were arrested with 42 mobiles, 20 travel bags, 13 ATM cards and several other items – all stolen from migrants in the recent past, the police said. “A total of 27 cases of cheating and theft, all registered at four different police stations in northwest Delhi in the recent past, have been solved with the arrest of the five men, who are part of an organised syndicate named “ticket booking gang”,” said deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Vijayanta Arya. The arrests were made by the district’s special staff team following investigations into the cases registered in Mahendra Park, Adarsh Nagar, Subhash Place and Keshavpuram police stations. The arrested men were identified as Sanjay Yadav, Lal Babu Sahni, Santosh Kumar, Rakesh Mandal and his brother Rajeev Mandal. All five arrested men are themselves migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and had come to Delhi some years ago in search of jobs. Since they were not satisfied with the wages they earned by working in factories or private companies, they collaborated to dupe other migrants returning to their home towns during various festivals, a police officer associated with the probe said, requesting anonymity. Explaining the gang’s modus operandi, the officer said that each member of the syndicate has a different role to play during any crime. One or two would position themselves at Singhu border in outer Delhi and would target migrants working in factories in Sonepat, Karnal, Rohtak and other places in Haryana but coming to Delhi to board trains or buses to their hometowns. The suspects would board buses, sharing auto-rickshaws or e-rickshaws that the victims would take to reach any interstate railway station or bus terminal in Delhi. During the journey the suspects would pose as co-passengers and claiming that their destinations were the same, the officer said. “On the way, the suspects would trick the victims into believing that they would help them get confirmed train or bus tickets through ticket booking agents or using their contacts in the railway department. They would convince them to de-board the bus or auto in the mid-way,” the officer said, adding the suspects would introduce the victims to their associates who impersonate travelling ticket examiner (TTE) or ticket booking agents. The second set of racketeers who impersonate TTE or ticket agents would trick the victims into giving them their ATM cards and secret codes on the pretext of booking their tickets. “Since the impersonators would deliberately delay their return, the first group of racketeers would steal the valuables of the victims and leave on the pretext of going and checking on the TTE or agent. The suspects would then withdraw money using the stolen ATM cards and passwords,” the officer added. On October 6, the suspects using the same modus operandi had duped a father-son duo belonging to Uttar Pradesh of over R68,000 that they withdrew after tricking them into giving them their ATM card and its password for obtaining confirmed train tickets, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railway-ticket-booking-gang-busted-five-held-with-42-mobiles-13-atm-cards-stolen-from-migrants/story-BSGyomQa5cJA3gMpg67MrI.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||HC puts Punjab govt on notice for illegal felling of Khair trees||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday put the Punjab government on notice on a public interest litigation (PIL) for the alleged illegal felling of Khair trees in the Siswan forest area.The petition filed by Mohali resident Akbar Khan alleges that only 333 killa (acres) out of 3,300 acres in Siswan village are privately owned and the rest is under forest area. However, some private contractors with power of attorney from these land owners are cutting and uprooting trees on private land as well as the forest area in connivance with the forest officials.According to the petition: “This is a clear proof that the forest mafia is using all illegal methods in the garb of permits and cutting trees (falling) under the area of Panchayat land and forest land, which is a clear violation of the Indian Forest Act and Punjab Preservation of Land Act.” If this trend is not checked the day is not far when the forest mafia will cut the all forest area trees which will have serious consequences for the ecosystem, reads the plea.Landowners involved in the racket should be questioned and made responsible for illegal felling of the trees, the petitioner demands, adding that government and local officials should be directed to initiate investigations into the matter.Khair or Acacia catechu has commercial value because it is used for making rollers for crushing oilseeds and sugarcane, knife handles and for charcoal. A white substance called katha derived from it is used as a medicinal remedy for body aches and other ailments. The bark has use for relief in asthma, indigestion and eczema. Katha is also used for paan or betel leaf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-puts-punjab-govt-on-notice-for-illegal-felling-of-khair-trees/story-pZhT2h9g6xcxdGfE2tiPEJ.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools not in favour of reopening from October 15||The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in the Unlock 5.0 guidelines issued at the beginning of the month, had permitted the schools to reopen from October 15 but most private schools of the city are not in favour of it.The UT education department had sent forms to each recognised private school in the city to get response regarding the same. The response has come back negative as per the department.Confirming this, UT district education officer (DEO) Ravinder Kaur said, “Private schools are not willing to partially reopen for academic consultation October 15 onwards. The parents are not on board with this, and the schools, which had reopened for board classes from September 21 onwards, have witnessed low attendance.”PARENTS UNWILLING TO SEND KIDS TO SCHOOLHS Mamik, president of the independent school association and chairman of Vivek High School in Sector 38, said, “Out of the 75 schools in our association, most have reported that only 10-17% of the parents will give consent to send their kids to school as per surveys conducted by them. We have relayed this information back to the department and, what the parents want should be taken into consideration.”Kavita Das, principal of St Johns High School in Sector 26, said, “Less than 10% of parents are interested in sending their kids to school and we have to take our staff’s health also into consideration so we have replied that it is not feasible to reopen the school from October 15.” Das added that the school is only conducting practicals for students of board classes in a staggered manner. The practicals started in October after the half-yearly examination.Atul Khanna, director of Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26, added that ever since the school had opened for board classes, not even a single student had turned up.“If students of board classes aren’t showing up for academic consultations, then we can’t expect younger students to show up.”SOME SCHOOLS YET TO SUBMIT RESPONSESDEO Ravinder Kaur added that some schools haven’t submitted their responses yet so, calculating the percentage of parents in favour of reopening is not possible yet. Even teachers in their feedback have asked for the date of reopening of schools to be delayed. Meanwhile, around 2,000 students have been going to the government schools daily since September 21. Director of school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “Government school children are still willing to go to school and we have seen higher numbers especially in the schools in the periphery of the city.” Brar added that the final call regarding the reopening of schools will be taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-not-in-favour-of-reopening-from-october-15/story-LAGylwvuX5166Ufa9Q0HvO.html
12-10-2020||City||Covid: Mohali DC urges home quarantined patients to not ignore follow-up calls||The district health authorities are facing a hard time getting updates on the health status of the Covid-19 home quarantined patients as most of them are ignoring the follow-up calls. Considering the increase in the number of such complaints, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan urged the residents to not ignore the calls made by the health authorities. “Monitoring of home-isolated patients is required to ensure that if needed, they can be helped with any health-related problems that they might face during the isolation period,” said the DC.The 104 medical helpline is making calls from the numbers 9041901590 and 0172-4071400 to all home isolated patients who are above 40 years of age daily to get an update on their health status. Dayalan said, “Many people are either disconnecting the calls or they are not going through. The follow-up is being done in the interest of the patients so they should respond to the calls and give an update on their health status.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-mohali-dc-urges-home-quarantined-patients-to-not-ignore-follow-up-calls/story-lRGfWpSzVLjm0ePJFRdgAK.html
12-10-2020||City||Delhi woman dies in road mishap in Ludhiana, 4 injured||A 53-year-old woman from New Delhi died on Sunday after a pickup auto hit her car near Sherpur. Her son and three other relatives suffered injuries in the accident. The deceased has been identified as Veena Rani.The pickup auto driver, identified as Varinder Kumar of Ghora Colony, Ludhiana, fled from the spot, but was arrested on Monday.Based on the complaint of Raghu Sharma, the deceased’s son, Kumar has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code.  Raghu told police that he, his mother and three other relatives had gone to Amritsar. On Saturday, they were returning to Delhi, and as they reached near the railway crossing in Sherpur, the speeding pickup auto hit their car. Onlookers called the police and rushed them to a hospital, where his mother succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-woman-dies-in-road-mishap-in-ludhiana-4-injured/story-RnSFowQf1IzLpfTKw7xsRO.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar-based transporter loses Rs 14,000 to fraudster in Ludhiana||An Amritsar-based transporter was duped of Rs 14,000 by a fraudster in Jamalpur Colony on Monday. The victim has been identified as Harwinder Singh, 23. Singh told police that he was in Ludhiana to deliver goods at a shop in Jamalpur colony. While the workers were unloading the vehicle, a man came out of the shop, who he assumed was an employee there. Singh said he received Rs 14,000 for the delivery. Then, the man requested for seven notes of Rs. 2,000 in exchange for 28 Rs 500 notes“ I agreed to it and gave him Rs 14,000 in cash. Then, the man made a call to someone saying that he is coming with the cash,” he added.“He got on his scooter and asked me to follow him. I was in the pickup truck and got stuck in traffic. However, the accused fled on the scooter. I returned to the sanitary shop and asked for the accused’s identity, but the owner told me that he does not know him and assumed he was with me,” Singh added.Sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur, station house officer at Moti Nagar police station, said that a case has been registered and police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-based-transporter-loses-rs-14-000-to-fraudster-in-ludhiana/story-FeL6qh83QbhJIJi8txrDVK.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Residents block road during protest against sewage overflow in Ludhiana||Residents and members of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) staged a protest against the municipal corporation (MC) on Monday over the poor condition of Rahon road and sewer water accumulation on the road and adjoining residential areas.Protesters blocked the road due to which the movement of traffic got disturbed for around half an hour. Residents and shopkeepers rued that they have been raising hue and cry over the pathetic and unhygienic conditions of the road for months, but the civic body has failed to pay heed to the problem. They said that ongoing work of installing sewer lines on the road has resulted in deep potholes which have also resulted in many accidents. BSP’s district secretary, Naresh Basra, said, “Residents are bearing the brunt of the lackadaisical approach being adopted by civic body officials. Sewer water has now accumulated in the residential area and residents have also been complaining against contaminated water supply. The entire road is in bad shape and accidents take place daily due to deep potholes. The authorities are working to install new lines in the area, but should atleast fill the potholes at points where lines have already been installed.”On October 2, residents of Jain Colony in Rahon Road had also staged a protest over the same issues.Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Jain Colony, said they are continuously living under the threat of an epidemic as sewer water is accumulated on the streets and vacant plots in the area. “Foul smell spreads throughout the entire area and sewer lines have been choked, but the authorities are not paying heed to the problem,” he said. MC superintending engineer, Rajinder Singh, said that a new sewer line is being installed to resolve the problem. “The work to install the sewer line is almost complete and residents will see a visible change in terms of sewer water accumulation in around 10 to 12 days. The civic body has also started the work to repair the road, which got damaged due to the ongoing project of installing sewer lines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-block-road-during-protest-against-sewage-overflow-in-ludhiana/story-Lqp9nwxcZblOZBzIa9Du0O.html
12-10-2020||Bhopal||‘Was fed up with humiliation’: Army jawan kills JCO, surrenders after 39 hours||Shakar Singh, a jawan of Defense Security Corps (DSC) surrendered on Monday, almost 39 hours after he shot dead a junior commissioned officer (JCO) at Ordinance Factory in Katni district, 462 kilometres east of Bhopal over alleged humiliation, the police said.Singh, who had been hiding in the factory premises since then, surrendered after being persuaded by the Army and police officials and said he killed the officer as he was fed up with humiliation he faced from the officer, the police said.Singh belongs to Bageshwar in Uttarakhand while the deceased JCO Ashok Shikara, 45, was from Ladwara village of Rohtak in Haryana.“Shakar Singh shot dead his officer after an argument between the two during the routine evening parade on the factory premises on Saturday evening. Shikara died on the spot. Later, the accused fired at least five more rounds in the air and threatened the factory personnel not to come in his way. He had been hiding in the factory for the past 39 hours,” said Lalit Shakyawar, superintendent of police, Katni. During interrogation, the jawan told the police and Army officials that he was hiding in a ladies toilet on the factory premises. During this period, he claimed to have guava from a tree and water from the tank over the toilet, the police said. Also read: India generated over 18,000 tonnes Covid-19 waste since JuneIn a statement registered with police, Shakar Singh said he killed the JCO as the latter used to publicly humiliate him and he was also depressed due to frequent change in his duty timings, according to the police. “Shakar Singh told police and Army officials that on Saturday evening too, the officer scolded him in front of all other jawans. He couldn’t control his anger and committed the crime. Next morning, he realized that he had committed a blunder and that he should also end his life,” said a police officer. Katni, superintendent of police, Lalit Shakyawar said, “When the jawan turned on his mobile phone to talk to his family on Sunday morning, DSC lieutenant colonel D Mohan managed to talk to him and after persuasion, the army officer arranged a conference call between the jawan and his family. The family and the officer tried to convince him to surrender but he was crying and said he had spoiled everything and he had no other option but to die.” The police officer said, “After talking to family, he controlled his emotions, ate guavas plucked from a tree and drank water from the water tank over the toilet. He spent the night on the roof of the toilet. The police officers and DSC officers kept on pursuing him the entire night by using a public announcement system. In the morning, he surrendered.” “It was one of the toughest situations as we couldn’t have used physical power to arrest him because he could have attacked us or killed himself. We dealt with him psychologically and we are happy that we succeeded in our efforts,” said Shakyawar. He said Singh was being interrogated by the Army and the police.Factory workers’ manager and administrator, Ajay Kumar, said, “The work operations in the factory have been resumed after two days. Now, the situation is absolutely fine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/army-jawan-surrenders-39-hours-after-killing-junior-commissioned-officer/story-ZAdFUGxpIf0VTcgFQG866N.html
12-10-2020||City||BJP councillor protests against Ludhiana MC’s failure to repair roads||Slamming the Ludhiana municipal corporation for its failure in carrying out patchwork on roads and adopting pick and choose policy, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Manju Aggarwal held a sit-in protest outside the mayor’s Zone D office on Monday. Aggarwal alleged that the municipal corporation (MC) does not even have a road roller for taking up road repair work and there is no mason to take up other repair works in the ward. Leader of BJP councillors, Sunita Rani’s son Deepak Sharma and BJP councillor Surinder Atwal also participated in the protest. Former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal said, “The largest MC in the state with a budget of around ₹1,200 crore, does not even have ₹5 lakh to purchase new road rollers. The MC rents a road roller for ₹4,000 per day, which is also wastage of public money.”The protest was lifted after getting assurance from the mayor. Sandhu said, “I have directed the superintending engineer (SE) to immediately commence the road repair works and if no road roller is available then the MC should get it on rent. Also, the other material including cement and sand would be made available in a few days. No pick and choose policy is adopted by the civic body.” Former Congress councillor Parminder Mehta staged a protest on Monday against the alleged corruption prevalent in the civic body near the MC’s Zone A office. He said that no action is being taken against contractors even after road samples have failed quality tests. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Action has been taken against officials and contractors in the past. No payment has been made to contractors after road samples failed the quality test.”Yuva, an NGO, also staged a protest on Monday against the alleged corrupt practices of the MC’s building branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-councillor-protests-against-ludhiana-mc-s-failure-to-repair-roads/story-H8lClAzlSr6NEpLY7aN2gL.html
12-10-2020||City||Attack on youth: Two held for murder bid in Ludhiana||A week after a 26-year-old youth was shot at in Haibowal, the police on Monday arrested two persons and recovered three country-made pistols and seven cartridges from their possession.The accused have been identified as Shubham Sonu, 19, of Civil City and Gurwinderpal Singh, 20, of New Kundanpuri. According to the police, the accused attacked Saurav Sharma at the Thapar Colony area following an old rivalry.Joint Commissioner of Police (City) Bhagirath Singh Meena said that about a year ago, Saurav had indulged in a fight with Shubham’s friend and when he intervened in the matter and tried to pacify the duo, Saurav thrashed him. In order to avenge the incident, Shubham hatched a conspiracy to kill him, said Meena.“Over 15 days before executing their plan, the accused had procured three illegal pistols from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh for ₹5,000 each. He involved Gurwinderpal in the crime. Shubham claimed that he had planned to take Saurav to an isolated place, thrash him and threaten him with a weapon, but when he refused to come with them, Shubham opened fire at him from close range. Saurav had suffered a bullet injury in his stomach. He was rushed to a hospital,” said Meena.“After the incident, the accused kept changing their locations to avoid arrest,” he added.The accused on October 5, had opened fire at Saurav Sharma, of Thapar Colony of Haibowal outside his house, when Sharma along with his friend was standing there, after returning from the gym.Both the accused are unemployed. The police are also investigating their past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-youth-two-held-for-murder-bid-in-ludhiana/story-3yeFA8cNaSzlgNfGCVYblJ.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two pvt schools reopen for board classes in Ludhiana||Two private schools in the city affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education reopened on Monday for students of board classes after seven months.It was mandatory for students visiting the schools to get written consent from their parents .DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, reopened for students of Class 12 with stringent precautionary measures in place. All students had to undergo thermal screening, oximeters were used to check oxygen saturation levels and regular hand sanitisation was ensured. Circles were marked at the entrance gate and in corridors so that social distancing is maintained.Tripods and wi-fi facility has been provided to all teachers so that they can also conduct online classes simultaneously. Twelve students were accommodated in every room and social distancing norms were followed.A Class 12 humanities student, Jasleen Kaur, said, “I am very excited about attending school after seven months. This is my last year in school and I want to enjoy every moment. I missed my classroom, library and discussions with teachers and friends.”School principal, JK Sidhu, said, “Parents of over 31 Class-12 students have given consent for them to visit school from Monday to Wednesday for doubt clearance while students of Class 10 will be allowed to visit from Thursday to Saturday. We have prepared a video today to showcase our preparations to ensure all safety norms are followed. We are hopeful that more parents will send their wards to school in the coming days.”BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, also reopened on Monday in two shifts for students of Classes 10 and 12 . Over 150 students visited school for doubt clearance with their parents’ consent. For the morning shift, students of Class 10 reported at 8.30 am; while Class 12 students reported at 11 am for the next shift.Staff was deployed at the school’s entrance to check temperatures of students, hand sanitisation was ensured and students were asked to follow social-distancing norms.A Class 12 student, Nidhi Sharma, said, “I am glad that I was able to visit school and get help from my subject teachers. Since I have my board exams, I was worried as I need assistance from my teachers. Classroom teaching is more impactful and this is a crucial time for students with only three months left for final exams.”School principal, Paramjit Kaur said, “We have received a good response from the parents and have made arrangements to accommodate over 150 students. More parents have given their consent and the students will be alloted separate rooms to ensure social distancing norms are followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-pvt-schools-reopen-for-board-classes-in-ludhiana/story-5PW2oT06q6kScNItAJ3edJ.html
12-10-2020||Election:||Bihar assembly polls: BJP faces hard time clearing air about LJP’s status in NDA||The campaigning in Bihar has started and BJP leaders are hard-pressed to dispel doubts from the minds of voters about Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP) status in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).In almost all the meetings held so far, the party had to clarify or issue statements that the NDA comprises only four parties - the BJP, the Janata Dal (United), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM-S) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP).BJP leaders admit that while the LJP’s stand has baffled the party, it has also confused party cadres and voters alike. “The sooner this confusion is dismissed, the better it is for the party. The party leadership is doing the right thing in dispelling the confusion. The onus is also on the LJP to clarify on its issue,” said former Union minister and BJP MLC Sanjay Paswan.“NDA has only four parties. No other party is with us. We do not have any alliance with the LJP and Nitish Kumar is the leader of the alliance,” deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said. “Today, Nitish Kumar has become synonymous with development,” he added.Also read: Andhra HC orders CBI to act against YSR leaders, others who attacked judgesA similar statement was made by party state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal at a rally in Bodh Gaya on Sunday.A senior BJP functionary, on condition of anonymity, said, “This is being done to thwart any possibility of damage before it is too late as various conspiracy theories are doing the rounds on social media.”On Monday, at Banka and Jamui, BJP leader in-charge of Bihar elections, Bhupendra Yadav, clarified the party’s stand. “The BJP has only one plan in the election and that is to fight it along with the JD(U). We have spelt out that plan. But in case there is some confusion, I am spelling it out again. The BJP will contest 121 of the 243 seats, the JD(U) will fight on 122. The LJP is not a part of this arrangement because the party chose to fight alone. The NDA is fighting for the development in Bihar under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and vision with Nitish Kumar as the undisputed chief ministerial candidate of the alliance,” said Yadav.The JD(U), however, does not see any threat from the LJP. “The BJP has done the right thing by clarifying its stand at every possible level. There is little confusion among our cadres,” said party spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan.DM Diwakar, former director at AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, however, is of the view that it may backfire on the BJP. “They (BJP) first backed them (LJP). They maintained silence when the LJP announced to field candidates against the JD(U). But now suddenly, they have realized that this was causing more damage than benefitting them. So they have to issue clarifications at every stage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-polls-bjp-faces-hard-time-clearing-air-about-ljp-s-status-in-nda/story-BspnxII5lDkkJOmZoD7rVO.html
12-10-2020||City||Haryana sees further rise in farm fires, AQI plunges||Stubble burning cases are increasing in Haryana at a rapid pace with around 165 active fire locations detected in the state in last 24 hours, taking the total number of AFLs to 1,106 from September 25 to October 11, as per the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC). The increase in farm fires has been deteriorating the air quality in several cities of the state. The air quality index (AQI) in Panipat at 329 and Kurukshetra at 315 was categorised as “very poor” on Monday. The AQI in both these districts was worse than Delhi at 261.The air quality in Jind (294), Karnal (279), Gurugram (259), Charkhi Dadri (253), Ambala (226), Faridabad (224), Yamunanagar (217) and Manesar (213) was categorised as “poor”. Health department officials say the rise in farm fires is likely to have a very bad impact on air quality in the coming days.As per the HARSAC, with 25 new farm fire incidents, the number of AFLs in Kurukshetra has reached to 226, followed by 216 in Karnal, 150 in Ambala, 139 in Kaithal and 94 in Fatehabad, 83 in Yamunanagar, 75 in Jind, 36 in Hisar, 21 in Sonipat, 15 in Palwal, 14 each in Sirsa and Panipat and 10 in Panchkula. No new cases of farm fires have been reported in Mahendergarh, Nuh, Charkhi Dadri and Faridabad districts.The government has issued strict instructions to the district administrations and village panchayats to take immediate action against the erring farmers. Few incidents of stubble burning now due to farmers’ rising awareness: CMChief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said there were very few incidents of stubble burning in the state now due to the increased awareness among farmers on the issue. “Very few incidents of paddy stubble burning have been reported during the present season as also borne out by the satellite imagery,” he said.“There have been very few incidents of stubble burning as Haryana farmers have become aware (about the harmful effects of this practice). Farmers collect stubble and tie them in bales and later give it to those who put it to different usages,” Khattar told reporters here.“Farmers can collect stubble and tie them in bales, for which we have kept a rate of Rs 50 per quintal and we send them where they can be put to use. “We are transporting stubbles to industries like those involved in power production or cardboard manufacturing,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-sees-further-rise-in-farm-fires-aqi-plunges/story-dQ9cG3nhUsZg8qA4Tcp7PP.html
12-10-2020||City||17 juvenile undertrials flee observation home in Hisar||As many as 17 juvenile undertrials, eight of whom were booked for murder, on Monday managed to escape an observation home in Hisar on the Chandigarh road after attacking and injuring an on-duty guard.A police official, on condition of anonymity, said the inmates fled from the observation home at around 6.40pm after thrashing the security guard deployed on the main gate of the premises.“This seems to be pre-planned and we are investigating how many security personnel were deployed when the incident took place. A security guard, who was injured, has been admitted at a hospital in Hisar,” he added.He said eight of the juveniles were facing charges of murder, three attempt to murder, two were booked under the POCSO Act and four were facing other charges.“Eight of them hailed from Jhajjar district, two each from Rohtak, Hisar and Delhi and one each from Bhiwani, Dadri and Karnal. Eight of them are troublesome,” the official added.Hisar superintendent of police Balwan Singh Rana said, “We have sealed all roads and directed police officials to arrest them. We are taking details from the superintendent of the observation home.”Police officials said there has been negligence by the observation home as proper security measures were not followed. In January 2017, six juveniles had escaped from the same observation home while an employee was opening barracks to provide water campers to inmates after dinner.A senior functionary in Hisar administration, who is also associated with the observation home, said a team of the Juvenile Justice Board was scheduled to hold inspection on Tuesday. The inspection was deferred due to Covid-19 and some of the inmates had contracted the infection.In March, there were 126 inmates in this observation home and some of them were given bail after they had tested positive, a source said. “The facilities are good at the observation home, which often remains crowded. A member of the district juvenile justice board will inspect the observation home on Tuesday,” a source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-juvenile-undertrials-flee-observation-home-in-hisar/story-jFCSGtdAzOWwBiuO8OL9OJ.html
12-10-2020||Pune||First day of SPPU final exam plagued with tech snags, mismanagement||The first day of the final year students’ exams at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges were loaded with technical snags and delays. For the past month, students have been preparing for exams that began on Monday. On the first day, among many other issues, students reported delays at the offline examination at centres, irrelevant questions, and various other problems. According to students, the SPPU administration failed in operating and managing the exams well. A total of 2.5 lakh final year students are appearing for the exams conducted by SPPU, among which 2 lakh students have chosen the online option while 50,000 students appeared offline at 113 examination centres. On Monday, 29,236 students were expected to appear for the online exams and 4,881 students for offline exams among which 17,118 students successfully completed the online examination and 1,811 students appeared for the offline exams at various centres. Meanwhile, several offline subject papers were delayed at the centres in Pune city. The first paper which was scheduled at 10am actually began at 12.30pm. While another scheduled paper at 1pm began at 2.30pm at various examination centres in the city. “Today’s paper was quite tough, initially there was a problem in reading the questions as they were not clear. Only four options of the questions were seen on the screen, but the question was not there. Then the issue got resolved and I solved the questions, some of them were easy but some were tough,” said Sandeep Mandave, a final year bachelor of arts student who gave the exam online. For the offline exams, 113 centres have been identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik, and Ahmednagar districts. The mock test and question paper sets for practice were released on October 8. The exams are of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. Ketaki Rathi, who appeared for the exam offline at the SP college said, “Our paper was scheduled at 10am in the morning and so I reached the college at 9am, whereas we had to wait till 12 noon when the actual process of the test started. There was complete mismanagement seen and it was already risky for students to come and give the exams in such a crisis situation. The SPPU should resolve all the technical and other issues for further exams.” SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “There was no issue in the online exams and in the first half more than 5,000 students successfully appeared for the exam. But for the offline exams at some of the centres there were some technical issues due to which it got delayed. We have worked on solutions to the problems faced today and from tomorrow there won’t be any problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-day-of-sppu-final-exam-plagued-with-tech-snags-mismanagement/story-X2Uje5SUktB53YTb4DSzqL.html
12-10-2020||City||170 new Covid cases, 1 death in Himachal||One person succumbed to Covid-19 in Kangra district on Monday, taking the state’s death toll to 246. As many as 170 new cases were reported in Himachal on Monday taking the state Covid tally to 17,578. Also, 219 patients recovered from the contagion on Monday.Of the 170 new cases, 36 were reported in Shimla district, 24 in Kullu, 18 in Kangra, 17 in Mandi, 15 in Sirmaur, 12 in Solan, 10 each in Bilaspur, Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti, seven each in Una and Hamirpur and four in Kinnaur,With 3,332 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district till date, followed by 2,656 cases in Kangra. Apart from this, 2,113 cases have been reported in Mandi, 2005 in Sirmaur, 1,692 in Shimla, 1,026 in Hamirpur, 1,019 in Bilaspur, 980 in Chamba, 894 in Kullu, and 228 in Lahaul-Spiti district. With 211 cases Kinnaur is the least affected district.So far, as many as 14,670 patients have recovered from the disease in state, while 2,637 active cases are there. Till now, 3,26,654 persons have been tested for coronavirus in the state out of which 3,08,962 have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/170-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-himachal/story-XKy12bCBa2QrTnr4m23QjK.html
12-10-2020||City||‘Farmers’ damage Ashwani Sharma’s car, BJP chief calls it ‘state-sponsored’ attack||JALANDHAR/HOSHIARPUR A group of unidentified people carrying farmer union flags attacked and damaged the vehicle being used by Bharatiya Janata Party state president Ashwani Sharma at Cholang toll in Hoshiarpur district on Monday evening even as he escaped unhurt. The incident happened when Sharma was on way to Pathankot from Jalandhar. Sharma said he was travelling through Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur highway when two cars started following them. There were around 25 people carrying kisan union flags and they attacked Sharma’s car and broke the front and back windshields. The security personnel ensured that there was no physical harm to Sharma. “They were not farmers but miscreants in the garb of farmer unions,” Sharma said. Sharma said they went to the office of deputy superintendent of police, Dasuya, to lodge a complaint. “It was a state-sponsored attack as I never faced any situation during my visits even as farmer union protests were on. Protests are going on outside BJP leaders’ houses under police protection. It is the duty of state government to ensure law and order and safety of people. There is an attempt to disturb the peace in the state,” Sharma said. Following the attack, BJP supporters blocked the national highway in Dasuya, demanding action against the culprits. Earlier in the day, farmer unions also staged the protest in Jalandhar where Ashwani Sharma chaired a state-level meeting of the party. Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal visited Dasuya to pacify the protesting BJP workers and leaders. “We will take legal action against those behind the attack,” the SSP said. Till the filing of the report, no FIR had been registered. Former minister and senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said the attack was the handiwork of Congress workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-damage-ashwani-sharma-s-car-bjp-chief-calls-it-state-sponsored-attack/story-bg4R30eiSKZk8vWYnsq3OO.html
12-10-2020||City||World Arthritis Day: Being physically active, doing yoga can help deal with arthritis, say experts||The department of orthopedic and department of rheumatology and immunology, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) virtually celebrated World Arthritis Day by creating awareness about the disease.World Arthritis Day is celebrated on October 12 every year to create awareness about the importance of adopting a healthy lifestyle and encouraging early detection of arthritis.This year’s theme is ‘Time to Work’ which means early diagnosis or detection can prevent arthritis and it is time to take action against it.Secretary of DMCH Managing Society Prem Kumar Gupta lauded the efforts of the departments for making awareness videos and sending it across.According to Dr Rajoo Singh Chhina, dean (academic) and in-charge of health education cell, DMCH has been constantly striving hard to raise awareness about health-related issues among the masses. The education cell actively involves in conducting such types of awareness lectures for the general public.Dr Rajinsh Garg, professor and head of the department of orthopedic said that arthritis is an inflammation of the joints, it can affect one joint or multiple joints. Joint pain, stiffness, and swelling are the most common symptoms of arthritis. He said that one of the common types of arthritis is osteoarthritis; a painful condition that can affect the joints, especially the hips, knees, neck, lower back, or hands and feet. The cartilage in the joint begins to get rough and thin when osteoarthritis develops. Dr Vikas Gupta, assistant professor of the department of rheumatology and immunology said that arthritis can also occur in other rheumatic diseases like sjogren syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and scleroderma if the patient approaches at the right time, and take supplements in order to prevent a disease like arthritis later in life. This will help reduce the problem and improve the quality of life.There are lots of medicines, rehabilitation, and physiotherapy to help in treating the patients. Being physically active, maintaining your weight, yoga and joint relaxing can improve the condition, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-arthritis-day-being-physically-active-doing-yoga-can-help-deal-with-arthritis-say-experts/story-Vb1Ksis0zNwYunzST0GcRL.html
12-10-2020||City||Non-payment of CLU charges: MC seals Ghumar Mandi market association president’s shop||Amid a hue and cry being raised by shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi against the recovery of Change of Land Use (CLU) charges, the municipal corporation (MC) sealed the shop of the president of the market association on Monday citing non-payment of pending charges. The MC’s move agitated shopkeepers who later met Mayor Balkar Sandhu at MC’s Zone D office demanding that the sealing drive should be stopped. Shopkeepers said that the MC is levying CLU charges even on those shops which were established even before the CLU norms came into existence in 1995. They said that different rates are being charged against the shops situated on the same road. President of Ghumar Mandi shopkeepers’ association, Pawan Batra said, “We have asked the MC officials to stop taking alleged illegal action against shops otherwise traders would be forced to raise an agitation. Legally, the MC cannot recover CLU charges from shops that were established before 1995. We will not allow them to seal more shops in the market and if required, we will also move court.”Earlier the members of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had also announced that they would move court against the civic body. MC joint commissioner, Kulpreet Singh said, “No illegal action is being taken against shopkeepers and shops are also being sealed in other markets of the city due to non-payment of pending charges. Shopkeepers have the right to raise their issues, but we are not taking any illegal action against them and they will have to pay the pending charges.”Earlier, chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC) and Congress councillor, Gurpreet Gogi had also raised objection against the action being taken by the MC. Last week, shopkeepers had also staged a protest against the civic body after they had sealed two shops in the market. The MC has served around 2,300 notices for recovering the pending CLU charges from shopkeepers. . MC seals six shopsTaking action against shopkeepers who failed to deposit CLU charges, MC sealed six shops situated in different areas on Monday. As per the information, one shop was sealed in the Ghumar Mandi area, three at Pakhowal road, and two at Satsang road (near Bindraban road). Another shop was sealed in the town planning scheme area (residential) of Punjab Mata Nagar Nagar due to CLU violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-payment-of-clu-charges-mc-seals-ghumar-mandi-market-association-president-s-shop/story-7Aob6WfOqAxgCYEDol27NL.html
12-10-2020||City||GADVASU all set to conduct research to identify purity of dog breeds||After several incidents of residents being fleeced by dog breeders came to light, GADVASU has decided to conduct lab-based research to identify the purity of dog breeds. The research will be carried out on three popular dog breeds in Punjab—German Shepherd, Labrador, and Pug.The expert said that the lockdown and travel restrictions during the Covid-19 pandemic led to a rise in the unethical practice of selling mixed breeding and inbreeding among dogs. Due to a spurt in demand for some dog breeds, breeders indulged in such practices in order to sell them at a premium.Dr JPS Gill, director of research said that the training has been sponsored by the project monitoring unit of Canine Research Centre and Networking (CRCN-GADVASU) under the DBT network research project titled ‘Parentage Determination and Cytogenetic Profiling in Dogs’.The principal investigator Dr CS Mukhopadhyay, and the co-ordinators of the training Dr PP Dubey and Dr Anuj Tyagi mentioned that this training is focused on fundamental aspects of bioinformatics and biocomputational analyses.Dr Mukhopadhyay said that lab-based research will help them create a DNA profiling of the particular breeds of dogs and their traits. “Purity of dog breed and its identification has always been an issue in the state. People always complain that they were given mongrels or mixed breed dogs. To begin with, lab tests will be conducted to check the three breeds of dogs popular in Punjab namely German Shepherd, Labrador, and Pug to identify their markers on the basis of DNA profiling, also known as DNA fingerprinting which establishes a genetic code for individual dogs of every breed.”A dog breeder from Mandi Ahmedgarh Ravinder Sharma said that the pandemic led to the unethical practice of breeding and mixed breeding. “Some breeders cash on the emotions of people. Even after coming to know that the pet sold to them was a mixed breed, the owners do not desert it. In the case of inbreeding the pet suffers from infection and congenital disease,” said Dr Sharma.He said that German Shepherd, Labrador, and Pug that rages between ₹5,000 to ₹20,000, were sold at a premium. German Shepherd pups were sold between ₹30,000 to ₹35,000.Four-day training on bioinformatics heldThe department has organised four-day e-training on bioinformatics in this regard.This training was sponsored by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), a government-funded project on parentage determination in dogs and aimed to promote online learning and to impart proficiency in bioinformatics to trainees from diverse academic backgrounds.As many as 100 trainees from 18 states and two international participants were apprised about the different aspects of molecular data analysis.GADVASU’s vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh emphasised that capacity building in bioinformatics and analysing parentage data using molecular methods is the need of the hour.Dr Arun K Rawat, senior advisor to DBT emphasised on identification and exploring the possibility of canine-parentage based markers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-all-set-to-conduct-research-to-identify-purity-of-dog-breeds/story-Hkbfx50b1bIGl4sxzHUsSJ.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 957 Covid-19 positive cases, 11 deaths on Monday||Pune district reported 957 Covid-19 positive cases and 11 deaths on Monday, as per the state health department.The progressive positive count of the district is now 3,16,731 and the death toll is 6,260. According to civic officials, the highest numbers of active cases are in Pune district. In Maharashtra, total active cases are 2,12,439 of which 42,112 cases are from Pune district. Maximum patients in the state prefer home isolation. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, reported 364 positive cases and three deaths. While Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 226 positive cases and five deaths.Pune rural reported 367 positive cases and three deaths.Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “As fewer positive cases are reported in the city the bed situation is in control. Both oxygen and ventilator beds are available in private and government hospitals in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-957-covid-19-positive-cases-11-deaths-on-monday/story-tYkp8RRZdDbHEZn0uVZy0K.html
12-10-2020||City||IIT Mandi inks deal with C-DAC Pune to set up supercomputer||Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune, to establish a ₹17-crore supercomputing facility of 650 TF compute power for research and development activities.The MoU was signed by IIT Mandi director Ajit K Chaturvedi and C-DAC director general Hemant Darbari during a virtual event in the presence of minister of state for electronics and information technology, education and communications, Sanjay Dhotre, Department of Science and Technology secretary Ashutosh Sharma. The MoU has been signed for a period of five years and can be extended by mutual agreement.IIT Mandi director Ajit K Chaturvedi said, “IITs are pioneering in the field of computer science in the country. With the setup of this supercomputing facility at IIT Mandi, we are looking forward to addressing every area of science and technology. This supercomputer will enhance our capability in training the researchers including the faculty and students of the Institute. This MoU with C-DAC is a great milestone for the IIT Mandi”.The supercomputer will be made operational for research and development purposes for users at IIT Mandi within the next four months. C-DAC will install the supercomputing facility at the institute with liquid-cooled racks and 200-Gigabit Infiniband connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-mandi-inks-deal-with-c-dac-pune-to-set-up-supercomputer/story-FBqV8B1v0ZxnsPMqcfEpJP.html
12-10-2020||City||Former minister Mohammad Sharief Niaz passes away at Jammu||Former minister and veteran Congress leader Mohammad Sharief Niaz passed away following a brief illness here on Monday. He was 75.Though he had contracted Covid-19 infection, he recovered after testing negative twice.Niaz had been unwell for the past one month and was on oxygen support for the past few days. He breathed his last on Monday morning, said UT Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma.A widely respected politician, Niaz was elected MLA in 1987 and remained minister of state during the National Conference-Congress government. He was a three-time MLA and Upper House legislator for a couple of years.During the PDP-Congress rule in J&K from 2002 to 2005, he was the power minister. He vacated his assembly seat for then chief minister and his cousin Ghulam Nabi Azad in 2006 and was inducted into the Upper House later. He was again elected to the assembly in the by-election in 2009, after the seat was vacated by Azad.Despite old-age ailments, he stayed active in his political and social circles till the last month.JKPCC president G A Mir and other senior leaders have also expressed shock and grief over the veteran leader’s demise and described him a humble politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-minister-mohammad-sharief-niaz-passes-away-at-jammu/story-Bb0HgYExBEwlkUQEQn6nzH.html
12-10-2020||City||Navratri: 7,000 pilgrims to be allowed per day at Vaishno Devi shrine from October 15||The per day ceiling on pilgrims visiting the cave shrine at Katra here has been increased to 7,000, said Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVD) CEO Ramesh Kumar on Monday.He was reviewing the yatra arrangements for the Navratri festival set to commence from October 17.The registrations will continue to happen through the online mode only, Kumar said. Earlier, the limit was 5,000 pilgrims per day.The CEO added that as per the past practice, the floral decoration of the Bhawan, Atka and the area surrounding it has already started and will be completed before the commencement of the Shardiya Navtratras. Likewise, the illumination of Bhawan area with attractive and colorful lights is also going on at fast pace.Shat Chandi Maha Yagya to be held Kumar informed that Shat Chandi Maha Yagya will be organised by the shrine board at the holy cave shrine during the Navratri festivities.The ‘yagya’, which is performed for the peace, prosperity and health of humanity, will conclude with Purna Ahuti on the auspicious occasion of Mahanavami.In view of the huge number of pilgrims expected to visit the cave shrine during Navratri, services of ponies, pithoos and palkis will be allowed to operate on the track between Katra and Bhawan from October 15 in a regulated manner by following all the safety norms and guidelines notified by the government to ensure the safety and health of the pilgrims, shrine board staff and the service providers. A detailed SOP in this regard will be issued shortly.The CEO also took stock of other arrangements like adequate water and uninterrupted power supply along the tracks leading to the shrine and in the Bhawan area, sanitation and cleanliness, availability of special fast related food at the Bhojanalayas of the shrine board, etc.Vande Bharat train to run between Katra and Delhi The Railway has decided to run the Vande Bharat train service for the convenience of pilgrims.“As follow-up to discussion with railway minister Piyush Goyal two days back, railway ministry has announced resumption of the Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra from October 15. A huge relief and exciting information for pilgrims on the eve of Navratri,” posted Dr Jitendra Singh on his Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navratri-7-000-pilgrims-to-be-allowed-per-day-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-from-october-15/story-91oQpFkhXvdnQQTU92ZXYM.html
12-10-2020||City||People of Leh trust BJP, will back us in council polls: Rijiju||Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday exuded confidence of BJP’s smooth sailing in the ensuing elections of the 30-member Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) at Leh.The sixth council elections will be held on October 22.Rijiju reached Leh on Sunday to campaign for the party candidates.“Elections are an indispensable part of democracy and Leh council is going to polls on October 22. People in Leh trust BJP and they want to support us because under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi various developmental works have been taken up. From making Ladakh a UT to the speedy development of the region, these works should not stop,” he told mediapersons.Congress’s campaign is being led by its leader and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora.A local said nothing can be said as of now and both the arch-rivals appear neck-to-neck in the race.“There was resentment among the people of Leh against the BJP government for not providing safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution but then home minister Amit Shah promised a delegation of Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM), led by Thupstan Chhewang, that the same will be extended to us. So, how voters react to the verbal promise will be seen in the ensuing elections,” the local said.On October 7, Union minister Anurag Thakur had said the people of Leh will get much more than Sixth Schedule only because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thakur had assured them that land, culture, ethnic values and everything shall be safeguarded.The Leh council has 30 seats with a provision for nominating four members, while 26 get elected through votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-of-leh-trust-bjp-will-back-us-in-council-polls-rijiju/story-FZ82fZumY3YNzp2mrw5xTO.html
12-10-2020||City||Three teachers booked under Public Safety Act in Shopian||Three teachers of a school in south Kashmir’s Shopian have been booked under the Public Safety Act after reports emerged that a few of the students and alumni of the school were found to be involved in militant activities over a period of time.“We have booked three of the institution’s teachers under the PSA and action under Section 107 of the CrPC has also been taken against six teachers,” Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said.“They are under surveillance,” he added. He said that the school is affiliated to Jamaat-e-Islami. “Currently, our focus is on individuals. If needed, we will take action against the institution as well,” he said.Chairman of the school, M Yousuf told a local news agency that the school is not affiliated to Jamaat and is an independent institution.“Why only one thing is being pointed out that some of our students have joined militant ranks when many others who have joined the army and police are forgotten. Around 7,000 students have studied in this institution in the past 20 years. Of them, hundreds have become doctors, engineers and police personnel,” he said.“The 13 students mentioned in a report had gone missing from their homes not our institution,” he added.Last year in February, the Centre had banned Jamaat-e-Islami in Jammu and Kashmir for five years on grounds that it was “in close touch with militant outfits and was expected to escalate secessionist movement” in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-teachers-booked-under-public-safety-act-in-shopian/story-32k1lRxElXvOM1E8uIR3LN.html
12-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Land mines, IEDs pose huge challenge to security forces during first phase||The first phase of general elections in 71 assembly constituencies of Bihar on October 28 will be a litmus test for the state police administration as all the seats fall under extremist affected districts of Aurangabad, Gaya, Nawada, Munger, Lakhisarai, Jamui, Banka, Rohtas and Jehanabad.Bihar has witnessed many Maoist incidents in 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha elections and during the 2010 Assembly polls. In 2009, Maoists blew up 10 government buildings and killed seven people, including five constables, sub-inspector and magistrate.In 2010, a political leader among ten security forces personnel were killed in a Maoist attack. Similarly, in 2014 five security officials were killed and 16 were injured in separate attacks.Also read: India generated over 18,000 tonnes Covid-19 waste since JuneGiven the sensitivity of the situation, the Election Commission had called a meeting to review the situation. Apart from the top brass of police, district magistrates and SPs of all the sensitive districts attended the meeting held in Bodh Gaya.“Land mines are the biggest challenge in Maoist areas as they cause heavy damage and are difficult to detect. The prime focus is to ensure free and fair polls and safe movement of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). In Bihar, 16 districts are Maoist affected but Aurangabad, Gaya, Nawada, Jamui and Lakhisarai are the most vulnerable,” said a police official.Sources said several SPs had sought satellite phones, additional CAPF and deep search metal detectors.Another challenge for Bihar is the vulnerable districts sharing border with Jharkhand. Several meetings have been held between senior police officials of both states to work in coordination during the polls.“The biggest worry for the administration is to provide security to candidates and ensure that people come out in large numbers to vote. While security at polling booths is usually adequate, the route that voters undertake is highly vulnerable,” said another officer.Also read: ‘Timely moves’ - PM Modi after Nirmala Sitharaman’s Rs 73,000 crore stimulusAn IG rank police officer, involved in the force deployment strategy, said adequate officials of forces such as the SAP, the STF, the CRPF and COBRA jawans had already been deployed in Gaya-Aurangabad districts.“Barachatti, Amas, Dumaria, Immamganj, Bankebazar, Sherghatti, Dobhi, Madanpur, Kutumba, Deo, Lemua are known to be worst Maoists affected areas in Gaya and Aurangabad,” he added.Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said, “Landmines are the biggest challenge during polls. The city SP along with the ASP (operation) are camping in Dumaria forest, a hotbed of Maoists.”Munger range DIG Manu Maharaaj said the district police have formed surveillance teams to check for mines in all possible places.“In Aurangabad and Nawada, the district police adopt the strategies of area domination, cordon-and-search operations, conduct flag marches and random frequent vehicle-checks,” said IG Rakesh Rathi, Magadh range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-land-mines-ieds-pose-huge-challenge-to-security-forces-during-first-phase/story-N8EwG5jTBr5g3Gc3PhTnYM.html
12-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal gears up for spike in Covid-19 cases during festive season, 24X7 control room set up||With Durga Puja, the biggest festival in West Bengal, starting next week, the Mamata Banerjee government is gearing up for a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases of which doctors have already warned. While leaves of government officials associated with the tacking the Covid-19 crisis have been cancelled, the government has also decided to set up a control room which would operate round-the-clock during the puja days. Meanwhile, the state government on Monday also slashed the cost of RT-PCR tests in private labs from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500. The test is done for free in government laboratories. “As the state government further caps the cost of Covid detection test at Rs 1,500, we will be implementing it as per the government directive given that these are pandemic times,” said Rupak Barua, president of association of hospitals of eastern India. Banerjee also announced that she would virtually inaugurate the pujas which have sent invitations to her. Every year, the Trinamool Congress supremo inaugurates dozens of pujas, including those patronised by the party’s top guns. On Monday, she inaugurated one such puja. “If I visit the pandal to inaugurate the puja, there would be crowding. I can do so virtually from the state secretariat. On October 15, pujas of north Kolkata would be inaugurated while south Kolkata pujas would be inaugurated on October 17. The pujas of west Kolkata and Behala would be inaugurated on October 16,” the CM said. While Kolkata is already witnessing a spike in Covid-19 numbers and daily cases have almost doubled in the past month, a doctors’ forum has warned that there could be a three to four-fold rise in Covid-19 cases if there is any laxity during the puja period. Urging people to wear masks and maintain distance, the chief minister warned that community spread has started and cases are spiking because of inter-state movement. Flooded with complaints of ambulance drivers demanding exorbitant rates from family members of covid-19 patients, the state government has also urged the regulatory commission to fix prices of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-gears-up-for-spike-in-covid-19-cases-during-festive-season-24x7-control-room-set-up/story-JM9swpvBg7l8scY07ZEG8M.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s millions get their power back after massive outage||Millions went without power in India’s financial capital Mumbai and surrounding areas for hours on Monday, after a grid failure triggered its first major blackout in more than two years.The outage stranded thousands of train passengers, disrupted online college exams and affected mobile telephone services before power was restored to most parts of the city of some 20 million.The grid failure was caused by “technical problems” during maintenance work, the energy minister of Mumbai’s home state of Maharashtra said. In mid-2018, a fire at a transformer sparked similar power cuts in the city and its suburbs.Throughout Monday’s breakdown, Mumbai’s international airport and the country’s two main stock exchanges located in the city, the National Stock Exchange and BSE, operated normally, their spokespeople said.“Power supply to all essential services in Mumbai, suburbs ... have been restored. Non-essential services will also be restored shortly,” Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut said on Twitter.The government-run Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport agency, Adani Power Ltd and Tata Power Co Ltd - the three main suppliers to Mumbai - had all been affected by the outage that extended to hospitals, many of which are treating Covid-19 patients.Hospitals and other institutions in India have over the years banked on emergency diesel power generators as a backup due to frequent outages caused by demand outstripping supply. The situation has improved in the big cities but the countryside still has to live with frequent power cuts.Mumbai’s trains, which are generally packed and move more than seven million people a day to their offices and factories, have resumed operations after more than two hours of inactivity due to the power failure.Train services in the city have been curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and they are carrying far fewer passengers than usual. Still, social media was splashed with pictures of people stranded inside lightless trains and in railway stations.The Times of India said final-year online exams across Mumbai colleges have been postponed due to the blackout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-millions-get-their-power-back-after-massive-outage/story-DyJQgFUxoghAwxDHSFWKuI.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown forcing ‘white collar’ people to take to crime: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday expressed concern over “white collar” people taking to crimes during the lockdown, and called for ensuring that job-providing businesses run for the next six months in cities like Mumbai and Pune.An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ referred to an ATM heist in Pune by two “well-educated” persons as they could not make their ends meet and the alleged suicide by a transport staffer from Nashik for receiving Rs 225 as salary.It termed such incidents as “side-effects” of the pandemic-induced lockdown, and also mentioned about the rise in thefts of ‘mangalsutras’ (a necklace worn by married women) in Mumbai and Thane.“It will be enough if the alarm bells of white collar people taking to crimes to feed their stomach ring in the ears of the government,” the Sena publication said, adding that people seeking employment are ready to break laws for the sake of their children.It also referred to a recent police raid on a dance bar in Mumbai’s Goregaon area where 11 women were rescued and 15 customers and four bar staffers were arrested.“Care has to be taken to see each employment-providing business in Mumbai and Pune runs for the next six months. A lot of people will come under the scanner if we were to talk about who follows laws to what extent,” the editorial said.It also asked that if industries are to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity, “will the government arrange for the children of the remaining 50 per cent of the people?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-forcing-white-collar-people-to-take-to-crime-shiv-sena-in/story-7Y6G4HD7wokAjKbMNYCEeI.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Surprise holiday for students, half day for professionals mark power cut in Navi Mumbai||Power failure was witnessed in several areas of Navi Mumbai and Panvel, too, since mid-morning on Monday, affecting online schools, clinics and people working from home, among others.The power failure started at around 11am and lasted for different durations in different areas. The power supply was not resumed in a few areas even by 6 pm on Monday.With the schools going online during the pandemic, most school students got the day off following the black out.Yukti Rajan, 37, whose son is in Class 2 of Reliance Foundation School, said, “My son Prithvi has online classes from 11.30 am to 12.30 pm. At around 11.20 am, we got a message from school about the cancellation of classes due to power failure. The kids were overjoyed as this was an unexpected holiday for him.”Gouri Bhattacharya, vice-principal of Podar International School (CBSE), Nerul, said, “We had to cancel the online class owing to the power cut. The message was sent to the parents via our internal communication system.”  At Ryan International School, Sanpada, the exams had to be postponed. “Since students can’t submit the online forms, the exam has been postponed. The later dates have not been declared yet,” a parent said.Professionals working from home since the lockdown had to juggle between laptops and mobile phones. “The power cut had all the hues of the Monday morning blues. It was like a half day for offices and schools. Laptop and mobile batteries were dead. Electrical appliances switched off, and there was not much to do during this forced lockdown,” Vashi resident, Nikita Rode, an Assistant VP, Human Resources with an insurance company, said.The duration of power cut ranged from one hour to several hours in different areas in the city.While the private clinics were hit due to the power cut, the hospitals were mostly unaffected. Dr Mehrunisa Khan, 39, who runs dental clinic at Sector 10, Vashi, said, “I start at 10 am and finish by 1pm. After all sanitisation, I reach home by 1.30 pm. On Monday, everything got delayed. I reached home only by 3pm, that too after cancelling a few appointments as all my equipment works on power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surprise-holiday-for-students-half-day-for-professionals-mark-power-cut-in-navi-mumbai/story-Vyt29NJwiFVUsdPJOLWJTK.html
12-10-2020||City||Central University of Punjab gets its own campus||BATHINDA: Eleven years after its inception, Central University of Punjab (CUP) finally has its own campus with Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ inaugurating the new Ghudda village premises virtually on Monday.On the occasion, he appreciated CUP for its work in the field of education and research since its inception in 2009. He said the institute has implemented the best administrative and teaching practices.“It is a matter of pride for Punjab that several of faculty members at the university are trained in some of the best institutes in the world. Also, CUP also has students from 28 states and faculty from 19 states,” he said.The minister also praised the CUP for creating an environment-friendly and green campus by planting more than 40,000 trees on the premises.Vice-chancellor Prof Raghavendra P Tiwari said built on 500-acre area, about 25km from the district headquarters, the campus is energy efficient and has in-house wastewater management facility.Instituted in 2009, CUP has been functioning from a temporary compound of a discarded spinning mill on the Mansa road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-university-of-punjab-gets-its-own-campus/story-zG1P0pSISjM1INWPxYFrmJ.html
12-10-2020||City||Booked for abetting suicide by couple, accused woman cop goes underground||Amritsar A woman sub-inspector (SI) of the Punjab Police, who is accused of abetting the suicide of a 35-year-old jeweller and his wife, has gone underground even as she was on duty when the man had taken the extreme step on Saturday.The jeweller, who hanged himself from a ceiling fan in a hotel room at the Batala road in Amritsar city, had left a suicide note blaming SI Sandeep Kaur for blackmailing and driving him to end his life.In the suicide note, the jeweler claimed that he was being blackmailed and threatened by the SI, also a resident of Navan Pind and posted at the Mehta police station.His suicide note read, “Sandeep had taken ₹17-18 lakh from me and was demanding more. She threatened to kill me through her friends if I failed to pay the money. There are screenshots of messages in my phone that will make it clear that she was pressuring me to kill Baljit Singh, her former friend. She also tried to pressure me to kill one Navdeep Sandhu and his wife. Navdeep was living with Mandeep with the promise to marry her.”On Sunday, 33-year-old wife of the jeweller had also hanged herself.Two separate cases under section 306 (attempting the suicide) were registered against the SI at Mohkampura and Jandiala police stations on Saturday and Sunday respectively.Mehta station house officer (SHO) Satpal Singh said Sandeep was on a duty and was sent to Chawinda Devi village for a case on Saturday when the jeweller had ended his life. “From Chawinda Devi, she didn’t report back at the police station,” he said.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-headquarters) Riputapan Singh said they have been conducting raids to arrest the accused. “We have also sought a report from the Mehta SHO to know if she was on duty when the incident had taken place?” he said.Meanwhile, a video clip of the jeweller has surfaced, which appears to have been made before he ended his life in the hotel. In the clip, the jeweller has blamed that the SI was also threatening him in the name of an SHO and a Congress MLA. He also sought help for getting justice from former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) minister Bikram Singh Majithia by claiming himself a supporter of the SAD.The victim’s father has alleged that the police were supporting the accused. He said they would opt for blockades if they failed to get justice. The victim’s only daughter has also demanded “strict punishment” for the accused woman cop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/booked-for-abetting-suicide-by-couple-accused-woman-cop-goes-underground/story-BJBCKpqbfbtuUwcwmGbmIM.html
12-10-2020||City||Sidhu’s conduct an issue, heshould form his own party: Bittu||Ludhiana Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has claimed that Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu’s on-stage argument with cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in Moga during Rahul Gandhi’s visit had diverted attention from the core issues of farmers.On Sunday (October 4), Sidhu had taken a dig at the party organisers, when he breached the time limit during his speech. “Bhaji aaj na rok... Pehlan vee bithaye rakhya see (Brother, don’t stop me today, you have had me waiting for long),” he had bluntly told Randhawa, when asked to wind-up his speech.“Ultimately, it was the loss of farmers and no one’s gain. It is high time Sidhu forms his own party,” Bittu said, adding that due to this attitude, the Moga rally was reduced to a controversy around Sidhu’s conduct with other party leaders.“Sidhu has a fair share of controversies, all related to his conduct. Whether in the cricket field or as a commentator, when he was in the BJP, and now while he is in the Congress, it is his conduct that has proved to be counterproductive. It lands him into one controversy after another,” Bittu told HT.He added that with such an attitude it would be difficult for Sidhu to adjust in any particular party.“I am speaking as a younger brother to Sidhu and have high regard for him, both as a person and as a former professional cricketer. However, what happened in Moga and afterwards could have been avoided. People had gathered to listen to Rahul and not Sidhu, who went on rambling with his speech,” claimed Bittu.He said it would not be wrong to presume that Sidhu’s misconduct with Randhawa in Moga was the reason for his exclusion from the list of 30 star campaigners for Bihar assembly polls. “Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat is a thorough gentleman. He must have invited Sidhu to infuse positivity in the state unit,” Bittu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sidhu-s-conduct-an-issue-heshould-form-his-own-party-bittu/story-jOTgfT37JYl6YknYf4XTDP.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Of 44 bridges dedicated to nation, HP gets two on Manali-Leh highway||Among 44 permanent major bridges dedicated to the nation by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh through videoconferencing on Monday, two opened in Himachal Pradesh (HP) on the Manali-Leh highway. Speaking from Delhi, the minister said the bridges, built by the Border Roads Organisation, would go a long way in connecting the border areas to the rest of the country. The two structures in HP include the 360 metre Darcha Barsi bridge, built at a cost of Rs 27.25 crore, on the Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway over the Bhaga river. Darcha is located in Lahaul region about 33 km ahead of Keylong. At a height of 11,020 ft, it is the last permanent settlement on this route in the state. Besides improved traffic flow, load carrying capacity of the roads in the area will also increase.The second structure, the 110 metre Palchan bridge over the Beas river on the Manali-Solang-Leh highway, has been built at a cost of Rs 12.83 crore. HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur joined the event from his official residence, Oakover. The state’s tribal development minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda was present at Shimla, whereas education minister Govind Thakur and member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma joined the event through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/of-44-bridges-dedicated-to-nation-hp-gets-two-on-manali-leh-highway/story-zIqb1FseVm54gvyzIP0RsN.html
12-10-2020||City||Hansi trader who concocted own murder nailed via call records, phone location||Six days after relatives and family of a 35-year-old trader, Ram Mehar, of Datta village complained to the police that Mehar had been burnt alive by three unidentified men and robbed of ₹11 lakh near Bhatla village at Hansi in Hisar district on October 6 night, police have found that Mehar concocted his own murder. Police say Mehar, who was arrested from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh on October 9, based on call records and phone location murdered another resident of his village and tried to pass it off as his own to get ₹1.6 crore claim from insurance companies to repay his debt. Sadar SHO Kashmiri Lal, “During investigation, all his relatives’ claims were found to be false. They told us that he had gone to Hisar on October 6. His mobile location, however, confirmed that he had spent most of his time before the incident in areas near under village. After the incident, his phone was switched off and we did not get the same phone in the burnt car. Mehar’s nephew claimed that his uncle had called him half an hour before the mishap, but the car was found burnt with diesel poured on the rooftop. The car’s handbrake was pulled, which was suspicious,” he added.A police official said they had traced two contacts of the trader, with whom he had been in frequent touch before the incident. “Suman, who was working at his factory, said Mehar had left for Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh with two others for some work on October 6. Mehar was in her touch through WhatsApp calls after the incident,” the cop added.Lal added Mehar had killed another villager, Ram Mehar, alias Ramlu, before burning his body in his car near Bhatla village in Hansi on October 6. “Mehar offered drinks to Ramlu and strangulated him to death, keeping his body on the seat adjoining to the driver’s seat. Ramlu was illiterate and is survived by six children, mother and wife and is a from a poor background,” the SHO added.Police have got five-day police remand of Suman. “Mehar had given ₹4 lakh to her before fleeing to Chhattisgarh in her car along with two others. The trader had shared his plan with the woman three months ago, telling her that he will purchase someone’s body and will burn it in his car so that his family can get ₹1.6 crore from insurance companies and will then shift outside Haryana,” a cop said.The SHO added DNA samples of Ramlu’s mother had been taken to match with the samples from the body to confirm the identity. “The trader hatched a conspiracy to kill Ramlu. The role of the other accused in under scrutiny,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hansi-trader-killed-namesake-burnt-body-for-1-6-cr-insurance-held-from-chhattisgarh/story-V7RitGU0TZAI0aZgT6LkNM.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Kondhanpur villager logs in to PM’s Swamitva scheme programme; gets property card||A villager from Pune district on Sunday became one of the beneficiaries of property cards, the distribution of which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the Survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas (Swamitva) scheme, via video conferencing, from Delhi. Vishwanath Mujumale, a resident of Kondhanpur village in Pune district, received the property card during the programme. Earlier in the day, the PM interacted with several beneficiaries of the Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme and said it is a big step for the country towards becoming ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). According to the release issued by the Pune district information office, the scheme was initially implemented as a pilot project in Sonori village in Purandar taluka in Pune district in 2018. The scheme was later adopted by the Maharashtra and Union governments after it showed “positive results”, the release said. The scheme has been enforced in 101 villages in Maharashtra, it said (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kondhanpur-villager-logs-in-to-pm-s-swamitva-scheme-programme-gets-property-card/story-Gef9bTDHPUy1q6mJPMUjUJ.html
12-10-2020||Pune||3 arrested preparing for dacoity on highway||Three persons were arrested while preparing to commit dacoity in Jambhulwadi bridge on Saturday evening by Pune police crime branch officials. The three were identified as Sanket alias Monya Santosh Vikare (26), a resident of Rajiv Gandhi nagar in Bibwewadi; Amar Nanadkumar Chavan (28), a resident of Raikar Mala, Dhayari; Akshay Ravindra Kamble (24), a resident of Sukhsagar nagar in Pune, according to the police. The crime branch officials on night patrol found the three in the vicinity of a petrol pump. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Police Naik Sushil Jadhav of Unit 1 of Pune police crime branch. The men were found moving around on a motorbike in possession of sharp weapons, including blades, according to police. The men were planning to target a nearby petrol pump on the highway and the drivers of trucks that pass by in the night hours. A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 4(25) of Arms Act was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-arrested-preparing-for-dacoity-on-highway/story-yG41jpuGqDo3mvfen96aZP.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Motorist mowed down by speeding truck, one arrested||A man was mowed down by a speeding truck in Pisoligaon along Katraj-Kondhwa bypass road in Pune on Saturday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Manikchand Kocheta (35), a resident of Dattanagar, Katraj in Pune. The arrested man was identified as Manuraj Kuppan (35), a resident of Palakode Dharmapuri of Sikandarpuri district, Tamil Nadu. He was arrested on Sunday and produced in court, according to the police. “He owned a shop in the city,” according to assistant police inspector PP Doiphode of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case. Around 2pm, the deceased man was riding a bike on the road when the truck rammed into him from behind and sped past him, according to the complaint in the matter. The truck driver ran away from the spot of the incident and did not inform anyone about the incident. A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/motorist-mowed-down-by-speeding-truck-one-arrested/story-eAW5YMTcrihiPq72jp7OGM.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Man kills ‘friend’ after getting slapped during dinner||A man was remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police by a local court on Sunday for the murder of a ‘friend’ who slapped him during an argument while having dinner. The deceased was identified as Prafulla Sampat Gaikwad (27), a resident of Phaltan in Satara. A complaint in the case was lodged by the deceased man’s brother Santosh Ramchandra Nimbalkar (42), a resident of Solu in Khed. The deceased worked for a contractor of the forest department while Nimbalkar worked for the water purifier plant where the murder happened. The arrested man was identified as Deepak Digambar Bhimte (23) also a resident of Solu, Khed and is a native of Nagpur who worked for Nimbalkar, according to the police. Gaikwad, the deceased man was eating dinner around midnight on Saturday at his house when the accused hurled an abuse at him. During the subsequent fight between the two, Gaikwad slapped the accused and started running away when the accused attacked him from behind with a stone that hit his head, according to the complainant. “They were working at the plant for the past few weeks and had turned friends. While having dinner that night they got into a fight over some discussion,” said police sub-inspector Prakash Jadhav of Alandi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-kills-friend-after-getting-slapped-during-dinner/story-gxKPetslYv56S7n2lPOCIN.html
12-10-2020||City||Assam court holds 25 guilty in lynching of 73-yr-old tea garden doctor last year||A court in Assam on Monday pronounced 25 people guilty in a case, where a mob had lynched a senior doctor around 13 months ago. District and sessions judge Robin Phukan held 25 of the accused guilty for the murder of Dr Deben Dutta (73). The victim was the resident doctor of Teok Tea Estate (TE) hospital in Upper Assam’s Jorhat district. The court acquitted six accused in the case, while another accused had died in judicial custody. Also read: Two lynched, beheaded, set on fire over witchcraft suspicion in AssamThe quantum of punishment for the 25 accused will be announced next Monday (October 19). An irate mob, mostly comprising tea garden workers, had assaulted Dr Dutta on August 31, 2019, holding him responsible for the death of a patient in Teok TE. He was rushed to the Jorhat Medical College, where he was declared brought dead. The pictures of the assault, which soon went viral on social media, created a sense of terror among doctors posted in tea gardens across Assam. At least seven doctors, who were working in tea gardens, had resigned within a week of Dr Dutta’s murder. Police had arrested 32 people, including three brothers of the deceased patient, following the attack under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Assam Medicare Service Persons & Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2011. The incident was condemned by Indian Medical Association (IMA) and doctors in Assam also resorted to a one-day token strike in protest. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had also ordered an inquiry into the incident. Investigation into the case was concluded within a record time of 21 days and a voluminous 602-page charge sheet was submitted on September 21, 2019. Assam Police said this is the first case in the country, where witness identity concealment approach was used. A total of 60 people, including tea garden employees, journalists, the slain doctor’s family members, police personnel and forensic experts were named as witnesses. Witness identity concealment approach was applied to seven of the 56, who had deposed during the trial of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-court-holds-25-guilty-in-lynching-of-73-yr-old-tea-garden-doctor-last-year/story-lijdwxRFg7nEpQWHyPsTVL.html
12-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape: Woman’s family in Lucknow; appears in high court amid tight security||The family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, who died after an alleged gangrape last month, was escorted to Lucknow and kept under tight security at Uttarakhand Bhavan in Lucknow, ahead of their appearance before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday.The woman’s parents and two brothers reached Lucknow by road earlier in the day. Escorted by UP police, they reached Uttarakhand Bhavan a little after 11am. Citing security issues, the local police put up barricades and stopped all traffic leading towards the Bhavan. The family was taken inside right away and was not allowed to meet the press outside.Senior officials like Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash, commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) East, Charu Nigam, also inspected the security arrangements outside the Bhavan. Pandey said, “The family has been kept under security as per court orders. We have made arrangements to ensure that they are safe before their appearance in court.”Seema Kushwaha, a Delhi-based lawyer who fought the Nirbhaya case, is representing the family in the case. She reached the Bhavan at 1pm and interacted briefly with the family.Also read: Centre asks states to act on rape law“The family has three demands which we will put before the high court bench. First, we want security for the family. Second, the trial of the case must be shifted to Delhi or Mumbai and aspects of the investigation must not be made public by the investigating authorities,” Kushwaha said.Taking a dig at the Special Investigation Team (SIT) for revealing call details between the accused and the victim’s brother, Kushwaha said a ‘perception’ was being created to take the focus away from the case.Almost an hour later, the family was taken from Uttarakhand Bhavan to the high court located less than a kilometre away. The court proceedings were under way at the time of filing of this report.Earlier in the morning, when the family set off for Lucknow, it was accompanied by subdivisional magistrate Anjali Gangwar, Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar, and superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the case on October 1. It had asked the woman’s parents for their version of the incident and had also ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it. The high court had directed the district judge to ensure that the woman’s family appeared before it on Monday.The court had also sought the presence of senior state government and Hathras administration officials in the court.The woman was allegedly gang-raped and brutalised in Hathras on September 14. She succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. Four of the accused are in custody and the case has been handed over to the CBI, which has registered an FIR at its Ghaziabad unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-woman-s-family-in-lucknow-appears-in-high-court-amid-tight-security/story-BWQ01VkWMXDC1C7heGOelM.html
12-10-2020||Kolkata||‘Will target 4 TMC leaders for every BJP leader attacked’: Bengal BJP talks ‘Kerala-style retaliation’||Talking revenge in unequivocal terms, the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday said it will target four leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) to avenge the attack on one leader from the saffron camp. The warning was sounded by Bengal BJP vice-president Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury during a press conference at the party’s state headquarters in Kolkata. He made the statement in reference to an alleged bomb attack on the car of the BJP Murshidabad district president on Saturday. Though nobody suffered any serious injury, the windows of the car melted in the explosion, alleged Roy Chowdhury. Also Read: TMC legislator’s ‘nepotism’ comment puts party in BJP’s line of fire“Democracy is in peril in West Bengal and we need restoration of peace. Our workers and leaders are being targeted every day. We saw the same situation in Kerala. When Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and BJP workers were being killed in Kerala in repeated attacks (by the Marxists) they decided to retaliate. They targeted four people for every RSS and BJP worker killed. If proper investigation is not done into yesterday’s incident and the guilty are not arrested we will follow the same path here,” said Roy Chowdhury. “We do not believe in the politics of violence. But if people think that we will silently watch our men being attacked and killed, they are wrong. We are workers of a political party. We protest against injustice and we resist injustice but if that does not work we do not hesitate to avenge injustice. If this situation continues we will target four people for every single attack on us. And let me specify that we will selectively target district and state leaders. If TMC can handle that, let it do so,” Roy Chowdhury said. Though Bengal BJP leaders such as state president Dilip Ghosh and general secretary Sayantan Basu have made vitriolic statements in the past, this is the first time a warning of this nature has been sounded from the BJP state headquarters. Roy Chowdhury is known for his organisational skills and he has never made statements of this nature, party leaders said. Reacting to this, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “I would not like to seriously consider what a leader of Roy Chowdhury’s stature is saying but if the Bengal BJP really takes the path of violence then TMC is ready to handle it. But one must remember that people of the state will not tolerate any violence. I hope the BJP central leadership takes note of what Roy Chowdhury has said.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-target-four-tmc-leaders-for-every-bjp-leader-attacked-bengal-bjp-talks-kerala-style-retaliation/story-x0H4skdK86it5DhafCoQUO.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Anti-addiction drive connects with over 7,000 students in Pune district||As many as 7,000 students received guidance to abstain from various addictions under an anti-addiction initiative ‘Saiyam’ carried out by Tarachand Ramnath Seva Trust in association with Jnana Prabodhini Institute of Psychology.The initiative carried out with the focus on substance abuse, media and Internet abuse and sexually risky behaviour among adolescents aged 13 to 16 years.Jnana Prabodhini’s Institute of Psychology, which released its Impact report of the year 2019-20 revealed that after conducting the initiative for the youth not only their thoughts and opinions but also their behaviour related to addiction showed change.The report states that in 2019-2020 as many as 210 volunteers and trainers reached out to 7,297 students from 56 schools to ensure their commitment against addictions and help them abstain from them through counselling.The training lasted for 1,033 hours and 22 sessions from August 2019 to June 2020.Rati Forbes, head, Jnana Prabodhini Institute of Psychology, said, “The report of the ‘Saiyam’ initiative shows that addiction is at the root cause of many problems among the youth. While taking steps towards fulfilling the dream of a healthy society, it is important to reach out to urban as well as rural areas.”Mukta Puntambekar, director, Muktangan Rehabilitation Centre, said adolescents get influenced by content shown through various media and assume that addiction brings happiness and reduces stress.“It is necessary to dispel the doubts among youngsters and provide them with the right answers. It is important to implement awareness-building activities like ‘Saiyam’ all over the country. We need to focus on the availability of positive addictions rather than negative ones,” she said.Accordingly, the Jnana Prabodhini Institute of Psychology had prepared a module and a curriculum through its volunteer group called ‘Samvadini’ which carried out pre-tests and post-tests on the subjects on addiction through sessions in each school in Pune district over the past one year.As per the report, out of 7,297 students, 59 per cent children showed a positive change in their level of awareness regarding myths and misconceptions regarding addictions, while 61 per cent children showed a positive change in their level of awareness regarding knowledge and attitude about sexuality issues including gender sensitivity. Accordingly, about 57 per cent of children showed a positive change in their assertiveness, level of frustration tolerance, delay in gratification and loss of control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/anti-addiction-drive-connects-with-over-7-000-students-in-pune-district/story-mIuatp93opih8olkXS9WeK.html
12-10-2020||Pune||SPPU final year exams begin today||The examinations for final year students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges will start from today. The exams are being conducted after two postponements. A total of 2.5 lakh students will appear for the exams. Due to technical reasons, exams of some of the subjects have been postponed to October 17 by the SPPU’s examination department. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said students missing the online exam for any reason will be allowed to reappear. The university has already issued helpline numbers for students to deal with technical issues. “The exams for final year students are starting from October 12 and around 2.5 lakh will appear for these exams from three districts. There are 3,300 subjects for which exams will be held. Due to Covid-19, it is the first time when we are using technology on a large scale and conducting exams. Students safety and security is our primary goal and considering that we have made all the exam preparations,” said Karmalkar. “While appearing for exams if there are any technical issues or any problems faced by students, then there is no need to worry. We will take special re-examinations for the students who faced the issues and not a single student will be left without appearing for the exam,” he added. Of the 2.5 lakh students appearing for the exam, 2 lakh students have chosen the online option while 50,000 students have opted the offline option. For the offline exams, 113 centres have been identified where physical exams will be conducted. The written exams will start from October 12, while the mock test and question paper sets for practice started from October 8. These exams will be of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). A time limit of one hour has been set. The students are unhappy with the mismanagement of the SPPU examination department. Kamlakar Shete a final year student said, “There is a lot of confusion among students now, as SPPU is changing its exam plans randomly. Today they issue a circular about postponing exams of some of the subjects, SPPU administration should plan the exam schedule very carefully. We hope that the entire exams period goes on smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-final-year-exams-begin-today/story-qAf7CkUW3cwUKcsDCipZlN.html
12-10-2020||City||180 terrorists, 55 security force personnel killed this year in J&K, says Union Territory’s DGP||There have been 75 successful operations this year in J&K, said the director general of police (DGP) of the Union Territory, Dilbag Singh, on Monday. In these operations, 180 terrorists were killed while 55 security force personnel also lost their lives, he said.“Also, 138 terrorists and their associates have been arrested. This is a record of sorts this year...The number of terrorists killed and those arrested is more than that of the last year,” he said during a press conference.Singh shared these figures while giving details about a gunfight in Srinagar’s Rambagh in which two terrorists, including an LeT commander, were killed.Also read: Army JCO killed in Pakistan shelling along LoC in Jammu-KashmirThe DGP said that 55 security force personnel, including police, CRPF and army personnel, were also killed this year. “In these operations, 19 police and 21 CRPF jawans have been martyred so far, apart from 15 army jawans, most of whom have been martyred on the border,” he said.He said that all the 75 operations this year were “neat and clean” except for the death of a woman in cross firing at Batamaloo.In the past one week, ten terrorists have been killed across Kashmir. Of those, three were eliminated in Shopian, two each in Kulgam, Pulwama, and Srinagar, and one was killed after he attacked a BJP leader in Ganderbal.The DGP also said that as many as 26 people have been helped to return home after joining terrorism. “We can’t share any more details of theirs,” he said.“Another important thing is that during the encounter at Pulwama (on October 10), a terrorist from Doda surrendered as we, as a matter of policy, ask them to surrender,” he said. “This is the first time that a militant has surrendered during an operation. He is being questioned,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/180-terrorists-55-security-force-personnel-killed-this-year-in-j-k-says-union-territory-s-dgp/story-d4eMgpCPbOcReUx5qieOeN.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Virtual nat’l athletic fitness championship gives athletes a chance to flex muscles during the lockdown||The lockdown necessitated due to the Covid-19 pandemic, social distancing norms and other restrictions have forced athletes to stay away from sports facilities. In order to infuse energy into the dull routine of players, the directorate of sports and youth services of Maharashtra organised a virtual national level athletics fitness championship.It turned out to be a very good initiative as 2,500 persons from across the country participated in the championship. Since it was an open championship along with athletes, schoolchildren, and people from other professions also participated in it.“Government of India has started the Fit India Movement after which between August 15 and October 2, the Fit India Freedom run was launched. Both of these activities were based on the willingness of the people. On the same lines, we decided to come out with an idea of eNERGIZE -- virtual national level athletics fitness championship,” said Omprakash Bakoria, commissioner of sports, Maharashtra.The top three winners in boys’ and girls’ categories received cash reward (see Box 1) while others were given certificates.Among girls, national level gymnast Shraddha Talekar from Raigad clinched the top position while among boys Shiv Yadav, a fitness coach from Satara, claimed the first place.First position winners received cash prizes of Rs 75,000 while second and third rank holders received Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 respectively.“Since no sports activity is currently being organised and even schools are closed, so the initiative was to engage athletes by taking virtual fitness activities’ sessions. We had given three types of demo exercise videos – all the participants had to perform these exercises for 10 minutes each and upload the video,” explained Bakoria. (See Box 2).“We had noticed that, if we arrange a webinar then very few athletes participated in it. Since this was physical activity and cash reward was included, it helped motivate many athletes. And financially also, winning athletes got the benefit during Covid-19,” added Bakoria.The event was launched on August 29, National Sports Day and it concluded on September 30. It was jointly conducted by directorate of sports Maharashtra in collaboration with Xtraliving Pvt Ltd.“It was a unique experience where some were very good with their body movements while some needed to make their movements more accurate. We have launched an online programme to solve it,” said Rishikesh Kumar, CEO, Xtraliving.WinnersPosition: Girls: Boys: Prize money1. Shraddha Talekar, Raigad; Shiv Yadav, Satara; Rs 75,0002. Manaswee Jamjare, Tumsar; Sajan Agarwal, Pune; Rs 50,0003. Rujula Bhonsle, Pune; Pravesh Tamang, Gangtok; Rs 25,000Competition formatEvery workout has to be performed for 10 minutesWorkout 1: 10 minutes Amrap (2,4, 6 is ascending ladder and keep increasing by 2 reps) jump squats and burpeesWorkout 2: Four rounds a time; 20 sit ups, 30 alt forward lunges; 40 lateral hops (over 1 litre bottle)Workout 3: (40-20-10-20-40); hand release push-up; floor to overhead (with two 1 litre bottles)The participants who had more proper body movement were named winners.Participants speakShraddha Talekar, gymnast, said, “It was a completely different experience, since we are in completely different routines and all tournaments have been cancelled. This was a great opportunity to compete on a different platform.”Rujula Bhonsle, an athlete from Pune, said, “All three workouts were challenging and were planned in such a way that the judges can see complete fitness level of the body.”Sajan Agarwal, a choreographer from Pune, said, “I enjoyed the competition completely. Being a choreographer, these exercises are even important for dancers. It can be done anywhere as no equipment is required.”Shiv Yadav, a fitness coach from Satara, said, “Since I used to run 400 and 800 metres, I was familiar with all these exercises. I prepared all three videos in one day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virtual-nat-l-athletic-fitness-championship-gives-athletes-a-chance-to-flex-muscles-during-the-lockdown/story-4XFMhjMex2CvqqK7YC635J.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Online events to e-darshans: Navratri mandals in Pune gear up for festival||The nine-day Navratri festival will begin from October 17 and preparations are already underway in the city. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic there won’t be any grand celebrations or Garbha Dandiya nights, however, Navratri mandals and temples are planning to host various programmes through online platforms and arrange e-darshans of idols. Earlier during Ganeshotsav, mandals and the state government together decided to reduce the celebrations and keep it simple, Navratri mandals and temples too have decided to subdue the celebrations to avoid crowds. The sarvajanik (community) mandals in the city will arrange online darshan of goddess idols for public in view of the pandemic.“We all are aware of the current Covid-19 situation and considering that we have cancelled our Navratri festival programmes. Over the last 25 years, we had been celebrating it in a traditional and grand manner. It is our 26th year this year and we are not going to celebrate it in a grand manner. If the state government gives permission to reopen temples before the Navratri festival, we will make proper arrangements for devotees to come and take darshan. If not, we will install a huge LED screen near the Devi temple and people can take darshan there by following social distancing norms. Also, we are planning to have online programmes for nine days, we have more than 250 different programmes recorded over the last 25 years at our festival and that will be shown on our social media platforms,” said corporator Aba Bagul, who is the founder president of Pune Navratri Mahotsav programme held every year in Sahakarnagar. There are more than 3,000 small and big Navratri mandals in Pune city, who organise various programmes throughout the nine days. Also, garbha-dandiya nights are organised by the mandals at private grounds, lawns and halls, which will stand cancelled this year. Garba is a popular folk dance and is performed with passion and fervour during the Navratri festival.Another Navratri mandal president Santosh Saswade, said, “Our Navratri mandal is a small one in Shukrawar peth area. The residents from our colony celebrate the festival in a traditional way. This year, we have decided to contribute the festival amount which we used to donate every year to purchase medical equipment for government hospital employees. Through this, we will try to contribute to the Covid warriors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/online-events-to-e-darshans-navratri-mandals-in-pune-gear-up-for-festival/story-wPDeinYG5AoMfB4BJj4ptO.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC starts month-long face mask drive; violators to be booked, penalised||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday launched a month-long drive to aggressively book those who do not wear masks. The civic body has set itself a target of booking 20,000 offenders daily and has deputed 960 staff for the same. The city has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases for over a month, with an average 2,000 new cases reported daily. With lifting of some restrictions, more people stepping out for work which coincided with festive season, there has been a spurt in cases which has the city authorities worried. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “A large number of citizens do not wear face masks which could lead to situation getting difficult in future thereby delaying opening up of the city.”He added, “The BMC is initiating a mass drive of penalising approximately 20,000 citizens per day found without masks in public spaces...this drive will continue for a month at least, and it will be monitored personally by me every evening.”The BMC had made face masks compulsory in the first week of April and has also announced a fine of Rs 200 on violators.However, between April and October 1, 2020, only 18,118 citizens have been booked for not wearing a face mask and the BMC has collected around Rs 60 lakh as fine. Last month, the BMC booked 852 citizens for spitting in public place and collected a fine of Rs 1.46 lakh. According to BMC officials, till now officials from the Solid Waste Management (SWM) department were given the task to penalise those not wearing masks as an additional assignment, apart from their regular eight-hour duty, but now, all 24 administrative wards in the city have appointed agencies for the same.A BMC official from the SWM department said, “A team of 960 people, which comes to around 40 people in each ward, will have the task to daily book anywhere between 800-850 citizens for not wearing masks. The detection is very much possible, considering our survey on ground has reported that a large number of citizens do not wear masks.”Meanwhile, on the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, Chahal said, “The situation is under control. In the last one month, as cases have gone up, bed vacancy has also gone up. Tests have increased and the doubling rate has risen to 69 days in October compared to 58 days in September.”On Sunday, Mumbai reported 2,170 new cases, taking the total number of cases so far to 229,336.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bmc-starts-month-long-face-mask-drive-violators-to-be-booked-penalised/story-hQF66awYtq0po2Lkb2Hz1K.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid puts the breaks on Lord Raghunath’s chariot, only 200 to pull it at Kullu Dussehra fest||Shimla: Every year, more than a 1,000 persons pull the chariot of Lord Raghunath during the historic week long International Kullu Dusshera Festival. This time, however, because of the Covid-19 outbreak, just 200 will be present.Only a few chariots of other gods and goddesses will be present at the yatra , it has been learnt.Even as Lord Raghunath’s priests have started preparations for Dussehra festivities, which commence with the Rath Yatra, arrangements are being made to ensure strict compliance with social distancing rules.The Dussehra Festival Committee is also planning to ensure less crowding as the grounds are readied for the chariots. There’s no confirmation as yet on the cultural festivals and arrival of traders for setting up stalls.The Kullu district administration has also sought guidelines from the state government on organising the festival.“Dusshera will be celebrated according to state government orders and preparations are being made for the festival as well as Lord Raghunath’s Rath Yatra,” said Maheshwar Singh, chief priest of the Lord Raghunath temple. “Due to the pandemic, however, people will have to take care of a lot of things,” he warned.Every year, more than 300 deities congregate at Kullu’s Dhalpur ground to honour Lord Raghunath, who is the presiding deity of the town, during the festival, which attracts four to five lakh people from across India and abroad.In 2020, things are definitely going to be different because of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-puts-the-breaks-on-lord-raghunath-s-chariot-only-200-to-pull-it-at-kullu-dussehra-fest/story-38BirCcbGgxhBRZo9cEzmM.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur tests positive for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, 55, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Thakur was already in self isolation since October 3 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass. The chief minister had come in contact with Banjar legislator Surender Shourie at a helipad while receiving defence minister Rajnath Singh for the inauguration. After Shourie tested positive for coronavirus disease, Thakur isolated himself at his official residence, Oak Over, in Shimla on October 3. In a tweet, Thakur said, “Due to contact with a corona positive person, I was quarantined at my residence for the past one week. Due to symptoms of the virus for the past two days, I got a Covid-19 test done today, which has been reported positive. I am isolated in my official residence on the advice of doctors.” RN Batta, the principal private secretary to the chief minister, has also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-thakur-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-dTHGYGf9ltTZaDjac9mlbK.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Farm bills 2020: CM Kejriwal joins AAP protest at Jantar Mantar||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday joined the protest by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders at Jantar Mantar against the Centre’s three new farm legislations.AAP’s Punjab unit organised the protest, which was attended by ministers from the Kejriwal Cabinet, other party leaders from the national capital and members of Delhi legislative assembly (MLAs).Kejriwal said his party is opposed to the anti-farmer laws and called for their abolition. He suggested that a law should be introduced, where minimum support price (MSP) would be applicable to all farm produce. Also read: All you need to know about the economic arguments in favour of the three farm billsHe reminded the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government that the party had promised before the parliamentary elections in 2014 about the implementation of the Swaminathan Committee’s report. “They (the BJP) had promised to implement the 1.5 times increase in MSP recommended by the committee, but nothing came of it,” said the Delhi CM. “The Centre has said 6% of the farmers’ produce is sold through MSP. If this figure holds good, then shame on the (NDA) government. The Centre should have ensured that MSP is applicable to 100% farm produce. However, they have abolished the concept of MSP altogether,” he added.He gave the example of his party’s ascent to power in 2015. “In Delhi, when the AAP came to power, the condition of government schools was pathetic. But, we did not shut down these schools. We improved their condition in a big way. The Centre should have addressed the problem this way. Hospitals were in a bad state, but we did not shut them. We improved the healthcare facility,” he said.“The Central government has backstabbed farmers,” he alleged. He claimed that some parties are indulging in doublespeak. “They say one thing in Parliament, but something else outside,” he alleged. “In Punjab, there is a leader, who was a part of the committee that had drafted these anti-farmer legislations. He got the bills passed in both the Houses of Parliament. However, he took up the farmers’ cause outside Parliament,” he further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-bills-2020-cm-kejriwal-joins-aap-protest-at-jantar-mantar/story-dqTYXB2AbeXaDAsaRbknRL.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court grants pre-arrest bail to man booked for possession of 3.225 kg ganja||The Bombay high court last week granted anticipatory bail to a Baramati resident from whose house the local police recovered 3.225 kg ganja.Justice Bharati Dangre granted pre-arrest bail to Deepak Sakat on October 7—the day on which another judge of the high court refused regular bail to Showik (23), the brother of actor Rhea Chakraborty, and Abdel Basit Parhar, a final-year student of architecture. Both of them have been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau for allegedly dealing small quantities of ganja, mostly for the consumption of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Justice Dangre granted pre-arrest bail to Sakat primarily on the grounds that seized the contraband material was not of commercial quantity.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: Tweeple use humour to deal with situation, post rib-tickling memes“Though it cannot be disputed that the offence is serious, it is to be noted that the quantity seized is not commercial,” said justice Dangre while granting pre-arrest bail to Sakat. “The custodial interrogation, in my considered opinion, is not warranted in view of the fact that the contraband is now seized and nothing remains to be recovered from the present applicant.”The judge said Sakat was entitled to protection from arrest, also because he had no criminal antecedents.Baramati city police had raided Sakat’s house in July 2020, following a tip. Sakat and his brother had fled the spot after noticing a police party approaching their house. His mother did not cooperate with the raiding police team, but the search resulted in the seizure of a container, in which there was 3.225kg ganja or cannabis, worth Rs 75,100 in the domestic market.The police then booked Sakat, his brother and mother under sections 8(A), 20(b)(ii)(B) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Also Read: Delay in lodging rape complaints can’t be appreciated in abstract, says Bombay high courtSakat had moved the high court after his anticipatory bail application was rejected by the sessions judge at Baramati. He had claimed that he was unaware that his mother was consuming drugs and she had the contraband for commercial purposes.He, however, contended that, in any case, the alleged recovery of the contraband was not of commercial quantity. Besides, the investigation was complete and therefore his custodial interrogation was not necessary.The high court accepted his contentions and granted him bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-man-booked-for-possession-of-3-225-kg-ganja/story-ty7e8xNz2SFfDzINohVcEN.html
12-10-2020||Patna||Bihar minister Vinod Kumar Singh dies at 54||Bihar’s backward and extremely backward classes welfare minister and BJP leader Vinod Kumar Singh, who was undergoing treatment following brain haemorrhage for over a month at Medanta Hospital in Delhi, died on Monday. He was 54. The BJP has fielded his wife Nisha Singh on Pranpur seat in the forthcoming Bihar elections.Singh’s condition began deteriorating two days ago. Earlier, both Singh and his wife had tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) in June and he was discharged from hospital after recovery.However, about one-and-a-half month ago, he was rushed to Medanta by air ambulance following a brain haemorrhage. Singh started his political career in 1995 when he was just 29 and he became MLA from Pranpur assembly seat in 2000 by defeating RJD’s veteran leader Mahendra Narayan Yadav.In 2005, he lost the seat but went on to win in both 2010 and 2015. “In the 2015 assembly polls, he proved his popularity as he succeeded in defeating the RJD-JD(U) combine,” local BJP leader Appu Kumar said, adding, “He was quite popular in the area.” It was his popularity that landed him a Cabinet berth. However, he refused to contest the 2020 assembly polls due to illness and the party awarded the ticket to his wife Nisha Singh from Pranpur seat.The leader was a post graduate in Physics and a law graduate from Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University, Madhepura. He is survived by his wife and two daughters.Chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Katihar MP Dulal Chandra Goswami, ex-BJP MP Nikhil Kumar Chaudhary and others expressed their sorrow over the demise of the young leader. The chief minister described him as an “able administrator and a popular leader. His death is a great loss in the field of political and social field”. Kumar also announced a state funeral as per the guidelines issued for Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-minister-vinod-kumar-singh-dies-at-54/story-jd3Wztxfu3vy4DsLJPh37O.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: Western, Central Railway resume services||After facing a power outage for over two hours across Mumbai, local train services resumed their operations on Monday afternoon. The suburban train service is widely used by the majority of the city’s population to travel. It came to a halt after the city reported a massive power outage which started at around 10 am.“Trains between CSMT-Panvel on Harbour Line have resumed. We’re trying to restore services between CSMT-Kalyan, CSMT-Karjat/Kasara. Long-distance trains from Mumbai rescheduled, and incoming trains regulated at interchange points, Chief public relations officer (CPRO),” Central Railway had said.Meanwhile, the Western Railway resumed its services at 12.20 pm.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: Civic-run hospitals affected, minor surgeries cancelledEarlier, trains were suspended on Western Railway between Churchgate and Vasai stations due to power outage caused by grid failure. The Central Railway too had suspended its services and passengers were seen waiting at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus.The exact reason for the power outage could not be ascertained immediately.According to news agency ANI, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut on Monday said that power supply to railways has been restored adding that power to other emergency services like hospitals is also being restored. He attributed the power outage to ongoing maintenance work at the 400KV Kalwa-Padga GIS Centre.Loss of power since 10 in the morning brought the entire Mumbai to a standstill. Thane, Navi Mumbai and other areas belonging to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) were severely affected too.  Watch: CM Uddhav announces probe after power outage brings Mumbai to a standstillDuring the outage time, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had said that power backup was being used in hospitals and jumbo centres where infected patients are on ventilators or in ICU. It further directed hospitals in Mumbai to get enough supply of diesel for at least eight hours in order to ensure there is no loss of power.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: Jams across the city after 700 traffic signals stop workingChief minister Uddhav took note of the incident by announcing an investigation and further directed officials to provide alternative arrangements and ensure that people do not face any kind of hardship.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-western-central-railway-resume-services/story-LB6Qu4hKMEYsMS2nF0aNMI.html
12-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Army jawan surrenders, 39 hours after killing JCO at Katni ordnance factory||A Defence Security Corps (DSC) jawan posted at an ordinance factory in Katni district of Madhya Pradesh, who had allegedly shot dead a junior commissioned officer (JCO) on Saturday, surrendered before the police on Monday morning after hiding on the factory premises for about 39 hours. “The accused, Shakar Singh, 55, a resident of Bageshwar, Uttarakhand, shot dead JCO Ashok Shikara, 45, a resident of Ladwara village of Rohtak, Haryana, after an argument during the routine evening parade on the factory premises on Saturday. Shikara died on the spot. Later, the accused fired at least five more rounds in the air and threatened the factory personnel not to come in his way. He had been hiding in the factory for the past 39 hours,” said Katni superintendent of police Lalit Shakyawar. “He was hiding with an INSAS rifle and several live cartridges and also threatening to end his life. Army and police both launched a joint operation to pursue him to surrender without harming himself or others,” said Shakyawar. “As he was available over the phone, the DSC lieutenant colonel connected him with his family to convince him to surrender. Throughout the night, we kept requesting him, with the help of a public announcement system, to surrender. He surrendered with his rifle at 10 am today,” said the SP. According to the police officer, Singh was upset over Shikara’s behaviour. “There was some communication gap over approval of his leave application for his daughter’s marriage, which will be held in November. Singh claims that Shikara did not approve his leave but the DSC officer has denied this claim,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-army-jawan-surrenders-39-hours-after-killing-jco-at-katni-ordnance-factory/story-3NeaKCPdkCHVAyiSKCM9hJ.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: Civic-run hospitals affected, minor surgeries cancelled||Health services, especially in civic-run hospitals, were affected as a result of a power outage across the city on Monday morning. Most civic-run hospitals cancelled minor surgeries. As per medical requirements, hospitals have emergency power backup. All the emergency wards like casualty, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and Covid-19 centres did have adequate supply of electricity. However, civic-run hospitals like Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known Sion Hospital, BYL Nair, King Edward Memorial hospitals stopped power supply at their OPDs and general wards. Resident doctors had to examine patients in out-patient departments (OPD) in personal protective equipment (PPE) suits in darkness.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: City comes to a standstill as grid failure hits supply“We don’t know how long there will be a power shortage. So, we had to stop the supply at OPDs, which don’t require emergency services. But as we had already received a large number of patients, we completed their checkup in the dark with torches and phone lights,” said a resident doctor from Nair Hospital. Around 12pm, Sion Hospital cancelled a few minor surgeries to avoid unnecessary complications during the procedures. “We have spoken to the electricity department of our hospital which informed us that we have power backup only for two hours. So, we are trying to arrange for more fuel to provide electricity in emergency wards longer,” said a resident doctor from Sion Hospital. Doctors said working in PPE suits in non-emergency wards was exhausting. “Once we wear the PPE, we can’t remove it until our duty is over. So, we have no option but to continue working in the suit even though the power outage made it worse. We are perspiring profusely in the OPDs but we can’t ask the patients to go away,” said a doctor from KEM hospital.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: Jams across the city after 700 traffic signals stop workingHowever, private hospitals have been less affected by the outage. “Our medical services haven’t been affected in any way. We have a power backup pf upto 12 hours. The OPDs and surgeries are going on smoothly,” said Dr Ravishankar, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Lilavati Hospital. Authorities from Nanavati and Bombay hospitals also assured uninterrupted electricity supply to their staff in all the wards. Jumbo Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the city have adequate supply of electricity for their ICU beds due to automated power backup. Taking note of the power cut, IS Chahal, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner, instructed all hospitals to contract transport garages of BMC’s solid waste management department to arrange adequate supply of diesel for the next eight hours to run generators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-civic-run-hospitals-affected-minor-surgeries-cancelled/story-fBgHGzAAnp1kze08Kq7mZJ.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Delay in lodging rape complaints can’t be appreciated in abstract, says Bombay high court||The aspect of delay in lodging complaint in rape cases cannot be appreciated in abstract, nor can it be considered dehors the attendant circumstances, Bombay high court observed while upholding the life term handed down to a 58-year-old slum dweller from Vasai for raping his minor daughter for about a year.“In a prosecution for rape, delay in lodging the report by itself is not fatal to the prosecution,” said the bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NJ Jamadar last week, adding “nor can the delay in lodging the FIR be used as a ritualistic formula to throw the prosecution overboard.”The bench said if an explanation for delay (in lodging FIR) is offered, the court has to examine whether it is satisfactory or not. It refused to accept the argument on behalf of the Vasai resident that the belated complaint belied the survivor’s testimony that she was sexually assaulted by her own father.The court said in the case at hand, the girl had affirmed that she was threatened of death and though she tried to reason with her father, he continued to exploit her. “The victim was a girl of tender age,” said the bench. “Apart from the accused, there was nobody in her life to whom the victim could look up to.”On November 7, 2014, the survivor, who was 15 old at the time, had approached the local police in Vasai with two local women. Her mother, she told police, had left them and she was residing in a slum pocket in Vasai west along with her father and a six-year-old brother. She alleged that her father had been raping her for about a year after tying her hands and legs and gagging her mouth by a cloth. She claimed she could not reveal her ordeal to anyone as her father had threatened to kill her and her brother as well.On December 20, 2016, an additional sessions judge convicted the 58-year-old and sentenced him to life imprisonment. He had then moved the hight court, challenging his conviction and the life term handed down to him.It was also argued on his behalf that in the absence of corroboration to the testimony of the survivor, the conviction was legally unsustainable. In this regard, it was argued that the prosecution could have examined some immediate neighbours, who would have had the opportunity to notice the ordeal allegedly faced by the survivor for almost a year, or the women who accompanied her to the police station for lodging complaint.The court refused to accept the contention, observing that where testimony of the victim inspires confidence, that, by itself, can be the sole basis for convicting the accused.“The failure of the prosecution to examine immediate neighbours is of little significance,” said the bench. “The victim has deposed to her helpless condition and the methods adopted by the accused to prevent her from raising alarms. To her misfortune, her prime protector preyed on her as sexual predator. The neighbours would hardly suspect that the accused would ravish the victim in the manner deposed to by the victim.”The high court also ruled out the possibility that the 58-year-old could have been falsely implicated at the behest of a slum lord -- one of the women who accompanied the minor to police station for lodging the complaint -- in order to grab his shanty.“The tussle over occupancy rights of a room in a slum area, in a metropolis like Mumbai, is not uncommon,” the bench said. “It does not, however, appeal to human credulity that the victim would depose against her father at the instance of third person, who was bent on grabbing her house.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delay-in-lodging-rape-complaints-can-t-be-appreciated-in-abstract-says-bombay-high-court/story-NY2kfBt8W6F9LBAmSLY4GN.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: Jams across the city after 700 traffic signals stop working||Commuters faced a hard time travelling by road in Mumbai on Monday as the 700 traffic signals across the city stopped functioning due to a power outage.According to the traffic police, the signals and CCTV cameras stopped working due to the power cut, which made manning traffic difficult. The control room officers stated that although there were no traffic jams reported, vehicles moved at a snail’s pace, especially on the Western Expressway 8am onwards. Many commuters expressed their anger on Twitter about traffic problems from Dahisar toll booth towards Santacruz.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: City comes to a standstill as grid failure hits supply“As the CCTV cameras are also not functioning, we had to communicate and take updates over the phone,’ said a traffic police officer posted in the control room, who requested anonymity.Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (Traffic), said that the entire force was deployed to control traffic manually. “Our officers are managing traffic manually and there has not been any major traffic jam,” said Padwal.However, by 11.40am, a few of the signals had resumed, including the ones at BKC.“Traffic signals at BKC have started working and slowly the signals at other places will also start,” said a traffic police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-jams-across-the-city-after-700-traffic-signals-stop-working/story-RoLN0V0zhTJ1UZe0IivArJ.html
12-10-2020||City||Four held for running IPL betting racket from Goa||Goa Police’s crime branch has busted a fresh Indian Premier League (IPL) online betting racket, which was allegedly run by a four-member gang from Chhattisgarh.Ranjot Singh Chabra, Sunil Motwani, Kapil Tolani and Vinay Gangwani, who hailed from the Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur, were arrested following a raid at a flat in Taleigao village on the outskirts of Panaji.Also read: 2 men held in plush Mohali society for IPL betting racket, drug dealing“They were accepting bets from their clients in Chhattisgarh over the phone. Several mobile phones and a laptop have been seized. Other gambling related articles have also been confiscated. The seizure is worth around Rs 2 lakh. So far, the gang had accepted bets worth around Rs 50 lakh while operating out of Goa,” said Shobit Saksena, superintendent of police (SP) (crime), Goa.This is not the first such raid during the ongoing 13th edition of the IPL, which is being played in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.In early October, two separate raids had led to the arrest of eight people. While in late September, a raid in Calangute had led to the arrest of four persons, who were allegedly running an online betting racket in the tiny coastal state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-for-running-ipl-betting-racket-from-goa-fifth-such-raid-this-season/story-fHdw8LA7A4YS4udg3MvMcP.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: Work from home shudders to a halt||A power cut across several parts of Mumbai to Monday led to a rocky start for those working from home as many complained they could not log in to their systems.With no access to power backup or WiFi networks, people working from home were forced to postpone meetings and deadlines. “Monday morning is extremely important for the Information technology (IT) and banking sectors. I have obviously not been able to log in to my system. I have a battery backup that I might have to use if my laptop or phone runs out,” said Jignesh Kothari, 35, who works in an investment bank.Also Read: Mumbai power outage: City comes to a standstill as grid failure hits supplyThere is a power outage in several parts of Mumbai and surrounding areas owing to a grid failure. The failure was the result of a technical glitch when the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company was undertaking maintenance work at the 400KV Kalwa-Padga GIS centre.With devices running out of power, many said they were shut out of work completely. “My laptop is not charged. The battery of my phone is draining quickly. My mobile network is poor, too. Without electricity or internet, I cannot get online at all,” said a Goregaon resident, who works in the IT sector. Troubles for those working in the IT sector were more pronounced. “I am completely dependent on my computer and phone. I haven’t been able to log into my office system since morning. Without access to the system, I can’t get any work done,” said Chaital Juvekar Sawant, who works in the IT giant L&T Infotech.“While there has been no official communication, my project manager has informed us informally that since there is a power cut in Mumbai, people working at other locations such as Chennai, Bengaluru and Pune have to take charge today,” Sawant added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-work-from-home-shudders-to-a-halt/story-H5OD3Q7xuzDx6ydJ11LKoK.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 doubles troubles for Himachal’s single women||Raj Kumari, 36, had a broken marriage and worked at a beauty parlour in Shimla till the Covid-19 lockdown claimed her job. In six months, she says she has spent her savings and is struggling to survive. The past few months have been tough for 50-year-old widow Veena Kumari from Kakrighat in Chamba, too. “With no work under MGNREGA for four months, ration supplies have dried up till villagers came to the rescue,” says Veena, who lost her husband to diabetes-induced health complications 15 years ago. “I raised a loan of Rs 40,000 to build a house but now it’s difficult to repay the instalments,” she says. Raj Kumari and Veena Kumari are among the over 3 lakh single women of Himachal Pradesh grappling financial constraints as the slowdown has snatched their livelihoods. The Ekal Mahila Vikas and Kisan Kalyan Samiti, a branch of Ekal Nari Shakti Sangathan that was set up for empowering single women, has urged chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to reduce bus fares and waive electricity dues for such women. “Covid-19 has slowed down the world economy and the common man is the worst hit. Industries have closed down, unemployment has gone up, small and medium businesses have been ruined,” says Ekal Nari Shakti Sangathan head Nirmal Chandel. “Instead of offering financial relief to people during this health crisis, the state government has increased their burden by hiking bus fares and electricity charges,” she says. SPEEDY JUSTICE SOUGHT Single women of the state also want autonomous nyaya panchayats to be set up so that their cases can be taken up on priority and they get speedy justice. They argue that even though the law provides them maintenance and inheritance rights, the court cases drag for years and by the time the verdict is pronounced, their children’s future is already compromised with. During the lockdown, many divorcees are facing difficulty in getting monthly maintenance fixed by the court. “With no work and many of us not getting the maintenance during the lockdown, our woes have doubled,” says Brij Bala, who was abandoned by her husband. Though she completed post-graduation in political science after her marriage broke down, she is yet to get a job to secure the future of her children. The 2011 Census shows the state has 3.04 lakh single women, including widows, divorcees and those abandoned by their husbands. There are 2.94 lakh widows, while 6,956 women have been deserted by husbands and 4,549 are divorcees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-doubles-troubles-for-himachal-s-single-women/story-RX6xYVz6EwrCFoSqSUUO0K.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Power in Mumbai likely to be restored in an hour, say officials||The officials in Mumbai have said that the issue of power outage will be resolved in about an hour. They said that there has been a central grid failure at Kalwa affecting supply and Mumbai and neighbouring areas.Many part in the city and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are without power due to grid failure. Local services too have been disrupted. Many people tweeted to say that they have been stranded since 10:05 am.State energy minister Nitin Raut said that the Maharashtra Electricity Transmission Company was undertaking maintenance works at the 400KV Kalwa-Padga GIS Centre. “There was a technical error when maintenance works were on affecting power supply in Mumbai and Thane region,” Raut said, adding that the supply is expected to be restored in 45 minutes.In a tweet, Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) said, “The electric supply is interrupted due to TATAs incoming electric supply failure.” Multiple operators, including the state-run BEST, Adani Electricity and Tata Power supply power to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/power-in-mumbai-likely-to-be-restored-in-an-hour-say-officials/story-xmpBvnXEgscJbKL3p0oMTN.html
12-10-2020||Bhopal||Chhattisgarh: Cousins poisoned over relationship, two family members arrested||A man and his cousin were poisoned and their bodies set on fire by two of their relatives for reportedly being in a relationship in Durg district, police said on Monday. The relatives burnt their bodies on the banks of Shivnath river near Jewra Sirsa village of Durg, police said. They have arrested two uncles—Charan Kuppal and K Ramu—of the deceased duo in connection with the murders. Ajit Yadav, City superintendent of Police, Durg, told the media that the man and the woman lived next to each other in the Krishna Nagar locality. Also Read: Missing teenage girl found dead in village in UP’s Lakhimpur KheriDurg police said that last month the couple had eloped, following which the family had lodged a missing complaint. Durg police found the duo in Chennai and brought them back to Durg on October 7. On Saturday , the arrested men forcibly poisoned the man and the woman at home and burnt their bodies with the help of tyres and petrol on the banks of the Shivnath river. “On Sunday, neighbours filed a complaint with the police regarding an altercation in the house on Saturday night. The police reached the spot and detained two persons who confessed to the murders,” said Yadav. They said the couple wanted to get married, but the family members were against it. Meanwhile, police have recovered the partially burnt bodies and started the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/chhattisgarh-cousins-poisoned-over-relationship-two-family-members-arrested/story-d6LqGIpueIDpA0HQ7TcGeK.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power failure latest updates: Local train services hit, commuters stranded||The local train services between Mumbai’s Churchgate to Vasai railway station were affected during the peak hours on Monday morning due to a citywide grid failure. Apart from the Western Railway, services were also suspended on the Central Railway. “#PowerOutage Mumbai Suburban trains on CR held up due to grid failure. We will update ASAP. Kindly bear with us,” the Central Railway wrote on Twitter. The commuters were seen waiting at railway stations waiting for trains resume operations. However, power supply, from MSETCL available at Vasai Road has been extended to work essential suburban trains between Borivili to Virar section, Sumit Thakur, Western Railway public relations officer said in a statement. The electric supply in Mumbai has been interrupted due to TATA’s incoming electric supply failure, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport has said.All three electricity providers being BEST, Adani and Tata have been affected. The power is likely to be restored in 45 minutes, State energy minister Nitin Raut said and added that the Maharashtra Electricity Transmission Company was undertaking maintenance works at the 400KV Kalwa-Padga GIS Centre. “There was a technical error when maintenance works were on affecting power supply in Mumbai and Thane region,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-latest-updates-local-train-services-disrupted-due-to-grid-failure/story-jrlWAnZ6c1qd32yft05pbO.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: City comes to a standstill as grid failure hits supply||The entire Mumbai city has come to a standstill following power outage owing to a grid failure on Monday morning around 9.50 am. Supply has been affected in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The suburban train services have been completely stopped with Central and Western Railway suspending services due to power failure. Train services have also been suspended on the Central Railway since 10.05 am.According to sources, there has been multiple tripping of lines and tranformer (Kalwa-Padge and Kharghar) affecting the Mumbai system. While there is no indication on when the supply will be restored, work is under progress. Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), which supplies power to major parts of Mumbai, said, “There is a major power grid failure due to which supply is affected in most areas of Mumbai. As per grid safety protocols, Adani Power System has been able to sustain and islanded.”It added, “AEML is currently supplying to critical services in Mumbai Around 385 MW through AEML Dahanu generation. Our teams are working to restore the supply in the affected areas at the earliest. We regret the inconvenience caused.”Meanwhile, outstation trains coming to the city are also impacted and are held up at multiple locations.“Mumbai Suburban trains @Central_Railway held up due to grid failure. We will update AS Soon As Possible. Kindly bear with us. Time 10.05hrs onwards. It’s not Overhead Equipment or Electrical Multiple Unit fault). Trains in Roha-Diva-JNPT sections are running.” tweeted Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.#PowerOutageMumbai Suburban trains on CR held up due to grid failure. We will update ASAP. Kindly bear with us.The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) tweeted, “The electric supply is interrupted due to TATAs incoming electric supply failure. Inconveniences is regretted.” State energy minister Nitin Raut said that the Maharashtra Electricity Transmission Company was undertaking maintenance works at the 400KV Kalwa-Padga GIS Centre. “There was a technical error when maintenance works were on, affecting power supply in Mumbai and Thane region,” Raut said. He said the supply is expected to be restored in 45 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grid-failure-hits-power-supply-in-several-parts-of-mumbai/story-nj5SRRlHoblvSlzmQeqIbJ.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Navratri, Durga Puja functions allowed in Delhi: What the festive season will look like this year||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday allowed Navratri and Durga Puja functions to be organised in the national Capital with limited attendees, even as it prohibited all kinds of fairs (melas), food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and processions till October 31.While Navratri is from October 17 to 25 (Dusshera), Durga puja this year will be from October 22 to 26. Various Ramlila and Durga Puja committees, however, said the government order has come a little too late leaving many to cancel this year’s event and others to reduce the scale of their programmes. Also read: Delhi gets arts and culture panel as govt looks to set up cultural policy for CapitalHere is a list of what’s the festive season going to look like in Delhi during Covid-19 times. --There will be no fairs/melas this time. Holding rallies, processions or exhibitions or setting up food stalls inside and outside the venue is prohibited during the festive season. --Capacity of each event site will be decided on the basis of the area and social distancing norms (a) In closed space, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons, and (b) In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground /space in view, and with the strict observance of social distancing norms.--All such events or functions/pandals will have to have separate entry and exit points --There will be no entry without face masks, including of the staff.--Only sitting on chairs with social distancing norms shall be allowed. At all events related to festivities, no person will be allowed in standing or squatting (sitting on ground) position. --Organisers will have to do videography of their event each day and submit to the district magistrate at the end of the day to ensure full compliance to Covid-19 norms.--Events are permitted only outside containment zones. --All events must plan for medical care arrangements with linkages to nearest hospitals to attend to health emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/navratri-durga-puja-functions-allowed-in-delhi-what-the-festive-season-will-look-like-this-year/story-nnJnAf0CC5BNVPikxfCIsK.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||After MVA decision on Metro-3, citizens to submit a holistic plan for all metros||Citizen groups will be submitting a plan to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government demanding integration across Metro corridors after the latter took the decision to shift the phase three of the project, which stretches from Colaba to Santacruz Electronics Export Processing Zone (Seepz) via Bandra. The state government seeks to shift the corridor from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, an eastern suburb of Mumbai. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that the Metro-3 car depot would be constructed in Kanjurmarg along with the Metro-6 project, which stretches from Swami Samarth Nagar to Vikhroli. Citizen groups had submitted a plan to the government last year to scrap the Metro-6 project. They had proposed an extension of the Metro-3 project by another six kilometres (km). Nitin Killawala, a Mumbai-based architect, has suggested the route via Marol Naka, which crosses Saki Vihar and Chandiviki until Vikhroli on the Eastern Express Highway. Citizen forums have been opposing the Metro-6 project over the Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road, as it faces massive traffic snarls. “We have made similar plans for all the Metro projects that are under construction. The Metro-4 project, which stretches from Wadala to Kasarwadavali, can also connect until Kanjurmarg and the key locations can be covered via city buses,” he said. “All Metro projects are being constructed on arterial roads leading to utter traffic chaos. All these projects are also facing inordinate delays. Our plan is more holistic,” he added. Killawala, along with resident groups from Powai and other architects and activists, will be presenting the plan in a webinar next week following which the MVA government will be approached. Several citizen groups were active during the protest against the proposed Metro car shed at Aarey Colony in western suburbs. They were demanding scrapping of the project since Aarey Colony is one of the last surviving green belts in Mumbai. On Sunday, Thackeray announced that the car shed would be shifted to Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-mva-decision-on-metro-3-citizens-to-submit-a-holistic-plan-for-all-metros/story-RERDB5SUaBD3YmXEswqQGL.html
12-10-2020||Lucknow||Younger, fitter personnel to replace seniors in Yogi’s upgraded security cover||Physically fit police personnel under the age of 40 will be deployed for Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s security and senior personnel will be replaced, a senior police officer privy to the development said.The chief minister has received death threats at least thrice since May 21 this year.Officials at the state police headquarters are preparing to strengthen the chief minister’s security after the Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Friday approved an amendment to the Green Book (amended edition 2017) by changing the composition and including an additional vehicle in his fleet.“Other than the addition and the change in the structure of the chief minister’s fleet, the deployment of the security personnel is being reviewed in detail and a few changes are likely,” the officer said.Also Read: Hathras rape victim is ‘no one’ for them: Rahul Gandhi’s latest jibe at Yogi govt, UP policeYogi Adityanath was accorded the top category ‘Z+’ VVIP armed security cover when he was sworn in as the UP chief minister in March 2017. His security detail comprises a special commando team of the CISF (Central Security Industrial Force) along with a small contingent of the UP police. About 25-28 armed commandos accompany him at all times when he is mobile. His convoy has pilot and escort vehicles armed with jammers.“In further enhancement of the security cover, security personnel to be deployed from UP police have to undergo a strict training schedule before being inducted into the CM’s security.Recently, two personnel were removed from the shortlisted group of security personnel after they failed to qualify during shooting practice,” the officer quoted above said.He also said the process of selection of fit security personnel had been going on for the past two years. A pool of such personnel had been prepared so that the entire security team could be replaced anytime, if required, he added.On Friday, additional director general (ADG), Security, Binod Kumar Singh had stated that the changes were along the lines of the Prime Minister’s security.On September 25, a man from Etah district from Uttar Pradesh was arrested for allegedly issuing a death threat to the CM while seeking the release of jailed politician Mukhtar Ansari. He had sent multiple messages on the WhatsApp number of UP112, police officials said.On June 12, two brothers from Gonda district were arrested for sending messages on the WhatsApp number of UP112, threatening to blow up the chief minister’s residence and 50 other places in the state. On May 21, a similar message threatening to target the CM was sent on the WhatsApp number of UP112. A Mumbai resident, Kamran Ameen Khan, was arrested in this connection on May 23. A day later, another Mumbai resident, Sayyed Wahab, was arrested when he threatened to carry out blasts if Ameen was not released from police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/younger-fitter-personnel-to-replace-seniors-in-yogi-s-upgraded-security-cover/story-p4HYxcW9CdWXn5IOlsEaPK.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pollution levels likely to dip today, reach moderate level||The pollution levels in the national capital are likely to decrease on Monday after five days of poor air and reach the moderate zone, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) said. At 7 am on Monday, the average hourly air quality index (AQI), as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 232. On Sunday, Delhi’s average AQI reading, as per the CPCB was 216, which was marginally better than Saturday’s 221. On Sunday, Delhi received north-westerly winds, blowing at a speed of 15 kilometres per hour (kmph).The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), which is under the MoES, also predicted that a shift in Delhi’s surface wind direction would help improve the quality of air “marginally”.“The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from Delhi’s east, with wind speeds up to 12 kmph and mainly clear skies on Monday,” said Safar. On Tuesday, winds are expected to travel to Delhi from the south-east, while their speed is likely to remain similar and skies may stay mainly clear, according to the system.The impact of crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana on Delhi’s air will be minimal on Monday and Tuesday.Delhi received winds from the north-west that carried plumes of stubble burning smoke from the rural pockets of the two neighbouring states over the last two weeks following the onset of winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-levels-likely-to-dip-today-reach-moderate-level/story-JeOEsE6r06VMWQQ7YhmzJK.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster shot dead in heart of Chandigarh was wanted in sexual harassment case||Gurlal Brar, 26, an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and a former state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), who was shot dead outside a mall in Industrial Area Phase 1, Chandigarh, in the wee hours of Sunday was wanted in a sexual harassment case registered in the same area a fortnight ago. Brar was gunned down in his Toyota Fortuner SUV outside Playboy Nightclub at City Emporium Mall. Soon after, rival gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group took responsibility for the killing and announced on social media that it was done to avenge the murder of its member Lavi Deora. The Bishnoi gang had killed Deora at a fair in Faridkot’s Kotkapura on July 15, 2017, in which Brar had reportedly played an active role. Brar was booked for outraging the modesty and threatening a group of women outside another nightclub on September 27. Police failed to arrest him though he had been moving freely in the area and the assailants were aware of his movement. Besides Brar, his accomplice, Mohit, and another woman had been booked for misbehaving with the women outside Para nightclub in Industrial Area Phase 1. A 30-year old woman from Panipat district had lodged a complaint with the police that she had been slapped and threatened along with her sister and friends. The police said that Brar has previously been booked for scuffles in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-shot-dead-in-heart-of-chandigarh-was-wanted-in-sexual-harassment-case/story-PYxIKPkPxbbOv44QrOdzSK.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Unfortunate decision to shift metro car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg: Fadnavis||The decision to shift Aarey car shed has been taken just to “satisfy the ego” and this move will put an additional burden of Rs 4,000 crore on the Maharashtra government, said former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday.“Unfortunate decision to shift metro car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and that too just to satisfy the ego. This decision will increase the cost of the project by at least Rs 4,000 crore and this cost escalation is assessed by the committee appointed by this Government,” Fadnavis tweeted.These remarks come after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the State government has withdrawn cases registered against people who were protesting against the proposed metro car shed in Aarey.He said the proposed car shed has been shifted from Aarey to Kanjurmarg.“We have withdrawn cases registered against people who were protesting against the proposed metro car shed in Aarey. The proposed car shed has been shifted from Aarey to Kanjurmarg,” Thackeray said in a virtual address on Sunday.Responding to chief minister Thackeray’s announcement, Fadnavis said, “This means that the Metro project, which would have been in the service of Mumbaikars just next year, has now been postponed indefinitely. Rs 400 crore was already spent for Aarey car shed, Rs 1,300 crore wasted due to staying of the project and additional cost escalation of Rs 4,000 crore.”Also Read| Aarey shed moved, no extra cost: Govt“Rs 2,400 crore cost burden if in case the Kanjurmarg land dispute remains as it was. What will be today’s cost? Metro project delayed for an indefinite period,” Fadnavis said in a subsequent tweet.The former chief minister asked what exactly does the state government want to achieve by blocking the seamless journey of Mumbaikars?Earlier, the Maharashtra government had stayed the order for the Aarey metro car shed project following massive public agitation in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unfortunate-decision-to-shift-metro-car-shed-from-aarey-to-kanjurmarg-fadnavis/story-JH2eoCdliDkkIruBz6nPtO.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid shadow, permission delays force Ramlila bodies in Chandigarh to call it quits this year||With no clear instructions on how to hold Ramlilas and permissions still awaited, the Ramlila organisations of Sectors 28, 29, 21 and 41 have confirmed they won’t be performing this year, and others are expected to follow suit.The president of the Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha, Bhagwati Prashad Gaur, said a meeting was held on Friday with the UT deputy commissioner (DC) and Ramlila troupes who, Gaur said, were even more reluctant to perform this year.“We have been told that only 100 people will be allowed to attend the function, and seats will have to be placed within six-feet distance. If there is any violation of the rules, the organisers of the Ramlila will be booked under the Disaster Management Act. Many organisations don’t have the manpower to keep a check on the crowds,” said Gaur.‘Permission unlikely to come before Oct 15’“We have been told that permissions are unlikely to come before October 15, the first day of the Ramlila. With no time to rehearse, associations will not perform this year,” added Gaur.Ashok Chaudhary, adviser of the Joint Ram Leela Sangh, who plays the character of Ravana, said the Sector-20 Ramlila were set to perform. “We are already planning on organising the stage and the seating area in such a way that rules can be followed. If we are able to get permissions by October 15, we should be able to perform.”Senior assistant director of the Shree Ramleela Committee, Parade Ground, Sector 17, Sunil Sharma, said their association was sitting on the fence: “The delay in permissions will make things difficult for us as we still have to book the venue, the lights and tents. Even those who wish to perform might not be able to because of this delay,” he said.The Sector-29 Sanskritic Manch is one of the Ramlila associations that have finally decided not to perform. General secretary Rajiv Sharma said, “Since there is no clarity on rules and permissions, it would be hard to ensure social distancing, so we have decided to sit it out this year.”‘Permission will be granted if safety criteria fulfilled’DC Mandip Singh Brar said, “The Ramlila associations have been asked to give details regarding the additional steps they will take to ensure social distancing.” Permissions will be granted once the safety criteria were fulfilled, he added.The final decision on organising Ramlila and Dussehra functions in the city will be taken in the war room meeting with the UT administrator in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-permission-delays-force-ramlila-bodies-in-chandigarh-to-call-it-quits-this-year/story-K1zUmZIjn5SIQdj4IlXjyO.html
12-10-2020||City||MLA inaugurates rural land mapping scheme in Panchkula village||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta on Sunday inaugurated the SVAMITVA (Survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas) scheme of the central government here.Gupta also handed over property cards to five persons of Khedi village of Raipur Rani block. SVAMITA is used to survey land parcels in rural inhabited areas using drone technology and continuously operating reference stations.Speaking at a programme organised at the District Secretariat, Gupta said: “people living in the Lal Dora area did not have any ownership papers. Now, they have been made owners of the properties with the new technology of drone-mapping. With this, a suitable record of the land will be created. They can also start a business by taking a loan from the bank.”“Earlier, due to a lack of registries in the villages, other people used to occupy their land, due to which conflicts were common among neighbours, but things will improve now,” he said, adding that the record of panchayats is being done online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mla-inaugurates-rural-land-mapping-scheme-in-panchkula-village/story-2SRJCSfygSYEwT1zPvjsdM.html
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College to discontinue MTech in industrial design programme||With no admissions taking place for two consecutive academic years, Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is considering closure of its masters programme in industrial design.The proposal was discussed in the last senate meeting of the institution. During the 2017-18 academic session, 15 students were admitted in the MTech (industrial design) course, against 18 seats on offer.The course is self-supporting, however, over the last few years, there has been a drop in the admissions. For the 2018-19 academic session, only three students were admitted. The minimum requirement for running the course is 50%. In the 2019-20 and 2020-21 academic sessions, no admissions have taken place.The PEC senate in its last meeting had approved the proposal for closure of the programme, but the final call will be taken by the board of governors (BoG).New PhD programmes to be introducedApproval has been given for five new PhD programmes in the applied science department of PEC. The programmes include density functional theory, advanced experimental methods in material sciences, applied computational methods, functional polymer materials and advanced organometallic chemistry.In the senate meeting, it was decided that if the number of students is less than five in any course, the teaching load will not be counted and the course may be run in online mode. Also, two new open elective courses have been approved for the undergraduate final year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-to-discontinue-mtech-in-industrial-design-programme/story-Sg3QAEUhA7CnD0kIuNhfhJ.html
12-10-2020||City||Mohali Industrial Area is now ‘a no man’s land’||The maintenance of the Industrial Area Phases 8A and 8B that began a year ago has been caught up in a bureaucratic maze yet again.The condition of the area, which has around 800 industrial units, has gone from bad to worse with damaged roads and poor upkeep. This, despite the fact that MC collects a property tax of around ₹16 crore, but has so far only released ₹1 crore for development work. For the last two decades, the area was under Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), but last year, its maintenance was handed over to the civic body. At present, however, neither PSIEC nor the MC are maintaining the area.PSIEC chief engineer Ramtesh Singh Bains said, “We are in the final stages of transferring the maintenance work of industrial areas to the municipal corporation, as they are collecting the property tax each year. We have to pay them around ₹2 crore and hopefully, it will be done in a week’s time. The delay was due to the pandemic.”Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar said, “I fail to understand why they have not transferred the work, when we have already given them the consent.”Though PSIEC has already undertaken patchwork of roads, laying of paver blocks and building of boundary walls at a cost of ₹1.83 crore, it will now deposit the balance of ₹2.2 crore with the MC for work on water supply, sewerage, storm, drainage and waste disposal.Issues galoreYogesh Sagar, president of Mohali Industries Association (MIA), said, “We have lodged several complaints regarding maintenance work, but authorities have not done anything. Streetlights are non-functional, drains are choked, and heaps of garbage dot the landscape, attracting stray dogs and cattle.”Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of MIA, said, “The authorities are testing our patience. We don’t even feel like going to our units because of all these issues. Even the central government scheme of depositing all funds under a special purpose vehicle to be used for improving infrastructure here remains on paper. The tragic part is that it has been almost two decades now and we are still asking for basic amenities.”Industry in Mohali began in 1978 with just 10 units, but today, it boasts 10,000 units, including the manufacturing and IT/service industries. These industrial units fall under three heads–Phases 1 to 4 are under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA); Phases 7, 8A and 8B are under PSIEC; and Phase 9 Industrial Area falls under Punjab Infotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-industrial-area-is-now-a-no-man-s-land/story-4TnirTigtF9LI4wHTV7qpM.html
12-10-2020||City||Several departments worked together since June to protect Aarey: Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said that several departments have been working jointly since June to protect Aarey as a forest. “We salute the efforts of all those who campaigned to save Aarey. Meticulous work has gone into ensuring a balance, where the city gets a metro corridor but not at the cost of the rich biodiversity that could have been lost at Aarey. On the one hand, we have ensured that all the charges were dropped against citizens protesting to save the trees, while on the other, 328.9 hectares (ha) of Aarey has been declared a reserved forest. No other city in the world has declared a forest within city limits especially for a metropolis like Mumbai. At the same time, protecting this green lung has an overall impact in improving Mumbai’s air quality. We must learn to live in harmony with nature,” he said. The minister added that the land for the new depot at Kanjurmarg was availed free of cost. “The 102-acre land was handed over free [to the authorities concerned for the car shed] and the soil testing has already begun. It was always the state government’s land. The existing money spent on Metro-3 line till Aarey will not get wasted, as the corridor will come out of a tunnel and climb and merge with Metro-6. Metro-3 and 6 will have same technical specifications. The metro rail headway time also does not change. Metro-3 would get more footfalls as it will get connected directly to the eastern suburbs,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/several-departments-worked-together-since-june-to-protect-aarey-maharashtra-environment-minister-aaditya-thackeray/story-oPl6URw1h75c12HvFFzabM.html
12-10-2020||City||Citizens, activists welcome decision to shift Mumbai Metro-3 car shed from Aarey||Citizens and activists hailed the state’s move to shift the Metro car shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg, ending one of the longest urban forest protection battles on Sunday. “It is a game changer for the climate change narrative for Mumbai, and building a reinvented perspective towards conserving the city’s green spaces. Territorial areas in Mumbai have not seen reserved forest declaration in almost 60 years. It is remarkable,” said Pankaj Joshi, conservation architect. Wildlife biologist Anand Pendharkhar said, “The decision goes to show that if managing politicians have the intention, even a badly designed infrastructure project can be changed to safeguard local ecosystems and could be sent back to the drafting tables.” Since November 2014, Aarey Milk Colony, Goregaon had been a bone of contention ever since proposals to build a car-shed across 33-ha for the Metro 3 line (Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ) were proposed by the state. What started out with just one notice stuck on a few trees alerting citizens about felling 2,298 trees gathering local protests, the years that followed saw agitations multiply to mammoth proportions and even arrests. Citizens and environmentalists were at loggerheads with the state before the National Green Tribunal, Bombay high court (HC) and the Supreme Court (SC), all opposing the car-shed construction while demanding overall protection of Aarey as a forest, claiming it was one of the last green lungs in Mumbai and home to a large biodiversity of flora and fauna. “The idea of protecting Aarey completely and pushing out the car shed is a good and necessary move to protect Mumbaiites from increasing air pollution,” said Rajendra Shinde, botanist and principal of St Xavier’s College. Amrita Bhattacharjee from Aarey Conservation Group, said, “As the final decision has come, there is an immediate need to restore the degraded car-shed plot at Aarey.” Over six years, recurrent petitions before courts were dismissed, numerous protests and human chains were witnessed as state and central committees deliberated on alternate sites for the car-shed. A 2015 technical committee that suggested it would not be suitable for constructing the car depot in light of ecological damage at Aarey and had proposed the 41-ha Kanjurmarg plot for the depot. “Despite Sunday’s decision, the felling of trees at the Aarey plot that happened in 2019 will remain a serious loss to Mumbai’s environment,” said one of panel members requesting anonymity. The Aarey movement saw campaigns by artists, musicians, tribals, lawyers, children, youth, senior citizens, researchers, ecologists, architects, planners, all proposing the declaration of Aarey as a forest. “There were people who had gone on indefinite fasts for Aarey trees to be protected. Mumbaiites really understood what a forest, flood plains, and biodiversity was all about only after joining this movement,” said Biju Augustine, Aarey resident. On October 4, 2019, as the HC dismissed petitions challenging tree felling at Aarey then state bodies began felling trees amid huge protests from citizens. Twenty-nine activists were arrested and charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code after clashes with police. The charges were dropped after directions from Thackeray and the charge sheets were rendered null and void recently by the state. “This is a very happy day for us as our efforts have not gone in vain,” said Ashish Patil, the first person to be arrested among the protestors. According to the CM’s announcement on Sunday, the state intends to club the car-shed site for the Metro 6 and 3 project by merging Metro lines for smoother connectivity from the eastern suburbs to south Mumbai. Though the Aarey station too has been deleted, an existing ramp area is expected to still be in Aarey to connect the underground Metro-3 line to the overhead Metro-6 project. “Citizens will get the priceless benefit of better metro connectivity. The state will benefit from lifelong cost savings from merging depots, and Mumbaiites will forever benefit from the protection of Aarey as a forest. It is a win-win for everyone,” said Zoru Bhathena, activist and one of the petitioners before the SC. Some academicians said there were many unanswered questions about why only one-fourth of Aarey had been selectively declared as forest, the impact of that on the local tribal residents, and plans to protect the remaining three-fourth of the green lung was still unclear. “Aarey as a whole is an important catchment area of the Mithi and Oshiwara river systems, any large project there will have serious downstream impacts. But it also provides livelihoods and shelter to communities who live there. The rights of inhabitants as well as the ecology need to be safeguarded,” said Hussain Indorewala A qualitative study using maps had shown how Aarey had lost its green cover periodically since the late 1940s, and that proposed projects would lead to an overall proposed loss of 40% of Aarey, according to a study by Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute of Architecture and Environmental Studies (KRVIA), Mumbai. These developments were likely to sever the contiguity with SGNP affecting wildlife movement, disrupting hydrological processes and the natural drainage pattern of the green lung, the report said. Aarey is home to 48 species of reptiles, 12 amphibians, 77 bird species, six species of venomous snakes, leopards, deer, rusty-spotted, jungle and civet cats, and even a rare snake-like amphibian caecilian among other wildlife. There have been six new discoveries and five rediscoveries of spiders, scorpions and geckos over 10 years. “These discoveries at Aarey have not happened randomly. It is a natural process which has taken millions of years for the coming up of this forest,” said noted herpetologist Varad Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citizens-activists-welcome-decision-to-shift-mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-from-aarey/story-id9ktsegI451j8ikjrikeM.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-3 car shed: Petitioners in case welcome Maharashtra government’s decision but say fight to go on until entire Aarey is declared forest||Petitioners who were distressed by the Bombay high court’s (HC) refusal to stay the felling of trees at Aarey last year have hailed chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s decision of not only shifting the Metro car shed to Kanjurmarg, but also declaring Aarey a forest, which was one their demands. The CM said that around 800 acres of Aarey has been declared a forest. Environmentalist Zoru Bhathena, who is one of the petitioners in the case, said that though the demand to relocate the car shed has been accepted by the state, their fight will go on until the entire 2,500 acres of Aarey is declared a forest. Soon after the CM made the announcement over the car shed, Bhathena said, “We are delighted that the government has finally accepted each and every proposal put up by citizens. This is indeed a victory for Mumbaiites.” Referring to HC’s refusal to stay the felling of 2,200 trees last year for the car shed at Aarey, Bhathena said, “Constitutional courts that are obliged to uphold the protection of environment have sadly, time and again, let Mumbai down. Let us hope Aarey shows the light ahead for our courts too.” Bhathena added that both his petitions – seeking the shifting of the car shed to Kanjurmarg and restraining the filling up of the flood plains at Aarey – had succeeded in light of the announcement by the CM. Environmentalist Kunal Birwadkar, who had filed an intervention application with regards to trees being transplanted for the Metro project, said that the hue and cry about the loss of large funds by the shifting of the car shed was baseless. “A 2004 order of the Supreme Court has categorically stated that ‘protection of environment would have precedence over the economic interest,’ when a decision has to be taken between development and environment,” said Birwadkar, citing the Apex court order. However advocate Zaman Ali, who along with senior advocate Gayatri Singh appeared in the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Vanashakti said that though the announcement by the CM was a victory for those concerned with safeguarding the environment, the PIL would still remain pending in the HC as the larger issue of declaring the entire 2,500 acres of Aarey as forest was pending. In all four petitions had been filed in HC on the car shed issue, which sought a stay on the felling of trees as well as declaring the entire area a forest. On October 4, 2019, the HC bench of chief justice Pradeep Nandrajog and justice Bharati Dangre had dismissed all the petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/petitioners-welcome-maharashtra-government-s-decision-to-shift-mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-from-aarey/story-8NTKRw59cp1s79m429MMuN.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro 3 project: Realigned priorities, but at what cost?||Sunday’s announcement by the Maharashtra chief minister (CM) to relocate the car shed of the upcoming Metro-3 line from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg has evoked mixed responses. While many see this as an environmental victory, there are others who view it as a pure economic blunder. As in any other case, each incident can be and should be, viewed from various facets before we condemn or praise it. The impact of this decision to shift the car shed to Kanjurmarg along with the Metro-6 car shed will have multiple ramifications. Such major alignment changes are unacceptable even during the final planning stages, leave alone when the project is nearing completion. The Union cabinet had granted clearance to Metro-3 line on June 27, 2013, and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) presented its plan for the corridor to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on February 13, 2014. After the technicalities were resolved, the project execution began around 2015. Earlier this year, 80% of the entire tunnelling work and 57% of the overall works were completed. Till the Covid-19 lockdown halted its progress, Mumbai Metro-3 project was cruising at a speed that is usually unheard of in such huge infrastructural government projects. While the lockdown has impacted the timelines of all ongoing global projects, Metro-3 car shed’s controversy added to the delays. The Aarey car shed was soon becoming a bitter pill, which the government had to take sooner or later. By the time work was halted last year in November at Aarey, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRC) had spent over ₹100 crore on the car shed. Also, it was incurring a daily loss of ₹4.3 crore, of which the loan interest component alone was ₹1.5 crore. Given the above backdrop, how fair is the decision to shift the Metro-3 car shed to Kanjurmarg from Aarey Colony? In his announcement on Sunday, the honourable CM said: “The land will be available at a zero rate. The building which has come up at Aarey forest will be utilised for some other public purpose. About ₹100-crore expenditure was incurred for the purpose and it won’t go waste.” If the government is serious about its ‘environment-friendly’ image, the whole area should have been reconverted into a forest as it was before the trees were hacked down on October 7, 2019. The announcement doesn’t reveal any details about how the decision would affect the mega public transportation Metro-3 project, either cost-wise or time-wise, or even in terms of technical feasibility. The cost of such an extension and delay in terms of money is one of the direct implications that we need to understand from this decision. The approximate 9-kilometre (km) extension will have huge cost over-runs for this project. This 32.5-km project started with an estimate of ₹23,136 crore and was revised in last year in March to ₹30,000 crore. Sunday’s announcement talked about the “zero rate land” but didn’t mention anything regarding the revised cost estimation of the project due to the change in car shed alignment. Also, the statement is highly misleading, as there is no such thing as ‘zero rate land’ in any classical or neo-classical economics. And especially in terms of Mumbai, how can there be any piece of land which comes for free? The increase in the timeline for which the government has to bear the burden of interest on the loan taken for this project should also be considered before considering “zero rate land”. Also, one fails to understand as to what good use can you put a ₹100-crore infrastructure, specifically designed to serve the purpose of a metro rail terminal, so that the money “won’t go waste”. Another major direct impact of this decision is that it will further push the deadline of this project by several months. This extension can be translated in terms of prolonged troubles for the commuters. The tagline of Metro-3 is Connecting the unconnected. The irony is that this decision will ensure that they stay unconnected a bit longer. The opportunity cost of not getting Metro-3 implemented will be huge and should be worked out by economists. Commuters in Metro-3 (Colaba-Seepz) zone heavily depend on private vehicles and this decision would force them to continue doing so for some more time. The environment benefit of public transportation over private vehicles needs no evidence, and the lost opportunity cost in terms of environmental benefits should also be calculated by environmentalists. Metro-6 line, with which this line plans to merge, has barely completed 20% work and hasn’t even finished the phase of soil investigation yet. Already, there have been objections raised on the technical feasibility of Metro-6 line, and the merger of Metro-3 line with it will further implicate the completion of the Metro-3 project. The economic and environmental trade-offs are done and have to evaluated on a case-to-case basis. One fine example of such a trade-off can be the coastal road, which raises far more serious environmental concerns than one small car-shed at Aarey. In my view, the alternative arrangements to mitigate the environmental impact of Aarey car shed should have been explored, instead of an alternative site. To conclude, I would say that Sunday’s announcement would spell disaster for the already over-burdened public transportation system in the city. The need for a robust public transportation alternative to the highly over-burdened suburban system will take a backseat due to this decision. (Paresh Rawal is a transportation and public policy expert)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-3-project-realigned-priorities-but-at-what-cost/story-ucuseuvETZrJXBswFpWDhJ.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Metro-3 car shed: Current government in Maharashtra has shown sustainable development can be achieved||It has rained after many years on a parched, drought-hit land. The land is happy, the farmer is grateful. Nature plays its music again. That’s what happened to the #SaveAarey cause today! We had always maintained that Aarey is a forest. The proof was always there as all ecological indicators of this green lung pointed to it. Instead, the previous government chose to rely on documents which did not have any connection with ground reality to deny the status of a forest to Aarey – an area contiguous to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) – with over five lakh trees, grasslands, three lakes, two rivers, marshlands and wildlife in it. With its thriving leopard population of at least eight resident leopards and a host of other wildlife – some of which is endemic – it is nothing short of a biodiversity heaven. The five lakh trees, thanklessly for decades if not centuries, have kept delivering ecological services such as lower temperatures, cleaner air, recreation and educational value and providing a wildlife habitat. Forests are frontline defenders in the battle against global warming. A city like Mumbai grappling with air pollution needs its trees and forests to keep the city liveable. Aarey forests are huge carbon sinks that contribute in keeping air pollution and global warming under check. Aarey is a place for social bonding, a heaven for children deprived of natural spaces. The fertile lands cultivated by the indigenous forest dwellers provide sustenance and food security to the underprivileged. Ecosystems evolve over decades and are closely interlinked. Forests are not only about trees. Planting saplings elsewhere can never compensate for loss of ecology in another area. The hollow claim of 25,000 saplings being planted in SGNP – where actually less than 4,000 saplings were seen (most of them dead) – could never cover up for the loss of Aarey’s natural forests. Mumbai is chaotic and bustling, yet blessed with green areas like Aarey. To sacrifice a forest to construct a polluting industry is not something that can be passed off. Citizens had researched and given at least eight other options that were less damaging. Let us take Kanjurmarg as an example. The land is barren since the past 15 years and is rapidly getting encroached by slums. The land belongs to the Maharashtra government, and is free from all encumbrances. It does not have a single tree on it. The grass on the land is cultivated illegally by diverting sewage water onto it. Directions by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to stop this activity have gone unheeded. Before the land becomes another sprawling slum, it should be put to use for a larger public cause. We have often heard the word ‘sustainable development’ being used at all forums along with the word ecosystem, without the speakers understanding its true meaning. When you destroy without a conscience for projects that don’t need the ecological lamb to be sacrificed despite having the option to save it, it cannot be called sustainable development. Mercifully, Aarey has escaped annihilation. The fateful night of October 4, 2019, when 300 trees were chopped down in the dead of the night saw despair, disgust and anger in people’s minds. People courted arrest, hugged the trees and stormed the site. It shook the nation’s conscience and instilled a sense of responsibility in youth. Students from Noida went to the house of the then Chief Justice of India, and got the matter heard on a Dussehra day. It deserves a special mention. The sacrifice of the 300 trees has not gone in vain. We are so used to criticising governments for destruction of nature but rarely in a lifetime do we get to thank a government for protection of nature. The decision by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, is one that is filled with compassion for nature, coupled with economic wisdom. Instead of 80 hectare (ha) land used for two car sheds (actually it is 100ha or more considering that Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd was given 66ha when they demanded only 30ha), now only 40ha will be used for both the Metro lines 6 and 3. This has resulted in a net saving of over 60ha land. I leave it to the imagination of the people to put a value or cost on 60ha of land in Mumbai and then decide if the decision was a wise one or not. Further, by extending the utility of the route, by incorporating east-west connectivity, it is a logistical masterstroke. Mumbai for long had been blackmailed that it could have either the Metro or Aarey. The present government has shown that sustainable development can be achieved. So let Mumbai savour the moment. On this historical day, let the celebration of nature continue in the hearts and minds of all nature lovers. Take a bow, all the warriors who participated in this ‘satyagraha’ as described by the CM today. Cheers! (Environmentalist Stalin D is the director of non-governmental organisation Vanashakti, who petitioned before the National Green Tribunal, Bombay high court and the Supreme Court to declare Aarey a forest. He had also proposed Kanjurmarg as an alternative site to the state and appealed for the scrapping of the exemption of 165ha area from the eco-sensitive zone of Aarey.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metro-3-car-shed-current-government-in-maharashtra-has-shown-sustainable-development-can-be-achieved/story-83qPbaSlmY0XyA8bazuI7M.html
12-10-2020||City||Punjab buys power from national grid as thermal plants run at minimal capacity due to coal crisis||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is banking on electricity purchase from the national grid with the thermal plants in the state running at a minimal capacity due to a severe coal shortage in the wake of the farmers’ ongoing rail roko agitation. Of a total demand of 8,200 megawatt (MW) on Sunday morning, the state bought 6,700 megawatt (MW) electricity from the national grid, the highest ever till date. Against an installed thermal power capacity of 5,200 MW, the state plants are generating 1,100 MW power due to shortage of coal. “We are facing a crisis as the state got no coal supply for the last 20 days. We are managing the situation by purchasing power from the national grid. The chief minister has appealed to the protesting farmers and I hope that they will allow the passage of coal rakes for power generation,” said director (distribution) DS Grewal. “Usually, we sell electricity in October or transfer power to the electricity banks with other states. For the past one week, apart from borrowing power from other states’ banks, we are making a daily purchase 600-800 MW power at around Rs 3 per unit,” said Grewal. It would be difficult to meet the demand in the next few days if the situation does not improve as Punjab has the permission to get maximum 6,500 MW from outside, as an overload may result in a breakdown, he said. “The state has to generate power to meet the balance from the central pool to meet the grid norms. The power generation at hydel power plants has also been increased to meet the demand. The power demand is likely to decrease in the next few days but it would go up in the third week of October when the festival season will kickstart,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-buys-power-from-national-grid-as-thermal-plants-run-at-minimal-capacity-due-to-coal-crisis/story-c57jR5gLRB7gnahjhJKRvK.html
12-10-2020||City||Sukhbir Badal meets Akal Takht jathedar over SGPC elections, takes jibe at BJP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday met Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh in the Golden Temple complex and said his party was ready for the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general elections whenever they are conducted. This comes amid speculations on the gurdwara body polls in the wake of the appointment of chief commissioner for the same. SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal was also present in the meeting. Sukhbir, who was accompanied by his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and children, met the jathedar after attended a bhog (concluding) ceremony of akhand path organised by the family and paying obeisance at the shrine. The SAD chief, jathedar and Longowal remained in the Akal Takht secretariat for nearly half an hour. Later, during an interaction with mediapersons, Sukhbir said, “The SAD is ready for the elections whenever these are conducted. I welcome the appointment of Justice SS Saron as chief commissioner. The Sikh community elects the SGPC house. The SAD has been tasked with this for the last 100 years. Again, we will reach out to the sangat to garner their support. Other groups also have the right to be part of this democratic exercise.” Also, an attempt by members of some Sikh bodies to show Sukhbir and Longowal black flags on the issue of missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib was foiled. The protesters carrying black flags and placards stood at the Golden Temple entrance but the two exited from another gate. The SAD president took a jibe at its erstwhile alliance partner, BJP, over an announcement that the saffron party will contest the 2022 Punjab assembly elections on its own and will come power as well. “They are having this dream for long. Let them continue having it,” he said. Slamming Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over the new farm laws, he said, “He should go to Delhi to convey all the concerns to the Central government and persuade it to revoke these legislations. But he does not step out of his farmhouse. I fail to understand why he is running away from his duty to protect the interests of the people of Punjab?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-meets-akal-takht-jathedar-over-sgpc-polls-takes-jibe-at-bjp/story-wHx7ErK4PZLTVafbU0zBnI.html
12-10-2020||City||Mumbai Metro-3 car shed: Maharashtra government shifts its ground, set for rough path||The Uddhav Thackeray led-Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) decision to shift Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car depot from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg may be a political win, but it comes with new challenges and financial burden.The 33.5-km underground corridor will now go back to the drawing board, as the line will have to be extended from Seepz to Kanjurmarg by about seven-eight km, officials said. Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, urban development department, said, “It will be an extension from Seepz, but the authorities will work out the technicalities. The Kanjurmarg land has been allocated to the metropolitan authority.” Another official, who did not wish to be named, said an area of around 43 hectares, free of any litigation, was transferred by the state’s revenue department to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in the first week of October. “Around 18 hectares will be used for the Metro-6 depot and around 25 hectares for the Metro-3 depot. Both lines will be integrated after Seepz. It is a huge area in Kanjurmarg which gives scope for expansion in the future also,” the official said. “After Seepz, Metro-3 will also be elevated and be integrated with line 6, till Kanjurmarg, but a detailed project report (DPR) will be done for Metro-3 extension,” the official added. While Thackeray said the land will not come at any additional cost as it is owned by the state, the laying of additional track as well as cost overruns for the project will be substantial. Consider this. On an average, cost of laying per km of elevate rail track, as is being considered by planners for the extension, is around ₹200-250 crore per km. The construction of the depot is expected to take around two years, so the deadline for the phase 1 for the corridor (Aarey-Bandra-Kurla Complex), initially slated to be 2021, is likely to get pushed to 2023. A 2017 estimate by Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing Metro-3, had said per day delay costs around ₹4.2 crore. Back of the paper calculations show the time delay will cost the exchequer an additional ₹3,066 crore. MMRC will also have to seek approvals from the Centre and Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for the extension. While the Centre holds a stake in MMRC, JICA is funding the entire project worth ₹32,000 crore. Nitin Killawala, an architect who has been demanding underground Metro corridors in the city, had also submitted a plan to the government in 2019 to scrap Metro-6, and instead extend line 3. “The state must consider our plan on Metro-6 too as it is only going to worsen the traffic situation in JVLR. If Metro-3 is extended till Kanjurmarg, it will benefit people from the eastern suburbs and Thane anyway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-maharashtra-government-shifts-its-ground-set-for-rough-path/story-gCq7Yn9N9lNdVAk0gU3CSI.html
12-10-2020||City||Wife ends life a day after 35-year-old Amritsar jeweller commits suicide over blackmail by woman SI||A 33-year-old woman, whose jeweller husband died allegedly by committing suicide a day before, ended her life by hanging herself from the railing of the rooftop of her house at Nawan Pind village in Amritsar on Sunday. The jeweller (35), who hanged himself from a ceiling fan in a hotel room at Mehta Road in Amritsar city, had left a suicide note blaming Sandeep Kaur, a Punjab Police sub-inspector (SI), for driving him to taking the extreme step.The jeweller claimed in the suicide note that he was being blackmailed and threatened by the SI, also a resident of Navan Pind and posted at the Mehta police station. His suicide note read, “Sandeep had taken Rs 17-18 lakh from me and was demanding more. She threatened to kill me through her friends if I failed to pay the money. There are screenshots of messages in my phone that will make it clear that she was pressurising me to kill Baljit Singh, her former friend. She also tried to pressurise me to kill one Navdeep Sandhu and his wife. Navdeep was living with Mandeep by promising to marry her.” The jeweller’s father said justice would be done only if the SI, who was booked under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code, was hanged to death.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurjinder Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the accused SI was at large and they are searching for her. Proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Criminal Code of Procedure (CrPC) at the Jandiala police station over the death of the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-commits-suicide-a-day-after-amritsar-jeweller-ends-life-over-blackmail-by-woman-si/story-GaFF9Z7TnZCAAXM7qj5qiO.html
12-10-2020||City||Mumbai man rapes 13-year-old, circulates video of crime, arrested||Vanrai police arrested a 23-year-old man on Saturday for allegedly raping a minor in Goregaon. The accused had also circulated the video clip of the crime among the residents of the child’s housing society. According to the 13-year-old survivor, the accused lives near her house. Last year in October, he took the girl to his house and sexually assaulted her. However, she did not reveal the incident to anyone. A few days ago, the girl discovered that the accused had recorded the crime and circulated the video clip among her society members. She then revealed the incident to her parents and approached the police.The accused has been booked under sections 376 (3) [commits rape on a woman under sixteen years], 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. An officer from Vanrai police station said, “We arrested the accused as soon as we registered the case and also seized his mobile phone. We are trying to ensure that the video does not get circulated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-rapes-13-year-old-circulates-video-of-crime-arrested/story-Q5uXp6Sn8d30dz6QntsXiN.html
12-10-2020||City||Mild sections invoked in FIR, book 2 more officials, says family of Bathinda girl infused HIV+ blood||The family of a seven-year-old thalassemia patient, who was infused HIV+ blood early this month, has taken exception to the police’s move of invoking ‘mild’ sections of the Indian Penal Code against an accused medical laboratory technologist.On Saturday night, the police registered a case against laboratory technologist Baldev Singh Romana under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR was lodged on the complaint of the Bathinda civil surgeon.In various instances across the country, these two sections were invoked against persons defying quarantine orders for containing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. If held guilty under Section 269 of the IPC, a person can get a maximum punishment of six months whereas a court can sentence a punishment of up to two years for conviction under 270 of the IPC. Also, a guilty may also face penalties in both cases.The girl’s father said as per the internal report, Romana had a strained relationship with colleagues at the blood bank and he allegedly let blood transfused to the seven-year-old to settle scores with coworkers on October 3. Citing two inquiry reports, he said infusing HIV+ blood to the child was done in a planned manner and thus it amounts to attempt to murder.“The fact-finding panel stated that Romana had called the HIV-infected person from his personal mobile phone on October 1, and two days later, the person donated blood that was issued my daughter. It was a deliberated and a planned attempt by Romana with an ulterior motive. Also, we demand case against two other blood bank officials, then in-charge of the blood bank at the Bathinda civil hospital and blood transfusion officer Dr Karishma Goyal and laboratory technician Richu Goyal,” he said.Chandigarh-based activist and high court lawyer HC Arora said, “The case is fit for trial under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. If blood bank officials are found guilty of deliberately concealing HIV+ infection status from a donor and his blood was infused to two patients, the matter needs urgent attention. Also, by keeping a person in dark about his HIV+ status for five months, the department concerned deprived him of treatment for a prolonged period and put so lives at risk,” said Arora.Naujawan Welfare Society (NWS), a Bathinda NGO, extended support to fight a legal battle for the thalassemia patient and the 47-year-old blood donor. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said legal opinion is being sought from experts in the case. “Case was registered against Romana on the basis of a complaint received from the civil surgeon. On the basis of investigation, we can invoke relevant sections of the IPC and include other persons involved in the crime,” said the SSP.Civil surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu said his office is yet to get any communication on the status of Dr Karishma outsourced under the National Health Mission and a woman lab technologist working with the Punjab Health Systems Corporation.Health secretary Hussan Lal said both officials have been dismissed and the departments concerned are handling the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mild-sections-invoked-in-fir-also-book-2-more-officials-says-family-of-girl-infused-hiv-blood/story-SshOWyDbfh4BlTaB9EVbJM.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Constable booked for raping, cheating interior designer from Mumbai||Pant Nagar police on Thursday registered a first information report (FIR) against a 42-year-old police constable for allegedly raping a Ghatkopar-based interior designer. Senior inspector Suhas Kamble from Pant Nagar police station said, “We have registered the offence and are investigating the matter. The accused has not been arrested yet.” The case was registered after the police received a written application that the accused had sexually assaulted the 40-year-old complainant on multiple occasions on the pretext of marrying her. A year ago, she delivered his child. It was then that the constable told her that he was already married. He also said he could not marry her because if he did, the police department would sack him for consummating two marriages. He then told her that he would divorce his wife and marry her, but didn’t do so, her complaint to the police stated. He also asked her not to disclose to anyone that the child is his and that it was a test tube baby. The woman then approached the police. The constable also holds a post in Brihanmumbai Police Karmchari Pagardar Sahakari Patsanstha. In her statement, the complainant said she met the accused in 1998 while working at a private company in Andheri. Over time their friendship turned into love and he promised her that he would marry her. “He also introduced her to two developers and asked her to undertake their interior decoration work. The accused used her expertise as a designer and earned money but didn’t pay her anything,” stated the complaint. Her statement further alleged that the accused took money from her multiple times on various pretexts and owed her around Rs87 lakh. The accused has been booked under sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-booked-for-raping-cheating-interior-designer-from-mumbai/story-EjYus0AXTZbZwUKu52ZZRO.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Chandigarh among worst performers in using Covid grant||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said that Chandigarh is among the worst performers when it comes to utilising funds released to states and union territories to manage Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing his ‘Sunday Samvaad’ programme, the minister said: “Maharashtra (42.5%), Chandigarh (47.8%) and Delhi (75.4%) are worst performers in Covid-19 grant utilisation.” In the first phase, the Government of India has released ₹3,000 crore to all states and UTs to battle the pandemic, he said. With the country gearing up for festive season, the minister cautioned that the fight against Covid-19 was not over and “we need to unite and follow all precautions”. UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “States spend money on reimbursing private hospitals and ambulances, publicity campaigns, setting up temporary hospitals and purchasing extra medical equipment. We did not require these things, as we already have adequate infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chandigarh-among-worst-performers-in-using-covid-grant/story-SsNoYu9p2x8Pz3nwp8P2pK.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||20 held for travelling in Mumbai local trains with fake IDs||40-year-old man was arrested by the Mumbai Central Government Railway Police (GRP) on Saturday for allegedly travelling with a fake identity (ID) card. According to GRP officers, this is the fifth such arrest in October where an employee of a private office has been caught travelling with a fake ID card. From June to October 10, GRP has arrested more than 20 people for travelling with fake IDs. In this recent case, the accused Deepak Pandhrinath Khedekar, a resident of Jogeshwari, was caught at Mumbai Central railway station. Shailendra Dhivar, senior inspector of Mumbai Central GRP said that Khedekar, an employee of a private security agency, was caught by the ticket checker at Churchgate railway station. Dhivar said that Khedekar was arrested and booked under sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Khedekar. At present, only emergency and essential service employees along with those working at banks and some other Union government bodies like MbPT and dabbawalas are allowed to travel in local trains during the period of the lockdown. When Khedekar was asked for his ID card, he showed one with the seal of the station master’s office and QR code along with a fake signature. Police are now investigating from where Khedekar obtained the fake ID card. “We are also investigating to find out whether there is a bigger nexus or gang involved in making fake ID cards,” said Dhivar. In a drive to curb unauthorised commuters on local trains, the commercial department of Western Railway (WR) nabbed a man last Wednesday. Andheri government railway police (GRP) too, arrested a woman for using a fake identity card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-held-for-travelling-in-mumbai-local-trains-with-fake-ids/story-MRtwdELQDAC6JtEJmrqXCK.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic schools to start handwashing awareness among students||Schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have been asked to raise awareness about the importance of washing hands among students as per a recent circular issued by the civic education department. As per the directions under the circular, schools have to participate in the ‘clean hands for all’ initiative between October 12 and 17. “Under the initiative, students need to be told about the importance of washing hands especially in the current context of the ongoing pandemic. Schools should demonstrate the right way of washing hands and encourage students to raise awareness about the same in their respective localities,” states the circular issued by the BMC education department. October 15 is observed as the Global Handwashing Day. “As part of the initiative, students can be asked to make short videos demonstrating the right ways of washing their hands. Schools that are able to create the best campaigns will be rewarded by the civic body. “While the event is held every year, this year it is more significant because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of our students live in slums and chawls, and knowing the right hygienic practices can help them stay away from the virus,” said the principal of a BMC-run school in the eastern suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-schools-to-start-handwashing-awareness-among-students/story-ubBA33INhecQu5KnAn9YEP.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain alert for Mumbai for Wednesday, Thursday; thundershowers expected across Maharashtra: IMD||The weather bureau on Sunday issued a yellow alert — thunderstorm accompanied by gusty winds with heavy rain across isolated areas — for Wednesday and Thursday for the city and suburbs while thundershowers have been predicted across several areas in Maharashtra through the week.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said a low-pressure belt in the Bay of Bengal had turned into a depression and may further strengthen into a deep depression leading to heavy rains and thunderstorms across Maharashtra over the next five days.IMD has issued a yellow alert for all days up to Thursday for Thane, Palghar and Raigad. “The low-pressure belt developed in the Bay of Bengal has now turned into a depression and will further intensify as a deep depression in the next 24 hours. It will be in the west-north-west direction and as a result of this, various parts in state such as central Maharashtra, Vidharbha, Marathwada and Konkan will receive heavy rain and thunderstorms over the next four to five days,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, IMD Mumbai.The city and suburbs could expect light rain or thundershowers on Monday and Tuesday which may intensify thereafter, IMD said.Meanwhile, hazy conditions continued for the third consecutive day on Sunday but the pollutant-measuring indicator witnessed a marginal drop as compared to Saturday. The air quality Index (AQI) dipped to 90 (satisfactory), as opposed to 121 (moderate) on Saturday — the worst since March this year. An AQI of 83 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-alert-for-mumbai-for-wednesday-thursday-thundershowers-expected-across-maharashtra-imd/story-0CDkJ3oBd1pUU5nIcZ0HAP.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body shuts 55% units for asymptomatic patients||In the past two months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has temporarily shut, or what they called deactivated, 55% of the quarantine centres meant for asymptomatic Covid-19 positive (CCC2) patients in Mumbai. By the end of July, the city had 61 such quarantine centres; the number has now dropped to 27. These 27 centres have a bed capacity of 3,444, of which 52% or 1,637 beds are currently occupied. Currently, 57 of the 335 Covid care centres (CCC1) meant to quarantine high-risk contacts of positive patients are active, with a bed capacity of 19,865, while 278 such facilities with a bed capacity of 26,812 have been put on reserve. This comes as more Mumbaiites, who are asymptomatic positive, or who are high-risk contacts of positive patients, are in home quarantine. BMC in May decided to allow asymptomatic positive patients to quarantine at home, as long as the home has a separate toilet and separate room. In slums, BMC moves up to 13 high-risk contacts per positive patient to institutional quarantine facilities. The trend of the spread of infection has been moving from slums to more residents of high-rise buildings, as Mumbai is opening up. Mumbai on Sunday recorded 2,170 new cases and 42 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 229,446 and toll to 9,433. The number of active cases in the city is presently 25,768. While 59% of the total active cases are asymptomatic, 34% are symptomatic, and 6% are critical. As per data available as of October 10, BMC has shifted 156,554 high-risk contacts to quarantine facilities, and 517,010 high-risk contacts have been home quarantined. A senior civic official from the health department said, “Even though we have shut these facilities, they can be reactivated and used any time. Right now, we don’t need so many institutional quarantine facilities. We have enough beds now. As the virus has moved to non-slum population, we don’t need as many facilities.” BMC has partly attributed it to the increase in the number of beds in jumbo facilities at seven places across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-shuts-55-units-for-asymptomatic-patients/story-O3J7a2ZIiC8W7E4CT5fexN.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Retired teacher duped of Rs 6 lakh on pretext of clearing provident fund dues||An elderly woman was allegedly duped of Rs 6 lakh by a group of men posing to be employees of the ministry of finance on the pretext of helping her get her provident fund dues, which was long pending. The suspects — who are yet to be identified — asked the victim to submit a total of around Rs 6 lakh in various bank accounts over a period of six months, the complaint registered at Cyber police stations says. The victim was assured that the money will be refunded after a minimal deduction of one percent, said police. According to the police, they received a complaint from the daughter of the woman from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh, who has worked in a government school for over 35 years. The daughter received a call on January 30 from a man who introduced himself as an employee of the ministry of finance, who wanted to discuss something regarding the provident fund of the mother after retirement. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that the man asked her to pay Rs 7120 as file charges initially and later asked her to pay Rs 23,458 which were to be deposited in a given account number. “Between February 15 and July 20 the victim was asked to pay Rs 606,028 in different bank accounts. She was promised that 1 % of the amount will be deducted and rest will be refunded in her bank account after the verification process,” he said. Police said the suspects had informed that they were based in Delhi and Mumbai. At least four different people had called from different numbers , said police. Goel said the suspect had told the daughter that her mother’s file was at Central Government Employees Group Insurance Scheme office in Delhi and those files which needs clearance from higher authorities come to them for clearance. “They informed her that her mother’s total PF amount was nearly Rs 8 lakh, out of which they had asked them to deposit Rs 6 lakh, which was refundable. Different people posing as different officials from different departments had spoken to the daughter informing them that the charges are from tax and bank departments,” he said. The victim’s daughter, who was coordinating with the suspects realised that they had been duped after she discussed the same with another retired teacher.She then lodged a police complaint. The victim gave all the mobile numbers and details of the bank accounts to the police following which a case was registered under section 66D of information technology act and 420 (cheating) at Cyber police station on Saturday. The victim said she is still receiving calls from the suspects who are asking her to pay final no objection certificate charges of Rs 40,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-retired-teacher-duped-of-rs-6-lakh-on-pretext-of-clearing-provident-fund-dues/story-UG5ORSC7Ck0dRmKqy9Lu5M.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG sets 24-hour deadline to fix all non-functional streetlights||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set a 24-hour deadline for its concessionaire, Energy Efficiency Services Limited, to repair all non-functional LED streetlights in the city, failing which the concessionaire will be required to pay a daily fine of ₹50 per streetlight until fixed, said officials on Sunday.Earlier this month, the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) had passed an order to all 10 municipal corporations across the state to start fining their respective concessionaires, if they fail to fix streetlights within a 24-hour period. The order was passed after repeated complaints were filed on the ULB website and the Swachh Haryana mobile application, said Raman Yadav, executive engineer, electrical wing, MCG.“Adhering to the directions of the ULB, we have conveyed to our concessionaire the information regarding the 24-hour deadline as well as the subsequent penalty fee. Setting up of mechanism and other related work on meeting this target has already started. During the non-monsoon months, we receive around 20-22 complaints per day of streetlights malfunctioning. In the monsoon season, often due to disruption in power supply, the daily complaints rise to 50 to 60,” said Yadav.MCG officials said that currently, there are complaints of around 900 LED non-functional streetlights in the city.In August 2017, Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the civic body for installing LED streetlights in Gurugram. As per the MoU, EESL was also given the task of maintaining streetlights in the city for a period of 10 years.Over the last three years, more than 78,000 LED streetlights have been installed across the city, said MCG officials.“We have a complaint handling system, through which we track complaints which go beyond 48 hours. If complaints exceed beyond the 48-hour period, we have an agreement with our concessionaires to impose penalties on our own. In the case of Gurugram, the local municipal corporation, as well as residents, are extremely vigilant due to which our pending complaints about non-functioning streetlights tend to remain below 1% against the total number of streetlights installed in the city,” said Venkatesh Dwivedi, director (projects), EESL.Dwivedi further said that usually, across the country, EESL has an agreement with the local civic body of ensuring that 95% of the streetlights are functional at any given point.“However, as per our MoU with the MCG, in Gurugram the rate is fixed at 97%. Thus, with the current number of LED streetlights in Gurugram, at any point, we have to ensure that the total number of non-functioning streetlights remain below 2,000. We have so far been able to ensure that the non-functioning streetlights percentage remains below 3%,” said Dwivedi.Dwivedi further said that EESL is working on setting up a more advanced monitoring system in Gurugram, on par with the smart city parameters, which will enable the local municipal corporation to monitor the functioning of streetlights on a real-time basis.“We are working on more advanced technical approaches to ensure that the turnout time is less than 24 hours. Even if a resident does not raise an issue, our control system should be able to detect the total number of non-functional streetlights in the city at any given point, so that, on the following morning, the maintenance team has prior information regarding the total number of streetlights that needs repair,” said Dwivedi.Since last year, EESL and MCG have been working on linking all LED streetlights in the city with the integrated control and command centre (ICCC) of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) for keeping real-time surveillance on their functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-sets-24-hour-deadline-to-fix-all-non-functional-streetlights/story-6BJK4cI7x4DYx8ztpObwCK.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||‘Delayed diagnosis of malaria, dengue as Covid-19 co-infection may lead to miscarriage’||Late diagnosis of Covid-19 infection with dengue and malaria in pregnant women can lead to health complications including miscarriage, revealed a study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR-NIRRH), Parel in association with BYL Nair Hospital. Covid-19 infection shares similar symptoms with mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria. In both cases, patients develop symptoms like fever, nausea, vomiting, body ache among others, which often lead to confusion and misdiagnosis. Often when a pregnant woman gets diagnosed with Covid-19, doctors don’t test them for dengue and malaria, which delays the diagnosis of the co-infection.Taking such incidences into account, the researchers conducted a study on three pregnant women infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 infection. Two of them had co-infection of malaria while the third patient had dengue. The study, Co-infection of malaria and dengue in pregnant women with Sars-Cov-2, has been published in the International Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics journal on Saturday.“Co-infections of malaria and dengue or any other monsoon-related illnesses with Sars-CoV-2 infection can be misdiagnosed as all have similar kinds of symptoms and presentations. So all symptomatic Covid-19 cases with fever should be investigated for other common Infections in endemic regions, both in the general population and in pregnant women, to avoid complications,” said Dr Rahul Gajbhiye, a scientist at ICMR-NIRRH and principal investigator of the study, in response to an email.During their study, they found a case of a pregnant woman who had tested positive for Covid-19. Later, when her condition didn’t improve, doctors tested her for malaria and to their surprise, she tested positive for the disease. However, it was too late and she soon started bleeding and suffered a miscarriage. The researchers believe that if she was diagnosed earlier with malaria, her baby could have been saved.“Co-infection could be the reason for miscarriage, as malaria is known to cause miscarriages. Along with co-infection, she was suffering from hypertension in pregnancy, which also could be responsible for the miscarriage,” said Dr Niraj Mahajan, associate professor at BYL Nair Hospital and another principal investigator of the study.As Covid-19 infection is spreading to rural parts of India, the researchers cautioned doctors to be more vigilant for early identification of co-infections such as malaria and dengue to control fatality rate among pregnant women.“Dengue or malaria requires a completely different clinical management protocol to that of Covid-19. Delay in diagnosis can lead to other life-threatening complications such as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), renal failure, intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) among others,” said Dr Smita Mahale, director, ICMR-NIRRH.Dr Ashok Anand, head of the department, obstetrics and gynaecology at Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, said, “As a precaution, it is necessary to test pregnant women with Covid-19 along with other seasonal ailments. With timely diagnosis and treatment, we can control the cases of miscarriages among co-infected mothers.”ICMR-NIRRH, in collaboration with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has started a registry of pregnant women with Covid-19 called PregCOVID (https://pregcovid.com/) as a response to Covid-19 pandemic. The study has been conducted by collecting the required data from the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delayed-diagnosis-of-malaria-dengue-as-covid-19-co-infection-may-lead-to-miscarriage/story-67WcTzcewILZ8QJc4cpz5N.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Around 1 lakh people to be impacted by diesel genset ban, power utility estimates||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Curran Nigam (DHBVN), has submitted a status report to the environment pollution (prevention and control) authority (Epca) regarding the pending power connections in the city and the number of group housing societies which shall be impacted if complete ban is imposed on the operation of diesel generators after October 15. As per the utility, 26 condominiums are dependent on gensets to a large extent while three group housing societies in new sectors are completely dependent on diesel gensets. DHBVN officials said that they have informed the EPCA that a large number of residents, who live in these societies, will be impacted if a complete ban is imposed on operation of diesel gensets. Around one lakh residents in new sectors, who live in these condominiums and don’t have regular electricity connections will be impacted by the ban, the power utility estimates. DHBVN officials also said that they are = identifying societies where temporary power connections, which were taken for construction purposes by developers, are now being used for residential purpose. The ban is part of Epca’s graded response acton plan (Grap) to prevent pollution in Delhi and NCR from reaching severe levels. However, use of generators for essential services — such as hospitals, railways, Metro stations, water treatment plants and sewage treatment plans — is allowed.As per the pollution department, there are around 10,000 generators operational in the city, both in residential and industrial sectors. Around 6,000 generators of more than 100 KWA capacity are used to augment power supply as backup for outages.Vinita Singh, chief engineer, Smart Grid, who also holds the additional charge of chief engineer, Delhi circle, said that they have submitted the status report to Epca. “We have apprised Epca that residents of around 26 condominiums partially and three completely will get impacted if complete ban is imposed,” said Singh. DHBVN officials also said that not taking regular connections was the failure on part of the developers, as they had not built the requisite infrastructure and also not met compliances set by power utility. “We are identifying societies where regular connections have not been taken by developers and people are consuming electricity on the basis of temporary connections. This is against rules and we will ensure that such connections are regularised,” said another senior official of DHBVN based, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The residents, meanwhile, said that the government should encash the security deposit submitted by developers and create the missing power Infrastructure including missing substations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/around-1-lakh-people-to-be-impacted-by-diesel-genset-ban-power-utility-estimates/story-gYbA5hmJxVBSveBPPjkhDL.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Man wanted over 40 criminal cases nabbed by cops in Nuh||The police arrested a 26-year-old man wanted in over 40 criminal cases, including robbery, theft , ATM loot, murder, attempt to murder and kidnapping, from the Nuh district on Saturday. The police said that the patrolling team and the crime investigation agency (CIA) of Tauru received a tip-off that the suspect, identified as Waseem alias Dainy, was on his way towards Hodal, when he was intercepted on a motorbike by the police and caught. Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police(SP), Nuh, said he was wanted in over 40 criminal cases in Delhi, Rajasthan, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Rewari, Faridabad, Nuh and Gurugram. He was also wanted by Delhi Police for the past one year for multiple cases. “He has been involved in over 100 ATM thefts across the country and cow smuggling cases in Rajasthan and Haryana,” he said. Bijarnia said that his two close aides were arrested on Saturday night with a truck loaded with 204 kilograms of drugs packed in 10 plastic gunny bags. “The drugs were bought from Orissa and were to be supplied to one of the drug peddlers, who used to sell the drugs in different areas and used to share profit with the suspects,” he said. According to the police, Dainy was allegedly involved in more than 100 criminal cases pertaining to organised ATM loot in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Delhi. He has been on the run for the last one year. “There are more than 100 gangs operating from Nuh that are actively involved in uprooting ATMs and cow smuggling. Teams have been formed to identify all the suspects involved. All the police records are being checked to get their details based on which raids are being conducted in their respective villages to arrest them,” said the SP. The police said they are targeting all the proclaimed offenders and have started a clean-up operation in the district. They have been successful in arresting over 100 criminals this year since the beginning of January involved in different criminal activities. Bijarnia said they have informed Delhi Police regarding the arrest of the suspect, who will be taken on production remand by them for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-wanted-over-40-criminal-cases-nabbed-by-cops-in-nuh/story-OLPzruIh3zPqzMlCmSvdPL.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Economic survey resumes in the district after hiatus due to Covid-19 outbreak||The data collection for the 7th Economic Survey has resumed in the district after being put on hold for months due to Covid-19 pandemic, confirmed the district administration officials on Sunday. The survey, a nationwide data collection exercise that looks into various economic aspects of residential and commercial establishments across the country for devising public policies, started in August 2019 in the district.Officials said that nearly 95 percent of the data collection work under the census has been completed in Gurugram, while the remaining five percent would be completed in the next few months. The survey was last conducted in 2013.“The survey that has been pending for months due to Covid-19, will now be completed by 252 supervisors and 416 enumerators,” said Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner in his statement issued by the district administration. In August 2019, the field work for the survey started with nearly 2,500 enumerators and 400 supervisors.“The survey has to be completed in areas, such as Udyog Vihar, Sector 47 part 1 and 2, sectors 34, 52A, 53, 56, 57 and 49. Till now, 13,57, 371 residential establishments have been covered as a part of the survey. It includes 12,11,015 households in urban areas and nearly 1,46,356 in rural areas,” said Panwar.For the purpose of the survey, the establishments in the city have been divided into three categories – residential, commercial and others. In the residential category, the focus is on the source of income in a family, while the commercial category caters to questions, such as nature of the economic activity, number of employees, revenue collection, investment, turnover among others. This time, the survey is paperless, with details collected from the field being directly uploaded in the application created especially for the census.In all the four blocks of the district, the data has been collated from both urban and rural areas. The data available with the district administration shows that from urban parts of Gurugram falling under Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) nearly 11 lakh residential and commercial establishments have been covered, whereas only 4,316 establishments have been covered from rural areas.Likewise, in Sohna over 16,000 (rural) and 12,691 (urban) establishments have been covered, followed by Pataudi (25,186 rural establishments and 9,392 urban ones), Farrukhnagar (34,956 rural establishments and 5,306 urban ones). Additionally, more than 51,000 commercial establishments have been surveyed in Manesar. Other areas, such as Bhondsi, Garhi Harsaru, Hailey Mandi and Wazirabad, have also been covered by the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/economic-survey-resumes-in-the-district-after-hiatus-due-to-covid-19-outbreak/story-6bO0L2AVo0VSH6Lf8dpgbP.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Portion of Ghamroj bundh excavated to create a rest area by NHAI||A portion of the Ghamroj bundh, which runs for about two kilometres along Sohna Road in Ghamroj village, has been excavated to make room for a ‘rest area’, being built as part of the National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI) upcoming toll complex on NH 248A. While NHAI officials said that move has been made in compliance with required protocols, experts and activists warned that tampering with the structural integrity of the bundh — intended to arrest runoff from Aravalli hills which skirt around the village — may pose adverse consequences for flooding and may negatively affect the ground water recharge in the area.A visit to the location by an HT team on Sunday morning found that an estimated 500-metre section of the bundh, just ahead of the Mehendwara intersection on Sohna Road, has been demolished using earthmoving machines with the bundh having been entirely breached in one place. On the rear side of the bundh is a low-lying area where locals said small amounts of water sometimes collects during the rainy season. This depression, workers on site explained, will be reclaimed with earth in order to bring the ‘rest area’ slightly above the height of the carriageway. Construction work for the same is already underway at the site. Confirming these details, NHAI officials clarified that the decision to reclaim the bundh has been made after carrying out a drainage study of the area, in collaboration with the irrigation department. Vikas Mittal, technical manager, NHAI, said, “Members of the irrigation department as well as myself have carried out multiple site inspections during this past monsoon, and there is very little water which collects behind the bundh today. We are also building catch drains around the rest area, and will also install RCC pipes along the length of the bundh to channel any excess runoff, though we do not anticipate anyway.”However, Mittal also revealed that required permissions for the same are still being processed. “We received clearance from the forest department for diversion of forest land on the bundh in 2018, but that does not allow us to change the physical structure of the bundh. To do that, we require the irrigation department’s permission. Due to procedural delays, we have not received their official go ahead, but they have given us in principle approval and so the work has started.” He also added, “We will not be harming the function of the bundh in any way. The portion, which is being reclaimed lies at one end, the remaining length of the bundh will not be affected.”Activists, on the other hand, said the move is in contradiction of Sohna’s Master Plan 2031, which states that the bundh will be retained in its current state. An explanatory note issued in this regard by the town and country planning department on November 15, 2012), mentions, “Sohna Town is surrounded by Aravalli Ranges on eastern & western side. In the rainy season, run-off from these ranges passes through proposed urbanization through barsati Nallahs namely Mehandwara Nadi. Three bundhs namely Sohna bundh, Mohmmadpur bundh and Ghamroj bundh exist on the western side of the town to check the run-off and for recharging the underground water table. All the three existing bundhs and alignment of the tributaries of Mehandwara Nadi / Nallah have been retained as such in the Development Plan on the request of the Irrigation Department (sic).”Prem Mohan Gaur, a resident of Hajjipur village on Sohna-Palwal road, who frequents the area regularly, says he noticed the bundh being reclaimed almost three months ago. “Passing through the area in early October, I noticed that this entire section of the bundh has been removed. I am aware the removal of traditional bundhs in other parts of the district, like the one in Ghata village, which has resulted in excessive waterlogging in the area. I have written to the public information office of the NHAI and to the district administration on October 8. I am hoping they will look into the issue.”Experts, meanwhile, said that reclaiming traditional water harvesting structures is not advisable. Ranjana Chaudhuri, director, School of Regional Water Studies at TERI, said, “If they are building a rest house in a low-lying catchment area, it will definitely be prone to flooding. If not during a regular monsoon, then surely during extreme weather events like we witnessed earlier this year. Channelling the runoff through additional drains and RCC pipes will not help groundwater recharge.”A senior official, formerly of the forest department, said, “This sort of development sets a very bad precedent for groundwater recharge, which is the need of the hour. Moreover, one cannot puncture a bundh in one part and expect that it will remain effective. We will have to wait and see. Nevertheless, Gururgam and Faridabad have together lost close to 80 or 90 such bunds to development work in the past few decades. We need to seriously try and revive these structures instead of diverting them for to make way for more infrastructure and concretisation.”VS Lambha, district hydrologist, did not respond to requests for comment on Sunday. However, data obtained from his office shows that the underlying water table in Sohna has dipped by 21 metres since 1974, when groundwater monitoring first commenced in Gurugram district. Currently at 25 metres below ground level, Sohna’s aquifers have lost an average of two metres of groundwater every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/portion-of-ghamroj-bundh-excavated-to-create-a-rest-area-by-nhai/story-EgQ3GHEWsz7Lq8gukpUt9L.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||255 Gurugram villagers get property cards under Swamitva scheme||At least 255 people from 11 villages in Gurugram have received property cards funder the Swamitva – survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas – scheme, which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing on Sunday.The Swamitva project is being implemented on a pilot basis in 763 villages across six states- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttarakhand.Haryana is one of the six states selected by the Centre to run the pilot project that aims to demarcate the abadi (inhabited) land and provide ownership. At least 221 villages in the state are currently covered under the scheme, of which 11 are from Gurugram - Johlaka, Bilaka, Rahaka, Chuharpur, Tolni, Isaka, Ranika Singhola, Bhogpur, Khuntpuri and Khatrika. Over 536 beneficiaries have been identified in these villages to receive their property cards.The purpose of the property card is to reduce dispute over land ownership in villages by demarcating the abadi (inhabited) area in villages which are not mapped. Since the owner lacks proper legal document, these land parcels go missing from the revenue records. The scheme aims to update the ‘record-of-rights’ in the revenue registers. According to officials, this will help in increasing the property tax collection in panchayats and also help in identifying those public land which have been encroached upon.“Through mapping, the owner will get the valid legal property rights. With ownership, the person can use the land as a financial asset to take loans from the bank. Even the gram panchayat can also make better plans for development,” said Sushil Sarwan, director, state development and panchayati department. He added, “The survey and mapping of the land through drones has been completed in 11 villages of Gurugram, under which over 536 beneficiaries have been identified eligible for getting property cards. On Sunday, 255 received property cards in their respective villages, while the remaining 150 villagers will receive it on Monday.” The property holders were sent a soft copy of their property cards which they downloadedthrough an SMS link sent on their mobile phones.These villages are located in the Sohna block of the district. Out of the 255 beneficiaries, three people on Sunday received bank loan of Rs 5lakh on the same property.Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner said that survey and mapping work has been ongoing in Sohna village. “Of the 61 villages that are to be surveyed and mapped, work in 31 has been completed. The work in the remaining 29 villages will be completed soon. These are mostly rural areas as the survey team has covered the urban parts falling under the abadi land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/255-gurugram-villagers-get-property-cards-under-swamitva-scheme/story-oQn9Beb8TaC5Q8ZKWiXGYO.html
12-10-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi jail warden arrested for supplying drugs to inmates||The police on Saturday night arrested two men, including a jail warden, for allegedly supplying drugs to the inmates of Bhondsi Jail, said the police. According to the police, the suspects were identified as Ankit Kumar a drug peddler hailing from Dharuhera in Rewari and jail warder Prem Chand of Mahendragarh. The police said Chand was arrested from Bhondsi Jail crossing while receiving drugs from Kumar. The drugs included 110 grams of sulfa and 24 grams of smack packed in a packet. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that one of the inmates, identified as Deepak alias Deepu alias Churari of Rewari, who is lodged inside Bhondsi jail for over 10 cases of loot, drugs , assault and smuggling of mobile phones, was also part of this gang. “Deepu had contacted his brother, Dharambeer alias Mota of Rewari, via mobile from Bhondsi Jail to request for drugs through the jail warder. He had arranged for drugs to be sent to his brother through Ankit Kumar. However, the consignment was caught before the warder could enter the jail premises,” he said. Sangwan said the crime investigation unit (CIA) of DLF Phase-4 was keeping a close watch on the jail warder after the arrest of 53-year-old deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Bhondsi Jail in July for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates over the last two years. A raiding party was prepared as soon as they received the information of the drug consignment.The police had recovered 240 grams of a narcotics substance (sulfa) and 11 SIM cards from his government accommodation in Bhondsi. “Chand was posted inside the jail premises 10 days ago. Earlier, he was posted in the surveillance room to monitor CCTV cameras but was transferred due to a change of staff to keep a close watch on inmates and their movements,” said Sangwan. The police said smuggling of drugs, mobile phones and SIM cards is increasing inside jail premises, and various means are being adapted for the purpose. The police said that inmates under the influence of drugs plan crimes and connect with their aides outside the jail to execute activities, such as extortion, murder, loot and dacoity. Sangwan said inmates contact their close aides outside the jail through mobile phones and are order drugs, for which they are coordinate with jail officials. “This practice is growing day by day. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, inmates are being produced to courts through video conferencing and are, therefore, unable to get drugs during their court visits.Further, visitors are also not allowed inside the jail premises any longer, forcing inmates to look for alternate means for their supply of drugs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-jail-warden-arrested-for-supplying-drugs-to-inmates/story-Myv95WoQxkQFLDcHLFQ9SP.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud: 3 employees of Republic TV questioned by Mumbai Police||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch questioned three senior employees of Republic TV, namely CEO Vikas Khanchandani, COO Harsh Bhandari, at the Mumbai Police headquarters while the channel’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh was questioned by another crime branch team in Nani Daman police station in connection with the TRP manipulation case. Khanchandani, Bhandari and Singh have been summoned again by crime branch for questioning on Monday. The police also served them notice under section 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc) to come along with certain documents related to advertisement and modes of revenue generation. The summons were sent to Khanchandani and Bhandari on October 10. Khanchandani reached the Mumbai Police headquarters at 9am and left around 6pm after around nine hours of questioning while Bhandari he reached the headquarters at 1pm and left after 5 hours at 6pm. Singh was summoned for the second time as he had responded to the first summon sent to him on October 9 stating that he was out of the city till October 16. Citing that a writ petition has been filed before the Supreme court of India (provisional application number 7848/2020) and an early listing has been requested, he had also asked the police to defer the summoning till the Apex court hears his application. “The crime branch team traced his location to Sandy resort in Daman where he was staying. He initially refused to cooperate with the Mumbai Police saying he was in Daman. However, Daman Police was with us, so he could not avoid and was taken to Nani Daman police station where his statement was recorded for around seven hours,” said inspector Sachin Vaze, who is in-charge of the crime intelligence unit and also part of the investigating team. “Singh has been asked to come again on October 12 and produce certain documents such as cable operators’ details and contract with the DTH operators,” added Vaze. During inquiry, when Khanchandani was asked to share the working procedure of the channels, he replied that whatever is aired has nothing to do with him as that is an editorial concern. Vaze said, “Republic TV had shown a report on October 11 claiming they have a report which was submitted by Hansa Research Private Limited, which is responsible for installing and maintaining barometers of Broadcast Audience Research Council, to Mumbai Police but was leaked. But when we inquired, we found that it was undated and an unaddressed document which was shown as Hansa’s documents.” “Mumbai Police’s crime branch has initiated another inquiry on it. It [the document] appears to be fake, and during questioning, Khanchandani showed his inability to explain the report,” added Vaze. The channel’s chief financial officer (CFO) Shiva Sundaram was also summoned to the police headquarters for questioning under section 160 of CrPC on October 10. However, he wrote to Mumbai Police stating he would be available to join investigations by October 14-15 and asked the Mumbai Police to not proceed with the probe till a writ petition in the matter was heard by the Supreme Court. “On October 11, he intimated Mumbai Police’s crime branch that he and his mother are not well, as well as due to Covid-19 reason. He did not come but said he was ready to cooperate with the investigation and would come after October 14,” said Vaze. Sundaram in his letter stated, “I refer to the above summons issued by you on October 9, 2020 asking me to be present at your office on October 10, 2020 at 11am for the purpose of your investigation in the subject First Information Report. At the outset, I would express my commitment to cooperate in the said investigations.” The letter then goes on to request the Mumbai Police to halt investigations till the hearing of the writ petition filed before the Supreme Court was heard. “I wish to bring to your notice that a writ petition under Article 32 has been filed before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (Provisional application number 7848/2020) in relation to the above referred matter and we have requested for an early hearing and it is likely to be listed by next week. Given that the matter is to be listed soon before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, I request you to not proceed any further with the investigations in so far as Republic TV and its employees are concerned. We will join the investigations subject to the orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.” Sundaram further stated, “I would also like to inform you that on account of some personal commitments, I am scheduled to travel outside Mumbai for the next few days and accordingly, will only be available in Mumbai by 14-15 October, 2020.” The channel’s COO Priya Mukherjee, who was summoned on October 10 to be present in the crime branch office for questioning, informed the police that she was in Bengaluru and did not come due to the Covid-19 situation. “We have recovered a diary from the residence of the arrested accused, Vishal Bhandari. Apart from the three channels — Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema and Republic TV, there are several other names of channels mentioned in it. Bhandari has also mentioned details about households whom he had paid,” added crime branch officer. Bhandari is a former relationship manager of Hansa.“Police have also found a list of 1,800 households from Bhandari’s residence where barometers were installed. This is confidential data and should not be leaked to other relationship managers,” said Vaze. A crime branch team has left for Rajasthan to nab the wanted accused. “We have sought the details of bank accounts of Republic TV, and details of one of the bank accounts have come. We have also asked for bank details of all suspicious channels,” said the officer. Later in the evening, Republic Media Network (RMN) issued a statement pertaining to the questioning of Khanchandani by the Mumbai Police. The statement said that the police were trying to know the source from which it got the Hansa report, which Khanchandani did not disclose. RMN has reiterated that it will not disclose their source and will protect their democratic right as journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-3-employees-of-republic-tv-questioned-by-mumbai-police/story-sMcBrPARM4vrIh0YxpwuhL.html
12-10-2020||City||Even high-scorers left high and dry as DU cut-offs soar||New Delhi: Sixteen-year-old Vandana, whose father works as a driver and mother a domestic help, was elated when she scored 91% in the class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education exam this year. She wanted to enroll for the BA Programme in Hansraj College because of its “good reputation”. However, as per the cut-off released by Delhi University colleges on Saturday night, she is not eligible to apply in any of the five combinations offered by the college for the BA Programme.A day after a majority of DU colleges released their cut-offs — mostly between 95% and 100% in popular courses — students like Vandana are worried about their prospects, with many considering applying to non-collegiate courses offered by the varsity through the School of Open Learning and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board.According to an analysis done by a north campus DU college, of the over 57,000 applicants for the courses available in their college, over 44,000, or 77%, scored below 95%. However, several colleges have announced cut-offs above and beyond that mark this year, due to the increase in the number of applicants and CBSE top-scorers — a move that effectively makes only around 23% students eligible for these courses as per the first cut-off list.East Delhi resident Saloni Mishra, who scored a best-four subjects aggregate of 94% and wanted to pursue a BA (Honours) in English, said she was disappointed with the steep cut-offs. “I had worked very hard and wanted to go to a north campus college, since it creates more opportunities in the long-run. The classrooms are more diverse, and I would get to interact with a variety of people. The commute is easier as well. But it was disappointing to see the cut-offs so high this year,” said Mishra, who graduated from a government school in Mayur Vihar Phase 1.Though Mishra has prepared a list of south campus colleges where she will enrol to “secure a seat”, she said she will wait for subsequent lists, and hopes to get into a north campus college.Of the 46 colleges offering BA (Honours) in English, Mishra is eligible to apply in only 19, while Vandana will only be able to apply in three colleges. The situation is similar for popular courses across science, commerce, and humanities subjects. Applicants wanting to opt for BA (Honours) in journalism, for instance, need to have an aggregate in the range of 94-99.5% to be eligible for the course offered in seven DU colleges. For BCom (Honours) courses offered by 54 colleges, those who scored between 90-95% can apply to only eight DU colleges, of which three are all-girls institutions.For BSc (Hons) in Mathematics, of the 41 colleges offering the course, students scoring between 90-95% can apply in only 12 colleges.Students who scored below 90% in their class 12 board exams will not be eligible to apply in any DU college for several courses including BA (Honours) in English, BCom (Hons), or BSc Mathematics (Honours) under the unreserved category of the first cut-off list. Cut-offs for people eligible for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Economically Weaker Sections, People with Disabilities, or Kashmiri Migrants quotas drop 2-10 percentage points between categories for various courses. Additionally, over 20 colleges also offer a one percentage point relaxation for women applicants.Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College and president of the Delhi University Principals’ Association, urged students not to get disheartened. “Those who have not gotten a chance in the first list should wait, because cutoffs are likely to drop further in the subsequent lists due to multiplicity of applications. By the fifth list, other high-scoring students can also secure admissions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/even-high-scorers-left-high-and-dry-as-du-cut-offs-soar/story-4XPnOQEbeolAuJmwVbXIUL.html
12-10-2020||City||Second-year students at LSR asked to vacate hostel||New Delhi: At least 120 second-year residents at Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) for Women were on Sunday asked to vacate the hostel by October 31, as per last year’s regulations that hostel would only be allotted to first-year students.In June last year, the college had announced that its hostel will be available to only first-year students to ensure that more students from marginalised backgrounds could avail of hostel facilities. The issue had created a huge furore among the students, who demanded that the facility should be extended to all students.Several hostel residents said they had received messages on Saturday, saying that they needed to vacate the hostel by month-end. The residents then called for a general body meeting (GBM) with the warden and hostel union members on Sunday evening using a videoconferencing application.“We were told that we would have to vacate by October end. It came as a shock to us. At the time of joining the hostel last year, we had signed that it would be for a year but we had no option then. Throughout the year, we received several verbal assurances by college authorities on the matter. So we were not expecting this,” said a 19-year-old hosteller, requesting anonymity.“How can we travel at such a short notice during the pandemic and shift our belongings? It is extremely risky for us, plus everybody may not have the financial means to travel at this point,” said the second-year undergraduate student.Unnimaya P, a third-year student who is also a resident at the hostel, said, “The 2019 notification was opposed by the students and we had said that we won’t settle with any rule which puts the resident batch of 2019 at a disadvantage. There is no certainty pertaining to when the college will reopen. Why is the pretext of college reopening being used?”While second-year residents have been asked to vacate, there has been no such notice for third-year students so far. Hostel warden Ujjayini Ray said, “At the time of joining, the current second-year residents knew that the hostel was reserved only for first-year students. They were already aware that they had to vacate by term-end. The current third-year residents had not joined under this rule. So they won’t be asked to leave.”“A new batch of students will be coming in and we will need to follow social distancing norms as well as implement the constitutional reservation. So we have to prepare the rooms, which is why we have asked second-year students to vacate by October 31. However, if any student cannot travel from their hometown and do so by then, they can write to us,” she said.Ray also pointed out that the authorities had taken the decision keeping the reopening guidelines under Unlock 5 in mind. “Around 70 students who will graduate this year have already cleared out their belongings since August,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-year-students-at-lsr-asked-to-vacate-hostel/story-qwle65ztAWd0YaBPwYKqAO.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||DU admission process an online-only affair, students advised to stay off campus||The admission process to undergraduate courses across Delhi University (DU) colleges under the first cut-off list will begin from Monday at 10am, with the admission process completely online, and students advised not to visit colleges in person. Several colleges have also allowed their staff to work from home during the admission process this year, HT has learnt.DU dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said the University will answer all queries online. “The university’s admission department has got a lot of time between the registration and admission process this year due to the prevailing situation. In this time, we managed to fix a lot of issues that students could have witnessed while accessing the online admission portal. In case students have any queries, they can reach out to the nodal officers of each college or the member committee admission. We have made their email IDs and phone numbers available online,” she said.The admission process under the first cut-off will end at 5pm on Wednesday. “Unlike previous years, when there was a fixed timing for admissions, students can this year initiate and complete the process any time between Monday morning and Wednesday evening. I advise students to read everything carefully before starting the process, so that they do not end up making any mistakes,” Bagai said.The candidates will have to log in on their admission portal using the ID generated during registration. A list of eligible courses and colleges will be displayed on their dashboard, on the basis of their marks. The students may choose as many courses and colleges as they wish. According to the instructions shared with colleges by the university’s admission committee, the former will get to see the list of all applicants who have chosen a particular course in their institute. “The colleges will be allowed to filter the applicant list depending on their cut-off list. This will also allow them to remove spurious applicants. The course in-charge of all colleges will verify the minimum qualification, eligibility, cut-off requirement, and certificates uploaded by the candidates,” the instruction read.The convenor or admission committee of the colleges will then check the application, after which the college principal will approve the admission. The applicants will then have to submit the fee to complete the admission process. There will be a three-day admission window for all the cut-offs. “Applicants need to pay the fee and complete the process within that window under each cut-off. No admission will be entertained as per any cut-off after the completion of its admission window,” Bagai said. The second cut-off will be announced by October 19. Five cut-offs and a special cut-off are scheduled this year. The session for first-year undergraduate students is scheduled to begin from November 18.Officials at several colleges said they have allowed several staff members to work from home during the admission process. Vibha Singh Chauhan, principal of Kirori Mal College, said, “We have made elaborate arrangements in the college for those who want to come and work from the campus. We have prepared computer rooms with seating arrangements maintaining social distancing. We have already sanitised the campus. Since the process is completely online, teachers will have an option to work from home as well.”Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said the institution will allow up to two persons in a room for the admission process, to ensure social distance is maintained. “We are also ready with masks, gloves, face shields, and sanitisers. The teachers can also work from home and take prints of students’ details from the online portal. They can perform the calculations, verify the documents and send it to the college through email,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-admission-process-an-online-only-affair-students-advised-to-stay-off-campus/story-oVylLB1RCX4nvEpsVb9jeK.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Residents protest against the developer over maintenance||Residents of Mahagun Moderne housing society in Noida’s Sector 78 on Sunday protested against their society’s developer, who they alleged has imposed “unjustified” maintenance charges on them. At least 100 residents of this society gathered at the gate of the society holding a banner with slogans against the promoters of Mahagun Group, the builder who developed the society. They gathered around 11am and took a round of the entire society shouting slogans against the Mahagun Group’s promoters. They ended their demonstration at 12.30pm, after deciding to file an FIR against the promoters for cheating and fraud.Mahagun had started offering possession to buyers in 2018. An apartment owners’ association (AOA) was elected in 2018 for this society, which had 2,700 flats, spread over an area of 25 acres, however, maintenance has not been handed over yet.“According to the Uttar Pradesh Apartment Act, 2010 the developer should have handed over maintenance to AOA immediately after its election. However, it kept the maintenance work with itself so that it could continue making money off us. We approached all agencies seeking justice but the developer has not handed over the maintenance, so we decided to protest,” said Sandeep Chauhan, president of the society’s AOA. Residents alleged that the developer is delaying handing over maintenance work as they will have to pay around ₹20 crore Interest-Free Maintenance Security (IFMS) charges collected from the homebuyers. According to rules, a developer has to give IMFS, meant to be used to address urgent civic issues in society, to the AOA at the time of handover of the maintenance work. “The developer has increased monthly maintenance charges by ₹1,000 abruptly without any discussion, angering all residents. They ₹12,000 per flat with the assurance that Ganga water supply will be provided. However, we are still dependent on groundwater, which is salty. Also, the developer has not paid ₹32 crore to the Noida authority. As a result, 400 residents are unable to get property registry done,” said Mridul Bhatia, general secretary of the AOA. Residents also alleged that the developer got the AOA’s executive committee suspended and has not been letting the election take place, as this will pave the way for handing over the maintenance. The Noida authority had, on September 3, directed the builder to hand over the maintenance and resolve the dispute. However, this did not happen and residents met with Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UP Rera) member Balvinder Kumar on September 27, and filed a case.“Residents met me and filed a case against the developer. We will get an inspection done to check the infrastructure and services provided by the developer at the society. Then we will take appropriate action,” said UP Rera member Balvinder Kumar. The developer, on the other hand, refuted all allegations.“We are ready to hand over the maintenance to AOA as per the rules. But this could not happen in the past as there is a dispute among the members of the AOA. And we have been charging the maintenance from residents as per the agreement signed with them. Their allegations are untrue and baseless and we will follow rules in handing over the maintenance work,” said Amit Jain, promoter of Mahagun Group. Residents said that if the police do not file an FIR against the developer, they will approach the court for justice. They alleged FIR is not being filed even though they met and requested Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh some time back. And the station house officer refused to file an FIR despite repeated attempts. However, according to Love Kumar, the additional police commissioner of the district, “We will look into this matter and take appropriate action as per the rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-protest-against-the-developer-over-maintenance/story-AVcna4npaavYVJoEmGZLEM.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Why 100% is becoming a cut-off norm at Delhi University||The Delhi University cut-offs touched the 100% ceiling for the first time in 2011. Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) had set the mark for admission to B Com (Hons), attracting a raft of reactions from students, parents and academics. Since then, several colleges have demanded cent per cent marks for admission to various courses. This year, it was Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College that has set 100% cut off for three courses. Experts cited several reasons for the trend, most prominent of which is the way how the evaluation for the Central Board for Secondary Examination (CBSE) exams has changed over the years. PC Jain, the then principal of SRCC, said the college set the cut-off at 100% in view of the increase in the number of top scorers in the CBSE Class 12 board exams. “The number of students scoring above 90% and 95% was exceptionally high that year and it’s been increasing every year since then. In fact, students are scoring a percent of 100 in the most theoretical subjects like History, Political Science, and Sociology. It’s not just happening in CBSE but also in several state boards now. There is a possibility that more colleges will announce 100% cut-offs in the coming years,” he said.This year, while the number of CBSE students scoring 95% and above increased by 118.6% this year, those getting 90% and above went up by 67.48%. This is significant since a majority of applications (285,128) received by the university are from the CBSE board.The Delhi University announced its first cut-off list on Saturday with an average increase of 0.5 to 2 percentage points across colleges for various courses. DU officials also pointed out that colleges set very high cut-offs to prevent “over admissions”. According to the admission rules, any college cannot turn away a student who has made the cut-off. There is no first-come, first-serve. Many times colleges need to increase the number of seats to accommodate all eligible students.For instance, despite announcing 99% (highest) cut-off for admission to Political Science (Hons) last year, Hindu College had witnessed admissions double the number of available seats. College principal Anju Shrivastava said, “The number of top scorers is high and to limit the admissions we have to keep the cut-offs high.” The highest cut-off at the college is 99.5% this year for Political Science.Another official said the colleges did not have course-wise data for applications — an important metric while setting cut-offs. The application process was tweaked a little this year since the coronavirus pandemic delayed the board exams and their results, leading to an overall delay in the admission process. Since the entire process was online, the applicants were made to fill forms in which they didn’t have to specify courses. “Since the university did not seek course-wise or college-wise information this year, we were shooting in the dark. As many as 2,512 girl students with 100% applied for admission, as per the registration data. Over 13,900 were in the range of 95-99.9%. In the previous years, we were dealing with a much lower number of top scorers, and we had data on how many students have opted for a particular course. We don’t have that data this year. Even if 1% of these students apply for a course that has less than 25 seats, there will be over-admissions. This is why higher cut-offs were a safe option,” an official from a south campus college said, requesting anonymity. “Last year, in at least two courses in our college, including Political Science (Hons), admissions in the unreserved category were double the number of available seats. This also affects the admissions under other reserved categories as well,” the official added. Shrivastava said, “Since the registration was open for all courses we studied last year’s trends while deciding the cut-offs.” In 2015, two colleges – College of Vocational Studies and Indraprastha (IP) College for Women – had fixed their cut-offs at 100% for BSc (Honours) in Computer Science. Babli Moitra Saraf, principal of IP College, said, “Higher cut-offs are always based on board exam results and the number of over-admissions that take place in colleges. In 2015, there was a rush for BSc (Honours) in Computer Science. The previous year, we had to deal with extra-admissions in that course.”Vibha Sinha Chauhan, principal of Kirori Mal College, said, “In the first cut-off, the colleges are always very cautious due to the possibility of over admissions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-100-is-becoming-a-cut-off-norm-at-du/story-cvm96nNcMEiRlW2a1D3UXP.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad faces hiccups to conduct 6,000 tests per day||Ghaziabad: The district that had planned to conduct 6,000 tests per day in October is now lagging behind in terms of achieving the daily target. According to the district health department data, Ghaziabad conducted only 47,777 tests in first 10 days of the month with an average of 4,777 tests a day. The officials in the health department said that they are facing shortage of rapid antigen kits. As per the official data, the number of Covid-19 tests conducted using rapid kits in the district was 4,363 on October 6, which fell to 1,544 on October 10. The directions for conducting 6,000 daily tests were given to the district officials by the UP government-appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, when he took a review meeting in the last week of September. Following the directions, the health department roped in more lab technicians to complete the daily target and conducted more than 6,000 tests only on two days of this month -- October 1 (6,014) and October 5 (6,042). The 6,042 tests conducted on October 5 have so far remained the highest in a single day since March when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the district. “For conducting 6,000 tests, we have to conduct 4,200 tests with rapid antigen kits and another 1,800 through the RT-PCR method. For the past few days, there have been issues in procuring the antigen kits. Antigen kits are coming in as per the earlier target of 3,100 tests a day, which include 2,000 through rapid kits. However, we are trying to procure more antigen kits,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. “As per directions, we are conducting one-third of our daily tests through the RT-PCR method,” the officer said.Meanwhile, the overall testing has picked up in the district. During the period from September 1-10, the total testing stood at 33,599 while it increased to 38,982 in the next 10 days from September 11 to 20. It further increased to 44,261 from September 21 to 30 and went up to 47,777 during the period of October 1-10. Overall, the district has conducted about 362,212 tests till October 10 and the figure includes 217,384 tests conducted with the help of rapid antigen kits. This provides district with a test positivity rate of 4.46%. The district administration officials said that they will look into the shortage of rapid antigen kits and ensure that the daily target of 6,000 is met. “Our testing has increased over a period of time as we are doing focussed testing in areas where we expect more suspected cases. But we have instances of about 10 lab technicians who are either suffering health issues or have contracted Covid-19. So, there are some hiccups which we will resolve soon. Overall, the testing is increasing and we will increase it further,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Of the total 47,777 tests conducted from October 1 to 10, about 31,585 were conducted through the use of rapid kits while 16,192, about 33.89% which is about one-third of the total tests, were done through the RT-PCR method. The officials said that since the area of containment zones has also been shortened on the basis of revised guidelines, they will also be focussing on 100% testing in containment zones. In its advisory on Covid-19 testing in the country, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on September 4 suggested that 100% people living in containment zones should get tested by rapid antigen test particularly in cities where there has been a widespread transmission of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-faces-hiccups-to-conduct-6-000-tests-per-day/story-wsRchgYVydaDox40Qc0zwM.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||DDMA allows Durga Puja, Ramlila with Covid riders||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday allowed Navratri and Durga Puja functions to be organised in the national Capital with limited attendees, even as it prohibited all kinds of fairs (melas), food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and processions till October 31. However, despite the order some of the biggest and oldest Ramlila committees in Delhi have decided to skip organising any event this year, a first for them in several decades. With just five days to go for the festivities to begin, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued the order on Sunday in which the DDMA also lifted the ban on gatherings and large congregations for the first time since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. “It may be noted that the restriction on gatherings and large congregations….stands withdrawn only to the extent of allowing gatherings /congregations for celebration of upcoming festivals till 31st October, 2020 only,” read the order.It stated that apart from the statutory permissions that need to be taken every year, this time owing to Covid-19, every organiser will have to take permission from the district magistrate. Delhi has 11 districts. Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, who is a member of the DDMA, said the permission to allow Ramlila and Durga Puja functions has been decentralised this time with the power being given to each distirct administration to decide which ones should be allowed. “The organiser will have to apply to the DM. After the application is received, a team of district officials including those from the Delhi police and the municipal corporation concerned will inspect the venue. Parameters such as area and the number of visitors allowed inside at a time will be decided based on the inspection. Spaces which are too small may not be granted permission owing to social distancing norms,” said the minister.A senior revenue official said that it is likely that this time the number of functions that are held across the city would be far lesser than previous years. “A nodal officer has to be appointed by the DM for each function. In case of any violation, the permission granted to an organiser will be immediately withdrawn for the subsequent days. Videography of each pandal or venue will be a must and a soft copy of each day’s function will have to be submitted to the DM’s office, which in turn will be sent to the chief secretary,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Arjun Kumar, general secretary of Lav Kush Ramlila Committee which organises an 11-day event every year at the historic Red Fort said they are pulling out of the festivity this year.“This is the first time in 40 years that Lav Kush Ramlila will not happen this time. Usually we get the permission for the land from the Archaeological Survey of India around 60 days before the start of the event. The first day of Navratra this time is Saturday, October 17. But, Union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel himself is getting treated for Covid, so our file is stuck. Also, our Ramlila plays involve 250 artistes who do each others make-up which means coming close to each other. If by chance anyone gets the infection, all the effort of making the arrangements for 11 days will go in vain because the venue will be sealed for sanitisation,” Kumar said. Ravi Jain, press secretary of Shri Dharmik Leela Committee also said they won’t be organising any function this year as did 11 other committees in Rohini alone. While Navratra will begin from October 17 to 25 (Dusshera), Durga Puja will be celebrated from October 22 to 26.Swapan Ganguly, general secretary of New Delhi Kali Bari, one of the oldest Durga Puja organisers in the city, said for the first time they will not offer bhog on site. “In a first, we will home deliver Durga Ma’s blessings to whoever gives donation for the bhog. Other visitors who insist on getting the bhog will have to make a nominal payment this time and will be given the ‘prasad’ in packed boxes as they exit the pandal,” he said. Ganguly said as per the order issued by the DDMA, they too have planned separate entry and exit with sanitising tunnels for visitors. “We are creating a proper route for visitors coming to see the Durga idol. Also, there will be no stage performances or food stalls this time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddma-allows-durga-puja-ramlila-with-covid-riders/story-kvonqtTty31EA8qlArki0N.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi notifies waiver of road tax, registration fee for electric vehicles||The state transport department has notified the complete waiver of road tax and registration fee for battery-operated vehicles as mandated under the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the government is accepting feedback from the public on the scheme, and that final orders will be issued three days later. The gazette says, “..the said draft will be taken into consideration after expiry of a period of three days from the date on which the copies of this notification as published in the Gazette of Delhi are made available to the public. Objections or suggestions in this behalf should be addressed to Secretary-cum-Commissioner (Transport), Government of National Capital of Delhi, Transport Department..”Reacting to the notification, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, calling it “another crucial step” towards a pollution-free Delhi.“This incentive-based policy will encourage large scale adoption of electric vehicles, and bring us closer to fulfilling our dream of making Delhi the EV capital of India,” Kejriwal tweeted.Kejriwal had announced the policy on August 7, with a focus on increasing the adoption of EVs in the city by incentivising their purchase and use. The policy aims to register 500,000 electric vehicles in the city by 2024.Gahlot said this policy has come into force from the date of issue of the notification. “Road tax will not be paid on the electric vehicles starting October 10, 2020,” he said.He also took to Twitter and said, “Congrats Delhi! As promised by CM @ArvindKejriwal when announcing landmark EV Policy, Delhi govt has EXEMPTED road tax on Battery Operated Vehicles. With right incentives & supporting infra, we are determined to ensure Delhi leads the country in rapid transition to Electric Vehicles.”At present, road tax ranges from 4% to 10% of the cost of the vehicle, while registration could cost up to ₹3,000.In addition, a subsidy of ₹10,000 per kWh is to be given for the first 1,000 e-cars or electric four wheelers, capped at ₹1,50,000 per vehicle. A subsidy of ₹5,000 per kWh of the battery capacity up to ₹30,000 is also to be given on the purchase of each electric two-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, rickshaw and freight vehicle. To push people to shift to EVs, the policy also has a “scrapping incentive” for those who make the switch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-notifies-waiver-of-road-tax-registration-fee-for-electric-vehicles/story-EhhFPRqpals1L5ujsqjoYP.html
12-10-2020||City||NCRTC fined ₹50 lakh for violating dust control norms||New Delhi: Stepping up its action against polluters before the winters set in, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday fined the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) ₹50 lakh for not taking dust-control measures at one of its construction sites. The minister, who inspected demolition sites at Netaji Nagar and Kasturba Nagar on Sunday, said the fine was issued after uncovered mounds of dust were found at an NCRTC construction site near Vikas Sadan, where a Rapid Metro building is coming up. Rai said they have flouted dust-control norms, despite directions from the government. “I have issued directions to impose a fine of ₹50 lakh against NCRTC. Such disregard for air pollution will not be tolerated,” he said. The minister said that if the transport corporation continues to violate pollution norms, the work itself will be banned. NCRTC did not comment on the violations. On Saturday, during another inspection of construction sites, the environment minister had imposed a fine of ₹20 lakh on the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) for violating dust-control norms at a demolition site on Tansen Marg in central Delhi. Directions were also issued not to carry out or restart any demolition activity without installing an anti-smog gun and taking other measures to prevent dust pollution at the project site. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) had earlier asked FICCI and other bodies to stop work at six construction and demolition sites for not taking adequate steps to control dust pollution. At present, there are 39 sites in Delhi, covering an overall area of more than 20,000 square metres, where construction work is ongoing. Anti-smog guns have been installed at 33 of these sites. The government has also imposed fines ranging between ₹20,000 and ₹5 lakh on 31 RMC (ready-mix concrete) plants for not taking measures to prevent dust pollution. Work was ordered to be stopped at 11 of these plants, where violations were found to be serious. The environment department has set up 14 inspection teams to check violations of pollution norms this year. This anti-dust campaign will continue in mission mode till October 15 and strict action will be taken against the violators, the minister had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncrtc-fined-50-lakh-for-violating-dust-control-norms/story-QFWg1cn41ZRxOKT6GvAAXK.html
12-10-2020||Noida||UP asks hospitals to discharge Covid-19 patients with co-morbidities only after they are found negative||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has directed all the Covid-dedicated medical colleges and hospitals in the state to discharge the infected patients with comorbidities only after they are found negative for the virus. The move is aimed at reducing the fatalities due to Covid-19, officials said.The government order, issued by additional chief secretary Dr Rajnish Dubey on Saturday night, said that such patients should be discharged only after getting tested negative through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and two-stage TrueNat tests. “If the patients having co-morbidities need treatment for other ailments, they should be admitted to non-Covid hospitals after testing negative. They must not be directly sent for home isolation by the hospitals and medical colleges concerned,” the order states. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that all the Covid-dedicated medical facilities have been asked to follow the recent government order about discharging the patients. “It will not only reduce the case fatality rate (CFR), but will also check any possibility of fatality among the patients with comorbidities. Almost all the hospitals have been doing so since long,” he said. Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), said that over Covid-19 1,500 patients have been successfully treated at this hospital. “We have never sent any patient with co-morbidities directly for home isolation. At the time of discharging the patients, team of our doctors prepares the database of these patients and refer them to other hospitals for their further treatment,” he said. Corroborating similar views, Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of School of Medical Sciences and Research, Sharda University, said that it is a good initiative by the UP government, as far as comorbid patients’ treatment is concerned. “Now, the district administration should talk to private hospitals for treatment of such patients at rates under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Sharda Hospital is treating Covid-19 patients which are admitted by government and has successfully treated about 2,000 patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-asks-hospitals-to-discharge-covid-19-patients-with-co-morbidities-only-after-they-are-found-negative/story-gZk0LDpdWS4MYhP3QapslM.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Change of wind direction to bring respite from stubble burning smoke||: After five days of poor air, pollution in the national capital is likely to drop marginally Monday onwards, buoyed primarily by a shift in the wind direction, according to a Sunday forecast by the Union ministry of earth sciences.The ministry’s air quality early warning system forecast said Delhi’s air quality will improve and enter the ‘moderate’ category on Monday, where it is expected to remain till Tuesday at least, the forecast read. “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from Delhi’s east, with wind speeds up to 12kmph and mainly clear skies on Monday,” the early warning system said. On Tuesday, winds are expected to travel into the Capital from the southeast, while their speed will likely remain similar and skies may stay mainly clear, according to the system.The change in wind direction means the impact of crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana on Delhi’s air will be minimal on Monday and Tuesday. With the onset of the winters, the national capital, over the last two weeks, received winds from the north-west that carried plumes of stubble burning smoke from the rural pockets of the two neighbouring states. On Sunday, Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) reading, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 216, marginally better than Saturday’s 221. On Sunday, Delhi received north-westerly winds, blowing at a speed of 15kmph. The Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also predicted that a shift in Delhi’s surface wind direction will help improve the quality of air “marginally”. Safar data shows that on Saturday alone, 448 cases of farm fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana through satellite monitoring. These cases have been increased regularly since September 12, when farmers started harvesting the early varieties of paddy and started setting their fields on fire to get rid of the stubble remains. “We are sharing these forecasts with the CPCB. Medical experts suggest air pollution may add to peoples’ miseries during the Covid-19 pandemic. With the government’s graded action plan [Graded Response Action Plan, also known as Grap], we hope to keep the level of air pollution very low this year,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary, Union ministry of earth sciences. For the last five days, Delhi’s air has been in the ‘poor’ zone, dropping into the category with an AQI of 215 on Wednesday, after a long spell in the ‘moderate’ zone. The Delhi government blamed this spike in pollution on the increasing instances of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/change-of-wind-direction-to-bring-respite-from-stubble-burning-smoke/story-ScP5WguacxAXreHZpEJlyJ.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Leopard sighted at NTPC Dadri, forest department launches search operation||Greater Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department has launched a search operation after a leopard was sighted at NTPC Dadri on October 7. Images of the animal’s movement were captured in CCTV cameras installed at the premises. A forest department team has been camping for four days in the NTPC area to catch the leopard, officials said.Pankaj Saxena, spokesperson, NTPC Dadri, said the leopard was sighted on the night of October 7. “We immediately informed the forest department and the police, who launched a search operation. We have alerted the NTPC staff and also issued an advisory to people in neighbouring villages to be on alert,” he said. In the footage, the leopard was seen crossing a small bridge and then slowly backing away into the dense forest beyond.The incident has scared local people, said residents. Ikhlaq Abbasi, who lives in Dadri, said that the locals are concerned for their safety. “We received the NTPC advisory on WhatsApp two days ago. People from neighbouring villages have restricted themselves indoors due to safety reasons. We request the police and forest department to launch an intensive search and catch the leopard before it harms any person,” he said. PK Srivastava, district forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said it appears the leopard had strayed into Dadri from the Aravali forest. “The team has been following the pug marks and is scanning the neighbourhood. We have also placed a cage and other equipment to trap and catch the leopard. However, it has not been found,” he said. He said that there are instances when leopards stray from their natural habitats in search of food. “They sometimes also jump over goods’ trains and reach residential areas from the forest,” he said.The NTPC Dadri is a coal and gas-fired thermal power plant located in Dadri area of Gautam Budh Nagar. The NTPC township is spread over 500 acre and a significant portion of it has green patches. On January 21, 2019, the forest department had captured a leopard that had created panic among residents of Sadullapur and its neighbouring villages in Ecotech 3 area of Greater Noida. It was taken to Surajpur forest nursery, and finally released in the Shivalik forest belt of Saharanpur.The Indian leopard (panthera pardus fusca) is a Schedule I species, protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/leopard-sighted-at-ntpc-dadri-forest-department-launches-search-operation/story-2ty5tZ8GASqrcOGT4ICYCI.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi gets arts and culture panel as govt looks to set up cultural policy for Capital||The Delhi government has set up an advisory panel for the promotion of art, culture and languages to help draft a “cultural policy” for the national capital, according to documents, a senior government official said.Among the members of the advisory panel are actor Manoj Bajpayee, professor Ira Bhaskar, Delhi-based art curator Pooja Sood and art historian Latika Gupta among others, the official told HT.“The advisory panel shall submit its recommendations on various aspects of cultural policy like community outreach and participation, inclusiveness, infrastructure, publicity, financial assistance, arts, education, research and development, documentation and archiving, promotion of languages, festivals and events, art forms, and (both) tangible and intangible heritage,” read a document pertaining to the panel that HT has seen.The 15-member advisory panel is expected to submit its first report by November 9, and the recommendations are expected to help the Delhi government begin working on a draft cultural policy for the city. It was officially set up on September 9 and the first meeting of the panel is likely to be held in the next two weeks, the senior government official said.The document further read, “The government has been working with the values of inclusiveness, diversity, democratisation of knowledge and culture, expansion of cultural landscape, social change and decentralisation of government spending. It is important that the department realises the importance of its schemes. All interventions and programmes need to be thought through keeping this in mind.”“The deputy CM has further desired that the art, culture and languages department should use this time (i.e. the current period when field activities of the department have curtailed due to the pandemic) to draw up a comprehensive cultural policy for Delhi. For this, an advisory panel comprising industry experts, community leaders and officers should be formed,” said the document signed by Sanjay Jain, deputy secretary in the government’s art and culture department.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also in charge of the art and culture portfolio in Delhi, told Hindustan Times, “For the last few years, we have been working continuously on several aspects of Delhi’s art and culture policy — especially on funding, audience and artistes. During the Covid-19 pandemic, artistes have suffered and the government has not been able to organise programmes for them. This will change, and in the coming time, we are going to further expand the cultural landscape of Delhi by connecting art and culture with livelihood.”Sisodia’s office said this is the first such panel under the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. It will be chaired by a secretary-rank officer.“In the coming time, we will organise workshops for the art and culture community on a range of subjects — from sound engineering to use of social media to promote work,” said Abhinandita Mathur, an advisor to Sisodia and a member of the advisory panel.Pooja Sood, a Delhi-based art curator and member of the panel, said, “Our aim will be to make art and culture more inclusive and accessible to the people of Delhi. This is a good opportunity. For the next few weeks, we shall brainstorm over a number of issues to ensure that the vision of the panel is achieved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-gets-arts-and-culture-panel-as-govt-looks-to-set-up-cultural-policy-for-capital/story-kdZiDg4pYZeeNic7etfUWO.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Three killed after speeding car rams tractor at Shadipur flyover||Three men were killed and another injured when the car they were in rammed a tractor from behind, in what police said they suspect was a case of drink driving, at Shadipur flyover in west Delhi on Sunday morning. The driver of the tractor fled the spot, and police are on the lookout for him. The three were identified as 37-year-old Rajesh Sharma, who worked at a courier company in Mahipalpur, Charandeep (38), who worked with a company associated with a leading media brand, and Tarun Gupta (42), who owned a computer shop. All three were residents of B block in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar. Parveen Singh (38), the owner of the car, is hospitalised and being treated.Sharma, who was at the wheel during the accident, is survived by his wife and their two daughters, Charandeep by a wife, daughter and son. Gupta, the police said, is survived by his wife and their daughter.Police said the incident took place around 1.30am on Sunday. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said Moti Nagar police station received a call reporting that a car and a tractor have rammed each other at Shadipur flyover, in front of the Kirti Nagar Metro Station.“The four men in the car were pulled out by passersby, after which police control room vans took them to a nearby hospital,” he said.A preliminary probe revealed that the car was speeding and rammed into the tractor, which police said was travelling at a slow pace.The three died were pronounced dead at ABG Hospital in Moti Nagar. Singh is under treatment at the hospital but the police said he was unfit for a statement.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said that initial probe has suggested that the four occupants of the car were drunk. However, this will only be confirmed after the autopsy, the police said.Purohit said a case of rash driving and for causing death due to negligence has been registered to probe the deaths. “CCTV footage is being checked and all possible angles are being looked into. Both vehicles have been seized for inspection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-killed-after-speeding-car-rams-tractor-at-shadipur-flyover/story-gR6PwsqBu1tZYQpM4avVDJ.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC to hand over job of levying fine for illegal parking to Mumbai traffic police||Nearly 14 months after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started levying a fine of ₹10,000 for parking vehicles within 1-km radius of the civic body’s public parking lots (PPL) citing it to be ‘encroachment’, the civic body is set to hand over this job to the Mumbai Traffic Police (MTP). The fine amount for illegal parking was later brought down to ₹4,000 and it will remain unchanged, BMC officials said. Apart from this, BMC will also hand over towing of scrap vehicles on roads to MTP.A year ago, former municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had justified towing vehicles parked in ‘no parking’ areas by calling them ‘encroachment’. However, BMC now says it is overburdened owing to the Covid-19 situation and that it does not have dedicated staff for levying fines. Pardeshi had conceptualised the idea to bring down congestion on road and promote usage of BEST buses. A BMC official not wishing to be named said, “Our staff are overburdened since the last seven months owing to the duty relating to Covid-19. Hence, we are taking the decision to allow Mumbai Traffic Police to take over the same. The talks for the same are ongoing since last one month, and the official handover is expected to take place in the next 10 days.”A document prepared by BMC last month, putting on record the discussion with the Mumbai Traffic Police, reads, “It was observed that the manpower at ward level of BMC for effective enforcement against vehicles parked without authorisation is inadequate. There is no dedicated wing for executing said works at ward level. On the other hand, dedicated traffic police personnel are available with the traffic police department. The said traffic police department may be assigned for taking action against vehicles parked illegally.”BMC had started levying fine for parking within 1-km radius of civic-run PPLs and BEST bus depots in four major arterial roads including Link Road, SV Road, LBS Road and Maharshi Karve Road from July 7 last year. However, later the rules were relaxed to 500-metre radius of PPLs and the fine amount was brought down to ₹4,000. Owing to the levying of heavy fine amount, usage of PPL had increased drastically. HT had reported on January 11 that BMC’s implementation of heavy fines for illegal parking near the 26 public parking lots (PPLs) in the city was bearing fruits. According to the civic body data, the occupancy rate of these PPLs had increased by around 30-40% in December 2019, and in certain cases even doubled, after the imposition of heavy fines.Sunil Sardar, deputy chief engineer of BMC’s solid waste management department (transport wing), confirmed that the fine of ₹4,000 will be levied by the Mumbai Traffic Police and the handover of the responsibilities for the same is expected to take place in the next 10 days. Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Matunga, said, “Citizens do not care much about which authority is levying a fine, but we expect that the implementation is done in true sense, and citizens are benefited at large.” He added, “I have been complaining about two bikes parked on footpath in my area, but BMC has not acted against them citing traffic police will do it. But handing over is not done yet. Hence, citizens will suffer until traffic police starts taking action after taking charge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-hand-over-job-of-levying-fine-for-illegal-parking-to-mumbai-traffic-police/story-SnIbWP2EQPPy7yh5Um240M.html
12-10-2020||Delhi||Involve your family in anti-dengue campaign, Delhi chief minister Kejriwal urges||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged every household in the city to participate in the Delhi government’s ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign, and asked people to involve their family members to inspect their houses and replace stagnant clean water. Kejriwal tweeted, “Today is the sixth Sunday of the campaign against dengue, my family also joined the campaign this time. We checked the house and replaced the accumulated clean water. You must also involve your family in this campaign. We have to defeat dengue together. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivaar, Dengue Par Vaar.”The initiative was launched on September 6 with Kejriwal inspecting his residence for stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. A special helpline has also been launched by the Delhi government for the general public if they require assistance with Dengue. People can call on 011-22300012 and WhatsApp on 8595920530.The same campaign was launched for the first time in September last year, when the city reported 2,036 dengue cases and two deaths of the vector-borne disease, as compared to 15,867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/involve-your-family-in-anti-dengue-campaign-delhi-chief-minister-kejriwal-urges/story-S8PTdthhz4B8XAKCW7GlVI.html
12-10-2020||City||Delhi riots: Assembly’s peace and harmony committee panel to resume proceedings today||The Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee will resume on Monday its proceedings to investigate the complaints it received against social media company Facebook for allegedly failing to take down hateful content posted on its platforms, especially during the northeast Delhi riots, the panel said on Sunday.“In continuation of the previous proceedings, the committee under the chairmanship of Raghav Chadha has decided to call upon some further witnesses, in light of the allegations and issues of grave concern raised in the complaints against the social media platform. Following persons have been thus, sent a formal notice for appearance before the committee on 12.10.2020 with a view to carry out the relevant proceedings: 1. Prabir Purkaystha: Editor- NewsClick, engineer and a science activist in the power, telecom and software sector; 2. Pratik Sinha: Author and co- founder of the non- profit fact- checking website- Alt News,” the committee said in a statement on Sunday. This comes after the Delhi legislative assembly panel told the Supreme Court last Tuesday that it had summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on whether it contributed in any way to the build-up of the February, 2020 communal violence in the Capital.The Delhi assembly’s committee wanted to elicit suggestions on how social media platforms could be used to strengthen unity among citizens in the future and Facebook executives were summoned as witnesses, not as accused, an affidavit filed by deputy secretary Sadanand Sah said, adding that no coercive action was intended.Mohan and Facebook moved the Supreme Court on September 22, challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the assembly committee.The summons stem from the committee’s decision to look into Facebook’s role following several foreign media reports that purported to show the social media company may have acted in a political partisan manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-assembly-s-peace-and-harmony-committee-panel-to-resume-proceedings-today/story-cdvYz1ykgo76h6KBYbqiZP.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer says ‘will go after those who tried to destroy her’||Four days after her release on bail, actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer claimed they plan to take legal action against those who gave misleading statements, indicating her involvement in the death of actor-boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, Chakraborty’s lawyer, on Sunday issued a statement saying: “I had said that once Rhea Chakraborty is out on bail, we will start going after people who defamed and tried to destroy her life and morale for a two-minute glory on electronic media carrying fake news…We will forward a list of people to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) who made fake and false claims on TV and electronic media, including carrying mobile recording and fake stories on SSR case with particular reference to Rhea Chakraborty. We will request CBI to initiate legal proceedings against them for misleading the investigation.” The lawyer specifically referred to Chakraborty’s neighbour Dimple Thawani who reportedly said someone told her that Rajput had dropped Chakraborty home on June 13. Maneshinde said CBI recorded her statement on Sunday. Chakraborty was last month arrested in connection with drug trail being probed after Rajput’s death. She was released on October 7. She was also questioned by the Enforcement Directorate over allegations of money laundering made by Rajput’s family and CBI over the allegation of abetment of suicide. Rajput’s family had alleged Chakraborty transferred close to ₹15 crore from Rajput’s account to unknown persons not linked to him. They also alleged that Rajput’s credit cards were with Chakraborty and that she isolated him from others. The actress and her family have been named by the CBI as accused in the suicide abetment case. CBI had taken up the case on the request of the Bihar government. The FIR was registered following a complaint by Rajput’s father KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-s-lawyer-says-will-go-after-those-who-tried-to-destroy-her/story-o0p7ej3IsALJbdlycNQWEO.html
12-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: JD(U) focuses on women empowerment, youth||The Janata Dal(United) has focused on women empowerment and upgrading the skill of the youth as part of its ‘Nischay Patra 2020’ - a vision document for the next five years that was released by the party on Sunday ahead of the three-phase Assembly polls in the state beginning October 28. In the document titled “Saksham Bihar Swavalambi Bihar (Capable Bihar Independent Bihar)’, which is the Saat Nishchay (seven resolves) 2.0, the party proposes giving women, who have been its major vote base, a grant up to 50 percent of project cost, capped to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh, for launching new entrepreneurship programmes. It has also promised to give them interest-free loan up to Rs 5 lakh for the purpose. To promote higher education among women and at the same time reducing the total fertility rate (TFR) in the state, it promises to give financial assistance of Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 to unmarried women who complete their intermediate and graduation, respectively. Also read: Bihar polls - Raghopur, Hasanpur seats to decide fate of Lalu’s two sonsIt proposes to use better technology to improve the quality of training imparted to youth through industrial training institutes (ITIs) and polytechnic to make them employable in the country. It proposes to have ITI and polytechnic centres and mega skill centre at district and sub-division level. The party has promised to give youth grants up to 50 percent of project cost, capped to a maximum of Rs 3 lakh, for setting up any new entrepreneurship, so that they are not dependant on government jobs. It also proposes to set up a new government department for skill and entrepreneurship which will have in its ambit (ITIs) and polytechnic for this purpose. Besides, it talks of improving rural connectivity within the state and national highways for easy accessibility; providing water to every agricultural farm, having clean and prosperous villages, besides clean and developed cities and improving health and veterinary facilities. “To serve the people is our duty. I thank you for giving me an opportunity to serve Bihar,” tweeted chief minister Nitish Kumar. “People have seen our government achieve almost all its target set as part of the ‘seven resolves’ in the last five years. They have hope in chief minister Nitish Kumar that he will deliver what he promises. They also know that he is a credible face in the state,” said JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary while commenting about its ‘Seven Resolves 2.0’. The JD(U) had released a similar document, listing seven resolves of governance, which were the common minimum programme endorsed by its then coalition partner the RJD, ahead of the 2015 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-in-its-manifesto-jd-u-focuses-on-women-empowerment-youth/story-Gj5RfgUGUy5zbH0St1LEkJ.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Former assistant manager opens food stall after losing job amid Covid-19 crisis||Noida: A former assistant manager with a tour and travel company, who lost his job amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, has now started running a food stall in Sector 19 to support his family of six.A resident of Sector 19 in Noida, Ravi Kant had been working in the travel industry for the past 15 years.“I was with the organization for the past three years. But when the Covid crisis hit the economy, we were asked to go in March. The tourism industry is one of the worst affected. I was working with inbound travel which has taken a huge hit and there are very slim chances of the industry recovering any time soon,” said Kant.Kant is the only earning member of his family. “My parents are in their eighties and have medical bills. My children, aged 12 and five, are both studying in private schools while my wife is a homemaker. All of a sudden, we were in a financial crunch. So I had to step up. I had planned about opening up my own café down the line, but I never thought of going about it in this manner,” he said.Even with the stall that started 20 days back, the family’s earnings have taken a hit but they are optimistic. “We aren’t able to promote it too much in the current scenario, but I am planning to take it online with collaborations with e-food portals. The feedback so far has been good. The income is nowhere near my earlier salary, but we hope to have a steady income soon,” Kant said.The family was struggling for the past few months when Kant decided to do something. “Lakhs of people are losing their jobs, but we can’t sit idly by. We have to fulfil our families’ requirements and that is why I decided to do something about it instead of being upset by my loss,” he said.The stall, Round the Corner, serves continental foods like sandwiches, burgers and mocktails.Kant’s story is being shared on social media where people have not only appreciated the food but also the entrepreneurial streak. “He is an entrepreneur now. Rather than seeking a job, he can eventually give jobs to 2-3 other people,” said a user on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-former-assistant-manager-opens-food-stall-after-losing-job-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-i2ScZ4OHuaX7E8GVCywchL.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Man ‘beaten up’ inside Greater Noida police station, cops deny charge||A 37-year-old man has alleged that he was beaten up inside Beta 2 police station last week and filed a complaint. The victim, Manoj Kumar, has sustained critical injuries on his left ear due to the alleged beating, Kumar’s mother Kamlesh Singh wrote in her complaint filed at Sector Beta 2 Greater Noida police station on SaturdayOn Sunday, Alok Singh, Police Commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that he has ordered a probe by DCP women safety Vrinda Shukla in this case.Singh the incident took place after she noticed a couple fighting in the neighbourhood. “I visited their house to intervene. Later, a police team came and took the woman’s husband away to the police station,” Singh said. Soon after, the police team revisited the spot and this time took my son away with them to the police station. “Once at the station, a woman cop started beating my son without any reason. I pleaded with her not to hit my son but she did not relent. The cop also slapped me multiple times,” she alleged. Singh adds in her complaint that she and her son were kept at the police station that night. “I then called some known persons and informed about the matter. We were released after his intervention,” she said. Singh said that she then took Kumar to a private hospital, where medical report stated that he has “traumatic tympanic membrane perforation” in his left ear due to the beating. Singh, a women’s rights activist, later filed a complaint against the cop. The police, however, have denied all the allegations. Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Sector Beta 2 police station, said that a couple was fighting with each other and Kumar had visited them to intervene. “Kumar had entered the woman’s room and misbehaved with her. The police had brought him to police station for questioning, after getting a call. His mother also reached the police station later,” he said. Upadhyaya said that the suspect was released after questioning since the police had no concrete evidence against him. “The allegations that he was beaten up while he was in custody is not true,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-beaten-up-inside-greater-noida-police-station-cops-deny-charge/story-YO0Cx0yvpTT7xTqfW38mkN.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Not Aarey Colony, Kanjurmarg to house Metro-3 car shed: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Metro-3 car shed proposed at Aarey Milk Colony stands scrapped and will now be moved to Kanjurmarg in the eastern suburbs, announced Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday. The decision brought to an end, for now, a six-year battle of wills marked by political rows, citizen protests, court petitions, tree-felling by authorities in the dead of night and subsequent arrests of activists who protested construction in “one of the last green lungs of Mumbai”.“I am happy to announce that the Aarey car shed is now being moved to Kanjurmarg. The plot in Kanjurmarg is government land and it will be provided at zero cost for Metro car shed. The money used to construct a building, ₹100 crore, will not go to waste either. That building will be used for public purpose,” Thackeray said. The CM’s announcement, during his webcast address to the state, was on expected lines, given that his party, Shiv Sena, had been opposing the car shed at Aarey even when it was in power with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Before the 2019 Assembly elections, Sena had announced it would not allow a car shed in Aarey Colony and had made this a part of its election manifesto.Meanwhile, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, of the BJP, called the move driven by ego, which would shoot the cost up by ₹4,000 crore and lead to indefinite delays.Thackeray, on Sunday, said that two Metro corridors — Colaba-Bandra-Seepz (Metro-3) and Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli (Metro-6) — will be integrated. With the decision to move the depot from the 33 hectares (ha) plot in Aarey to the 43ha site in Kanjurmarg, the underground Metro project is set to see cost overruns and time delays (see box)The CM on Sunday also reiterated that the government has decided to withdraw cases lodged by the police against citizens and activists who had protested against the car shed at Aarey Colony. On September 30, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray raised the issue of cases against those who protested the tree hacking in Aarey last year, in the cabinet meeting. Subsequently, the cabinet decided to withdraw the cases.The CM said the government had earlier declared 600 acres of Aarey land as reserve forest, but now it has been increased to 800 acres. He said that the will be no infringement of rights of tribals in the area.“Biodiversity in Aarey needs to be conserved and protected. Nowhere is there an 800-acre jungle in an urban set-up. Mumbai has a natural forest cover. We know that jungles are converted to cities, but here, the city is converted to a jungle. We need to preserve what we have and carry out development in the remaining area,” he said.Following the announcement, Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “Aarey Saved!”. While Sena leaders and functionaries hailed the government over “fulfilment” of the given word, the BJP slammed it. Fadnavis said the decision was made to “satisfy ego” and it would lead to serious cost escalations and indefinite delays. The shift will cost Rs4,000 crore, he said, in a series of tweets.“Unfortunate decision to shift Metro Car Shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and that, too, just to satisfy ego. This decision will increase the cost of the project by at least ₹4000 crore and this cost escalation is assessed by the committee appointed by this Government. Why such a huge burden just to satisfy someone’s ego? Whom does government want to suffer and for what?” He added, “This means that the Metro project, which would have been in the service of Mumbaikars just next year, has now been postponed indefinitely. ₹400 crore was already spent for Aarey Car Shed,₹1,300 crore wasted due to staying of project & additional cost escalation of ₹4,000 crore”Fadnavis, who also held the urban development department portfolio while he was the CM, added that the previous government had studied the possibility of Kanjurmarg plot for Metro-3 depot, but decided against it as it was under litigation. “The Kanjurmarg site was earlier considered by the government. But it was under litigation and stayed by Hon HC. Some private individuals claimed their rights. The stay was requested to be withdrawn. But Hon HC wanted the amount to be deposited if the claims got settled in future,” he said.Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) welcomed the decision and said that the Sena kept its poll promise. A statement from AAP’s Mumbai unit said that “united citizenry always triumphs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-aarey-colony-kanjurmarg-to-house-metro-3-car-shed-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-4bHmoWX2Ct7plWNbOkaFwK.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Two killed, three injured in accident on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: A pick-up truck driver and his helper died on Sunday after they were run over by a speeding multi-utility vehicle (MUV) on the Yamuna Expressway near Dankaur. The incident took place when they were replacing a tyre of the truck, the police said, adding that three occupants of the MUV were also injured. The deceased were identified as Mumma, 45, and Maniya, 30, both residents of Etawah. The police said it appeared that the MUV driver did not spot the truck, which led to the accident. Anil Kumar Pandey, station house officer, Dankaur police station, said that the accident took place at 5am on Jewar-Noida side of the expressway. “Mumma and Maniya were coming in a pick-up truck from Agra. When they reached near Chapargadh petrol pump, the vehicle’s tyre got punctured. They parked the truck on the roadside and started replacing its tyre,” he said.While the duo was busy replacing the tyre, a speeding white Mahindra Marazzo came from the same direction and rammed into the truck. “The truck driver and helper received critical injuries. They were rushed to Kailash Hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. There were five people in the MUV. Out of them, three persons – Pankaj Garg, 34, Vipin Garg, 36, and Paras Jain, 36, were injured. The injured have been admitted to the same hospital in Greater Noida,” Pandey said. BK Sharma, spokesperson of Kailash Hospital, said, “Mumma and Maniya had received critical injuries in their heads and were declared brought dead. Pankaj and Vipin are admitted to the hospital and undergoing treatment. Paras escaped with minor injuries,” Sharma said. The pick-up truck was registered in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, while the MUV was registered in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior. A police team later reached the spot and removed the two vehicles using a crane. SHO Pandey said that they have not received a complaint in this regard. The two bodies have been sent for a post-mortem and medical reports are awaited, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-two-killed-three-injured-in-accident-on-yamuna-expressway/story-Q8JgheTqS9PuAeCXwAuprL.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Six factories sealed in Hindon Vihar||Ghaziabad: Acting on unauthorised factories, the Ghaziabad administration has sealed six such units at Hindon Vihar, which is listed as one of the major pollution hot spots in the district. With the winter season approaching, officials said crackdown will continue in the coming days in order to curb air pollution.According to officials, the drive was taken up on Saturday evening at Hindon Vihar, located close to Shaheed Sthal-New Bus Adda metro station, and also near river Hindon adjacent to the Delhi-Meerut Road.“We sealed six factories which were operating out of residential areas. Some of these were operating furnaces while others were engaged in extraction of chemicals in the open. Teams from the pollution and electricity departments were also present. We also snapped the electricity connections to the units,” said DP Singh, sub-divisional magistrate.The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) had identified Hindon area as one of the hot spots last year as it reported several instances of burning of garbage and polythene. “The drive will continue in the coming days in Hindon Vihar and other areas, including Loni, where such factories are operating,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. During the current season, the Ghaziabad city has already been witnessing air in the ‘poor’ category of the air quality index (AQI). According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the AQI levels have ranged in the ‘poor’ category on nine out of 11 days in October in Ghaziabad. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ’moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The ‘poor’ category AQI may result in breathing discomfort upon prolonged exposure.Ghaziabad’s AQI on Sunday was 231, or ‘poor’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-six-factories-sealed-in-hindon-vihar/story-4VCvnVveo9MaWsZoML6U3H.html
12-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Ahead of GRAP implementation, pollution board gears up to check industrial emission||Ghaziabad: Ahead of October 15 when the graded response action plan (GRAP) comes into effect, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has asked polluting units to submit affidavits of different compliances, or they will be liable to pay up heavy penalties upon any instances of violation. The officials said these are part of strict measures in order to control air pollution.According to officials, the city has about 340 air polluting units, which use different types of fuels, including wood and coal, for their operations. Officials said they held meetings with different industrial area associations and asked air polluting units to submit affidavits before October 15. “In the affidavits, the units have been asked to give undertakings that they will operate their air pollution control systems, as well as use only authorised sources of fuel. This year, we are taking every precaution against industrial emissions. During past years, there have been instances that some erring units were found using rubber, plastic, etc., as fuel. So, they have been asked to submit affidavits and comply, else they will face penalties which range from ₹10 lakh to ₹1 crore, once GRAP measures are implemented,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB.“Such penalties will be levied against units found not operating their air pollution control systems or found using unauthorised fuel,” he added.The Supreme Court had banned the use of pet coke and furnace oil as fuel in 2017 in NCR.Officials said that the penalty amounts have been defined under an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in August 2019, and that they will levy penalties as per the order. In its order under the heading, ‘Environmental Compensation to be levied on all violations of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in NCR,’ the tribunal had fixed the ranges of penalty between ₹10 lakh to ₹1 crore for industrial emissions based on the state of air quality – ₹10 lakh for ‘moderate to poor,’ ₹25 lakh for ‘very poor,’ ₹50 lakh under ‘severe’ and ₹1 crore under ‘severe+/emergency.’The UPPCB had recently issued directions to construction sites to install CCTV cameras, whose control will rest with the board for monitoring. Besides, about 70 industrial units using wood and coal as fuel have also been asked to install chimney-facing cameras before October 15. Members of industrial area associations, meanwhile, said that the majority of the units are currently trying to recover from the economic effects of the lockdown, which were taken up in wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic.“To our estimate, we have about 70% units which are struggling to pay their bank instalments, besides meeting their fixed costs which include paying workers. About 80% of the industrial units have already started using alternate fuel by incurring heavy capital investment. However, there are others which have no huge funds left to invest for switching over,” said Anil Gupta, general secretary of the Ghaziabad Industries Federation. “There are units where CNG or PNG are not a viable source to operate furnace units. Considering the present state of the industrial units, there should be leniency shown by agencies. If we analyse the current scenario, pollution in the region is rising primarily due to instances of stubble burning in nearby states,” he added.The All India Metal Forging Association, Ghaziabad, meanwhile, demanded subsidies to cover the cost of the alternative fuels. “In Ghaziabad, forging units are using hammers which are run by electricity. Considering the electricity rates here in comparison to other states, such units are under burden. The departments want us to run on alternative fuel like PNG. But these require huge investments and our demand is already low in the wake of the pandemic. If 80% subsidy can be provided, it will bring relief to such units,” the association said in a statement. With regard to instances of stubble burning, the Ghaziabad district magistrate on Sunday fixed the responsibility of the sub-divisional magistrates of the respective areas to keep a check on the matter.“They have been asked to brief farmers in their areas to not to indulge in any instance of stubble burning. Besides, the tehsildars, lekhpals and gram chowkidars have also been sensitised to keep a watch in their respective areas. Further, directions have been given to the agricultural department to popularise the use of equipment among farmers which considerably reduces stubble. Farmers can individually purchase such equipment or even resort to community purchase from the agriculture department,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. According to statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agro Ecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory – a Division of Agricultural Physics, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, there have been no instances of stubble burning in Ghaziabad district from October 1 to October 9. There were no instances during the same period in 2019 as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-ahead-of-grap-implementation-pollution-board-gears-up-to-check-industrial-emission/story-orl7EbDppR3hpaJ6ZkzKAL.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Spain consulate staffer cheated of ₹5 lakh by Mumbai landlord||A visa official posted at the consulate general of Spain has filed a complaint with the Cuffe Parade police station against the landlord of a residential flat for duping him of ₹5 lakh. The complainant Haresh Bilani, 48, in his complaint to said that he entered into a 24-month leave-and-license agreement with Alen Franklin on October 22, 2018, for his flat in Jalkiran building at Cuffe Parade. It was decided between the two that Bilani would use the two-bedroom area in the three-bedroom flat, while Franklin would live in the third room. Bilani was paying a monthly rent of ₹60,000 and had also given Franklin a refundable deposit of ₹5 lakh. The complainant also paid to rent furniture in the house. Bilani has alleged that in April 2019, Franklin served him notice, asking him to vacate the flat as he had decided to sell it. Bilani vacated the flat on November 20, 2019, following which Franklin inspected the flat for damages but did not find any, stated the complaint, of which HT has a copy. “As per the leave-and-license agreement, the landlord was supposed to return the deposit money within seven days of the tenant vacating the property. However, Franklin defaulted in refunding the deposit. Bilani sent notices to the accused, but he did not respond to them,” said a police officer from Cuffe Parade police station. Franklin kept avoiding Bilani’s phone calls and the complainant later learnt that Franklin had not sold the flat. Bilani then approached the police, and on October 6, a case was registered under section 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Franklin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spain-consulate-staffer-cheated-of-5-lakh-by-mumbai-landlord/story-83QY8Bdti1qZrqfkjjNO6I.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||‘Decide - mask or lockdown’: Uddhav Thackeray to Maharashtra amid fear of second Covid-19 wave||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count reached 1,528,226 as 10,792 new infections were recorded on Sunday. After a steady fall for days, active cases rose to 221,174, a rise of 18 as 221,156 active cases were reported on Saturday. This works out to 14.47% of the total cases reported so far.The death toll went up to 40,349 after 309 casualties were reported. Of them, 169 were in the past 48 hours, another 42 were from last week, while the remaining 98 deaths were from the period before that, the health officials said.The trend of comparatively fewer fresh cases has continued even after three weeks. New cases have not crossed 22,000 a day since September 17 when 24,619 cases were reported. The highest single-day spike in the last month went up to 24,886 cases on September 11, whereas in the 11 days of this month, the sharpest single day rise was recorded at 16,476 cases on October 1.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the state on Sunday said that the situation is changing in the state, but a lackadaisical attitude can reverse it again and thus they are going to be extra-cautious during festivals such as Navratri and Diwali. He said that the state government doesn’t want a situation where it has to re-impose lockdown restrictions just like it is happening in several countries. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“There is a picture that fresh cases are reducing, as a result, beds are lying vacant in hospitals, but we cannot be careless. I don’t want to re-impose lockdown restrictions just like it is happening in many European countries, United States, Israel etc, where cases had reduced in the past. Britain has imposed fresh restrictions for six months. I don’t want the same situation to arise in Maharashtra,” the chief minister said in his live address on social media platforms.“You decide, you want to wear a mask or have a lockdown. You want all restrictions back or you will follow social distancing,” Thackeray asked.He said that the government will allow more people to travel in local trains. “We have started intrastate trains and have also asked the railways to increase the frequency of local trains.. Once it is done, more people will be allowed to travel in local trains… I don’t want crowding,” the chief minister said.On opening gyms, he said that a proper protocol is needed to ensure it doesn’t lead to a spread in infections. “A protocol has to be prepared before allowing gyms to operate because heart rate increases to maximum level only in gyms and if someone infected is present there, may infect many more people, an aspect that cannot be overlooked,” Thackeray added.He said that they are not opening temples as many festivals are nearing. “Navratri and Diwali are around hence I’m moving slowly towards opening temples. Some have raised a question that if so many things can be opened why not them (temples). Please wait, responsibility is on us and not on you. Moreover, we are doing this because we love our people. We don’t want to spoil the situation. We need to be extra cautious, this is the reason I’m moving ahead step-by-step,” the chief minister said.Also Read| 5 states with most Covid-19 cases contributed more than half of total recoveries: GovtMumbai continues to report the highest number of cases across the state as it recorded 2,170 cases on Sunday, pushing its tally to 229,446. Of them, active cases are 25,767. It has also recorded 42 deaths.The scenario in Mumbai has changed from September when the cases in the city went up and are growing up gradually.On October 7, the city recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,848 cases.The chief minister said he has observed people moving without masks in Mumbai. “In Mumbai, I have observed that many people don’t care about wearing masks. We will be giving a freeway to coronavirus if all the basic precautions are not followed. We will have to follow them strictly, do not ignore even for a moment,” he said.Pune district contributed second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 679 cases, taking its tally to 69,958, while Pune city became the third-highest contributor with 644 cases pushing its case count to 164,985. The combined total of Pune comes to 1,323 cases.However, Covid-19 casualties are not reducing as expected. Maharashtra still has the highest number of casualties across the country.The chief minister said that they are not getting enough cooperation from the people and pointed out two reasons behind. “Either people are irresponsible or they are scared. They are afraid that if found positive, don’t know where they will be taken by the local authorities. In reality, the situation is different. Check the experience of people who have stayed at Covid Care Centres for treatment. Trust me, there is no reason to worry. The earlier you will come for treatment, the earlier you will be cured. A delay will not only lead your life into danger, but also of your family members as they will also get infected. People attaining 100 years of age were also cured as they were admitted well in time,” he said.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicState’s case fatality rate (CFR) remains unchanged and has recorded 2.64% since the last many days. It is at second position after Punjab in the country. The CFR of Punjab was 3.08% (with 3,798 deaths) till Saturday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.Last month, the state government had set a target to increase daily Covid-19 testing to 1.5 lakh a day from the current average, but there has been no improvement on that front. On Sunday, 74,137 tests were conducted, taking the total tests to 7,643,584. The positivity rate for the day recorded at 14.55%.The number of recovered patients also reached 1,266,240 as 10,461 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 82.86%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-1-528-226-toll-rises-to-40-349/story-s9rmOBsm5odYZmcwLUQsfP.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||Rare two-headed juvenile shark found by Palghar fisherman||A fisherman from Satpati village in Palghar discovered a baby shark, about six inches in length, with two heads in his by-catch on Friday.Confused by the genetic anomaly, Nitin Patil took a few pictures and videos of the shark before throwing it back into the sea. When he shared the images with other fishermen, he was told that it was a rare anomaly. “We do not eat such small fish, especially sharks, so I thought it was strange but decided to throw it anyway,” said Patil.Another fisherman, Umesh Palekar said, “We have never seen anything like this before. We believe one of the larger sharks may have given birth to this double-headed shark baby. We shared the images with researchers from the Indian Council for Agricultural Research - Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (ICAR-CMFRI), Mumbai.”CMFRI scientists and other marine biologists confirmed it was a very rare documentation and could be the first along the Maharashtra coastline for a double-headed shark species. “Our records show that double-headed sharks are very rarely reported along the Indian coast. This species appears to be the embryo of the spadenose shark (Scoliodon laticaudus) from the Carcharhinidae family or a sharpnose shark (Rhizoprionodon species). Both are viviparous [birthing live young which have developed inside the body of the parent], and are common in Maharashtra waters,” said Dr Akhilesh KV, scientist, ICAR-CMFRI, MumbaiDr Akhilesh said the heads were joined behind the gills and such two-headed sharks were quite rare in the wild. “These are also called dicephaly. This phenomenon is reported in several animal species including sharks, possibly due to mutation or any other embryonic malformation, disorders, and these are very rare reports. Similar cases are reported elsewhere outside the northern Indian Ocean. These materials should be preserved out of scientific interest,” he said.According to CMFRI records, a similar two-headed milk shark (Rhizoprionodon acutus) was reported from Gujarat in 1964, while a two-headed spadenose shark was reported from Karwar in 1991, and a double-headed cownose ray was reported from Andhra Pradesh in 1984.In 2008, a fisherman discovered a two-headed blue shark embryo in the Indian Ocean, as reported by National Geographic.Marine biologist Swapnil Tandel said the recently documented species seemed to be a spadenose shark and could be the first record of this species in a dicephalic condition (double-headed) from along Maharashtra waters. “These finds are so rare that it is difficult to find a cause for the anomaly. Genetic or metabolic disorders, viruses, pollution or overfishing could be the possible reasons. If two-headed fetuses are more prevalent in nature, then overfishing is a strong culprit as it may cause the gene pool to shrink,” he said.E Vivekanandan, emeritus scientist, ICAR-CMFRI said these species have a very low survival rate. “There are hardly any documentations of this species as adults. This finding is purely an aberration. We cannot attribute it to any exact reason. It is regularly seen for snake species or conjoined or Siamese twins in humans. In maximum cases, they do not survive beyond the juvenile stage, but it definitely opens up an avenue for much needed research.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rare-two-headed-juvenile-shark-found-by-palghar-fisherman/story-KeeBtNOgY0WM9zdppCx6GJ.html
12-10-2020||Mumbai||8 beaches in India get international recognition for cleanliness, coastal development||Eight Indian beaches have been conferred with the blue flag certification, the Union environment ministry said on Sunday. The certification is a voluntary eco-label for the cleanest and most developed coastal areas in the world awarded by a Denmark-based jury of the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). Until now, no beach in India had qualified for it, while only a few Asian beaches had been conferred the certification. The beaches are Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kasarkod (Karnataka), Padubidri (Karnataka), Kappad (Kerala), Rushikonda (Andhra Pradesh), Golden (Odisha) & Radhanagar (Andaman). According to the environment ministry, no blue flag nation has ever achieved tags for eight beaches in one attempt, while India is also the first country in the Asia-Pacific region to have achieved this feat within a time-frame of two years. “This is a proud moment for India as all eight beaches recommended by the government have received the coveted international blue flag certification. India is now in the league of 50 blue flag nations globally and we take pride in this superlative performance of our nation,” said Prakash Javadekar, Union environment minister. HT had reported September 19 that all eight beaches vying for the certification had witnessed and 82% reduction in marine litter and 84% reduction in plastic between June 2018 and May 2020, according to Beach Environment and Aesthetics Management Services (BEAMS) report based on efforts undertaken by the nodal agency for the certification - the Society of Integrated Coastal Management (SICOM) under the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC). Sanjai Jalla, mission leader of the programme, said, “The international jury comprising eminent members United Nations Environment Program, UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), FEE, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) etc. have conveyed their decision in the jury meeting held on October 6 for awarding all eight candidate beaches as recommended by India.” In June, a national jury comprising scientists and environmentalists recommended these eight beaches to the international jury after examination that all blue flag criteria were being met by them. Jalla said apart from India, Japan, South Korea and United Arab Emirates were the only other nations who had been conferred the certification with a couple of beaches, however, in a time-frame of about five to six years. “India has also been awarded the third prize for ‘international best practices’ on pollution control in coastal regions,” he said. FEE initiated the certification process from France in 1985. Beaches have to meet 33 criteria to achieve the certification which include environment education and information (seven criteria), environment management (15 criteria), bathing water quality (six criteria), safety and services (five criteria). MoEFCC had originally identified 13 pilot beaches for the certification in 2018, but work is yet to commence for selected beaches at Lakshadweep, Maharashtra and Goa, while efforts are underway at Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “These beaches have been planned to be taken up for certification next year under our vision agenda to develop and deliver 100 more beaches under the second phase of our Integrated Coastal Zone Management project over the next five years,” said Jalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-beaches-in-india-get-international-recognition-for-cleanliness-development/story-AcxOjq1BvxC5VSQgguma9M.html
12-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Nitish’s virtual campaign through party’s dedicated platform kicks off from Monday||Before the ground campaign, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s virtual campaign will get underway from Monday through the party’s dedicated digital platform, JDUlive.com. It will also be available on Facebook.In three days, he will cover 35 seats where the JD(U), and not its allies, has put up candidates. However, many of those seats are such where the LJP has fielded candidates, including those who shifted from the BJP after the seats went to the JD(U), to create the possibility of a triangular contest. Kumar, who is also also the national president of the JD(U), will kick off the ground campaign from October 14, said a party leader, who did not want to be quoted. With Durga Puja also starting from October 17, the parties have very little time for rallies and public meetings this time.On Monday, he will get online at 5 pm and address workers and general public of 11 Assembly seats - Sultanganj, Amarpur, Dhoriya, Belhar, Tarapur, Jamalpur, Suryagarha, Sheikhpura, Barbigha, Nawada and Govindpur - spread across six districts.On September 7, Kumar had launched the party’s virtual platform with ‘Nischal Samvad’. The virtual election campaign has also been given the same name with a tag line ‘Saksham Bihar, Swablambi Bihar’ and slogan, ‘Nyay ke saath tarakki, Nitish ki baat pakki (development with justice, that is what makes Nitish’s words assuring)’.Also read: Raghopur, Hasanpur seats to decide fate of Lalu’s two sonsOn Tuesday, the chief minister will address people in another five districts and cover 11 Vidhan Sabha seats of Mokama, Masaurhi, Paliganj, Kurtha, Jehanabad, Ghosi, Sandesh, Avignon, Jagdishpur, Dumraon and Rajpur. On Wednesday, he will cover another 13 constituencies in four districts, this time in Chenari, Sasaram, Kargahar, Dinara, Nokha, Obra, Nabinagar, Rafiganj, Sherghati, Belaganj, Atri, Jhajha and Chakai. Kumar’s words will be significant as in 2020 he finds himself in a strange situation with new equations emerging and for the first time since 2005, he will be facing the attack not as much from the but from within. NDA’s ally at the Centre, the LJP, which hitherto was content enjoying the moment being on the right side, has suddenly got up to challenge Nitish’s authority, even though the BJP continues to back him and has announced him the CM candidate, irrespective of the number of seats it wins. BJP president JP Nadda also talked about the development Bihar has made under Nitish Kumar’s governance after the abysmal run under the RJD regime.With an open letter ahead of his campaigning earlier this week, Nitish made it clear that he would count on his work to seek people’s support. Through his letter, he gave a brief account of how his government has been able to bring about a positive change in Bihar since 2005 due to “development with justice, peace and amity” and that he is likely to stick to his development agenda, which party leaders say cannot be matched by the Opposition. “Better connectivity from all parts of the state to Patna, electricity to all, 10 lakh women self-help groups (SHGs) under Jeevika, 50 percent quota to women in panchayati raj institutions (PRIs), welfare schemes for minorities and weaker sections of the society, social campaigns against prohibition, child marriage and dowry, Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali campaign to reduce the impact of climate change, management of Covid-19 and return of Bihar labourers,” the CM said while listing out the work carried out by his government and also talked about the ‘Seven Resolves – 2’ of his new term.Political analyst and former head, department of economics, Patna University, Nawal Kishore Choudhary said it was quite natural for the CM to recount his work, especially in the prevailing political atmosphere, to deflect the pressure being built on him. “He knows this election may not be a cakewalk, though he may again get through. This is what politics is all about and Nitish Kumar knows it. He has his work to bank on and that is what he will rightly do,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-nitish-s-virtual-campaign-through-party-s-dedicated-platform-kicks-off-from-monday/story-eJ8WcyTuV6xd0buIPJaEPM.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 1,656 positive cases, 30 deaths on Sunday||Pune district reported 1,656 fresh positive Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths on Sunday as per the state health department. Sunday’s data took the progressive positive count of the district to 3,15,774. Of these cases, 2,63,654 have recovered, 6,248 have been declared dead due to the Covid-19 infection and 45,871 are active cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 644 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total Covid-19 case tally of PMC to 1,64,985 and 15 virus-related deaths in the last 24 hours till Sunday evening took the PMC death toll to 3,733. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 333 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total Covid-19 case tally to 80,831 in PCMC. Five virus-related deaths in the last 24 hours till Sunday evening took the total death toll to 1,129. Pune rural reported 679 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total Covid-19 case tally in rural areas to 69,958 and 10 virus-related deaths in the last 24 hours till Sunday evening took the death toll to 1,386.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-656-positive-cases-30-deaths-on-sunday/story-8h5qABKEMZNoVotzU32FTN.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Pune’s daily Covid tally remains under 1,000-mark for past one week||Pune’s tally of daily positive Covid-19 cases has been below the 1,000-mark for the past one week, bringing some respite to the civic administration battling the pandemic for the past seven months. This is for the first time after July, when cases have remained under the 1,000-mark throughout the week even as number of tests have been in the range of 4,000-4,600 barring Sunday, when it sees a drop due to it been the weekend. The city’s positivity rate, which was 30.5% in the first week of September and 23.9% at the beginning of October has dropped to 20.39% during October 2 to October 11 (see box). With the daily caseload falling at a time when the state government has increased the bed capacity in the city and rest of the district, the number of non-oxygen beds to remain vacant by October 15 are expected to be 13,020 while oxygen beds to remain unoccupied will be 763, according to the administration’s projection. The projection, prepared based on the statistical model by IIT Bombay and other experts, also indicates 243 ventilators and 1,185 ICU beds to be vacant by mid-October as the situation eases. The drop in the number of daily cases and positivity rate is being observed even after the state government has allowed restaurants and bars to operate their dine-in facility since October 5. With shop timings also increased and most sectors, including hotel industry and travel allowed, there’s increased crowd in the market, which has prompted the administration to ask the citizens to exercise caution. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of the Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “It is too early to say that the infection is coming under control. The government has only recently opened restaurants and bars and there are festivals planned in the future. It is true that the number of cases is falling daily, but we will know the exact situation only after Diwali.” Despite several attempts, the Pune Municipal Corporation additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal and Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao were unavailable for comment on the bed projections. “With most things open, many people are stepping out of their home. However, it has been seen that people are still not wearing masks,” deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said during his Pune visit on Friday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray too on Sunday asked people in the state to be careful and follow norms. “While the cases have dropped in the past few days, people need to be careful,” said Thackeray in his public addresses aired on social media. Thackeray’s caution came a day after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday indicated that by the end of November, remaining restrictions under the lockdown will also be lifted in the state and all sectors will be allowed to reopen. Tope had said, that the government is now planning to give permission of reopening schools and religious places in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-s-daily-covid-tally-remains-under-1-000-mark-for-past-one-week/story-0XsVyquCKghDiF2uR6yVWI.html
12-10-2020||Pune||Maha state excise department imposes Rs 2.30 lakh fine on 23 hotels for Covid-19 norm violations||The Pune unit of the Maharashtra state excise department has taken action against 23 establishments, including 21 hotels, one wine shop and a countrymade liquor shop, for violating social distancing guidelines and endangering the lives of customers amidst the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the past 48 hours. An aggregate fine of Rs 10,000 each has been imposed on these establishments. The total fine is estimated to be worth Rs 2.30 lakh and it will be deposited in the state treasury soon, Pune excise department officials said.State excise SP Santosh Zagade said that the action was taken as per the directions of the district collector who had issued a set of safety guidelines to be followed by such establishments. “We will be taking more such action based on the state government public health and safety guidelines. The establishment owners must adhere to the law and ensure that necessary physical distance and other safety measures are in place while they are operating.”State excise department officials during their surprise raids on the establishments found that the norms were being flouted openly. The officials observed and recorded that the social distancing norms were being violated by all establishments which prompted them to take action.The state exercise department has issued a written notice to the hotel and bar owners stating that in the first instance they will be fined up to an amount of Rs 10,000, for the second and third instance the fine amount will be Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively. If the violations continue after three warnings, then their licences would be suspended, said Zagade. Meanwhile, district collector’s office has backed the excise department and maintained that crackdown on violators must continue to protect citizens health.The Maharashtra government permitted hotels, beer bars, food malls and restaurants to reopen from October 5. The state government made it mandatory for these establishments to follow public safety norms related to the Covid-19 and accordingly issued guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection due to unnecessary crowding of citizens during normal business activities. All hotels and other hospitality units have been instructed to take suitable measures to restrict any further transmission of Covid-19 while providing the services. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) aims to minimise all possible physical contact between staff and guests and maintain social distancing and other preventive and safety measures against Covid-19.The Pune district administration officials issued guidelines on October 7 which state that the establishments have to ensure only 50 per cent customer seating inside the premises, strictly follow social distancing norms, wearing of masks, using sanitisers, hygienic housekeeping practices and temperature screening of all by using thermal guns and special care must be taken to ensure that the physical distance is maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-excise-department-imposes-rs-2-30-lakh-fine-on-23-hotels-for-covid-19-norm-violations/story-8Pkcu03rLofsZKqHayUaeN.html
