13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mulund hospital fire: Mumbai civic body chief sets up committee to probe incident||A day after a fire was reported at Apex Hospital in Mulund, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday set up a four-member committee to probe the incident and the subsequent shifting of Covid-19 patients to another hospital.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “We have set up a committee to inquire into the Mulund’s Apex Hospital incident. The committee will investigate all aspects of the incident and submit a report within a week.”The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) will also conduct an inquiry into the incident.The MFB said it will investigate how the generator got overheated and whether proper maintenance was being done from the fire safety point of view.A senior MFB officer said, “We will a check on the maintenance work. Other aspects of the fire safety point of view will be investigated. However, at no point were the patients under exposure to fire, as the generator is placed outside the hospital building.”After the blaze on Monday evening, 40 patients were shifted to different hospitals nearby, during which, one critical patient died on the way, while another patient who was shifted to Fortis Hospital died on Tuesday morning.A statement by Fortis Hospital said, “Of the 11 patients that were admitted, eight need intensive care and two are in stable condition. A 54-year-old male patient was in a critical state and was on ventilator support. He suffered multi-organ failure followed by a cardiac arrest. Despite efforts, the patient passed away at 8:15am.”On Monday at around 6.20pm, a fire broke out in the generator of the Apex Hospital. Post this, around 40 patients including Covid-19 patients were shifted to nearby hospitals, including BMC’s jumbo care centre. During the shifting, an 82-year-old Covid-19 patient who was on ventilator support died. The generator was being used since morning due to power failure.Vivek Singh, administrator with Apex Hospital said, “We were informed that power supply storage might take time, hence we shifted all the patients. The generator was used almost for 10 hours and there was no other option available at that point of time. We do not know how it got overheated and caught fire. Unfortunately, one patient died while being shifted to another hospital. The patient was already in a critical condition; however, we took all safety measures during the transit. We will cooperate with all the government agencies for any enquiry or probe.”Overall, 28 patients of the total 40, admitted at Apex Hospital were taken to Fortis Hospital. However, out of the 28 patients, 11 were admitted and the rest, after being attended for emergency medical attention, were shifted to nearby peripheral hospitals.Meanwhile, local BJP MLA Mihir Kotecha from Mulund has demanded an investigation into the||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mulund-hospital-fire-mumbai-civic-body-chief-sets-up-committee-to-probe-incident/story-xNf4nLG2sv36fqSnsC9VsK.html
13-10-2020||Noida||Firm offering WFH assignments cheats Noida family of ₹32,000, case filed||A Noida woman has filed a complaint with the Sector 39 police station alleging that a company that offered work from home assignments had cheated them of ₹32,000. Complainant Kamla Sonkar is a resident of Sector 45 Noida. Her family was in financial difficulty after the Covid-19 pandemic cost her husband his job with an export company. “It became difficult to run the house. To support the family, my 16-year-old daughter searched the internet and found a company -- CCL Solutions Private Limited-- that offered a work from home job. She contacted the company and the officials promised good salary for data entry work,” she said. “They had also fixed a weekly deadline. My daughter failed to meet it due to network issues. The company officials called us and told to pay up ₹32,000 in penalty or they would file a case against us,” Sonkar said. The woman alleged that later a person who identified himself as an advocate, on behalf of the company, also contacted her and sent an email as legal notice. “We were scared and paid the penalty in two transactions. However, soon they stopped all communication with us. We later went to Delhi to check with the company office and found there was no such company at the given address,” she said. Sonkar then filed a complaint in Sector 39 police station. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the unknown suspects under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station, said, “The police and cyber cell are investigating the matter.” The company could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/firm-offering-wfh-assignments-cheats-noida-family-of-32-000-case-filed/story-Dnc8I7WA4r89xYs5j5RmLM.html
13-10-2020||City||Delhi govt urges CBSE to push board exams to May||New Delhi: The Delhi directorate of education on Tuesday urged the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to delay the board exams till at least May next year, saying the prolonged closure of schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic affected the teaching and learning processes.“In order to provide the students with reasonable time to study in person in schools, it is requested that the ongoing board examinations 2021 be conducted not before May 2021. Consequently, the next academic session may commence from July 2021,” read a letter written by additional Director Education (School/Exam) Saroj Bala Sain to the board.Delhi schools have been closed since March 19 due to the lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Since then, schools have switched to online mode of learning. Government schools in the capital have also adopted a semi-online model of teaching and learning activities, wherein students are sent worksheets through teachers, parents, and school management committee members.“Though DOE has conducted online/semi-online teaching-learning activities through live classes as well as worksheets/activity sheets, but the online teaching-learning process cannot replace the physical classroom teaching process,” the letter stated.A senior official in the Delhi government’s education department said, “Since schools in Delhi will be closed till October-end at least, we have requested the board to delay the exams so that students have adequate time to prepare.”In addition, the education department has asked the board to further reduce the syllabus for the current session. In July, the board had reduced the syllabus by 30% for classes 9 to 12 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a meeting held last month with CBSE officials, suggestions were also made to reduce the percentage of syllabus to be covered for evaluation, HT has learnt. The education department on Tuesday also asked for detailed guidelines regarding conducting of practical exams under the prevailing conditions or “any other alternative mode to replace the practical part of the subject.”. On October 5, HT had reported how schools were worried about the absence of practical classes for students of class 10 and 12 and their implication in the board exams.“Practical and project work are an integral part of any subject that include assessment of desired skills and competencies. It is pertinent to give students hands-on practice for the same for a sufficient period of time. It is requested that the board may provide detailed guidelines regarding the conduct of these practical exams under such conditions or any other alternative mode to replace the practical part of the subject,” read the letter sent on Tuesday.When asked about the possibility of reducing the syllabus further or delaying the board exams next year, CBSE chairperson Manoj Ahuja said, “These decisions cannot be taken at the whim of the moment and involve deliberation. We haven’t taken a call on this issue so far.”The directorate had also asked the board, in a separate letter on October 9, to extend the deadline for the board exam fee up to November 14 instead of October 15 since many students were unable to pay the amount due to the economic crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic. The letter was sent after CBSE said it could not waive off the exam fee, as requested earlier, since it was a self-financing board and needed the funds to conduct the exams on a large scale, especially during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-urges-cbse-to-push-board-exams-to-may/story-JSdVOq2pHU4dT29sAMAZpK.html
13-10-2020||Noida||Three arrested for running online shopping racket, duping 100 people||Phase 2 police on Tuesday arrested three people and claimed to have busted an online shopping racket in Noida that cheated people by making fake bookings and extracting advance payments from customers, but failing to deliver their products.The suspects, police said, had been operating for around a year and had cheated over 100 people.Ankur Agarwal, additional DCP, Noida Central, said that the incident came to light after a money transfer agent from Gejha village filed a complaint in Phase II police station on Monday. The complainant said that some men had contacted him a few months ago for availing his service, following which his account had been frozen.Agarwal said that the police registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter. “We found that a number of transactions had been made in the complainant’s account, with the money being deposited from Delhi NCR, and from other states. The bank had later frozen his account due to suspicious transactions,” he said.The police tracked the mobile phones of the suspects - Abdul Hannan, Suhaib Hasan and Nishant Alam - and arrested them on Tuesday. The suspects are natives of Moradabad and they lived on a rented accommodation in Supertech Ecociti in Noida Sector 137.Agarwal said that the three suspects had a unique modus operandi. “They used to place advertisements on social networking sites for various mobile phones, headphones and other electronic equipment at 50% discount. They used to convince customers that the products will be booked and delivered from a leading e-commerce website,” he said.Once a customer contacted the suspects, the suspects used to book the products using fake bank details. “The suspects revealed that they used to book the product themselves on behalf of customers. They entered fake bank details for booking the products online. As a security measure, in case wrong bank account details are fed, the bank automatically cancels the booking in five to ten minutes. But the suspects used to take screenshots of the booking in those 5-10 minutes and shared them with the customers,” he said. The suspects then asked the customers to pay 50% of the money in advance and the rest was to be paid, once the product was delivered.Agarwal said that the suspects were aware that if they used their own bank accounts, they will land in the police net. “To evade surveillance, they approached a money transaction agent. The suspects used his account and used to get cash from the money transaction agent after giving him some commission,” he said. Agarwal said that the agent had no role in the racket. Police recovered nine mobile phones, Rs 1.22 lakh in cash and one high-end motorcycle from the possession of the suspects. A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 66 of IT Act. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Anita Chauhan, SHO Phase II police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-for-running-online-shopping-racket-duping-100-people/story-vDBJo0KlSorGcUskgyv6gL.html
13-10-2020||Noida||Developer booked for construction on Hindon floodplains||Police have booked a developer for illegal construction on the Hindon floodplains in Greater Noida west on Monday following a complaint from the irrigation department. The suspect Pappu Tripathi is a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad. The complainant, seechpal/patwari from irrigation department Subhash Chandra, said that the suspect was allegedly involved in illegal plotting of land in Hindon floodplains where any kind of construction is prohibited. Chandra said that the land is notified by Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA). “The developer has been trying to buy land from the local farmer and sell them to vulnerable people at high rates after plotting. A team had visited the spot after getting information of illegal construction. He misbehaved with officials who had tried to stop illegal construction,” he said. Following this Chandra filed a complaint in Bisrakh police station. Munish Chauhan, station house officer at Bisrakh police station, said followed the complaint a case has been registered against Tripathi under Sections 430 (mischief by injury to works of irrigation or by wrongfully diverting water), Section 431 (mischief by injury to public road, bridge, river or channel) and Section 506 (criminal Intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have registered a case and investigating the matter,” he said. Developer Tripathi said that he had bought the 150 square metre plot from a local farmer before the lockdown. “I had no idea that this was a floodplain area. I was fencing the property when the irrigation department officials reached and stopped the work,” he said. Tripathi alleged that the irrigation department officials asked for a bribe to allow the work. “When I refused, they filed a complaint.” He said he was yet to make an official registry of the property. Chandra denied the bribery allegation. “We have filed complaints against different colonisers for illegal constructions. This developer is making baseless allegations to escape from his wrongdoings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/developer-booked-for-construction-on-hindon-floodplains/story-B4nzVOYjgzIT3x62HWd45J.html
13-10-2020||Noida||Ban on DG sets: Industrial units to make report card on power outages in Noida||NOIDA: The industrial bodies in Gautam Budh Nagar has said that the recent order of the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority banning diesel generator (DG) sets in the national capital region will be a “body blow” to thousands of units in the district, citing the long power cuts that take place almost every day.As a token protest against the power distribution companies (discoms), the business communities have decided to make a daily report card mentioning about the hours of power cut.Kulmani Gupta, chairman of Noida chapter of Indian Industries Association (IIA), said that all the 1,000-odd members of IIA in GB Nagar have been asked to keep a daily record of power cuts in their respective areas. “They have to face long power cuts at least thrice a day. The recent order of banning the DG sets is like a body blow to thousands of entrepreneurs here, who are already on the receiving end due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier they were operating with limited manpower and orders. Now, with the ban on DG sets, they will not be able to fulfil the supply against their limited orders,” he said. The report card will be later sent to the senior authorities of the Uttar Pradesh government, IIA officials said.Echoing similar views, Surendra Nahta, president of Micro, Small and Medium Entrepreneurs Association, Noida, said that before enforcing the ban on DG sets, the plight of industries in the post-Covid period should have been taken into account. “It is like double jeopardy to us. We also support complete ban on DG sets. But, first the respective state governments must give their undertaking in the court that they’ll ensure uninterrupted power supply in the areas – particularly declared as ‘no power cut zones’ by them, where DG sets have been banned. If the industrial units continue to face frequent power cuts and are not allowed to operate on DG sets, the entrepreneurs will no option other than to pull their shutters down,” Nahta said. Even residents are not happy with the ban on DG sets. PS Jain, president of Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Association (Conrwa), said that in the residential high-rises, use of DG sets become mandatory to run the lift and other essential services during the power cuts. “We’ve written letters to the EPCA chairman and the chief secretaries of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, to reconsider their decision. I’ve also spoken to them and they have given assurances to do the needful,” he said. Two power discoms -- Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) and Noida Power Corporation Limited (NPCL) -- are responsible to supply electricity to the different parts of the GB Nagar district. When contacted, VN Singh, Noida divisional chief engineer, PVVNL, said that elaborate arrangements are being done to ensure uninterrupted power supply in Noida. “The old wires and electric poles have already been replaced. There is no dearth of power in Noida now. Even if there is some trip in supply, our staff rectify it in no time,” he said.Despite repeated attempts, Sarnath Ganguli, vice-president (operation) of NPCL, the discom that supplies power to areas in Greater Noida, could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ban-on-dg-sets-industrial-units-to-make-report-card-on-power-outages-in-noida/story-RZjxKPxNVR8PubqkvbnxjK.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Soon, take a guided tour of BMC headquarters in Mumbai; MTDC-BMC ink deal||Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) on behalf of the state tourism department signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to start guided tours of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation headquarters for tourists. MTDC will plan the tour and procure necessary permissions for the tour of the heritage building from the state government. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “It’s a building that’s always captured my imagination and awestruck millions like me... I’m sure that not just tourists, but many Mumbaikars would also love to see the building of the BMC HQ...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/soon-take-a-guided-tour-of-bmc-headquarters-in-mumbai-mtdc-bmc-ink-deal/story-bvkt6tqlj9T54r4WQ1HgiM.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP MLA receives threat calls from nine different numbers||The Bandra police on Tuesday booked an unknown man for issuing a death threat to Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) leader and MLA Ashish Shelar. According to the police, Shelar received threat calls on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday at around 12 AM. The caller made nine calls using different numbers, said Bandra police officers.A police officer from Bandra police station said, “Whenever he used to answer the call, the person started abusing him and threatening that he will shoot him and will kill him. Shelar also observed that the voice of caller from nine different numbers was the same.”Following the threat calls, Shelar approached Bandra police and filed a complaint. Abhishek Trimukhe DCP zone 9 said,” We have registered an offence and investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-mla-receives-threat-calls-from-nine-different-numbers/story-b7ardR45xvIsUUMkjRNpyM.html
13-10-2020||Noida||It’s show time again: Cinema halls in Noida get ready with chessboard seating plan||Cinema hall owners in Gautam Budh Nagar district have begun preparations to welcome patrons to watch movies on the big screen again. Although permitted to operate from October 15, they said they may need some more time to make ready their halls in accordance with the latest guidelines on checking the spread of Covid-19. District magistrate Suhas LY said that district administration will hold a meeting with the theatre owners/managers on Wednesday to take stock of the safety arrangements done at the theatres. “No one will sit in front of another viewer and no viewer will be flanked on the immediate right and left. As per the safety protocols, theatres must have to submit the corona negative report of all of their employees to the district administration along with implementing this chessboard seating plan,” he said. He further said that with proper cleanliness, sanitisation and seating plan, social distancing can be maintained. “Sanitation will be necessary after every show. They will also have to make arrangement of thermal screening at the entrance. The theatre management will have to immediately inform the integrated control room in the district, if any symptom of Covid-19 is found among the visitors or the staff. As per the government’s orders, the threatre management must keep the database of viewers’ names, addresses and mobile numbers,” the DM said. Suhas also said that before starting the show, the complete health report of the theatre’s employees must be submitted to the district administration. “It is mandatory for the audiences to have Aarogya Setu App in their mobile phones and no one will be permitted to enter the movie halls if they don’t have it,” he added. Yogesh Kumar, manager of Wave cinema, said that they are almost ready with all safety arrangements. “We will soon apprise the administration of our progress. The theatre will be ready to run the shows within a week,” he said. Angad Kumar of Logix Mall said that proper thermal screening of viewers will be done before they are allowed to enter the theatre lounge. “We’ll not permit anyone who do not have the Aarogya Setu application on their mobiles. The air-conditioners of the theatre will operate as per the standard operational protocols, issued by the district administration,” he said. Shamim Anwar of Great India Palace Mall, said that all the safety guidelines issued by the district administration will be followed in the theatre. “We’ll not serve any eatables or hot/cold drinks inside the auditorium. The food court will have enough stalls, but the vendors will serve the foods and drinks maintaining the safety protocols,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/it-s-show-time-again-cinema-halls-in-noida-get-ready-with-chessboard-seating-plan/story-HeIDj9RPLpDUc6CkHzK3tL.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for raping his minor daughter in Mumbai||The Byculla police on Sunday arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly raping his 15-year-old daughter. Police arrested him after the mother of the victim approached police and filed a case against her husband.The accused, who is a driver by profession, tied her daughter’s hands and legs in July when no one was at home, stuffed a piece of cloth in her mouth and raped her. The survivor told police in her statement that her father threatened to kill her if she revealed anything to anyone. The accused was raped on multiple occasions. The girl recently narrated the ordeal to her mother, and when the mother confronted her husband, he physically assaulted her and abused her, said Byculla police.She then visited the Byculla police station and filed a complaint against the accused. An officer from Byculla police station said, “We have registered a first information report (FIR) under section 376(2)(n) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman], 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (2) (Punishment for criminal intimidation), 504 ( Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of Indian Penal Code and section 4 (Punishment for penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-raping-his-minor-daughter-in-mumbai/story-NL5FhlRj570h1O0zwLedmL.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Students worried about losing a year as Maharashtra State Board yet to announce schedule for HSC, SSC re-exams||Nearly three months after results of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams were declared, the Maharashtra State Board is yet to announce the exam schedule for repeaters, leaving thousands of students in the lurch.Every year, the board conducts supplementary exams for students who fail their SSC and HSC exams. While the main examinations are conducted in March, the supplementary exams are held in July. Students who pass the supplementary exams can thus begin their first year of college in the same academic year. This year, however, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the board results came out in July and August, respectively, and the board is yet to make an announcement on the supplementary exams. “A decision on whether the exams can be conducted and if yes, how, is yet to be taken,” said a board official.According to a letter sent to the secretaries of all divisional boards in August, the Maharashtra State Board has proposed to hold supplementary exams from October 6 to 23. The proposed schedule for Class 12 exams was October 6 to 29. However, with no announcement from the board yet, students have no clarity over the issue. “I failed my SSC exams in mathematics by just three marks, and now wish to write the paper again. But the delay in announcing the exam schedule has led to the loss of an academic year for students like me,” said Asawari Shinde, a Parel-based student. Nearly 2 lakh HSC and SSC students from the state did not clear their board exams this year. Officials at the state education department did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-worried-about-losing-a-year-as-maharashtra-state-board-yet-to-announce-schedule-for-hsc-ssc-re-exams/story-T4GdJgrLfJf8NMtrJReHqM.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court dismisses plea of Mumbai’s sweet shop owners seeking relaxation of expiry date rule||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked a sweet sellers’ association to deposit Rs1 lakh for challenging the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India’s (FSSAI) decision, asking the traders’ body to put a ‘best before’ date on loose sweets being sold by them from October 1. The court held that the association was trying to undo the precautionary measure initiated by the food department in public interest and dismissed the petition.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Shri Mumbai Mishtanna Vayasai Sahakari Mandal, which has around 250 members. The bench was informed by advocate Uday Warunjikar — who represented the sweet sellers’ association — that the FSSAI had issued an order on February 24, mandating sweetmeat shops selling non-packaged or loose sweets to display the date of manufacturing and ‘best before’ date on the container or tray holding the sweets. Warunjikar submitted that this was the first of the three order issued by the FSSAI. The other two orders were issued on September 25 and 30. While the September 25 order reiterated the February 24 order and stated: “In the public interest and to ensure food safety, it has been decided that in case of non-packaged/loose sweets, the container/tray holding sweets at the outlet for sale should display the ‘best before’ date of the product mandatorily, with effect from October 1.” Warunjikar informed the court that while the September 30 FSSAI order clarified that the September 25 order was only pertaining to Indian sweets and local language was allowed to be used on the container in which the sweets were to be packaged, the directive was discriminatory and hence the association moved the PIL seeking setting aside of the three orders of FSSAI passed under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “The petitioner seeks to undo what the authority proposed to do for the benefit of consumers and therefore, it is thoroughly misconceived. We order the petitioner to deposit Rs1 lakh to the advocates’ Covid-19 welfare fund.” The court said that it will pass a detailed and reasoned order later and dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-dismisses-plea-of-mumbai-s-sweet-shop-owners-seeking-relaxation-of-expiry-date-rule/story-norKtDUQmnElDtn055Hd2I.html
13-10-2020||Noida||38-year-old factory owner found murdered in Ghaziabad||A day after the car of a 38-year-old factory owner was found abandoned near the Haj House, his body was recovered on a road 7 km away in Sahibabad site-4 industrial area on Tuesday. Based on an autopsy, police said that the man was strangulated. Police said they have got vital clues in the case.Police said they recovered the body of Ajay Panchal, resident of sector-2 in Rajendra Nagar, around 4.45am on Tuesday. A preliminary investigation established that Panchal had left his cable manufacturing factory in Rajendar Nagar industrial area, 7 km from factory, at around 1pm on Monday for lunch at home, but never reached there. After he could not be contacted, the family launched a search and then approached the police on Monday night. “The autopsy on Tuesday indicated that he was strangled. We had registered a case of abduction after the family gave us a missing person complaint on Monday. We will now add the murder charge. Prima facie, it does not seem to have been a case of robbery,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (Sahibabad). The family of the victim man was reluctant to speak to the media. “I have spoken to the family and they do not know why Ajay was killed. He had no enmity with anyone. There is nothing missing from his car and the family did not get any ransom call either,” said Subhash Panchal, a friend of the victim. The victim was father to two sons aged 10 and five years old and had been living in Rajendra Nagar for past 40-45 years, he added.“His mobile was missing and police are trying to trace it as part of investigation.” Late Tuesday night, the Ghaziabad police said they were looking into the role of a couple who were known to the victim. “It has come to light in investigation that the victim had willingly gone to their house. The police have scanned number of CCTVs and got vital clues,” the Ghaziabad police said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/38-year-old-factory-owner-found-murdered-in-ghaziabad/story-Lq723qMovAVklQWOv4yw3J.html
13-10-2020||City||Ludhiana’s debris recycling plant gets state nod after three years||Hanging fire for over three years, the project to install construction and demolition (C&D) waste plant in the city would finally see the light of the day as the state committee of chief engineers has given its nod for the same.The plant would be established in Dhandari Kalan area at the cost of around ₹7.90 crore under the smart city mission. Request for proposal (RFP) for the project is being prepared at the state level. As per the officials, similar projects are being taken up in Amritsar and Jalandhar and the tenders for the same would be floated by the state government.MC superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja said, “It is expected that the tenders for the project would be floated in a week or so. It would be a major relief for the city.”Recently an MC committee, comprising civic officials and councillors, had also visited Indore to get an idea about the solid waste management in the cleanest city of the country. During their visit, the team saw the working of the C&D waste plant wherein rubble is converted into interlocking tiles, which are further used by the Indore MC. The councillors had then said they would work to implement the same in Ludhiana as well.Meanwhile, it would be a major relief for the residents as a large amount of rubble has been dumped at vacant plots and green plots across the city, including the cremation ground road at Model Town Extension, Dugri and Haibowal among other areas. The monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also asked the MC to establish the plant at the earliest.Earlier, the MC had proposed Dhandari Kalan site for establishment of C&D plant and six spots were also identified in the city for dumping the rubble till the time the plant is established. But the residents and contractors continue to dump the waste at vacant plots and green belts.Karandeep Singh, a resident of Model Town Extension, said, “The green belt at the cremation ground road is filled with rubble and garbage. Despite complaints submitted with the MC, no action has been taken in this regard. The MC should establish a green belt at the site where people could come for a walk or to spend leisure time with families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-debris-recycling-plant-gets-state-nod-after-three-years/story-90yjaWjdWzKX7Ak5huSRvJ.html
13-10-2020||Noida||Noida parents uncomfortable about sending children to school||Despite the Uttar Pradesh government’s go-ahead on Saturday to reopen schools for students of classes 9 to 12 from October 19, parents in Gautam Budh Nagar district are apprehensive sending their children for physical classes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Principals of a few private schools said as per a recent survey conducted by them, nearly 70% parents have expressed their unwillingness to send their children to schools, fearing coronavirus infection. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said a meeting of principals and managers of CBSE and UP Board schools has been called on Thursday to chalk out a proper plan to ensure education with health to the students . “The district has over 300 schools falling under these categories. The schools will have to take utmost care regarding the health of the students. The classes will run in two shifts and all necessary protocols, including social distancing and proper sanitisation of premises, will have to be followed by schools. Students will be allowed to attend classes only after furnishing written permission from their parents or guardians,” Suhas said. Renu Singh, principal of Amity school (Noida), said a recent survey undertaken by the school showed more than 70% parents were unwilling to send their children. “The ball is in the parents’ court now, who are still apprehensive of sending their children to schools. This is despite the fact that our campus is completely sanitised and we are following all safety protocols. We are a bit worried about our class 10 and 12 students, who will appear in board examinations in the next few months. They have yet not got any chance to attend their practical classes,” she said. Praveen Kumar, principal of Sunriseville school, Sector 25, Noida, said so far less than 20% parents have given their nod to send their children to schools. “However, we are still hopeful that parents will reconsider their decision for the sake of the academic future of their children, particularly those studying in classes 10 and 12,” he said. Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, said it is too early to come to any conclusion. “We need time to gauge the views of the parents,” she said. Yatendra Kasana, president of the Noida parents’ association, said only 10% of the parents are ready to send their children back to school in the present scenario. “What is wrong in giving online classes to students? Yes, the schools can make special arrangements for practical classes for students of class 10 and 12, but for that they will have to give an undertaking of proper safety measures in their campus,” he said, adding if schools impose anything on students and parents, the association will protest.Suman Shekhar, whose daughter is studying in a CBSE school, said he is not willing to send her to school till the pandemic ends completely. “My daughter is in class 12 and we are comfortable with online classes. Since I’ve also arranged practicals for her at home, so there is no need to send her to a public place, where no one can guarantee that infection will not take place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-parents-uncomfortable-about-sending-children-to-school/story-bAcfd66IJNlN3NibleTTvM.html
13-10-2020||Noida||After UP govt nod, Ghaziabad administration allows schools to reopen from October 19||After a gap of nearly seven months, schools in Ghaziabad will re-open from October 19 for classes 9 to 12 on October 19. The UP government on October 10 approved re-opening schools and also sent a detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) that needed to be followed as the Covid-19 pandemic forced the country into staying indoors and protecting the children. Students will be allowed to attend only after written consent of the parents is received. They added that all the precautions like wearing masks, social distancing and sanitisation, should be strictly adhered to. “The consent form will be in a particular format for all schools. On the suggestion of parents’ associations, we have directed schools not to charge them on account of implementation of SOPs. We also directed them to get their staff tested and post the results on their websites. The schools have also been told to make available transport with all precautions,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “The schools will not conduct any immediate examinations. All the precautions will be taken up and our officers will also conduct random inspections at schools. The corporation has been directed to take up cleaning outside the schools.”Despite this, parents’ associations were not in favour of reopening schools. “We are still of the view that schools should not open. Even Delhi has decided not to open its schools till end of October. We do not understand the hurry. In coming days, the pollution will also rise and it, along with Covid-19, could prove dangerous for children,” said Seema Tyagi, chairperson of the Ghaziabad Parents’ Association.“The conditions to open schools will not be favourable till a vaccine is available. The administration or school should take up responsibility if any student contracts the infection,” said Sachin Soni, general secretary, All Schools Parents’ Association. The schools said they will take up all precautions and preventive measures as directed. “The parents’ associations raised their points and many were accepted by the district magistrate. With regard to their apprehension, we will abide by the directions given by the government. We will not charge anything extra for taking up Covid-19 prevention measures. Transport facility will be provided to students. When the parents raised the issue of responsibility, the district magistrate told them that all SOPs will be followed,” said Subhash Jain, president of Independent Schools Federation of India that has around 100 member schools. He added that all member schools got the consent of about 40-57% of parents. The management of some schools, however, they are likely to resume physical classes only later when they have enough parents’ consent. Sangeeta Hajela, principal of Delhi Public School, Indirapuram, said, “The fear of the contagion and concern for well- being of children has dominated the parents’ decisions so far. We have approximately 2000 students in classes 9 to 12, out of which parents of only 10% students gave their consent. The school will be equipped for ensuring students’ safety, but other than that it is completely upon individuals to ensure safety for themselves.”Sharmila Raheja, principal of Uttam School for Girls also said that the school is already prepared but is likely to open for classes after the festival season. “As of now, we have declared preparatory holidays for our students for about 8-9 days. Then the festivals days will come up. So, we are likely to open after the festivals end. During this time, we will also be able to assess the Covid-19 and pollution scenario which will help us take more measures for our students,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-up-govt-nod-ghaziabad-administration-allows-schools-to-reopen-from-october-19/story-rdP94BZ7d1zhiRGSZau5WP.html
13-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida authority likely to open sports complex by Oct 15||GREATER NOIDA: After a delay of more than four years, the Greater Noida authority is likely to open the state-of-the-art integrated sports complex to its members by October 15. The move comes after a group of residents, who had submitted their forms for membership nearly eight years ago, recently threatened to stage a protest outside the authority’s office in Sector Knowledge Park-IV. The authority will also start issuing membership cards to its members beginning October 15, officials said, adding that new applications for membership will be accepted from January 1 next year. “The authority has decided to open the integrated sports complex. But in the beginning. only a few facilities will be opened and users will have to follow social distancing norms to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Shiv Pratap Shukla, officer on special duty, Greater Noida authority. The 39-acre sports complex in Sector Gamma II was supposed to be opened to the members in August 2016.According to the officials, in Phase 1, the members can use the facility only for jogging and walking with social distancing rules in place. In second phase beginning November 1, 2020, the members will be allowed to use badminton court, lawn tennis, football ground, basketball and volleyball courts and table tennis. Later, the authority will open the zones meant for other games such shooting range, swimming pool and skating, among others. The officials said that 487 members, who had submitted their forms eight years ago, will start getting their membership cards now. The authority decided to open the sports complex to members and also issue the cards because it does not want to face a protest, said the officials. Harendra Bhati, who submitted his form eight years ago and yet to get a card, said, “We met with the Greater Noida authority OSD and told him that if the authority does not issue our cards and continues shutting the doors of the complex for us, then we will start an indefinite protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-authority-likely-to-open-sports-complex-by-oct-15/story-N5Q7ApkTXNcZ81uzDP5zBM.html
13-10-2020||City||AAP targets police in Rahul Rajput case; one more arrested for murder||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday accused Delhi Police of harassing the female friend of Rahul Rajput, a Delhi University student who was allegedly beaten to death by the woman’s relatives in Adarsh Nagar last week. The woman is the main witness in the case.“The female friend, who is the prime witness, in the case is in police protection. She has been trying to disclose certain things about the incident she witnessed but the police have been stopping her from doing so in order to hide their own inaction and dereliction of duty. The woman has been trying to reach out to journalists too, so the police have taken her phone into custody,” said Bhardwaj, Greater Kailash MLA, in a press conference on Tuesday.On Monday, he had said the woman had approached a nearby police station for help but was denied any assistance.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Vijayanta Arya said, “We deny all these allegations. She is in a women’s shelter home and her phone has not been seized by police.”While AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the police report to the BJP-led Union government.Meanwhile, one more person was arrested in connection with the murder, the police said on Tuesday. A total of six persons have been held so far, including three minor boys, they said.“Today (Tuesday), we arrested one more suspect named Shubham Bhardwaj,18, a resident of Jahangirpuri, in the murder case,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-targets-police-in-rahul-rajput-case-one-more-arrested-for-murder/story-PZ9KLBqIPkKO68zwD3MPnJ.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police losing battles with gangsters on another plane: Social media||Gangsters bragging about their criminal exploits, flexing their muscles, twirling their moustaches and brandishing weapons, even updating their status from behind bars... The presence of antisocial elements on social media is a problem law enforcement agencies have been grappling with for quite some time. And there’s no controlling the menace. After Sunday’s murder of Gurlal Brar, 26, student leader and close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, a group loyal to slain gangster Davinder Bambiha posted a message claiming responsibility for the crime. Bishnoi’s group retaliated, announcing the beginning of a “new war.”There are many such accounts, where gangsters challenge each other and threaten targets. Sympathisers working behind the scenes“Most of the (social media) accounts are just using the names of gangsters and their sympathisers are running them. Initially, it was thought that gangsters were passing on instructions from prison but considering the frequent updates that does not seem possible,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity.  “Gangsters most active on social media are Lawrence Bishnoi, Sampat Nehra, Bhupi Rana, Deepu Banur; and Lucky – who is believed to be heading Bambiha’s gang. Bambiha too makes an occasional appearance while the Jaipal Singh group hardly uses social media,” he added. “Bishnoi and Nehra are popular among the youngsters and to keep themselves relevant they use social media. Most of the accounts in their names are being operated from abroad. Youths are hired to update these from time to time,” the official said. Deactivating accounts no deterrent Jurisdiction issues make things difficult. “Tracking locations from where the accounts operate and people running them is not easy as multiple people have access to the accounts,” said another official. The fact that Chandigarh police has managed to get only 105 accounts blocked on various social media platforms has not acted as a deterrent as multiple new accounts have sprung up. “We have directed the cyber cell to trace the accounts from which threats (In the Brar and Bambiha case) were issued. We are scanning the accounts operational in names of various gangsters and are trying to ascertain if the persons uploading these are involved in any anti-social activity. Accordingly, action will be taken,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Tedious process Chandigarh police have so far identified more than 250 accounts on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter being operated in the name of gangsters and other criminals, which are run by their associates.It has been a long and tedious process to get the 105 accounts, blogs and pages blocked. Once such sites are identified the list is shared with the cyber cell of the police department which tracks the IP addresses and content uploaded and then considers the requests to deactivate the accounts. “It is very time consuming and not all requests are honoured. Only those accounts that violate the norms of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are deactivated. But getting a response from the sites is another area of concern as they keep sitting on the requests for deactivation,” say police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-losing-battles-with-gangsters-on-another-plane-social-media/story-1mPoS3mR0iDI53ij2MTWNP.html
13-10-2020||City||Covid monitors to check compliance of guidelines during Dussehra celebrations in Punjab||As the festive season is around the corner, the Punjab home department on Tuesday issued detailed guidelines for Ramleela and Dussehra celebrations. Covid monitors will be deputed to keep a constant check on safety practices and only a limited number of people will be allowed at an event. The organising committees across various districts of the state who have sought permission to conduct celebrations will be apprised of the guidelines and if found violating norms, punitive action will be taken, said Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal.As per the guidelines, gatherings for Dussehra festivities can be permitted beyond the limit of 100 persons outside containment zones subject to certain conditions. “In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/space in the view, with the permission of the district magistrate and with strict observance of social distancing, wearing of masks, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser, the festivities can be permitted beyond the limit of 100 persons,” read the guidelines.In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity is allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons.“It is mandatory to depute Covid monitors who will keep guard at all times during Dussehra celebrations on October 25 and ensure the guidelines are strictly adhered to. These Covid monitors are to be deputed by the respective organising committees,” said Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, adding that while the process of granting permissions will begin on October 14, residents are appealed to remain watchful as the pandemic is still not over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-monitors-to-check-compliance-of-guidelines-during-dussehra-celebrations/story-t0kecAITGH8US84T4QsPdK.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Start applying for solar plants at home in Chandigarh at zero cost||City residents can now apply for installation of rooftop solar plants in residential units at zero cost under the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model with the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST). Candidates can apply for a connection on the web portal, www.solarchandigarh.com, which also has detailed information on the scheme. The capacity of plants will be 5 to 10 kWp (Solar electricity systems are given a rating in kilowatts peak) for the residential sectors and will be allocated on a first come first serve basis.The Chandigarh administration has already approved implementation of the rooftop solar scheme in private residential buildings under the RESCO model, which means setting up the solar power plant free of cost.A private company will install it.Approximately 2,400 such solar power plants on the RESCO model are proposed to be installed on a first come first serve basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-can-start-applying-for-solar-plants/story-fvFw1iWKsSCmRIrha7djbI.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||H-Rera asks developer to pay ₹3 crore for delayed possession of flats||The Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera), Gurugram, has ordered Sana Realtors to pay a penalty of ₹3 crore to home buyers for the delayed possession of flats. The authority has also directed warrants to be issued against the promoter to make him appear before the authority along with the requisite documents, as he has failed to appear before the authority even after being served with repeated notices.The directions were issued on the complaints of several buyers, who alleged that despite being promised delivery of flats in 2013, the project was delayed by seven years. KK Singh, a buyer, said that they were seeking penalty for the late completion of project. “Most of the buyers are end users and have suffered a lot due to the inordinate delay. They are, therefore, seeking penalty,” said Singh.Sana Realtors launched the Precision Soho Tower, a commercial project on Sohna Road in Sector 67 in 2010-11. The project was supposed to be completed by 2013, said buyers. The H-Rera bench comprising Dr KK Khandelwal, chairman, pointed out that the builder-buyer agreements between the allottees and M/s Sana Realtors Pvt. Ltd. were executed in the years, 2010 and 2011, and the possession had to be offered between 2013-14 but, till date, legal offer of possession has not been made by the promoter. He was duty bound to give possession within a period of three months to the allottees from the date of obtaining the occupancy certificate (OC).The bench of the authority has decided to issue show-cause notices to the promoter for violation of Section 17(1) of the Rera Act, and initiating proceedings against the promoter under Section 61, which states that “the promoter shall be liable to a penalty which may extend upto 5% of the estimated cost of the real estate project”The Authority has also ordered to refund the amount which has been demanded by the promoter for increasing the super area. A forensic auditor has been asked to verify the change.Pankaj Ghambir, director, Sana Realty, when asked about the matter, said that he was not aware about any such directions. “I am not aware of any such development as our lawyer could not attend the hearing on Tuesday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/h-rera-asks-developer-to-pay-3-crore-for-delayed-possession-of-flats/story-1NmuWIfuhUQeH77bv7LKwM.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||Man held for supplying drugs to jail warder||The police on Monday night arrested a 30-year-old aide of a drug peddler lodged in Bhondsi Jail from Badhshahpur area for allegedly supplying drugs to the jail warder which were supposed to be smuggled inside the premises, said the police. According to the police, the suspect used to buy drugs through peddlers for sale in Gurugram and Rewari and was in touch with inmates lodged in Bhondsi and Rewari jails. The suspect has been identified as Dharambir alias Mota of Rewari. His brother is lodged in Bhondsi jail for allegedly smuggling drugs and is a history-sheeter. The police said Prem Chand, the jail warder, was arrested from Bhondsi Jail crossing, while receiving drugs from one Ankit Kumar. The drugs included 110 grams of sulfa and 24 grams of smack. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Mota’s brother, Inderjeet, is lodged in Bhondsi jail and is a close friend of Deepak alias Deepu, who had coordinated with the jail warder to smuggle drugs. “Inderjeet and Deepu are allegedly involved in over 10 cases of loot, drugs, assault and smuggling of mobile phones in different jails and were arrested last year from Rewari. They are lodged in the same barrack and were using the same mobile phone,” he said. Sangwan said the crime investigation unit of DLF-4 arrested Mota after his name was revealed by the warder during his two-day police remand. “Mota had bought drugs from a drug peddler who, in turn, got it from Orissa in the first week of this month. He had received call from his brother who had asked him to meet Ankit Kumar who was in touch with jail warder,” he said. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, smuggling of drugs has increased inside jail premises. According to the police, inmates are being produced before the court via video conferencing and are, therefore, unable to get drugs during their visits. Further, visitors are not allowed on the jail premises any longer, forcing inmates to look for alternate means for their supply of drugs, including coordinating with jail officials, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-held-for-supplying-drugs-to-jail-warder/story-FxI61p1AvHkptUHhD933bN.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||Govt allows farmhouses in urban Gurugram||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has announced a policy to allow development of eco-friendly dwelling units, akin to farmhouses, in urban areas, said officials. According to the department, farmhouses that have been developed on urban and agricultural land can also be regularised under this policy, if they meet the conditions. Under the ‘low density eco-friendly housing policy’, owners of plots ranging from 2,000 square metres to 2.5 acres would be allowed to develop farmhouses in urban areas, but no commercial activity would be allowed, said officials. The permissible floor area ratio (FAR) for plots would be 0.20. Further, the ground coverage for plots between 2,000 square metres to one acre would be 20%, while 15% would be allowed for larger plots. A setback of six metres needs to be provided on each side of such properties, the policy states.Earlier, such constructions were allowed only in agriculture zones and developers had to obtain a licence for this purpose. Landowners will have to obtain a change of land use (CLU) clearance, under the scheme. As per the policy, the eco-friendly units can have only one dwelling unit, should have ample green area and owners will be allowed urban farming and horticulture. Also, a biogas plant and rainwater harvesting system have been made mandatory.The house policy assumes significance in view of the violations at a large number of farmhouses on the outskirts of the city. Recently, the DTCP had demolished around 20 farmhouses in the Aravallis. Makrand Pandurang, director, DTCP, said that the department had received a number of representations from landowners, who either owned agricultural land or undeveloped plots, which could be converted into farmhouses. “Clear rules for development of farmhouses in urban areas are outlined in the policy. Farmhouses that were developed earlier and meet the norms can be regularised,” he said. However, farmhouses in forest land and areas where urban development is not allowed will not be permitted. “This policy will generate revenue for the government and also help in maintaining low density, as only one dwelling unit is allowed,” Pandurang said. Farmers in rural areas, which are in the controlled zone, can set up such farmhouses, said Pandurang. The policy, however, stipulates that owners would not be allowed to carry out commercial activities, such as setting up banquet halls, recreation zones or religious/institutional purposes. Pools, ponds and water bodies are allowed in the farmhouses, and are excluded from the allowed FAR. The policy also allows construction of rooms, between 70 to 100 square metres, for guards.Officials said the new policy is likely to help landowners on the outskirts of the city and those who own pockets of developed sectors, where development could not be undertaken under existing policies. Experts, meanwhile, said that this policy will greatly help in curbing development of unauthorised colonies, which is rampant in the city. “A large number of landowners are turning their land into colonies as there is no other avenue to use this land. Also, it will keep a check on density of population and reduce pressure on infrastructure,” said Vinod Behl, a city-based real estate expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-allows-farmhouses-in-urban-gurugram/story-j63fzTvanJXRj06Ghypf0M.html
13-10-2020||City||Gas agency employee fights off armed robbers in Ludhiana||Armed robbers struck again in the city, this time targeting a gas agency employee at Guru Vihar on Rahon Road on Tuesday afternoon. However, the victim fought off the two robbers, who fled after injuring him with a sharp-edged weapon.The victim, Badru Ansari, 48, told the police that he was tasked with collecting cash for Thaman Gas Agency.Agency’s owner Amit Thaman said Ansari had collected Rs 74,000 from the areas near Rahon Road on Tuesday. On his way back, he was intercepted by two motorcycle-borne men.One of them pointed a gun towards his head and asked for cash. However, resisting the robbery attempt, Ansari tried to snatch the gun from the duo, who attacked him on the head with a sharp-edged weapon. As Ansari raised the alarm, the robbers sped away on their motorcycle.The victim then called his employer and alerted the police, who took him to a hospital.“We are scanning the CCTV cameras installed near the spot to identify the accused. An FIR has been lodged,” said sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, SHO, Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gas-agency-employee-fights-off-armed-robbers-in-ludhiana/story-pWXpifMwwwbgarTJxCZdyI.html
13-10-2020||City||75-year-old among four dead in Ludhiana, 104 test positive for Covid-19||After staying below the 100 mark for the past five days, Ludhiana’s daily Covid-19 case tally stood at 104 on Tuesday, even as four more residents succumbed to the virus.With this, the district’s confirmed cases have climbed to 19,339, while the death toll is 806. Of the total cases, as many as 18,050 patients have recovered, while 477 are still infected.Those who died on Tuesday include a 75-year-old man from Tajpur Road, a 63-year-old man from Kakowal Road, a 57-year-old man from Civil Lines and a 54-year-old man from Tanda Kaliya village.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said till date, a total of 3,31,893 samples had been taken, of which 3,08,554 samples were found negative, while reports of 1,494 were pending. He said besides 19,339 Ludhiana residents picking the virus, 2,506 patients from other districts and states were also found positive in Ludhiana.Similarly, 293 people from other districts and stated had succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana so far, including one each from Hoshiarpur, Fazilka and Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-among-four-dead-in-ludhiana-104-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-XXQRdVzbFhluvvLckJtx3K.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||50-yr-old who was assaulted near Kherki Daula succumbs to injuries||A 50-year-old man, who was assaulted during an argument over an accident at Kherki Daula on Sunday, died during treatment at a private hospital on Tuesday.The Kherki Daula police have added murder charges to the first information report (FIR) filed on Monday. No arrest was made till Tuesday evening. The deceased, Netarpal Singh, was a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, and had an electrical business. On Sunday, Singh and a relative were returning from Pataudi in their car, when a trio parked the scooter they were riding on in front of the car and alleged it had rammed the scooter, the police said. The incident took place adjacent to a petrol pump near a T-point on Pataudi road in Bhangrola. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The complainant alleged that the suspects confronted the victim, who was behind the wheel, and blamed him for brushing the car against their scooter. They snatched the car keys and manhandled him. During the confrontation, the suspects called at least 10 persons, who assaulted the victim with sticks and rods. He was also punched and kicked by the suspects, who then escaped.” The police said he was rushed to a private hospital in Manesar and they received information of the incident from the hospital on Sunday. “At the time of the incident, the victim was declared unfit for a statement and his relative had said that she would record her statement later, as she was not in the right frame of mind. On Monday, the victim’s nephew filed a statement and an FIR was registered at Kherki Daula police station. According to the FIR, 10 to 15 persons had attacked the victim. The accused are yet to be identified,” the police official quoted above said. The victim was referred to another private hospital on Monday, as the injuries were critical. On Tuesday, he died during treatment. According to the post-mortem report, he suffered four fatal injuries to his head, legs and ribs, said police. Police said it was not certain if the car had hit the scooter and chain of events was unclear at this point. On Monday, a case was registered against the unidentified accused persons under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 341 (wrongful restraint), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Kherki Daula police station. The police said Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been added to the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/50-yr-old-who-was-assaulted-near-kherki-daula-succumbs-to-injuries/story-LIYTgVsB8wdQW2Skeaeb2M.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG prepares action plan to implement Grap measures||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has announced a host of measures to be taken to ensure the enforcement of Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) from October 15, including the setting up of an air lab under its environment and sustainability wing for monitoring air quality on a daily basis, said the civic body officials on Tuesday. Earlier, on Monday, the air quality in Gurugram entered the ‘poor’ category for the first time this season, with Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin recording an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 259. The air quality of other neighbouring districts, such as Karnal, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Sonepat, Bahadurgarh and Manesar, was also described as “poor” on after AQI crossed 200 points. Experts are of the opinion that Gurugram may see cleaner air days over the next week before the full impact of stubble burning in paddy-growing states of Haryana and Punjab is felt. Speaking on the Grap measures to be implemented in the city, Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, said, “The air lab will be responsible for compiling and analysing all the data related to the enforcement of Grap measures. Further, it will also be used for monitoring CPCB’s Sameer app and ensuring that all social media complaints pertaining to garbage-burning, dumping and other pollution-related matters are resolved within a given timeline.”The setting up of the air lab is one of the several measures, the civic body would be taking from October 15 to curb pollution in the city as per the guidelines laid down the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) in its official order.“As Gurugram falls in the poor category in terms of air quality, all efforts are being made by the MCG to ensure that the air quality does not deteriorate further,” said Singh.Apart from the setting up an air lab, the MCG has directed its officials to identify road stretches that generate a high amount of dust and increase the frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads and sprinkling of water. The MCG has directed its horticulture wing to sprinkle water from nearly 50 water tankers, while the fire department has been asked to use around 10 of its fire tenders for the same purpose.Further, officials have been directed to check and penalise the violations of environmental norms at construction sites, and ensure the compliance of environmental norms on MCG projects, such as construction of roads, stormwater connections, drains and sewage lines.Officials have also been directed to check burning of rubber, plastic waste, cloth waste and constitute teams to check burning of garbage and biomass waste. Further, the use of single-use plastics has also been also banned. All vehicles carrying municipal solid waste to the Bandhwari waste plant need to be covered.To ensure that all these measures are followed, the MCG has decided to carry out night patrolling for which dedicated teams have been constituted.Following Epca’s observation that municipal solid waste and construction and demolition (C&D) waste materials were found to be lying around in the city, the civic body has cleared nearly 2.5 lakh metric tonnes of waste over the last five days and has transported it to appropriate facilities for proper scientific disposal.MCG officials said that orders have been given to zone-wise executive engineers and assistant engineers to oversee the implementation of Grap measures in their respective areas. The officials are required to send a daily report on the action taken via email on grap@mcg.gov.in.The civic body has also asked councillors and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to report any instances of open burning to the MCG or any other pollution-related violations via email at grap@mcg.gov.in or calling them on their toll-free number, 18001801817. Further, RWAs have also been asked to encourage residents to use non-motorised vehicles and public transport during the winter months to reduce pollution. The civic body has advised residents to reuse wastewater, such as the water left behind by purifiers or after washing. Further, the water should be sprayed in front of houses to control dust pollution. RWAs have also been directed to provide electric heaters to their security staff members during the winter season to ensure they avoid the practise of burning of wood to keep themselves warm.Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist, said, “Open waste burning is rampant across the city, especially in urban villages and vacant plots located near Golf Course Extension Road and Gurgaon-Faridabad Road. The MCG alone does not have the adequate mechanism to ensure a round-the-clock surveillance on the issue. They should ideally create a task force, incorporating volunteers and citizen groups for a more comprehensive coverage.” BOX: Measures to control pollution:Clean roads and sprinkle water on treesIssue penalties on violations of environmental norms at construction sitesCheck and stop burning of rubber, plastic, cloth waste, garbage and biomass Ban the use of single-use plasticCover all vehicles carrying municipal solid waste to the Bandhwari waste plantClear construction and demolition waste Night patrolling of Grap measures||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-prepares-action-plan-to-implement-grap-measures/story-Pim2p1wBKih4LhFa6qPaaI.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||97 healthcare facilities served notices for violating biomedical waste management rules||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s (HSPCB) regional office in Gurugram served show-cause notices to 97 healthcare facilities on Tuesday for failing to comply with the Centre’s Biomedical Waste Management (BMWM) Rules, 2016. Officials said that these facilities, including mid-level hospitals, private clinics, nursing homes and even laboratories, have not taken official permission from the HSPCB for collecting, storing, handling, transporting and treating hazardous disposable biomedical waste.Officials said that Tuesday’s notice was an “ultimatum” against these defaulters, all of whom have been served similar notices in the past. “After the BMWM Rules were enacted in 2016, we have served all of them at least two, if not more, notices.This year, we organised multiple ‘authorisation camps’ throughout the month of February, so that proprietors or representatives could come in to clear the formalities in the single day,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, Gurugram, adding that these camps had not seen much success.Singh said, a significant majority of these 97 healthcare facilities were also not complying with the mandatory ‘barcoding’ system, designed to track the movement of hazardous biomedical waste from facility to collection centre for disposal. However, Singh declined to identify any facilities by name. A redacted copy of the Tuesday’s show-cause notice, addressed to the healthcare facilities directly (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times), states, “In case you fail to comply with the observation, it will be presumed you have nothing to say in this regard and have accepted the status as mentioned above, which will warrant action under the provisions of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, for the said violation (sic).”As per the rules, the punitive action includes prosecution, closure and levying of environmental compensation. Violators may also be subjected to imprisonment for a year or more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/97-healthcare-facilities-served-notices-for-violating-biomedical-waste-management-rules/story-JbOrRN1RAwuQK5bLzpv5gO.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||Sohna shoot-out: Two more aides of gangster Sube Gujjar arrested||A week after three sharpshooters of Sube Gujjar’s gang were arrested after an exchange of gunfire with the police in Sohna, two more aides of Gujjar were arrested on Monday night. The police said the accused men were arrested after a brief chase during which they allegedly fired two gunshots at the policemen. No one was injured in the incident, said the police, adding that a countrymade gun, a cartridge and a motorcycle were seized. According to the police, the crime branch of Sector 39 was stationed at a check post on Hasanpur-Darbaripur crossing for routine inspection of passing vehicles. A motorcycle, which did not have a registration number plate, was asked to stop by the policemen. The motorcyclist, however, allegedly rammed the motorcycle into a barricade and tried to escape. The barricade and a police constable fell due to the collision, following which the policemen chased the duo in a car. The police said during the chase, the pillion rider fired two gunshots at the policemen but they missed hitting them. The suspects, identified as Jaivir and Ved Prakash, hailing from Bar Gujjar in Kherki Daula, were both held after a short chase. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Prima facie, a probe has found that they worked as informants in Sube Gujjar’s gang and passed on inputs to him on a routine basis. They conducted recee and identified certain potential targets and locations. On the directions of Gujjar, they were involved in several crimes. They were loitering in the area to potentially commit a crime before they were caught. We are checking their criminal record.” A case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and The Arms Act at Badshahpur police station. On October 6, three sharpshooters of Gujjar’s gang — Rajesh Kumar alias Fauji, Kamal alias Kamli and Aman alias Sardar — were arrested after a shoot-out with the police, during which at least 25 gunshots were allegedly fired in Sohna. Two suspects and two policemen had suffered gunshot wounds and the police had recovered two pistols, two revolvers, a countrymade gun, 110 live cartridges, a backpack, and a motorcycle from their possession. A probe had found that the trio was part of a ‘sleeper cell’ of shooters, whom Sube had allegedly instructed to carry out a series of crimes, starting with the murder of a property dealer in Dhunela, to establish supremacy. The trio had conducted a recce for two days and assembled a cache of weapons for the murder. The other gang members in Gujjar’s gang were unaware of the recruitment of these ‘silent’ sharp shooters. Fauji, who was Gujjar’s most trusted aide, kept him informed of the gang’s activities. He had recruited the other two shooters. Sube Gujjar, a former sharpshooter of gangster Kaushal, has assumed leadership of the gang in the past one year. He has a reward of ₹5 lakh for information leading to his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sohna-shoot-out-two-more-aides-of-gangster-sube-gujjar-arrested/story-ljL5kdSfaSdpPmPHScqNUM.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||Plastic manufacturers in Gurugram under pollution board scanner||Manufacturers of plastic carry bags and multi-layered plastic packaging materials in Gurugram will have to register themselves with the state pollution board, at the time of seeking consent to operate and establish (CTO/CTE), or renewing older clearances.The move is aimed at identifying the number of such units in the district, following orders from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) last week. Officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that those failing to do so will be prosecuted and made to pay environmental compensation as per the Environment Protection Act, 1986.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said, “Plastic pollution is a huge challenge, especially in the winter, when so much of it is burnt. Industries need to implement the principle of extended producer responsibility (EPR), which is a part of the Centre’s Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. However, this has not yet happened on ground.”However, Singh says that authorities will be able to better enforce the EPR clause now as the environment ministry issued draft guidelines on EPR, under Plastic Waste Management Rules, in June.As per the 2016 rules, the primary responsibility for collection of used multi-layered plastic, sachets, pouches and other plastic packaging lies with the manufacturers, importers or brand owners who introduce these products in the market.“These parties, as per CPCB orders on extended producer responsibility, have to establish their own system of retrieving and processing the waste generated by their products,” said Singh.In a general direction to state pollution control boards on October 6, the CPCB called for identification of all manufacturers and brand owners introducing plastic products or packaging into the market without prior registration.All such defaulting units may be fined, prosecuted and even directed to close operations. In an annexed list, the CPCB has also included the names of 78 major manufacturers across India, who are said to have already defaulted on the EPR rules. Of these, three manufacturers are based in Gurugram.“The real number of defaulters is likely to be much higher. We may have to engage with an independent agency that will be able to assist us in identifying them. A report will be submitted to Centre in this regard soon,” said Satendar Pal, senior environment engineer, HSPCB.However, he added that the CPCB’s EPR rules with regard to plastic management were only at the draft stage at the moment. “The NGT {National Green Tribunal} has recently instructed that these rules be enacted within three months, so this work at the moment is preliminary. Plans for long-term implementation will happen only when the draft rules have been notified,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/plastic-manufacturers-in-gurugram-under-pollution-board-scanner/story-BhBgwvgjdNoxJKvqRr7AfL.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Private schools reluctant to reopen||The Haryana government’s decision to reopen schools received a mixed response from private schools in the city, with many expressing reservations over holding physical classroom sessions. The state education minister Kanwar Pal on Tuesday stated that the order will be applicable to private schools too. However, senior education officer and school principal privy to the matter confirmed that it is not mandatory for private schools to reopen. “Parents are satisfied with online classes and do not wish to send their children to school. We are focusing on online classes, with special emphasis on students who have to appear for their board exams,” said Aparna Erry, principal of DAV Public School, Sector 14. The school conducted an internal survey in September, seeking suggestions from parents on resumption of regular classes. “In the survey, we found that nearly 70% of the parents refused to send their ward to school and opted for online classes only,” said Erry. Other schools, such as Suncity School in Sector 54 and Scottish International School in Sector 57, have been holding guidance sessions for students of classes 9 to 12, who can visit schools in alloted time slots. Suncity School had issued a letter in September stating that three-hour classes, from 9am to noon, will resume on October 19 for class 12 students while guidance sessions will be held from October 22 for students of class 10.Virtual classes will continue for those who opt out of sending their children to school. The Scottish High International School has allotted slots to students who want to visit school for special classes. Sudha Goyal, director of the school said, “Online sessions and extra classes are given to the board students, and those who wish to come physically are given individual classes.” Neeti Kaushik, the principal of Mount Olympus School in Sector 47, said that she has encouraged online classes so far. She said that physical presence in schools will have a positive impact on social and emotional health, and overall well-being, of students. “I completely support the government’s decision to allow senior students to attend school while complying with all safety measures and precautions,” said Kaushik. “Online classes have been a great support but now, it is time to move beyond confines by gearing up for the challenge. Students attending school will undoubtedly be able to deal with their academics with more seriousness and sincerity. They will be able to seek guidance without barriers. Peer interaction and support is a necessity for healthy development of any adolescent,” she said.Vaibhav Kumar, a class 11 student of Suncity World School, said that he has missed physical classes and is hopeful of resumption. But Vanya Duggal, Kumar’s classmate, said, “Just because we are tired of sitting at home doesn’t mean that the pandemic is over. With cases rising every day, it will be completely irrational for schools to open. The younger generation happens to be the highest carriers of asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, and the risk of spreading the virus will only increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-private-schools-reluctant-to-reopen/story-NLxBzm7sejF7b4JcVaVzNI.html
13-10-2020||Gurugram||Govt schools set to resume classes 9 to 12||Physical classroom sessions for students of classes 9 to 12 of government schools will resume from October 15, with certain riders, state education minister Kanwar Pal said on Tuesday. Regular classes will be conducted for three hours, from 9am to noon. Attendance, however, will not be compulsory as students can voluntarily continue with online classes, which will continue alongside regular classes. Pal said that same rules would apply to private schools if they decide to reopen their premises.According to the plan, separate schedules will be created for classroom and web sessions, as per teacher availability, between 9am and noon.Although an official notification is yet to be issued, Pal said the decision has been taken in compliance with the Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. “Even though regular classes will resume for a few hours, students who cannot attend classes physically will not be marked absent. Online classes will continue the same way and students can attend that as well,” he said.To ensure that the safety of the students is not compromised, Pal said a maximum of 20 students will be accommodated in a classroom. “If, for a particular class, the number of students is more, the class will be divided into two sections and accordingly schools will make their own arrangements and time tables based on the number of students and the availability of classrooms,” Pal said.Pal said that they are targeting an attendance of around 50% of students and that a consent letter from parents or guardians is not necessary for the same as per fresh guidelines.The Unlock 4 guidelines had made a consent letter mandatory, which has been done away with under the new rules.“From October 15, consent letter is not required since classes will be held regularly. It is expected that attendance in schools will increase as compared to the guidance classes. We will see how schools function after they reopen. If the process remains smooth, then by November, regular classes will start for students of classes 6 to 8,” he said. Principals are of the opinion that it will take up to 15 days after reopening to achieve 40-50% attendance. Sunil Kumar, principal of Senior Secondary Government School, Jacobpura, said, “Children will take some time to get back. If no Covid-19 cases are reported among teachers or students in the school, it is likely attendance will reach to at least 40% in 15 days and almost 90% in a month.”To ensure smooth functioning of the schools, Kumar said that arrangements are being made to ensure social distancing within classrooms. “A distance of two feet is being maintained between two benches. A single classroom will accommodate a minimum of 12 and maximum of 20 students, based on the size of the room. Besides, temperatures will be checked at the entry and students will have to apply sanitisers and wear masks to avoid contracting any infection,” said Kumar. Similar arrangements are being made at the Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, according to Suman Sharma, the principal of the school. “There will be separate entry and exit points for students to enter the school premises. To avoid crowding at the time of entrance, circles have been made for students to stand until they can enter. Posters have also been prepared to advise students about not sharing their belongings and maintaining social distance.”Mahavir Singh, additional chief secretary, school education, said that schools will have to follow guidelines similar to those issued for guidance sessions. Schools falling under defined containment zones will remain closed. Only asymptomatic teachers or students will be allowed to enter, based on the thermal screening at the entrance. Activities such as assemblies, sports and events, which lead to crowding will not be allowed.Suman kadiyan , mother of a class 12 student, favours sending her daughter to school. She said, “Personal interaction in regular classes makes a child attentive. There can be doubts related to the subject which need to be addressed on a regular basis. It is only possible only through regular classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-schools-set-to-resume-classes-9-to-12/story-nsvFsidRqX9mTFeRjKiZvN.html
13-10-2020||City||Ludhiana teen killed as bike rams into parked crane on NH-44||A 19-year-old man was killed and his friend was injured after his motorcycle crashed into a crane parked on National Highway-44 near Gurdwara Reru Sahib, Sahnewal, on Monday. The deceased was identified as Anmol, a resident of Model Town, Khanna. The crane driver, Ranjit Singh of Sherpur, was arrested on Tuesday.In his complaint to the police, Dhyan Chand said his son visited Sahnewal with a female friend on Monday. As they reached near Gurdwara Reru Sahib, their motorcycle crashed into a crane parked wrongly on the roadside. Onlookers informed the police and rushed the victims to SPS Hospital in Ludhiana.While Anmol died during treatment, his friend had a miraculous escape, as she suffered only minor injuries and was discharged after first-aid.Meanwhile, alleging medical negligence, Anmol’s family created ruckus at SPS hospital. The police reached the hospital and pacified them.“A case under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the crane driver at the Sahnewal police station,” said sub-inspector Pooran Singh, who is investigating the case.The deceased is survived by his parents and an elder sister. His father, Dhyan Chand, who is an accountant with an arhtiya in Khanna, said they had high hopes from Anmol and wanted him to become an IAS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-teen-killed-as-bike-rams-into-parked-crane-on-nh-44/story-V0TF0m6oaB26r1oL1d7skN.html
13-10-2020||City||25-year-old Ludhiana man attacked on the head for confronting speedsters on bike||Confronting two men for riding their motorcycle rashly in his street landed a 25-year-old man in hospital after the duo and their nine aides attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon.The accused also allegedly robbed the victim, Arun Kumar, of his gold chain and Rs 50,000 in cash before leaving him bleeding on the road.In his statement to the police from the hospital, Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Basant Road, said two men, Mohit and Hritik, were speeding in the streets of his colony on a motorcycle. When they passed by him, he confronted them and asked them to slow down to avoid an accident. This led to an altercation, but the two men left soon after.Kumar said after a while, Mohit and Hritik returned with nine more people and attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. When his friend Vishal came to his rescue, they assaulted him as well.In the melee, the assailants snatched his gold chain and Rs 50,000 in cash that he was carrying. As a crowd gathered, the accused fled, following which onlookers rushed Kumar and his friend to a private hospital.ASI Karanjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said they arrested one of the accused, Gulshan Yadav, on Tuesday. On his disclosure, besides Mohit and Hritik, the other accused were identified as Ankur, Pankaj, Dimpy, Hritik’s mother and his aunt, all residents of Prem Vihar. Their three accomplices remain unidentified.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 379 (theft), 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at the Meharban police station. “We are investigating the allegations of snatching cash and gold chain, and are working to arrest the remaining accused,” the ASI said.In a similar case of road rage on October 9, a 60-year-old man was left paralysed after 10 men brutally assaulted him with baseball bats and sticks at his tea shop in Sundar Nagar. Here too, the attack came hours after the victim’s son had an altercation with a scooterist for driving rashly near their shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-ludhiana-man-attacked-on-the-head-for-confronting-speedsters-on-bike/story-bvpOWQFLG2G4OD0Tff68mM.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives light showers, Maharashtra govt issues state-wide weather alert||The city, suburbs and parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received light showers on Tuesday evening. The Maharashtra government has issued a state-wide weather alert between Wednesday and Saturday based on India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) yellow alert for the state. The alert was issued by the disaster management department of the state to all district collectors highlighting the possibility of torrential rains with thunder, particularly for coastal districts (south Konkan).The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 2.2 mm rain between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm on Tuesday while the Colaba observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 1.2 mm rain in the same period.Location-wise rain showed between 4-6 mm rain across Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayander, Panvel, Kalyan and Dombivli.The IMD has issued a - heavy-to-very heavy rain at isolated places - warning for Mumbai on Thursday and Friday. Thane and Palghar could expect heavy rain across isolated areas on Thursday. Light to moderate rain is expected for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Wednesday. Meanwhile, a forecast for extremely heavy rain has been predicted for Raigad for Thursday.Also read: Mumbai Police issue show cause notice to Republic’s Arnab GoswamiAccording to the IMD, the deep depression over north coastal Andhra Pradesh moved further west-northwestwards and weakened into a depression over Telangana on Tuesday. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area by early Wednesday morning which is likely to allow rain enhancement over Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Meanwhile, a sharp spike in pollution level was witnessed on Tuesday. The air quality index (AQI) shot up from Monday’s 87 (satisfactory) to 121 (moderate) on Tuesday for PM2.5 pollutant, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). An AQI between 51 and 100 is ‘satisfactory’ and 101-200 is considered moderate. Researchers said rise in humidity allowed pollutant levels to increase on Tuesday. An AQI of 115 (moderate) has been predicted for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-light-showers-maharashtra-govt-issues-state-wide-weather-alert/story-jZBcVQGtQ9F6IsVRDBnIJP.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU social science research scholars allowed to return to campus from October 15||The research scholars of social sciences departments at Panjab University will be allowed to visit campus from October 15 with permission from their supervisors. This was decided in a meeting of a committee with the representatives of the Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) on Tuesday. However, it is only for scholars who are in the fourth or fifth year of their study. A member of the committee who attended the meeting said, “The research scholars of the social sciences can visit campus with permission from their supervisors.” The varsity has already allowed the research scholars of sciences departments to visit labs from October 15. HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION FROM NOVEMBER The research scholars have been demanding the reopening of labs and libraries. They have also been pressing the university for hostel accommodation. Now the university has agreed to provide hostel accommodation to research scholars in a phased manner from November. As four hostels of the varsity are Covid care centers of Chandigarh administration, providing hostel accommodation for students, has been an issue. “We will collect the data of research scholars and hostels to see how we can arrange their accommodation. We have to keep in view the safety of students as well. We will distribute the research scholars to different hostels after analyzing the data,” said an official on condition of anonymity. It has also been decided that research scholars who are already staying in hostels will not be asked to vacate and, the decision of opening the library will be taken in a week. RENT WAIVED OFF The hostel rent of research scholars, who are staying in rented accommodations after having left the varsity campus in March due to the Covid pandemic, has been waived off. However, they have been asked to submit an undertaking stating that they stayed in rented accommodations, along with a proof of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-social-science-research-scholars-allowed-to-return-to-campus-from-october-15/story-LoI9FFo6hgo6IuogNLdDZL.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA executive body demands senate elections||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) executive body on Tuesday demanded the conduct of senate polls, which had got postponed in August due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The issue was raised in a meeting of the newly elected PUTA executive body on Tuesday. The teaching body also raised concerns over the issue that no syndicate meeting had been held at the university in the last two months.During the meeting, the body resolved that the process of Senate elections, which were suddenly put on hold, be completed on top priority to preserve the democratic structure of the university. They also demanded that the meeting of the syndicate be convened immediately to ensure the resolution of pending administrative issues without any further delay.For the implementation of the 7th pay commission, it was unanimously decided that the issue be taken up immediately and, a strategy be evolved to achieve it at the earliest. PUTA will also seek the intervention of the vice-chancellor(V-C) in the matter.They also constituted a committee to pursue the matter regularly that includes former PUTA president Rajesh Gill as a member.The members of the PUTA executive expressed their concern over the delay in holding of interviews for CAS promotions. It was also resolved that in the first meeting with the V-C, the PUTA executive will urge him to hold CAS interviews within the next fifteen days, failing which, they will stage a dharna in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-executive-body-demands-senate-elections/story-pF9aQhDPI49jRbi3Gq1QsL.html
13-10-2020||City||Punjab has better air, Delhi blaming state for very poor AQI wrong: PPCB||Patiala As Delhi’s air quality worsens to “very poor” and the administration there is blaming farm fires in the neighbouring states for it, the fact is that Punjab has much better air quality. Against an air quality index (AQI) of 304 in Delhi, Punjab’s Mandi Gobindgarh—an industrial town—has 175, which falls in the medium category.“The Delhi’s AQI has worsened, while Punjab air is still comparatively clean. This indicates that stubble burning of Punjab has no role in affecting Delhi air quality. It’s wrong to blame Punjab for poor air quality of the national capital,” said Krunesh Garg, secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board.Amritsar, which has recorded highest farm fires in the state, has AQI of 131. Even the other major towns have the AQI below 150.The average AQI of Delhi is 261 while that of Punjab is 120.Even the prominent cities of Haryana has much better AQI than Delhi, said a PPCB official monitoring the air quality. “The AQI of Punjab and Haryana should deteriorate too if Delhi’s was affected due to farm fires as being claimed. Farm fires will first affect local air,” he said.However, PPCB officials admitted that the stubble burning is affecting the air quality in the state. “We have appealed to the farmers to desist from this illegal practice. We are challaning the erring farmers,” he said.The official said the wind is toward Pakistan and not in the direction of Delhi.---AQI in Punjab (Tuesday)Mandi Gobindgarh 175Ludhiana 160Jalandhar 159Khanna 145Amritsar 131Bathinda 129Patiala 125Ropar 85--- ScaleBetween 0 and 50: Good51 and 100: Satisfactory101 and 200: Medium201 and 300: Bad301 and 400: Very poor401 and 500: Serious||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-has-better-air-delhi-blaming-state-for-very-poor-aqi-wrong-ppcb/story-tqojRFCMqpoIOuj28Kh4fP.html
13-10-2020||Patna||Special Investigation Team constituted to probe Buxar gang-rape and murder case||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been set up to probe the case of gang-rape of a 35-year-old Dalit woman in Bihar’s Buxar by seven accused. The accused also strangulated and killed the victim’s five-year-old son at a village under Murar police station. As the accused continued to evade arrest three days after the incident, the Buxar police constituted an SIT in the case on Tuesday. The victim’s father said she could have been raped by six to seven men. The father hit out at the police for allegedly failing to take action in the case and said his daughter was traumatised even as the accused “were roaming freely” after the incident. Different police teams had been constituted which were conducting the raids to nab the accused, an official of the Buxar police said. “We are conducting raids and hope to make the arrests soon,” said Buxar Superintendent of Police (SP) Niraj Kumar Singh. He said that the woman recorded her statement under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the court of judicial magistrate. The investigating officer of the case, Nitu Priya, informed that in her statement, the victim supports FIR’s allegation. Jitendra Nath, a civil surgeon in Buxar, said a medical team comprising two women doctor conducted her medical examination and the result is awaited. Meanwhile, in Danapur gang-rape case, police are yet to arrest the main culprit, who along with three others, raped a minor girl inside the godown in Lekhanagar.“An accused is still evading arrest and raids were on to nab him,” said station house officer (SHO) Ajit Kumar Saha. The SHO said forensic experts were also roped in who examined the spot to help with the investigation.This is the second gang-rape incident surfacing before the Patna police in 24 hours. Earlier, a gang-rape case of a scheduled caste minor girl had surfaced at Fatuha in rural Patna on Friday night in which four accused were arrested but one was evading the arrest. The incident evoked sharp reaction from the Opposition with former deputy CM Tejaswi Yadav alleging a complete breakdown of the law and order situation in the state. “The government talks about ‘Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao’ but is this the price we have to pay for getting our daughters educated? The accused are roaming freely but the police have failed to nab them,” he told reporters. BSP chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati expressed concern over the incident and on the rise in rape cases in Bihar. Mayawati’s statement assumes significance as it may become a poll issue. Some constituencies, like Buxar, have a sizable number of BSP supporters. The state Crime Records Bureau statistics revealed that a total of 825 rape cases were lodged in Bihar between January and July this year. The highest number of cases, 152, was registered in June. In July, 149 incidents of rape were recorded. Authoritative sources said 1,450 rape incidents were reported in the state in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/special-investigation-team-constituted-to-probe-buxar-gang-rape-and-murder-case/story-Z4LwbPk3CkIVxmWK1q48kL.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Construction of emergency-cum-trauma centre at Chandigarh’s GMCH to begin this month||With the UT engineering department allotting the tender to a city-based firm, the construction of a new emergency-cum-trauma centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 will start within this month.The 280-bed facility spread over 1.4 lakh square feet will come up at a cost of around ₹50 crore in place of the existing covered parking block in front of Block A. In addition to the construction costs, the allocated funds include the cost of new medical machines, too.“During construction, an alternative route to the existing emergency ward will be provided so that patients and doctors are not inconvenienced. The target is to complete construction within 18 months,” said a senior UT official.The creation of the new facility, an exercise pending for at least a decade, will be a major upgrade for GMCH. Earlier, the plan was to make a separate trauma centre in Sector 53, which was dropped, giving way to a composite facility comprising an emergency and trauma centre.Since its inception in 1996-97, GMCH-32 has been catering to patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and several other, farther states. At any given point, there are at least 350 patients admitted in the emergency.Facilities on the cardsThe new building will have five operation theatres (OT) and one minor OT.A 24-bed state-of-the-art intensive care unit (ICU), a 64-bed ward for stable patients, two isolation wards with 33 beds and a 47-bed ambulatory care ward are also on the anvil. There will be space for around 400 attendants of patients at two levels.Around 87,000 square feet will be devoted to operations, with a two-level basement of around 55,000 square feet.The facility will have space for wheelchairs, stretchers, ambulances, entrance-exit, waiting area, medical officer/duty doctor/nurse rooms, medicine store, mortuary, laboratory, X-ray room, plaster room, ramps and lifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/construction-of-emergency-cum-trauma-centre-at-chandigarh-s-gmch-to-begin-this-month/story-ZvaYo0A3rcVAf0eTc6jHHJ.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Keneseth Eliyahoo Synagogue restoration work gets recognised||Mumbai-based architect Abha Narain Lambah, on Tuesday, won the “Best restoration project award” from the Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd (HUDCO) for the Keneseth Eliyahoo Synagogue in Mumbai. One of the most significant Jewish synagogues in India, the restoration work was completed in February 2019. Lambah on Tuesday said that her firm has won the annual award for three years straight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-keneseth-eliyahoo-synagogue-restoration-work-gets-recognised/story-ZucnLIIN8bQzhXZ07svOvJ.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health department gears up for more tests amid dengue-Covid coinfection threat||The UT health department is gearing up to conduct more tests on people showing symptoms of Covid-19 as well as other seasonal diseases.The authorities said they had oriented the clinicians to increase the index of suspicion for epidemic-prone diseases like dengue, malaria, chikungunya, seasonal influenza, which are more prevalent during the monsoon and post-monsoon seasons.The number of dengue cases in the city has increased from 13 till August to 64 till October 13. A total of 208 cases were reported in 2019, preceded by 301 in 2018.Health officials said that so far, five cases of Covid-19 and dengue coinfection have been reported at Government Medical College and Hospital and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Only one of the patients was a city resident.Symptoms overlapJoint director of the UT health department, Dr VK Nagpal, said those reporting such symptoms are being thoroughly checked for both the diseases (Covid-19 and dengue). “There is a marginal increase in the number of dengue cases so far, but since clinical symptoms of both the infections overlap, we have reoriented the field staff to increase the index for seasonal diseases as well. More tests for both the diseases are being conducted.” The ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday asked all secondary and tertiary level hospitals of all states and Union Territories to prepare for severe dengue and Covid case surge. “Mild to moderate dengue and Covid coinfected patients should be monitored closely, preferably at the hospital, as they may rapidly deteriorate to severe stage. Therefore, they should be referred to the higher centre at an early stage by recognising warning signs,” said the ministry communique.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-department-gears-up-for-more-tests-amid-dengue-covid-coinfection-threat/story-1r9Q7Fs7yyeC4aqdcgb6dM.html
13-10-2020||City||Ambala: Six held for gambling in raid by CM flying squad||Six men were held for gambling at a shop that was raided by Haryana chief minister’s flying squad here, the police said on Tuesday.The accused were identified as Vinod Kumar of Ambala Cantt, Ballu of Ambala, Toni and Santosh of Mathura, Gopal Singh of Saharanpur and Sant Prakash of New Delhi.Sub-inspector Surender Singh of the squad said, “On the basis of secret information, we raided a shop near a hotel behind the bus stand in Lal Kurti area. We found six men sitting around a table with cards, and on searching their pockets, we found ₹7,040 in cash.”A case was registered under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 13 of the Gambling Act.15 held in city, ₹22,000 recoveredMeanwhile, 15 more men were arrested for gambling on Jamitgarh road and ₹22,290 were recovered from them, the police said.Bottles of country-made liquor, mobiles, an LCD TV, internet devices, etc. were also found in their possession, station in-charge Suresh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-six-held-for-gambling-in-raid-by-cm-flying-squad/story-9bVnYawl7YKNaPBs73rsqN.html
13-10-2020||City||HRTC to resume interstate bus service from Wednesday||The state-run Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) will partially resume its interstate bus service, which was suspended in March to contain COVID-19 spread, from Wednesday, transport minister Bikram Singh on Tuesday. However, only non-AC bus service has been resumed for now.In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the minister stated that the interstate bus service would be resumed on 25 routes in the first phase. These routes include Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana in Punjab, Ambala in Haryana, Haridwar in Uttarakhand and Union Territory Chandigarh, he added. Only non AC buses will ply on interstate routes and night bus service has also been included in it. Singh further said that the interstate bus service would be started from October 14 onwards in view of the upcoming festive season and Navratri. The bus service would also be started for other states shortly, he added. Covid-19 guidelines would be strictly followed during resumption of interstate bus service, the minister said. Virus claims three more lives in HPHimachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded three more Covid-19 deaths, taking the death toll to 249, officials said.One death each was reported in Kangra, Mandi and Solan districts.A 65-year-old patient from Palampur died a Tanda Medical College while a 59 year old patient from Sarkaghat of Mandi district succumbed on the way to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. The state also reported 184 new coronavirus cases. The virus tally has risen to 17,762. Also, 311 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 14,985. Active cases in the state stand at 2,507.Of the fresh infections, 38 cases were reported in Shimla district, 30 in Mandi, 23 in Kangra, 20 in Sirmaur, 18 cases each in Lahaul-Spiti and Bilaspur, nine in Hamirpur, eight in Kullu, seven in Solan, six each in Una and Chamba districts and one in Kinnaur district.With 3,339 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district till date, followed by 2,679 cases in Kangra. Besides, 2,143 cases have been reported in Mandi, 2025 in Sirmaur, 1,730 in Shimla, 1,035 in Hamirpur, 1,037 in Bilaspur, 986 in Chamba, 902 in Kullu, and 246 in Lahaul-Spiti district. Kinnaur is the least affected district with 212 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hrtc-to-resume-interstate-bus-service-from-wednesday/story-BqzFwIQCOqFkZak9DcqIrK.html
13-10-2020||City||Attack on Punjab BJP chief: Party workers stage protest outside DC office in Ludhiana||The district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday staged protests outside the deputy commissioner’s office to condemn the attack on state BJP president Ashwani Sharma. Sharma was manhandled and his car damaged while he was crossing Cholang toll plaza in Hoshiarpur district on Monday.Dubbing the incident as most “unfortunate“, the party leaders and workers said that the Congress was responsible for this “cheap tactic” and for petty political gains it was indulging in the “amoral practice of destroying the very fabric of the state”. “The ruling Congress government in the state is responsible for the recent attacks on the offices of BJP in Amritsar and Ludhiana. No action or arrests have been made of those who indulged in this hooliganism,” stated the party’s state vice-president Parveen Bansal.Party leader, Sunil Moudgil said that Congress is famous for practicing the “divide and rule” policy and is indulging in misleading the people of the state. “The BJP will never stoop down to amoral politics and will stand committed to safeguard the interests of the state and was capable of countering any mischief by the Congress,” he said.Moudgil claimed that Ashwani Sharma is not intimidated and will continue to work and travel fearlessly in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-punjab-bjp-chief-party-workers-stage-protest-outside-dc-office-in-ludhiana/story-jJ7tTprOHGY2SUV2nPcCuM.html
13-10-2020||City||Ludhiana DC flags off awareness van to sensitise farmers against stubble burning||With an aim to sensitise farmers on the ill-effects of burning stubble, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Tuesday flagged off an awareness van, which will cover maximum villages of the district to spread the awareness among farmers against paddy straw burning. The awareness van, equipped with a LED TV, was flagged off under the NABARD’s campaign against paddy straw burning.Sharma, while appreciating the efforts of NABARD to create awareness against stubble burning, said that the administration has been making concerted efforts in these trying situations to defeat the coronavirus in the larger public interest. He once again appealed to the farmers to abstain from burning paddy stubble citing that besides polluting the environment, hazardous gasses might aggravate the Covid-19 situation and could cost lives.Chairman of Zila Parishad, Yadwinder Singh, chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal, district development manager (DDM) NABARD, Sanjeev Kumar were also present on the occasion. DDM Sanjeev Kumar said that NABARD, Punjab Regional Office, Chandigarh, has also launched a campaign against paddy straw burning through slogan writing/wall painting under the National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change (NAFCC) at villages of the district and is to be carried out throughout the 22 districts of Punjab covering almost all paddy growing areas/villages. “The objective of wall paintings is to create awareness and build the capacity of farmers for crop residue management and improve their knowledge and understanding about climate change,” he said. He said that the van will operate continuously showing videos on management techniques in the different villages of the district and will raise awareness on the ill-effects of crop residue burning especially paddy straw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-flags-off-awareness-van-to-sensitise-farmers-against-stubble-burning/story-nhEU7vvJIUp1UofAXdag6M.html
13-10-2020||City||HP govt hands over additional charges to IAS, HPAS officers||The Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday handed over additional charges to several Indian Administrative Services (IAS) and Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officers.Special secretary (finance and JSV) to state government and director, treasuries accounts and lotteries, Shimla, DD Sharma, director, transport, JM Pathania, CEO, Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Development Authority (BBNDA) Vinod Kumar, director (personnel and finance) HPSEBL, Shimla, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, settlement officer, Shimla division DC Negi and HP Backward Classes and Development Corporation Kangra at Dharamshala Raghav Sharma are relinquished from their charges during the election duty period.The officers who will be holding these additional charges include director, public finance and public enterprises-cum-special secretary (finance) Rajesh Sharma, who will have additional charge of special secretary (finance and JSV) and director, treasuries accounts and lotteries, Shimla.Settlement officer, Kangra division Ashwani Kumar Chaudhary will hold additional charge of managing director, HP Backward Classes and Development Corporation Kangra at Dharamshala. Director, (personnel and finance) HP Power Corporation Limited, Shimla, Manmohan Sharma will hold additional charge of settlement officer, Shimla division and executive director, HPSEBL, Shimla, Ashwani Kumar Sharma will hold an additional charge of director (personnel and finance) HPSEBL, Shimla. Director, UD, RK Gautam will hold additional charge of director, transport, HP, Shimla and additional CEO, BBNDA, Baddi Narendra Kumar will hold additional charge of CEO, BBNDA, Baddi.Besides, the state government has ordered that special secretary (forests and industries) Neeraj Kumar, who is also holding additional charge of managing director, HP Handicrafts and Handloom Development Corporation, Shimla, will function as special secretary (forests, urban development and town and country planning), Shimla relieving secretary, State Election Commission Surjeet Singh of the additional charge of urban development and town country planning departments with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-hands-over-additional-charges-to-ias-hpas-officers/story-DNkLFZXJNxBs4DeMOVbB1L.html
13-10-2020||City||Foundation stone laid by Sonia Gandhi at Atal Tunnel is ‘safe, with us’: BRO||A day after the Congress threatened to launch a statewide stir against the removal of All India Congress Committee (AICC) chief Sonia Gandhi’s plaque from the recently inaugurated Atal Tunnel across Rohtang pass, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) said “the foundation plaque is lying with them and is in safe custody”. The Congress’ block units of Manali and Lahaul-Spiti have filed two different FIRs at police stations in Keylong and Manali, seeking investigation into the missing foundation stone. The stone had been laid in the presence of Congress leader Virbhadra Singh and former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, at tunnel’s south portal at Dhundhi in June 2010. The Congress leaders alleged that Sonia Gandhi’s plaque was deliberately removed and the administration was tight-lipped on the matter. When contacted, Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said investigations are underway, however, he refused to comment further. The chief engineer of Rohtang tunnel (renamed as Atal tunnel), KP Purushothaman told Hindustan Times that the stone was lying with the BRO. “The stone was temporarily installed on the roadside at that time. The site had to be developed so it was removed. It’s lying in safe custody,” he said. On being asked if the stone would be reinstalled, Purushothaman did not comment. Kuldeep Rathore writes to CM Meanwhile, the grand old party’s state unit chief Kuldeep Rathore has written to Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur demanding the reinstallation of the foundation stone. Rathore threatened to launch a statewide stir if the government failed to reinstall it within 15 days. “The government removed the stone under a well-planned strategy. The BJP leaders are giving credit to NDA for the tunnel but it’s a fact that the work on the tunnel started during the UPA regime and Sonia Gandhi had laid the foundation stone,” said Rathore. Rathore has also written to director general of police Sanjay Kundu over the issue. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party’s state president and MP Suresh Kashyap rebutted the Congress’ allegations. “It is a matter of pride for Himachal that the Atal Tunnel has a record for becoming the highest high-altitude highway tunnel in the world. It will boost tourism in remote regions of Lahaul-Spiti and Leh and will provide all-weather connectivity,” he said, adding, “It was the Virbhadra Singh government that had replaced the foundation stones of many projects and developmental works started during the Prem Kumar Dhumal regime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foundation-stone-laid-by-sonia-gandhi-at-atal-tunnel-is-safe-with-us-bro/story-vlvqAAL7ROSqOoVbr7e0CP.html
13-10-2020||City||Himalayan Queen toy train to be back on Shimla-Kalka track from October 15||The Northern Railways will be restarting the seven-coach Himalayan Queen toy train on the Shimla-Kalka heritage railway track from October 15, more than seven months after rail services were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Station superintendent at Shimla Railway Station, Prince Sethi, said the train will depart from Kalka at 12:10am and reach Shimla at 5:20pm. It will leave Shimla at 10:25am and reach Kalka at 4:00pm. “Arrangements are being made to sanitise the station and four people will be deployed on the train to clean and sanitise the coaches,” Sethi said.Besides, arrangements are also being made to adopt proper social distancing norms and sanitisation at the railway station. Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association president Mohinder Seth said the railway track is very important for Shimla and is likely to help in providing a much needed boost to the tourism and hospitality sector. “In the last six months, tourism industry has witnessed massive losses due to the pandemic and it will take a little time to get things back to normal,” he said.Built in 1903 during the British Era, Kalka-Shimla railway track is 96km long and goes through 18 railway stations, over 880 bridges and more than 100 tunnels. It was declared as a World Heritage Railway Line by UNESCO in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himalayan-queen-toy-train-to-be-back-on-shimla-kalka-track-from-october-15/story-jJ2dLDNMxuw6iWLs9247eP.html
13-10-2020||City||J&K Accession Day will be celebrated on October 27: Panther party||The 73rd anniversary of the accession day of Jammu and Kashmir will be celebrated on October 27, National Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh said on Tuesday.“It was October 27, 1947, when Lord Mountbatten, then Governor-General of India approved and signed the Instrument of Accession of J&K. The Instrument of Accession was signed by the Maharaja in Karan Palace in Jammu on October 26, 1947 which was brought by then Union secretary from Delhi. Maharaja Hari Singh signed the Instrument of Accession on October 26, 1947 which was taken back to Delhi for acceptance by the Governor-General of India, who approved and signed it in the early hours of October 27, 1947. Jammu and Kashmir acceded to the Union of India on October 27,” he said in a statement.Singh said an organising committee of Accession Day has decided to celebrate the historic day on October 27 at various places in India as well as in Jammu and Kashmir. He expressed hope that the leadership will join hands to pay homage to Maharaja Hari Singh who signed the Instrument of Accession. Singh also described the nullification of Article 370 by the Centre as half-baked approach since the Parliament had not approved/accepted the Instrument of Accession. “This is an unfortunate situation which enemies of India can exploit internationally. The leaders in India, particularly the Parliament, has not been briefed properly on the situation and the need to integrate Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of the country. Instead, statehood of J&K has been demolished by converting it into a Union territory. This will not be fruitful for the integration of J&K with the Union of India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-accession-day-will-be-celebrated-on-october-27-panther-party/story-bBGw8Dm8SIn7S866NBj3WM.html
13-10-2020||City||Sikhs in J&K want end to ‘step motherly treatment’||The Sikhs in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday urged the Centre and J&K administration to put an end to discrimination against the community. Addressing media persons here, president of the Sikh Progressive Front (SPF) Balvinder Singh expressed concern over the “step motherly treatment to the micro minority Sikh community of J&K”. Singh said the discriminatory attitude of the BJP-PDP alliance was first observed in 2017, when with an intention to debar the educated Sikh youth from the package of special drive for non migrant Kashmiri, they amended the J&K Migrant (Special Drive) Recruitment Rules 2009 in terms of SRO 425 and added a clause stating that non migrant Kashmiri means “Kashmiri Pandit”. “There is no doubt that Kashmiri Pandits deserved all the benefits due to their miseries and sufferings but it is unfortunate that Sikhs who didn’t migrate were excluded from it,” he added. He said while constituting Public Service Commission, the present UT administration deceived the Sikh community by not including their member in it. Two other leaders S Manjit Singh and S Harmohinder Singh said the community was also totally neglected when Punjabi was not included in the J&K Official Languages Bill 2020.They also cited other instances and urged L-G Manoj Sinha to put an end to such type of discrimination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikhs-in-j-k-want-end-to-step-motherly-treatment/story-NeqpW6wGpdae4geduJQSUJ.html
13-10-2020||City||Pune district reports 1,304 positive cases, 19 deaths on Tuesday||Pune: The Pune district reported 1,304 positive cases and 19 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, as per the state health department. The progressive positive count is 318,035. Of these total cases, 271,022 have recovered, 6,279 declared dead and 407,33 are active cases. PMC reported 490 fresh positives taking the total cases to 165,839 and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening which took the death toll to 3,749. PCMC reported 227 fresh positives taking the total virus cases to 81,284 and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening which took the death toll to 1,137. Pune rural reported 587 fresh positives taking the total cases to 70,912 and 3 deaths in last 24 hours till Tuesday evening which took the death toll to 1,393. Pune district COVID-19 cases: 318,035 Recovered patients: 271,022 Deaths: 6,279 Active cases: 40,733 Cases Deaths daily progressive daily deaths Pune 587 70,912 3 1,393 PMC 490 165,839 13 3,749 PCMC 227 8,128 3 1,137||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-1-304-positive-cases-19-deaths-on-tuesday/story-BPCdontyH98eEIe0hqzlyJ.html
13-10-2020||Kolkata||Powerful explosion jolts local club in Kolkata, BJP demands NIA probe||A powerful explosion in a local club, located in the midst of a crowded residential neighbourhood in eastern-suburban Kolkata, early on Tuesday morning sent a shockwave among the residents.Even though none was injured, the Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded a National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe into the incident alleging that huge amount of explosives were stored in the Trinamool Congress-backed club to create trouble ahead of 2021 assembly elections. The TMC has, however, rubbished the allegations.Police suspect some kind of explosive was stored in the room as splinter-like objects were found from the spot.“We are investigating the matter. The dog squad and the forensic teams are assisting us in the investigation. The nature of the blast will be known after the forensic report,” said Ajay Prasad, deputy commissioner (eastern suburban division) of Kolkata Police. It was around 6:30 – 7 am on Tuesday when the residents of Beliaghata were jolted out of their sleep by a deafening noise. The club’s room was badly damaged and there was smoke all over. “We saw that a wall of the room, located on the second floor, had collapsed and the asbestos roof of the club was ripped off,” said Sukhdeb Das, a resident.Also read: Bihar polls - Amid rumour-mongering, all eyes on Cong’s apex poll body meetThe club is located at a stone’s throw from Gandhi Bhavan, a single-storied British-era house where ‘father of the nation’, Mahatma Gandhi, had stayed between August 13 and September 7, 1947.“The TMC is trying to create trouble in West Bengal. Today we got the proof of that when there was a huge explosion in a local club. It is being apprehended that huge quantities of explosive were hidden there,” tweeted Kailash Vijayvargiya, national general secretary of the BJP.BJP MP Locket Chatterjee, who went to visit the spot late in the evening but was stopped by the police, demanded an NIA probe. “The CM is distributing Rs 50,000 to all clubs before the puja to make bombs. The club members were testing the materials,” she added. “Police are looking into the matter. It has been brought to the chief minister’s notice. They (the BJP) have gone insane and are saying all rubbish,” said Firhad Hakim, state urban development minister.Even though club members claimed that they have seen at least two men running away from the spot soon after the explosion and outsiders may have hurled bombs, police suspect some kind of explosive was stored inside the room.“Some locals said that they saw at least two men running away from the spot. Their faces were covered. We are a very popular club and some people want to malign us,” said Arnab Dey, member of the local club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/powerful-explosion-jolts-local-club-in-kolkata-bjp-demands-nia-probe/story-T7UfhLtq723NEvcGHidm0K.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: 5 dead in Chandigarh, recovery rate touches 90%||For the first time in October, as many as five Covid casualties were confirmed within 24 hours in Chandigarh on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 197. After a surge in late September, the number of fatalities had come down in October, with 30 recorded till Monday.Meanwhile, with 71 people testing positive and 109 being discharged, the total number of infections and active cases stood at 13,331 and 1,127, respectively. The number of recoveries went past 12,000, and reached 12,007, with which the recovery rate crossed 90%.Those dead were identified as two women, aged 61 and 76, from Sectors 8 and 56, respectively, and three men, aged 55, 81 and 96, from Mauli Jagran and Sectors 45 and 43, respectively.44 +ve, one dead in MohaliA 90-year-old woman from Nayagaon lost the battle against Covid-19 on Tuesday, while Mohali district reported 44 fresh cases and 60 recoveries. As many as 11,517 people have tested positive so far, of whom 10,394 (90.2%) have recovered while 209 have died, leaving 914 active cases.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said though the number of cases was on the decline, people should continue to take precautions to prevent another surge. No casualty in P’kula for 2nd dayPanchkula district recorded only 17 fresh cases on Tuesday, the lowest in the past couple on months. Meanwhile, no casualty was reported for second consecutive day. Positivity rate for the day, when 1,119 samples were collected, stood at as low as 1.5%. Recovery rate was also on the rise, reaching 93.2%. The total number of cases stood at 6,657, with only 351 active, as 6,205 patients have been cured and 101 have died. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur cautioned the residents and health staff to remain careful during the festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-5-dead-in-chandigarh-recovery-rate-touches-90/story-Zdxe9hmVG8cdOzIrBvtcVN.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police issue show cause notice to Republic’s Arnab Goswami||The Mumbai Police has sent a show cause notice to Republic Television editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami asking him why a chapter proceeding under Section 108 of the Criminal Procedure Code should not be initiated against him.Sudhir Jambavdekar, assistant commissioner of police (Worli division) who has sent the notice, has asked Goswami to remain present before him on October 16. The notice (HT has a copy) refers to objectionable coverage of two incidents-- lynching of sadhus in Palghar district, and the issue of Bandra migrants gathering during lockdown-- and states that Goswami and his channel gave communal colour to the incidents and tried to incite communal tension between Hindu and Muslims. Goswami has two FIRs registered against him in Mumbai. One has been registered at NM Joshi Marg police station earlier while the other is at the Pydhonie police station. Both the offences indicate similar allegations against Goswami of inciting hatred and communal tension between two religious groups or communities.Senior inspector of the NM Joshi Marg police station sent a proposal to the ACP seeking preventive action against Goswami. Acting on the proposal the ACP initiated the process.ACP Jambavdekar, a special executive magistrate, confirmed the development, but refused to comment.The notice states that Goswami’s channel spread communal tension and it can be easily seen from the extremely abusive, communal and hateful comments from the viewers of videos of the shows on YouTube.Goswami will have to appear before the ACP and give satisfactory reasons on why such preventive action should not be taken against him.If the ACP does not find his response satisfactory then he can initiate chapter proceedings against Goswami. Once that happens, Goswami will have to sign a legal security bond for good behaviour for a year (if he violates the bond then he would have to pay penalty of Rs 10 lakh). He would also have to pledge not to indulge in any act of dissemination of seditious matter. He would have to take along a person as security who would take responsibility of his behaviour for the duration of the bond.The three page notice was issued on October 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-issues-show-cause-notice-to-republic-s-arnab-goswami/story-tgLVkToNhfRTh2O1hp69RP.html
13-10-2020||Kolkata||Belur Math not to allow devotees during During Puja||The Belur Math, global headquarters of Rama Krishna Math and Mission, has decided not to allow devotees during the Durga Puja for the first time in its history due to the pandemic situation and will live stream the proceedings instead.A Belur Math spokesman told PTI on Tuesday “we request our lakhs of devotees, who visit the Belur Math temple compound and pandal on the four days every year, to sit at home and watch the rituals on YouTube from October 21 to 26 (the day of Panchami to Dashami).The devotees can watch the rituals by clicking on https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLqEnDmU- uEgTvk5nycRuRyHHzHaoNkxl link on youtube, he said.This is for the first time in the 119-year history of Durga Puja in Belur Math that pilgrims will not be allowed to witness the puja started by Swami Vivekananda in the same complex in 1901, the spokesman said.The puja will be held inside the temple of Ramakrishna unlike in a marquee on an adjacent plot of the temple as being done for past 20 years, he said.The famous Kumari puja on the day of Asthami, where a girl of less than eight years of age is worshipped as Durga after being selected by monks, will also be held like in past years but only the child and her parents will be allowed after mandatory Covid-19 tests, he said.The Belur Math authorities had in August barred entry of visitors to the math complex after opening it in mid-June with several Covid-19 cases reported among the monks and other staff.Though they have all recovered, the authorities are wary of fresh contamination from the contagion as the pandemic still rages in the country, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/belur-math-not-to-allow-devotees-during-during-puja/story-PD1XwM5ooCtSD9ebV6MOAM.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh admin bans hookah bars||The UT administration on Tuesday banned hookahs in all public places including, hotels, restaurants, taverns, bars, and hookah bars, to prevent the spread of Covid-19.District magistrate Mandip Singh Brar issued the order for banning hookah in public places for the next 60 days under Section 144 of the CrPC.Consequently, hookah bars are banned in Chandigarh with “respect to their offering hookahs to the visitors,” the order states.The DM in his order observed, “The hookah in many of these bars is smoked/consumed by the people/customers through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having mouthpiece, which is susceptible to physical mouth to mouth touch of many persons, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of pandemic COVID-19 in Chandigarh.”“Hookah bars are operational in Chandigarh in a clandestine way and are serving flavoured hookahs including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, which is highly injurious to the health of people and at times there is a suspicion that apart from tobacco, other harmful narcotic chemicals are also mixed with tobacco molasses served in these hookah bars,” states the order.Any person violating this order shall be punished under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-chandigarh-admin-bans-hookah-bars/story-Pa6k4k0v2rDfbADQyhLLsN.html
13-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Amid rumour-mongering, all eyes on Congress’ apex poll body meet on Wednesday||With allegations of ‘tainted and misfit’ leaders getting preference in selection of candidates by the Congress party for Bihar assembly polls, all eyes are now on the central election committee (CEC) meeting scheduled to be held in New Delhi on Wednesday. The CEC, leaders said, is expected to scrutinise the candidature of leaders selected by the screening committee headed by former AICC general secretary Avinash Pande for fielding them as the party nominees in the wake of allegations of foul play in the selection. On the last-minute intervention of the CEC, chaired by AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, the party had replaced its candidate for Tikari assembly seat in Gaya and fielded Sumant Kumar in place of Ashok Gagan, going to the polls in the first phase. The apex selection body of the Congress, however, did not take note of selection of candidates like Nitu Kumar, who is involved in 18 criminal cases including that of murder and kidnapping, and Lalan Yadav, involved in a case of forgery to the tune of Rs 80 lakh, contesting from Hisua (Nawada) and Sultanganj (Bhagalpur). Also read: In ‘Festival Special’ services, railways to run 392 more trainsDoubts prevail over participation of Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh in the scheduled CEC. Singh returned to Patna on Tuesday, a day ahead of the CEC, citing electoral necessities for his home constituency of Kahalgaon. Singh’s son Subhanand Mukuesh is taking the plunge into electoral politics from the seat vacated by his father. Meanwhile, speculations flew thick and fast regarding dropping of the names of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha and the CLP leader from the CEC. Jha, however, dismissed the report as fabricated, aimed to malign the image of the Congress at the behest of rival parties. “I am going to Delhi to attend the CEC,” said Jha. The state party chief and the CLP are part of the CEC as it shortlists the candidates to be fielded in any assembly or parliamentary elections. Singh, however, could not be contacted for his comments. A section of the BPCC leaders claimed that the CEC has decided to scrutinise the list of candidates finalised for the second and final phases of elections in view of continued protests by the party leaders at the AICC and BPCC offices. AICC in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil, along with Pandey and other top leaders from Bihar, were accused of doling out tickets to incompetent and tainted leaders. A senior AICC leader said that the CEC, which has already shortlisted 46 candidates in its meeting on October 6, would select the candidates for the rest 24 seats. The Congress has been allotted 70 out of 243 seats under the Grand Alliance (GA), comprising the RJD and the Left parties. The AICC had announced names of 21 contestants for the first phase of elections, slated for October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-amid-rumour-mongering-all-eyes-on-congress-apex-poll-body-meet-on-wednesday/story-nXtffWOhdyj9fF5zRYzXDM.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Students face technical issues on second day of exams, five papers postponed by SPPU||The second day of the final-year students’ examination conducted by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges was marred by several technical and other issues. Students were struggling to solve their technical issues and five subject papers, which were scheduled for Tuesday, have been postponed to October 17 by SPPU. According to the information given by SPPU administration, on Tuesday a total of 79,252 students were registered to appear for the exams online and 6,268 students were registered for offline exams. Of these, 62,230 students successfully completed their online exams. Five subject papers which were scheduled for Tuesday have been postponed to October 17 to be held between 4pm and 5pm. The following subjects have been postponed – Master of Science Chemistry - Inorganic Reaction Mechanism, third-year Bachelor of Science - Real Analysis Part 1, Master of Science Mathematics – Advanced Calculus, Bachelor of Commerce – Business Management (Marathi) and third-year bachelor of Science – Solid state physics. “Students of the final year of various courses are facing a lot of difficulties in both online and offline examinations. Today also the same technical issues arose, questions were not clearly visible online and many other issues were faced by students. In some of the subjects, the question paper had not been uploaded to the website due to which those exams stand postponed. All this mismanagement is leading to frustration among the students and SPPU administration should take prompt steps from now,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, president of Students Helping Hand organisation. “All our officials and technical staff are working hard to solve the technical and other issues faced by students appearing for the exams. I once again assure everyone that not a single student will be left and every one will be given the opportunity to appear for the exams.” said SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. HelplineExamination toll free number for students, appearing for both online and offline exams – 8826587588 Students helpline number – 9717796797||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-face-technical-issues-on-second-day-of-exams-five-papers-postponed-by-sppu/story-h0Ca6cbmwRaX6ShgFvfPiM.html
13-10-2020||Dehradun||Only 7.8% of industrial units in Uttarakhand paid workers during Covid-19 lockdown||Only 271 units, around 7.8 percent, of the total 3,432 industrial units in Uttarakhand paid salaries to their workers during the Covid-19 lockdown period, revealed state labour department data. The data has come out in contrast to the Centre’s direction that no industrial unit would deduct or hold salary of any of its workers during the lockdown, rather pay them in full. According to the data, of the total 3432 industrial units in Uttarakhand with 6.81 lakh workers, only 271 units paid salaries to their 43,612 workers. Of the total, 3,161 units didn’t pay salaries to 6.37 lakh workers. The data also revealed that in Haridwar district, which hosts the maximum number of industrial units - 1,436 with 3.28 lakh workers - only 101 units paid salaries to 20,760 workers. US Nagar, which has the second-highest number of industrial units - 1,186 with 2.37 lakh workers - only 77 paid salaries to their 13,536 workers. Also read: ‘Media trial causing great damage to judiciary’ - Attorney General KK VenugopalIn Dehradun district, which has 550 units with 77,875 workers, only 65 of the total industrial units paid salaries to 574 workers. Similarly, Nainital district, which has 139 industrial units with 19,977 workers, salaries were paid only to 150 workers in just two industrial units. Labour commissioner of the state, Dipti Singh said, “It was compiled by receiving information from the industrial units which paid salaries to their workers.” “Those units which didn’t share the data with us were deemed not to have paid the salaries,” said Singh. The trade unions of the state have reacted sharply to the data, terming it “high handedness of the industrial units.” Lekhraj, state general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said, “The condemnable act of not paying the salaries to the workers amid lockdown is absolutely against PM Modi’s directions to all the industries on paying full salary to the workers during the lockdown.” “These figures prove that only a few industrial units paid heed to the PM while others left the workers on their own in this difficult situation. We will soon hold large scale protests against the industries,” he said. On taking action against industries who didn’t pay the salaries, Singh said, “We could only take any action if any worker complained about not been paid. So far we haven’t received any such complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/only-7-8-of-industrial-units-in-uttarakhand-paid-workers-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-njbtkGuU8RTEjdqihzvVRK.html
13-10-2020||City||Covid-19 and dengue co-infections add to worries of Punjab health officials||AMRITSAR Even as the state has been witnessing a decline in daily Covid-19 infections, dengue cases have added to the worries for the state health department. Health experts fear that the combination of dengue with Covid-19 can enhance the severity of both the diseases as there is no specific antiviral drug or vaccine for both and the treatment mostly depends on only clinical conditions and symptoms. The National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) wing of the Punjab health department has already recorded 2,600 dengue cases and 19 deaths in the past five months. This season, most of the cases have been reported in Ludhiana, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur districts. Nearly 10,400 cases of dengue were recorded in Punjab in 2019. “The cases of Covid-19 and dengue co-infections in Punjab are rising and the state health department is dedicatedly working to control it. Till now, 9 patients in the state, who were suffering from both the diseases, have died during the treatment. Of the 9 patients, 4 belonged to Ludhiana, 2 from Hoshiarpur, and one each from Moga, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib. The department, at present, does not have a data of total number of people suffering from co-infection in Punjab but since the cases are increasing, we have asked the district officers to submit the data to the state,” state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said. He said the state also recorded two cases of Covid-19 and malaria co-infection and both patients have recovered from the diseases. “Covid-19 proves fatal when combined with any other diseases or co-morbidities and since people suffering from Covid-19, dengue or malaria, suffer from common symptoms, we urge people to get tested for both the diseases as early detection can help them recover,” he said. A senior health official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Since major focus of the health department, at present, is on combating the Covid-19, the dengue testing in the state is low. When compared with last year, Punjab conducted only 60% of the dengue tests this season, amid the Covid outbreak. Also, most of the health workers have been assigned Covid-19 related duties.” Also, the Punjab health department is planning to make Covid-19 test compulsory for the dengue patient and vice-versa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-and-dengue-co-infections-add-to-worries-of-punjab-health-officials/story-P1Do0l8h04bjaxILoQK9gN.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Body of woman, 20, found in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area factory room||A 20-year-old woman’s body was found hanging on Tuesday in a room at a factory in Industrial Area, phase 1, where she worked as the owner’s domestic help. A male friend is being questioned, police said.From Kansal in Mohali, the woman was staying in the factory with the owner’s family and was found dead in her room. No suicide note has been recovered.The woman is survived by her father, a labourer, mother and siblings, who live in Kansal village. Her father had collected her salary from her employer last week.Police say a male friend of deceased was being questioned in the matter and further action would be taken after the autopsy report was received as her family members had alleged foul play.Police say they did not note nothing suspicious during preliminary investigations even as inquest proceedings were initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/body-of-woman-20-found-in-industrial-area-factory-room/story-7zEm3UhAGcnqznNmW43xXN.html
13-10-2020||City||Combine sans straw management system impounded, ₹50K fine imposed on Mohali farmer||The Mohali district administration on Tuesday impounded a combine harvester found operating without the super straw management system at Gharuan village in Kharar block, and imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 as environmental compensation on the farmer. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the violation came to the fore during checking by joint teams of the agriculture department and Punjab Pollution Control Board. The combine was seized and the violator, Balwinder Singh, told to deposit the fine within stipulated time, he said.The super straw management system attached with a combine chops the paddy straw into very minute pieces, and holds the potential to do away with stubble burning, as other machines can directly sow wheat seedlings while ploughing the existing residue in the field. Dayalan called upon farmers and combine operators to shun stubble burning by adopting new hi-tech technologies. He has already issued prohibitory orders against use of combine harvesters without the super straw management system. The violators have to pay environmental compensation of ₹50,000, ₹75,000, and ₹1 lakh for the first, second and subsequent offences, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/combine-sans-straw-management-system-impounded-50k-fine-imposed-on-mohali-farmer/story-TQq3iZrMZt13EHxWbkRGyI.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer digging soil for pipeline buried alive in Chandigarh||A contractor has been booked for negligence after a 20-year-old labourer was buried alive under a heap of soil while carrying out digging work for a pipeline at Dadumajra Colony, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. Identified as Manish Yadav, a migrant from Uttar Pradesh staying at the waterworks in Sector 39 (West), he was at work on Monday when suddenly a heap of soil stacked on the sides of the pit fell on him.A JCB machine was brought to evacuate Manish, and he was rushed to hospital in an unconscious state, but was declared brought dead. During the evacuation, the JCB machine’s excavator bucket had also hit the victim, leaving injuries on his shoulders, said police. On his brother Daroga Yadav’s complaint, police booked the contractor, Piyush of Sector 40, under Section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. He was arrested, and later granted bail..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-digging-soil-for-pipeline-buried-alive-in-chandigarh/story-VBCFhvz9nle4UiogFDRFCJ.html
13-10-2020||City||Kharar youth held for kidnapping, raping teen||The Kurali police have arrested a man for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 16-year-old girl.Identified as Jaspreet Singh, 20, of Bassian Bahman village near Kharar, he was produced before a local court on Tuesday and sent to three-day police remand.According to police, Jaspreet abducted the minor “on the pretext of marriage” on Sunday and took her to a hotel in Yamunanagar in Haryana, where he allegedly raped her.“The two were traced to the hotel within 24 hours, following which the accused was arrested and the victim handed over to her family,” said sub-inspector Gurpreet Singh, Kurali City station house officer.A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (procuration of minor girl) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code besides Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-youth-held-for-kidnapping-raping-teen/story-rYk7viHXyAURKnmyLaoXQI.html
13-10-2020||City||Doctor rams car into 4-month-old pup in Thane, boked||The Vartak Nagar police in Thane have booked a car owner from a plush housing society for rash driving and killing a four-month-old puppy. An animal activist residing in the society gathered evidence including CCTV footage and registered a case. The police are yet to arrest the car owner, who is a doctor.Police said the incident occurred on October 9 at 8:47 pm in the parking lot of Dosti Vihar society at Vartak Nagar. The incident was captured on the CCTV footage of the building. The complainant, 29-year-old Shruti Ganesh Iyer, a resident of Dosti Vihar, claimed that after people gathered at the spot, she went to check and saw a puppy lying in a pool of blood.“I shifted the puppy to SPCA hospital for treatment. The veterinarian declared the puppy dead on arrival after he suffered bleeding and serious injuries,” said Iyer, who is also a member of Umeed Foundation, an animal NGO. Iyer and another member of the Foundation approached the Vartak Nagar police and registered a case. Pari Mehta, 46, an animal activist from Thane, claimed that the car was clearly seen on the footage. “The incident took place in the parking lot. CCTV footage showed the accused, a woman doctor, ramming the car into the pup. After she realised this, she didn’t even stop the car. She could have taken the puppy for treatment. Instead, she ran away from the spot,” said Mehta.The Vartak Nagar police have registered a case under Section 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code and 184 (Driving dangerously), 134 (A) and 134 (B) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988.“We have registered a case and have started investigation. We’ve got the number of the car that rammed into the puppy and are yet to arrest the accused,” said Sanjay Gaikwad, senior police inspector, Vartak Nagar police station.The report provided by Dr. Devendra Bhosle, veterinarian of SPCA (Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) said that the animal was dead on arrival. “Primary examination revealed bleeding from nasal cavity that could have caused due to heavy blow on the forehead resulting from the accident. The cause of death is traumatic shock,” stated the SPCA report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctor-rams-car-into-4-month-old-pup-in-thane-boked/story-baNvyVQoFZBaP12UZCeyvN.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Baljit Chaudhary, 2 aides held with illegal weapons||Wanted in 10 criminal cases, including the murder of a chartered accountant in Kharar, Punjab; firing at Government College and Hospital, Sector 32, and the rape of a model in Sector 11, both in Chandigarh, gangster Baljit Chaudhary was finally arrested by the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) of Punjab Police on the Sirhind-Delhi highway on Monday. Two of his aides nabbed later include Gurpreet Singh alias Pamma of Mastgarh village here and Vikas Kumar of Dadumajra in Chandigarh.Two illegal .32 revolvers with 20 live cartridges were recovered from the trio, said additional inspector general, counter intelligence wing, Varinder Paul Singh in Mohali.Police tipped offFollowing a tip-off about Chaudhary’s movement in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib areas, various teams led by counter intelligence wing deputy superintendent of police Gurcharan Singh were set up to track him down. Chaudhary, a resident of Mundia Kalan in Ludhiana and once an active member of Punjab University Students’ Union, was in his vehicle when he was caught at the police blockade on the Sirhind-Delhi highway.He was reportedly on his way to visit Pamma and Vikas in Rajpura for picking up ammunition from them before going to Delhi. One revolver and 15 cartridges were recovered from Chaudhary and the other one with five cartridges from the aides, who were later nabbed on the Rajpura-Delhi highway.Police remandGurcharan Singh said the accused were produced in a Mohali court and sent to three-day police remand as they had to be questioned in other cases and about other accomplices.  Chaudhary has been named in the case involving the murder of chartered accountant Arun Sharma in Kharar, firing at GMCH-Sector 32, Chandigarh and the model’s rape, also in Chandigarh.A fresh case was registered against the suspects under Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the SSOC Police Station in Phase 1 here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-baljit-chaudhary-2-aides-held-with-illegal-weapons/story-ZayTvzUBQZnl4gMRNHJbhL.html
13-10-2020||City||Container crashes into truck on Mumbai-Pune Expressway, kills police on duty||A 35-year-old highway traffic police constable was killed on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway after a speeding container crashed into a stationary truck. The constable was asking the truck driver to move the vehicle when he got hit.The incident took place between 2.30am and 3am on Tuesday near Bhatan village in Panvel. Constable Sachin Sonwalkar, attached with the Palaspe unit of the Panvel highway traffic police, was responding to a control room call in the area regarding animal crossing.“The area where Sonwalkar reached witnesses animal crossing and is an accident-prone spot. He noticed that a driver had parked his truck along the highway. The driver was urinating on the roadside. Sonwalkar approached him and was asking him to leave,” said Subhash Pujari, assistant inspector, Palaspe highway traffic unit.Sonwalkar was standing near the parked truck with the driver standing towards the side. Meanwhile, a speeding container rammed into the parked vehicle from behind. Due to the impact, the truck hit Sonwalkar. He fell and sustained severe head injuries.Panvel rural police officials said Sonwalkar was declared dead on the spot. The first truck driver suffered a fractured arm while the accused container driver fled the spot, leaving his vehicle.A case of causing death due to negligence and rash driving has been registered against the unknown driver under Indian Penal Code. The Panvel rural police are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/container-crashes-into-truck-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-kills-police-on-duty/story-nySZ2SfIttPsrINSLJOBeP.html
13-10-2020||City||Haryana man thrashes 12-yr-old boy to death after quarrel among kids||A 12-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by a man at Mandoli village in Dadri district, police said on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Himanshu, a Class-8 student.The boy’s grandfather told the police that his grandson was playing with some kids in the village on Monday evening when suddenly a quarrel broke out among them. The matter took an ugly turn when the father of one of the boys came out of the house and started thrashing Himanshu. The man, identified as Vipin, a private school teacher, fled the spot as soon as Himanshu’s grandfather intervened.“We rushed my grandson to the Dadri civil hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment on Tuesday,” the boy’s grandfather added.Dadri deputy superintendent of police Bali Singh, said a case has been registered against Vipin Singh under Sections 302 (murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act.“We have started investigation into the matter and launched a manhunt for the accused,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-man-thrashes-12-yr-old-boy-to-death-after-quarrel-among-kids/story-rXDxLn1BPBLQOYB8OOnv8N.html
13-10-2020||City||17-year-old girl falls to death from seventh floor while drying clothes in Thane||A 17-year-old girl died after falling off the balcony of her seventh-floor house of a high-rise building in Thane on Monday. The girl was standing on a stool to hang wet clothes when she slipped and fell. The girl was taken to Thane Civil Hospital, but succumbed to her injuries. The police have filed an accidental death report.The deceased, Pratiksha Ashokrao Nagargoje, had completed her HSC examination. She resided on the seventh floor of Asavari building, Shastri Nagar, Vartak Nagar in Thane with her parents and younger brother Pratik, 10. The incident took place on Monday afternoon when Pratiksha’s father was sleeping in one room and her mother had gone to visit a doctor for her blood pressure issues. A police officer from Vartak Nagar said, “Pratiksha’s younger brother Pratik saw his sister drying clothes on his way to the kitchen. While he was fetching a glass of water, he heard his sister scream and rushed to the balcony. He did not find her there and looked below, only to see her lying on the ground.”The balcony of the flat had a small, waist-length railing leading to the accident, claimed the police.The Vartak Nagar police have taken the statement of Pratik, who is the only witness to the accident. “The watchman of the building found her and raised an alarm. She was taken to Thane Civil Hospital, though she was dead on arrival. A post mortem was carried out,” the police informed.Nitin Bhosle, police sub-inspector, Vartak Nagar police station confirmed about an accidental death case being registered. “We took the statement of Pratik, who saw his sister standing on the stool to dry clothes. We will also take the statement of watchmen and other people. As of now, it is clearly an accidental death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-girl-falls-to-death-from-seventh-floor-while-drying-clothes-in-thane/story-jaPXPi0OkRAcxENdq6dgiN.html
13-10-2020||Dehradun||‘DDLJ to Mirzapur’: Uttarakhand police use memes to spread awareness on Covid-19||The Uttarakhand police have been drawing attention on social media platforms with its funny memes based on popular web series and famous scenes from Bollywood movies to spread awareness on Covid-19. The state police have been putting posts with screen grabs and dialogues of popular scenes from different web series and Bollywood movies while urging people to wear masks and maintain social distance. In one of the posts shared on its Facebook page, it shared a screengrab from the recently released trailer of popular web series Mirzapur 2, featuring the three famous characters of the web series with masks and a message stating, “Ghar se jab bhi bahar niklen, mask jarur pehnen kyunki- Sabhi ke liye niyam same hai (Always wear a mask when stepping out because rules are same for all).” The post garnered more than 1,400 likes, 127 comments and about 200 shares. A social media user commented, “Since when did the Uttarakhand Police become this hilarious?”  Also read: Movie theatres to reopen in UP from October 15. Here are the guidelines#Unite2FightCoronaसिमरन और राज ने तो कोरोना वायरस से बचाव हेतुS- SanitizationM- MaskS- Social Distancing(SMS) का महत्व समझ लिया है।आप भी समझदार बनें और SMS का पालन करें। pic.twitter.com/FW1dabpmIzAnother user posted, “Uttarakhand police bhi Mirzapur ki fan hai (Uttarakhand police is also a fan of Mirzapur series).” Similarly, it also put up another post depicting the famous train scene of Shah Rukh Khan and Kajol starrer ‘Dil Wale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge’. In the post, the two actors are seen sporting masks and Kajol putting hand sanitiser on Shah Rukh Khan’s hands. The post was captioned, “Simran aur Raj ne to Corona se bachav hetu SMS - (S-Sanitisation, M-Mask, S- Social distancing) ka mahatva samajh lia. Aap bhi samajhdar bane aur SMS ka palan Karen (Simran and Raj have understood the importance of SMS, you should become smart and follow SMS as well). The post put up on Monday attracted about 1,000 likes and 105 shares. Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order) said, “It is to get the attention of social media users.” “We are spreading awareness on the virus as per the directions from the Government of India. However, if we would simply post wear masks, hardly anyone will pay attention to it. But by using these memes, we can get the desired attention and convey the message in a funny way,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/ddlj-to-mirzapur-uttarakhand-police-use-memes-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/story-FmB9FQStlrnlPRngh1njdK.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: RSS Vijayadashami event in Nagpur to be low-key||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has decided to celebrate Vijayadashami, which is the most awaited event in its annual calendar, in a low-profile manner this year because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Earlier in March, the RSS had suspended its three-day annual meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, the top decision-making body of the right-wing Hindu nationalist organisation, in Bengaluru. Also read: World looking up to Indian ways of life amid Covid pandemic, says Mohan BhagwatThe Vijayadashami programme is significant for the RSS, as the organisation was founded on this day by Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar in Nagpur in 1925. As per the norm, the RSS chief makes a customary speech after a parade of swayamsevaks and shastra pujan (worship of weapons), which is often seen as a pointer to the way its affiliate organisations and political offshoots will function in the following year. This year’s Vijayadashami, which falls on October 25, will be held days ahead of the three-phase Bihar assembly elections and a clutch of by-elections.Bihar goes to polls on October 28, November 3 and 7 and by-elections to around 60 seats in several states, including Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP), will also be held in early November.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s speech will be keenly watched by both Sangh supporters and the opposition. The speech assumes significance in view of a raft of assembly elections that will be held in the middle of next year in states such as West Bengal (WB), Assam, Tamil Nadu (TN) and Kerala. Political parties and experts are eager to get a sense about how Bhagwat reacts to the construction of the Ram temple following the Supreme Court’s (SC) judgement last year and the killing of seers and Hindu priests in some parts of the country such as in Maharashtra’s Palghar district in April. It is also a matter of interest how he would address issues such as women’s safety in the backdrop of the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) by four upper caste men in western UP’s Hathras district in September.Sameer Gautam, a veteran RSS member, said that the Sangh would adhere to the Centre’s government’s Covid-19 guidelines and norms while organising the Vijayadashami programme at Reshimbagh ground in Nagpur on October 25. Around 50 prominent people, mostly from the Sangh parivaar, would be invited to the programme, while the annual swayamsevak parade would be cancelled, he said. “However, Bhagwat will perform the shastra pujan and deliver his customary speech on the occasion,” Gautam said. The concept of annual chief guest at the annual Vijayadashami celebrations would likely be done away this year, he added. Dr Hedgewar had founded the RSS with a vision to infuse the Hindu community with new physical strength through military training. He had propounded that the struggle against the British Raj lacked a “sense of moral purpose and Hindu nationalism,” and that the Indian National Congress (INC) had no “positive vision of a Hindu nation”. He had urged that was the duty of every practicing Hindu to do his best to consolidate the society. The RSS has emerged as a power centre through the years. For instance, in October 2014, Eknath Khadse, the strongman of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is considered to trace its ideological moorings to the RSS, was overlooked for the coveted Maharashtra chief minister’s post. Instead, the Sangh had backed Devendra Fadnavis for the top political top job in the state. This was not the first time, when the RSS had dictated terms. The RSS had also thrown its lot behind Manohar Lal Khattar, a former full-time pracharak, as its choice for the Haryana CM in 2014. Earlier in 2009, it had pushed for anointing Nitin Gadkari, a hard core swayamsevak, as the national president of the BJP. A strong visible RSS imprint was evident in the choice of Narendra Modi as the Prime Minister of the country in 2014 along with his council of ministers. A similar trend was also apparent during PM Modi’s second consecutive term last year. In a separate announcement, no programmes would be held at Deekshabhoomi in Nagpur on Vijayadashami on October 25 because of the Covid-19 pandemic, said Vilas Godghate, one of the working committee members of Deekshabhoomi Trust. Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar had embraced Buddhism with thousands of his Dalit followers on the occasion of Vijayadashami at Deekshabhoomi in 1956. “All programmes have been cancelled on October 25 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The public should stay at home and offer Buddha vandana and salutations to Dr Ambedkar,” Godghate said. Lakhs of followers visit Deekshabhoomi on the occasion of Vijayadashami to pay their homage to Dr Ambedkar and Lord Buddha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-rss-vijayadashami-event-in-nagpur-to-be-low-key/story-pQ7QBrG2ARKgvMZL4OymxN.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: BJP stages protests seeking reopening of temples in Maharashtra||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra staged protests across the state on Tuesday demanding reopening of temples amid coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. BJP workers gathered in large numbers and staged protests in front of temples in Mumbai and other parts of the state. They also criticised the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and alleged that the latter could reopen restaurants and bars despite the contagion, but not temples. BJP workers shouted slogans against the state government while flouting the protocol to maintain social distancing that has been enforced because of the viral outbreak.The agitations were reported from some of the prominent temples in the state such as Siddhivinayak temple at Prabhadevi in Mumbai; Sai Baba temple in Shirdi; Tambdi Jogeshwari temple in Pune; and Vitthal Rakhumai Temple in Pandharpur.At the Siddhivinayak temple, the BJP supporters performed a symbolic aarti in front of the shrine. “The state government has reopened restaurants, bars and wine shops but it is not allowing the temples to reopen. They are playing with the sentiments of the devotees,” alleged BJP’s Pravin Darekar, who is also the leader of the opposition in the Maharashtra state legislative council. He blamed the government for non-compliance of social distancing norms, as he alleged that the latter was responsible for inciting the public to take to the streets.At the Tambdi Jogeshwari temple, the BJP made a person dress up as Kumbhakarna, who could be seen sleeping on a road. The BJP likened the Uddhav Thackeray-led government to Kumbhakarna and asked the state authorities to accede to their demand of reopening temples.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said that the government was cautious in reopening temples because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. He had stated it was the responsibility of the state government to ensure the safety of the public unlike his political rivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bjp-stages-protests-seeking-reopening-of-temples-in-maharashtra/story-FejWwCXAK4z1iQUKPGA2RK.html
13-10-2020||City||Central team warns of possible second wave in Pune during Dec-Jan||Pune: Even as state health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday indicated that Covid-19 lockdown restrictions will be lifted completely in Maharashtra by the end of November, a central team of medical experts has advised the administration to be prepared for a possible second wave during December-January. According to Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) new health chief Dr Ashish Bharti, the central team was in Pune for a three-day visit in the second week of October. The medical experts warned of a second spike mainly due to unlock and upcoming festival season. The central team concluded its visit on Saturday. Bharti said, “As the coronavirus is relatively new, we cannot predict its behaviour in winter season. In winter regions like Kashmir and other countries the cases are less.” The central team, including All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) professor Dr Arvind Kushwaha and assistant professor Sitikanta Banerjee visited Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural areas. A PMC official on condition of anonymity said that the city saw a rise in cases during September with daily case count touching 2,200. “Though cases are coming down, chances of a second wave cannot be ruled out,” the official said. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “There was a definite rise in cases post Ganesh festival as residents started coming out of homes and meeting people. The two to three weeks post the festival saw a spike in cases and additional pressure on health machinery.” Rao has warned residents to strictly follow prevention norms during Navratri and Diwali. PMC assistant health officer Dr Sanjeev Wavare said, “The history of pandemics like flu and other diseases show second or third wave. Hence, the central team has alerted of a possible second wave. It may or may not come. Residents have to follow norms like hand sanitisation, mask and social distancing to check the second wave.” A PMC health office said that the civic administration has made adequate arrangement for oxygen and ventilator beds to tackle the possible second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-team-warns-of-possible-second-wave-in-pune-during-dec-jan/story-b5JpohUJvs1FG4fntUR35J.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Man abducted after he refuses to marry girl; manages to give abductors a slip||A 25-year-old man Akash Salve, was abducted by three persons on Saturday midnight after he refused to marry the sister of one of the accused. However, the abducted victim managed to give his kidnappers a slip and reached Pimple Saudagar where he contacted the police and informed them about his ordeal.The three accused arrived in a Maruti car and forced the victim to get inside it on Saturday midnight, according to the police. Police on the lookout for the accused. One of three has been identified as Shreyas Waghmare (22) and two other accomplices remain unidentified.Police sub-inspector (PSI) Ramesh Kengar, the investigating officer of the case, said that besides Shreyas and his two friends, the police had booked Salve’s former girlfriend Priya Preetam Waghmare and her mother Anita Preetam Waghmare for being involved in the abduction. “Waghmare, his two friends along with his sister and mother conspired together and hatched a plan to abduct Salve since he ditched Priya and refused to marry her. The girl had lodged a rape related complaint against the victim two years ago and the investigation is still underway in that case. We are searching for all the accused and they will be arrested soon ,” he said. Salve’s father Vishnu Sripati Salve (51), a resident of Milindnagar, lodged the complaint with the Pimpri police station. Following the complaint, an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 364 (a) kidnapping for ransom, 506 (criminal intimidation) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-abducted-after-he-refuses-to-marry-girl-manages-to-give-abductors-a-slip/story-rl5AKAEKjMfiHWOwOhJVGP.html
13-10-2020||Kolkata||Resume Kolkata-London direct flights, Bengal CM urges union civil aviation ministry||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged the union civil aviation ministry to resume direct flights between Kolkata and London, more than a decade after they were discontinued. “I have asked the chief secretary to send a letter to the union civil aviation ministry. We have been pursuing this for the last ten years. We want this service to resume as many people want to go to Europe,” Banerjee said on Tuesday. Also read: West Bengal government brings back Kolkata’s iconic double decker busesAir India had started a direct flight between Kolkata and London in 2005. The services were, however, discontinued in September 2008 because of poor load factor. British airways, too, moved out of the sector in March 2009. Direct flights resumed under the Vande Bharat Mission with the first one, carrying 14 passengers, landing in Kolkata on September 17. “There is, however, a problem, I have been told. As passengers need to undergo a Covid test in London, it is taking time and flight seats are not getting filled up. If they (London authorities) can at least sanitise the plane, we can conduct rapid test of the passengers once they arrive in Kolkata. Covid patients would be shifted to safe house and hospitals. If we give these facilities, more passengers can come. We want the direct flight to continue as there is a huge demand,” Banerjee said. Authorities said the Vande Bharat flights were leaving London for Kolkata every Wednesday and Saturday and the return flights were leaving Kolkata for Heathrow every Thursday and Sunday. The Vande Bharat services are expected to continue till October 24. “Only two flights (under Vande Bharat) are operating every week. We want this to become permanent as Kolkata is a gateway to the northeast and there is a huge demand,” the chief minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/resume-kolkata-london-direct-flights-bengal-cm-urges-union-civil-aviation-ministry/story-j9z4VzXQ71ZuMbPgg7DddL.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Covid case fatality rate in PCMC is 1.4 per cent, Pune 2.25 per cent||The case fatality rate in Pimpri-Chinchwad is 1.4 per cent while Pune’s case fatality rate stands at 2.25 per cent. The civic administration says that the fatality ratio in the industrial town is less due to more testing and early tracking of Covid-19 patients.“More testing and early tracking of patients are two reasons because of which we have managed to keep the case fatality rate low at 1.4 per cent. We are also constantly upgrading our health infrastructure,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.Currently, the case fatality rate of rural Pune is 1.99 per cent.“There are differences in geographical area and population, that’s why the case fatality rate in Pune is 2.25 per cent. Whether it is PMC or PCMC all Covid warriors are taking great efforts in the fight against the virus,” said Salve.In PCMC, the first person to be infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection was detected on March 10. Currently, every week PCMC is conducting 26,000 tests.As of Monday, the Pimpri-Chinchwad has 71 Covid dedicated hospitals and Covid care centres and 6,901 beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients. While it has 1,872 oxygen beds and 714 ICU beds.In April and May, not many cases were reported although it surged in June, July, August and September.“We managed to control the increasing Covid case rate from mid-September and now positivity rate is around 15 per cent,” added Salve.On Monday, 226 people were tested positive for the virus and five deaths were reported which took the total number of positive cases to 81,057 and total deaths to 1,134 in Pimpri-Chinchwad.“Our focus is on bring case fatality rate below 1 per cent. Currently, less new cases are detected which is a good sign. If people continue to follow norms during the upcoming festive season then decline in Covid cases will continue. Still, people need to be careful and take precautions,” he said.“Even when the positive rate was 21.59 per cent in last week of September the case fatality rate was 1.71 per cent,” he said.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, state health department, said, “The difference between case fatality rate in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad is minimal. Almost PCMC, PMC and rural Pune are on the same line.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/case-fatality-rate-in-pcmc-is-1-4-per-cent-pune-at-2-25-per-cent/story-DPo4S4M0dBpYQx2h4Y6G1M.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Experts raise doubts over state’s ‘My Family my Responsibility’ campaign||In a bid to make the fight against Covid-19 stronger, Maharashtra government in September started door-to-door health check-ups under the campaign ‘My family, my responsibility’. However, the campaign has come under criticism of activists and public representatives who have called it “misleading” and “flawed” in its implementation. In the first phase of the initiative, the state government had set a target of reaching 2.25 crore families across Maharashtra twice a month, with the help of NGOs, elected representatives and college students. Volunteers have been appointed by the health department for undertaking a door-to-door survey and test temperature and oxygen levels of people.Almost a month into the campaign, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole has called the campaign as misleading and said that it does not render a clear picture of the pandemic in the city, a claim the district administration has denied. “The concept of the campaign is good, but it is somehow flawed as not every family member is screened by staff and volunteers of this campaign. The information obtained from a family member is verbal and there is no system to confirm the information received. The family might provide vague information on blood pressure, fever, and diabetes. The Covid outbreak in the city cannot be predicted due to such faulty campaign,” said Shirole. Besides the current initiative, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also undertaken a door-to-door survey in the city and has completed multiple rounds. He stated that about 1,068 employees and 2,116 volunteers were appointed for this work to do the door-to-door survey of the campaign. They have approached about 9,42,000 houses and checked about 29,83,000 citizens. Of this, 1,226 coronavirus-infected patients were found in a fortnight while about a thousand or 1,500 new patients are being found in Pune every day. “The door-to-door inspection campaign seems too good to be true, it is misleading,” added Shirole. Contradicting the administration, health activist Vaishali Patkar, president of the Aundh Vikas Mandal who is working as a Covid warrior since the lockdown started, said, “The ground reality of this campaign is different, in most of the housing societies people are not allowing the campaign employees to come inside to conduct the survey. Whereas citizens in some areas intentionally give false information due to various reasons.”“There is need to create awareness about this campaign if the state government wants to make it a success model. Only collecting the information is not enough, according to its survey report further steps towards improvement needs to be taken,” she said.Chandrakant Zende, a resident of Kasba peth, said, “Last week a group of people had come to our house to take the information for this campaign. We gave the necessary details to them, but some of the residents in our area gave false details to them. Such kind of campaigns are not going to work and I think state government should focus on the improvement of medical treatment given to the Covid patients.”“The Covid pandemic has not yet ended and we all need to get together to stop the infection spread in our areas,” he said. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, however, said the administration has completed the first round of campaign in Pune successfully. “Through this campaign, we are able to collect information of citizens and so it helps prevent the spread of the virus. The local people are also accompanied by the survey employees so there is cannot be misinformation shared by the citizens,” said Deshmukh. About the initiativeStated on September 15, ‘My family, my responsibility’ campaign aims to reach out to twelve crore people in Maharashtra as part of the government’s statewide outreach programme to check the health status of each individual in government’s efforts to contain Covid.In the first phase of the initiative, the state government had set a target of reaching 2.25 crore families across Maharashtra twice a month, with the help of NGOs, elected representatives and college students. Volunteers have been appointed by the health department for undertaking a door-to-door survey and test temperature and oxygen levels of people||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/experts-raise-doubts-over-state-s-my-family-my-responsibility-campaign/story-jb8tHa7VAlfYwuR5cpa2YI.html
13-10-2020||Lucknow||UP: Maharajganj woman makes immolation bid in front of Vidhan Bhavan in Lucknow; critical||A woman (35) allegedly attempted self-immolation near the Vidhan Bhavan building in Lucknow on Tuesday morning, police said.The police personnel, who was deployed in the area, was taken aback by her sudden act. The injured, who belonged to Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Maharajganj district, was rushed to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) Hospital in the city.Also read: Chhattisgarh man who attempted suicide in front of CM’s house on June 29 succumbsThe woman had suffered around 60% of burns and her health condition was critical, said doctors at the hospital. Sujeet Pandey, commissioner of police (CP), Lucknow, said the woman probably tried to take her own life because of strained relationship.Earlier on Tuesday morning, she reached near Vidhan Bhavan by an e-rickshaw. She walked for a few metres before trying to take the drastic step, CP Pandey added.A police official, privy to the investigation, said the woman had got into an interfaith relationship with a man following separation from her husband a few years ago. However, the relationship was not approved by the man’s family members, he said. To make matters worse, she had lost touch with the man after he had left for Saudi Arabia a few months ago . The police authorities in Maharajganj district have been informed about the incident and further probe is in progress, the official added.Earlier on July 17, a woman (50) and her daughter (28), who belonged to UP’s Amethi district, had set themselves ablaze in front of gate number 3 of Vidhan Bhavan because of alleged police atrocities. The woman succumbed to her burn injuries at the civil hospital five days later, but her daughter had survived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-maharajganj-woman-makes-immolation-bid-in-front-of-vidhan-bhavan-in-lucknow-critical/story-pu2ubeGFnlZRDd1AwTGp4J.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Businessman shot at in Pune||A businessman who deals in transport of sand and stone was shot at by a masked assailant at Shriram chowk, Hadapsar, on Monday morning. The victim was identified as Mayur Vijay Hande (29), a resident of Handewadi, Pune. He loans tractors and vehicles to transport sand and stones required for construction, according to the police. “The bullet grazed his face. We are questioning eyewitnesses in the case. The shooting is visible in the CCTV camera footage, but the man had covered his face,” said Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police, crime, Pune. There is a possibility of it being a planned attack as the accused was seen wandering in the area for three days, including Monday, according to an officer close to the investigation. The man was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is getting treated while the police are questioning people, including a rickshaw driver who was present when the crime took place, according to the police. The shell casing could not be immediately recovered as the spot was filled with sand and stones, according to senior inspector Kranti Kumar Patil of Wanowrie police station. A case under Section 307 (attempted murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/businessman-shot-at-in-pune/story-9Vqb82QZyNKj4Kvk0uSUrJ.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s Rs 450-crore interest-free loan comes as relief for cash-strapped Himachal||The Centre’s Rs 450-crore interest-free loan to boost the economy has come as a breather for cash-strapped Himachal Pradesh. Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur played a key role in ensuring that his home state gets the maximum interest free loan. The Centre released Rs 205 crore of goods and services tax (GST) compensation for the state besides announcing the Rs 450-crore interest-free loan for 50 years. BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh is among the top two states in the country to get the special interest-free 50-year loan for capital expenditure. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement of an economic booster has come as a relief to eight financially stressed hill states, including Himachal Pradesh, which have been given Rs 2,500 crore each at a time when quarterly compensation of the GST has been delayed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to develop the trans Himalayan range with capital expenditure for which special assistance has been earmarked for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the north eastern states. BOOST FOR INFRASTRUCTURE, JOBS The interest-free loan is aimed at boosting infrastructure development besides generating job opportunities, self-employment options and strengthening local businesses. The state’s debt has crossed Rs 54,000 crore and the state is managing its financial affairs by raising loans one after another for development works and other financial needs. The state raised loans of Rs 5,067 crore between January 2019 and March 2020 and Rs 5,677 crore since April this year till July. WILL ACCELERATE DEVELOPMENT: CM “Never before has such an amount been allocated to Himachal Pradesh despite the revenue shortfall of the central government given the Covid-19 pandemic” said Anurag Thakur. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur thanked Sitharaman and Anurag Thakur for releasing and said that the GST compensation amount and long-term loan to fund capital works would accelerate the pace of development in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-s-rs-450-crore-interest-free-loan-comes-as-relief-for-cash-strapped-himachal/story-PPubG3Fhxot9CgscGJll7L.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Political slugfest in Pune over women’s safety issue||A political slugfest broke out on Monday after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) carried out protest rallies in the city over women’s safety issues in Maharashtra and also the gang-rape incident in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh.The Congress and NCP members held protest rallies to condemn the Hathras gang-rape incident.The members held a candle march from Lal Mahal to Mandai on Sunday evening. Congress leaders Mohan Joshi, Ramesh Bagwe and MLA Sunil Tinger participated in the protest and blamed the UP government for the increase in rape cases in the state.Joshi said, “We held a candle march to condemn the gang-rape incident in Hathras. We want justice for the victim and the family members. The UP government is denying justice.”The BJP, meanwhile, held a protest against the Maharashtra government for the increase in crime cases against women in the state. Chandrakant Patil, state unit president, BJP, led the agitations in Pune and said that the state government is not serious about women’s issues.Patil blamed, “Molestation, rape and violence against women is increasing in Maharashtra, but neither the state home minister nor chief minister is taking it seriously.”BJP MP for Pune Girish Bapat said, “Opposition parties are politicising rape incidents. the state government does not have time to meet rape victims and their families in Maharashtra.”BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “BJP carried out the agitations in eight assembly constituencies on Monday.”BJP holds tractor rally to welcome farmers’ billBJP on Monday carried out a tractor rally between Varwand and Choufula on Solapur road to welcome the three farm bills approved by the central government. BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil, BJP Kisan Morcha president Anil Bonde led the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/political-slugfest-in-pune-over-women-s-safety-issue/story-jNHOldeRxYlUwvioHu3IsK.html
13-10-2020||Pune||AAI claims passengers will not be affected due to night embargo at Pune airport||Although fears are being expressed by the travel industry that flyers heading for Delhi, Bengaluru and other cities during Diwali may face inconvenience due to night flight embargo at the Lohegaon airport beginning October 26, the Pune airport authorities have made it clear that the rescheduling of flights will not have any impact on the number of flights departing Pune and all the night slot flights will be adjusted as per the revised scheduled.As many as 26 night flights have been shifted to day time to accommodate the re-carpeting work which will take place between 8am and 8pm for the next one year by the air force authorities. According to the travel agents’ association, the waiting list of passengers will increase and mostly the tourist passenger traffic will be affected. The association said that during the festive season it would be difficult to travel to different destinations and catch the connecting flights due to the limited operational timings. During the festive season, the number of flyers increase and as a result the waiting time for tickets too will increase with lesser options for the flyers.Currently between 35 and 42 flight movements are taking place on a daily basis at the airport which is a significant reduction from nearly 160 flight operations before March.Pune airport director Kuldip Singh said, “The airport authorities will operate four flights in an hour of the twelve hours available with them. There are currently 42 flights with a capacity to run 48 and more flights cannot be squeezed as social distancing norms are to followed. The new schedule will not lead to flight cancellations and will not have any impact on the flights and there will be no night flights during the said period.”The airport is losing an income of about Rs 2.5 crore in freight every day and the AAI is striving hard to acquire additional land for cargo facility.“There are no direct flights to many cities from Pune and even for going abroad. Flyers fly to Delhi and take international flights from the capital. From here they either take the early morning or night flight. Now, the passengers cannot avail this facility and mostly the tourist passengers will affected,” said Nilesh Bhansali, director Travel Agents’ Association of Pune.The Pune airport has seen less than a third of passenger traffic as compared to pre-Covid months. The pandemic has impacted air travel drastically with the airport witnessing a passenger footfall of nine million during 2018-2019, while in January-February 2020, the footfall was reduced to a meagre 2,000-3,000. Until September, the airport has registered 1.63 lakh passengers and 1,948 flights left from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/aai-claims-passengers-will-not-be-affected-due-to-night-embargo-at-pune-airport/story-PbBXs2RJR7xHqI4pWQJsjM.html
13-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Ganga canal closure earlier this year for Mahakumbh infrastructure work||The closure of Ganga canal has been advanced this year so that authorities get more time to carry out infrastructural work on it in time for Mahakumbh early next year. Usually, the closure is from Dussehra to Diwali. From October 15 midnight to November 15 midnight, closure of the 135-year-old Ganga Canal will be undertaken as per the order issued by Uttar Pradesh government which manages its affairs. Last year, it was done from Dussehra (October 4) till Deepawali (October 27). Confirming the closure date, sub-divisional officer Uttar Pradesh Irrigation department Vikrant Saini said, “From midnight October 15 till November 15 this year, Ganga canal closure will be carried out during which maintenance, renovation of Ganga ghats, cleaning and other related construction works will be done.” Also read: Mahakumbh 2021 may not see mass participation owing to Covid-19, says Akhada ParishadUnion education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, who represents Haridwar in Parliament, had also written to UP Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Yadav to ensure that the canal closure time gets extended so that Mahakumbh work on Ganga canal can be completed. Uttarakhand irrigation department executive engineer DK Singh said during this one-month period, all work on new Ganga ghats will get completed. While Ganga canal closure is done, minimum water flow at the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri will be ensured so that religious rituals can be performed. Haridwar-based religious scholar Padam Singh Chauhan pointed that in 1916, a pact was signed between the princely states, local priests and Ganga activists led by Pt Madan Mohan Malviya ensuring constant and minimum flow of holy Ganga be maintained at Har-Ki-Pauri as Britishers were trying to build a dam near Har-KI-Pauri-hindering the flow of Ganga at Har-Ki-Pauri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-ganga-canal-closure-earlier-this-year-for-mahakumbh-infrastructure-work/story-hSIjCCvl5lqXOZdSl8o6bI.html
13-10-2020||Kolkata||Explosion in club in Kolkata, none injured||An explosion early on Tuesday blew off a local club’s asbestos roof and damaged a portion of its wall in the eastern part of the city, sparking fear among residents nearby, a senior police officer said.No one, however, sustained injury in the blast, which occurred on the second floor of the club on Beliaghata Main Road here around 5 am, he said.“We are looking into the matter. As of now there is nothing more to say,” the officer, who visited the spot, said.A team of forensic experts has reached the site of explosion to collect evidence, and sniffer dogs have been pressed into service to find out clues, if any, he said.One of the local residents said such incident has never before occurred in the area.“We heard a huge explosion, following which we rushed out of our houses and found two persons fleeing. Their faces were covered... We do not know what exactly happened,” he said. PTI SCH SBN RMS RMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/explosion-in-club-in-kolkata-none-injured/story-Vq3nurZ05nBHyEX3GH3JYI.html
13-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Leopard that killed 7-year-old in Pithoragarh, captured||A leopard that killed a 7-year-old girl in Berinag sub division of Pithoragarh district was captured by the state forest department late Monday night, officials said. Chandra Mahara, sub-divisional forest officer of Berinag region said, “The leopard which had created panic among locals in the area was captured in a cage installed by the forest department on Monday night. The leopard was trapped when it entered the cage looking for a piece of flesh kept inside.” According to the forest officer, the leopard will be released in a dense forest area around 25km away from the spot it was caught at. Also Read: 7-year-old girl in Tehri becomes fifth leopard victim in less than a month in UttarakhandOn October 7, a 7-year-old girl was killed by the leopard outside her house in Berinag division of Pithoragarh district. She was the fourth child to have been killed in a leopard attack in less than a month. Leopard attacks on children have increased in the past few weeks. So far, five children have been killed in leopard attacks in the state within a month’s span. On October 11, another 7-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Tehri Garhwal district. When she went to use the washroom outside her house, the animal took her away. The girl’s body was later recovered by forest officials from the nearby forest area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-leopard-that-killed-7-year-old-in-pithoragarh-captured/story-jky06OlteOCL5Mokm0Qr4J.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Consider 26/11 victim’s plea for EWS house: High court directs Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to consider the plea of Devika Rotawan, the youngest victim of the November 26, 2008, terrorist attacks on Mumbai, seeking allotment of residential premises under the (economically weaker section) EWS scheme for her family members and a provision for her higher education.The two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav, directed the court registry to forward a copy of Rotawan’s petition for the consideration of Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary (CS), Maharashtra.Also read: Increase local train services on Central and Western railways to 700 per day, HC tells MaharashtraThe directive came after the bench noticed that though her representation dated July 19 was pending with Kumar, it did not contain all particulars cited in the petition. The HC also granted Rotawan, a junior college student, liberty to present a copy of her petition to CS Kumar. Rotawan had moved the HC expressing apprehension that her family members would be rendered homeless, as they had not been able to pay monthly rent of their room in a chawl at Subhash Nagar in Bandra (East) because of prolonged economic hardship.On Tuesday, when the petition came up for hearing, Rotawan’s counsel, advocate Utsav Bains, submitted that her was an extraordinary case. Bains pointed out how Rotawan, as a child had suffered a bullet injury in the 26/11 terrorist attacks and how she stood in the line of fire of the captured terrorist Pakistani terrorist Ajmal Kasab, as a prosecution witness.The advocate submitted that her plea was required to be considered on compassionate grounds, as the family is on the verge of being rendered homeless.The bench said that Rotawan has written to a number of authorities and nobody has refused her. “We will ask the CS to consider your requests,” said the bench.Rotawan had pleaded that because of multiple health issues, it was not possible for her father and brother to earn a livelihood, which resulted in her family members to default in the payment of their monthly housing rent.Rotawan, a first year bachelor of arts (BA) student of Chetana College at Bandra, was barely nine year old, when the 26/11 attacks had occurred in 2008. A bullet had passed through her right thigh after two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operatives from Pakistan had indiscriminately fired upon passengers at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and also hurled grenades at them.Rotawan was slated to travel with her parents to Pune by train to meet her brother on 26/11 in 2008. She fell unconscious shortly after receiving the gunshot wound and when she regained consciousness she found herself at St George Hospital, which is located close to CSMT. Rotawan was operated upon six times over a period of one-and-half months. She was bed-ridden for about six months following multiple surgeries.Rotawan had cited in the petition that after the incident several representatives of the central and state government had assured to provide them with residential accommodation under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota while taking into account their acute financial hardship.She had claimed that the government officials had also assured to make provision for her education and financial assistance over and above what was required for her medical treatment. However, the petition had pointed out that all the government assistance received by her to date was required to be spent on her treatment and post-operative care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consider-26-11-victim-s-plea-for-house-high-court-directs-maharashtra-government/story-J2CyNCOsXoCDRQZLcBtlGJ.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||North Delhi civic body to be fined Rs 20 lakh for violating dust control norms: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday issued directions for imposing a fine of Rs 20 lakh on North Delhi Municipal Corporation for violating dust control guidelines at Bhalswa landfill. The minister said the North MCD has not been sprinkling water regularly to prevent dust pollution at the site. “I have asked the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to impose a fine of Rs 20 lakh on North MCD. The municipal corporation has been directed to immediately increase the number of tankers for water sprinkling,” he said. “We have issued guidelines for all government and private agencies to take anti-dust pollution measures. We have directed everyone to follow five directives. Action will be taken against anyone not doing so,” Rai said. The five steps are installing windshields and barriers at the periphery of construction and demolition sites, covering debris with tarpaulin, using green net to prevent dust from blowing out, water sprinkling, and covering trucks carrying construction material. Rai had on Monday asked common people, private and government agencies that have undertaken construction works to take adequate measures to prevent dust pollution, “else strict action will be taken against them”. The minister also said the government has started “micro monitoring” of all the 13 pollution hotspots in the city and will soon deploy environment marshals to check violations of environmental norms. He said all construction and demolition sites, irrespective of size, will have to compulsorily take the five steps to check pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-delhi-civic-body-to-be-fined-rs-20-lakh-for-violating-dust-control-norms-gopal-rai/story-pC80ZfeXfcyLfRKJrQy9wL.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||States should stop blaming each other on stubble burning, need to take it seriously: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said state governments should stop blaming each other and work together to find a solution to the issue of stubble burning, one of the major reasons for the yearly problem of poor air in Delhi-NCR during winters.Kejriwal said while farmers of neighbouring states and people of Delhi are bearing the brunt of stubble burning, “governments have shut their eyes”. “State governments should stop blaming each other. We have to work together to find a solution to the issue… All agencies and governments need to take it seriously now,” he told reporters in Hiranki village in Narela where the spraying of Pusa bio-decomposer solution started on Tuesday. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning.“I am worried about farm fires in neighbouring states. The smoke has started affecting Delhi’s air quality…Air pollution was under control for the last 10 months, but it has started increasing again,” the chief minister said.Imagine the impact of stubble burning on the families of farmers who have no option but to burn the crop residue. Farmers don’t burn it willfully, he said.While the farmers of neighbouring states and the people of Delhi are bearing the brunt of stubble burning, governments have shut their eyes. I hope that they take concrete steps so that the entire north India gets rid of high levels of air pollution,” he said.The Pusa bio-decomposer is being sprayed free of cost in around 800 hectares of land in Delhi where non-basmati rice is grown.The national capital’s air quality hit the “very poor” category on Tuesday morning, the first time since February, with calm winds and low temperatures allowing accumulation of pollutants.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, an increase in farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring regions of Pakistan is also going to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 303 at 8:30 am, which falls in the “very poor” category. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.NASA’s satellite imagery showed a large cluster of fires near Amritsar and Firozpur in Punjab and Patiala, Ambala and Kaithal in Haryana.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, farm fires contributed 3 percent particulate matter to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/states-should-stop-blaming-each-other-on-stubble-burning-need-to-take-it-seriously-arvind-kejriwal/story-FMKENNMjFPjilvymLykNGL.html
13-10-2020||City||Assam to pay 119,000 mid-day meal workers additional Rs 500 per month||The Assam government on Tuesday announced monthly payment of Rs 500 each to nearly 119,000 mid-day meal workers in the state. State education and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the amount would be in addition to the Rs 1,000 which each mid-day meal cook and helper at government schools receives from the Centre. “The amount will be paid from April this year and the total sum till September would be deposited in the bank accounts of mid-day meal workers before the Durga Puja festivities,” the minister said while addressing a press conference. “The finance department has already approved a sum of Rs 34 crore for this move. It would cost the state exchequer an additional sum of nearly Rs 60 cr annually,” he added. Also read: No nail polish, bangles for mid-day meal workers, says education ministry protocolSarma also said that the state Cabinet has decided to address the issue of over 4,000 teachers who were appointed between 1991 and 2001 in primary schools without following all necessary protocols. “Most of these teachers were appointed though there no such posts and a case in this regard was pending in the Gauhati high court as well. A study done by divisional commissioners found that some of these teachers were getting salaries and had even gone through training while others were getting paid but didn’t have the training required for the jobs,” said Sarma. He said that 1,574 teachers, who had undergone training, would be employed as regular teachers beginning November this year while 2,960 others would be used as tutors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-to-pay-119-000-mid-day-meal-workers-additional-rs-500-per-month/story-RlthvCv5EO6wrB0YpQOjeL.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Governor BS Koshyari asked Uddhav Thackeray if he had turned secular. He delivers a biting response||The tussle between Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has escalated over the opening up of religious places in the state. Responding to Koshyari’s letter on the issue, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he does not need a “certificate” on Hindutva from the Governor. In response to a curt letter by the Governor on reopening of places of worship, Thackeray wrote back that his Hindutva does not permit him to welcome a person who called Mumbai ‘Pakistan occupied Kashmir’.Also read: BMC penalises over 4,300 citizens for not wearing masks on first day of driveIn the letter, the chief minister said that while the government is actively thinking about demands to open up temples and other religious places, its primary duty is the safety of people during the pandemic.In the October 12 letter, the Governor had said, “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular ‘ yourselves, the term you hated?”Responding to the letter, the CM said, “Do you mean that opening up religious places is Hindutva, and not opening them means being secular? Secularism is a crucial base of the oath you took as Governor. Do you not believe it?”Thackeray added that he does not need any preaching on Hindutva. “Sir, you mention Hindutva in your letter, but I do not need any certificate or any teaching on Hindutva from you. My Hindutva does not permit me to welcome home a person who called my Maharashtra or Mumbai Pakistan occupied Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-governor-now-spar-over-reopening-of-religious-places/story-XFwF2JuwUHNUwVxQyln1xH.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Saamana attacks BJP for criticising govt over decision on Aarey Metro car shed||In a veiled attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said political greed ensures support for murderers and rapists while environmental activists, who want to save trees and jungles, are deemed criminals. The attack comes after BJP leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, criticised Uddhav Thackeray government’s decision to shift Metro car shed out of Aarey colony to Kanjurmarg. Fadnavis had termed the decision as “unfortunate” and “driven by ego”. An editorial in Saamana on Tuesday said that Fadnavis government should have listened to environment lovers’ plea to relocate the Metro car shed. “After moving the car shed to Kanjur[marg], opponents like BJP are criticising the decision... When Devendra Fadnavis was the chief minister, environment lovers protested against the project and they cried over the hacked trees. Was that ego? Fadnavis government should have put aside its ego and respected the environment lovers and moved the car shed to Kanjurmarg,” the editorial said.Also read: Citizens, activists welcome decision to shift Mumbai Metro-3 car shed from AareySpeaking to reporters on Tuesday, Saamana executive editor and Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the state’s decision is in line with the Centre’s decision to save tigers, environment and Ganga. “In fact, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis should congratulate Uddhav ji Thackeray for saving environment. He has saved the wildlife there, the trees and other species there. It is Prime Minister Modi’s national programme. Look at his speeches in the last six years, he spoke about saving Ganga, saving tigers and forests. If we saved the lungs of Mumbai, where does the question of ego arise?” Raut asked.The editorial added that mere speeches on saving environment will not help, but “bold decisions” are needed to save nature. “Murderers and rapists are supported for political benefit but environmental activists, who want to save trees and jungles, are deemed criminals. Mass murder of 2,000 trees was done at night in Aarey [in last October].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saamana-attacks-bjp-for-criticising-govt-over-decision-on-aarey-metro-car-shed/story-JtNUkNS8E4kZqFZhFh7u6K.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Thaw in sight as Punjab farmers meet to decide on strategy for talks with Centre on farm laws||Representatives of 29 farmer organisations are meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday to decide on the course of action following the Centre’s second invite for talks on the new agriculture laws in Delhi on Wednesday. It is learnt that most of the farmer organisations are in favour of the meeting, except the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee based in Majha. The committee has rejected the meeting call, saying the invite is a ploy to divide farmers as farmer organisations from neighbouring Haryana and other states have not been invited. However, two major farmer organisations, the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) and the BKU (Dakounda), which have the largest support base in Punjab are open to the talks and want a truce in the ongoing struggle. SHOULD NOT CLOSE CHANNEL OF TALKS: BKU (DAKOUNDA) “We should hear what the government has to say and should not close the channel of talks,” said Jagmohan Singh, the general secretary of the BKU (Dakounda). However, Satnam Singh Pannu, the president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee differed with him. “The Centre has invited farmers to discuss the benefits of the new farm laws but we have rejected it as it is detrimental to our interest. No point meeting them,” said Pannu. The farmers have been on the protest path since September 25 against the three new farm bills passed in Parliament by the Narendra Modi government that seek to liberalise agriculture. They have blocked major rail routes in Punjab and held up traffic on highways besides holding protests in front of corporate establishments to register their protest. PUNJAB GOVT APPEALS FOR RESTORING RAIL TRAFFIC The Punjab government, which came out in support of the farmers in their protest, has reiterated its appeal to them to end the rail blockade as it has severely impacted essential supplies, including fertilisers such as di-ammonium phosphate and urea, required for wheat sowing. “The movement of foodgrain from the state has also come to a standstill and stocks are piling up. We want stocks to move out so that space is vacated for the paddy harvest,” said an officer of the state food department. BKU (EKTA-UGRAHAN) LIFTS RAIL BLOCKADE The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) has decided to lift the blockade on railway tracks and other farmer unions are expected to take a call at Tuesday’s meeting. “We were holding protests on rail tracks at three places, including Sunam and Nabha, and have decided to lift these blockades. However, protests will be held outside the houses of eight BJP leaders across the state. As for the rail blockades at other places, it is for the other organisations to decide,” BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) state general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. DWINDLING COAL STOCKS A WORRY The Punjab government has also cited dwindling coal stocks in the state thermal plants as a concern if the rail blockade continues. An official said if the supply doesn’t arrive, generating units might shut down, leading to power cuts. A state-level committee of three cabinet ministers is also awaiting a meeting with the farmer union leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thaw-in-sight-as-punjab-farmers-meet-to-decide-on-strategy-for-talks-with-centre-on-farm-laws/story-pSrEObNkVewiDMkzfZ9T9N.html
13-10-2020||Dehradun||Rudraprayag hydel project PIL: Uttarakhand HC issues notices to MoEF, Jal Shakti, state govt||Uttarakhand high court has issued notices to the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC), Jal Shakti ministry, Central Electricity Authority (CEC), Uttarakhand government and Larsen & Toubro (L&T) Uttaranchal Hydropower Ltd in a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging violations in Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Power Plant in Uttarakhand’s Rudraprayag district. The court has directed them to respond to the notices within three weeks. The PIL, filed by Bharat Jhunjhunwala, a 70-year-old assistant professor at Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Bengaluru, who originally hails from Tehri district, has alleged violations by carrying out construction beyond the expiry of environmental clearance and not informing authorities concerned on time about change in the design parameters of the project, said Ajay Veer Pundir, counsel of the petitioner. HT has a copy of over 400-page PIL. Also read: Himachal CM for time-bound completion of development worksSituated on Mandakini river in Rudraprayag district, the 99 MW project features a barrage, with a medium-sized intake pond near Ukhimath, a 12-km-long headrace tunnel and a surge shaft over 180 metre in depth. The project was awarded to L&T on Build, Own, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) basis following a competitive bidding process by the Uttarakhand government in 2006. The PIL alleges that environment clearance, which was issued for ten years and then extended by another three, expired on August 24, 2020, and as such, any construction beyond that was a violation of the norms. “Also, the project had to start its commercial operation in March 2020 but that also didn’t happen. The fish ladders which allow movement of fish were not constructed despite the same being part of the agreement with Uttarakhand government,” he said. Pundir said environmental clearance had expired on August 24, 2020, while the project completion and readiness for commissioning was announced on September 21, 2020. The PIL alleged that the hydroelectric project is “being constructed without an environment clearance”, adding, “change in scope (design parameters of the project due to 2013 floods) beyond the approved environment clearance and techno-economic concurrence issued earlier (in 2008 by Central Electricity Authority) with respect to old project which has not been implemented… and now in the garb of earlier environment clearance and techno-economic concurrence, respondents are continuing with the changed project which is not permissible as per law.” The PIL seeks the project to “obtain fresh environment clearance...because the ground reality has changed”. The PIL has also sought directions for installation of fish ladders for the conservation of aquatic biodiversity. The PIL pointed out that the project was hit by the floods of 2013 which apparently led L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Limited to make changes in design. “However, L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Limited disclosed these changes to Central Electricity Authority only on February 6, 2019,” it alleged. On September 21, L&T announced completion and readiness for commissioning of 99 MW Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Power Plant, saying the commissioning of this run-of-the-river plant along the Char Dham route will be a major boost to the state of Uttarakhand, with the plant’s capability of providing over 400 million units of renewable energy per annum. Jhunjhunwala’s PIL says he has also submitted a representation to MoEFCC regarding change in scope of the project. L&T spokesperson refused to comment on the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/rudraprayag-hydel-project-pil-uttarakhand-hc-issues-notices-to-moef-jal-shakti-state-govt/story-9ndgqPxdIJxUa9i2lUEjfI.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Akshardham temple opens today||The Swaminarayan Akshardham temple in the national capital will reopen on Tuesday after a gap of around six-and-a-half months following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The entry to the temple will be allowed only between 5 pm and 6.30 pm, but the public can stay inside the premises until 9 pm, said a trustee of the shrine.Though religious places of worship were allowed to reopen in June, the temple authorities had decided to keep it closed for the visitors following a spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi. The authorities have decided to open only a few spots inside the sprawling complex such as the temple, the park, the musical fountain and the restaurant. However, the three exhibition halls and the theatre will remain closed. “We are opening a few places inside the temple complex, which has abundant open spaces. The move will ensure adequate social distancing norms for the public. The exhibition halls are closed spaces. But the restaurant is an open space, where the public is allowed to sit outside,” said Janak Dave, director and trustee of the Swaminarayan Akshardham temple.“The temple will open briefly only in the evening. The exercise is being carried out on an experimental basis and a decision to increase the timing will be taken in due course of time. An extensive sanitisation drive has been conducted before throwing open the temple premises to the public. Though an entry to the temple is allowed until 6:30 pm, the public will be allowed to stay on in the premises until 9 pm,” he said. The temple authorities have put in place elaborate arrangements to screen the visitors and sanitise their belongings. “We have created multiple booths at the entrances, where the visitors will be screened and their stuff will be sanitised. It is compulsory to wear a mask for the visitors inside the temple premises,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-akshardham-temple-opens-today/story-12txzO11Ok8Bzvp2R8p6ML.html
13-10-2020||Lucknow||UP opens up two nationalised routes for private buses||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has opened two of its prime nationalised routes for running private buses for the first time. The move is being seen as the beginning of the end of the state-owned UP State Road Transport Corporation’s (UPSRTC) decades-old monopoly on nationalised routes. The state transport authority (STA) is likely to invite applications soon and grant stage carriage permits to private players to operate their buses on two prime nationalised routes -- Lucknow-Gorakhpur (via Ayodhya-Vikramjot-Basti) and Lucknow-Agra-Noida Expressway (via Ring Road Kuberpur (Agra)-Pari Chowk). The UP government had issued separate notifications for the two routes in September, which led to discontent among UPSRTC employees’ unions. Also read: UPSRTC initiates intra-state operations from GhaziabadRajesh Kumar Singh, principal secretary, transport, UP, said the state government had taken a decision to open the two nationalised routes for private buses in a bid to unleash healthy competition between UPSRTC authorities and private operators. The move would benefit passengers, who could avail more options, better services and lower fares, he added. “We are not preventing UPSRTC authorities from operating on these routes. We are facilitating parallel operations of private buses for healthy competition and UPSRTC employees must accept the healthy competition,” he said.Singh said the government would open more nationalised routes for private operators in the near future.However, UPSRTC employees, officers and pensioners suspect that move as a part of a larger conspiracy to decimate the state-run corporation in favour of private operators. The aggrieved state transport authority is planning to form a joint forum to launch a statewide agitation to demand rollback of the decision. “The decision to open two nationalised routes for private operators has made all of us suspicious of the state government’s intention. We will soon chalk out a joint strategy to strike back,” said Tej Bahadur Sharma, a veteran union leader of UPSRTC employees. An official claimed the UPSRTC and similar other state transport undertakings (STUs) were created under a Central government’s Act, which gave them exclusive rights to operate on nationalised routes. “The state government has no legal authority to tamper with the sanctity of nationalised routes,” he said. “The total length of nationalised routes in UP is less than 7% of the total stretch for vehicular movements. Private operators have a free run on 93% of the routes,” he added. Sources claimed the state government’s intention was to issue permits to private operators of neighbouring states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The move will connect bus operators directly to the national capital via UP.“This is not a fair deal. If connectivity is the issue, then UPSRTC authorities can think of operating private buses under an inter-state agreement that is already in place,” they said.Private buses operate on most nationalised routes in UP, including on the two prime ones opened by the state government, albeit illegally. Transporters obtain contract carriage permits for diverse purposes such as transporting people taking part in a wedding, tourists and pilgrims.“Though they obtain contract carriage permits, they run regular bus services illegally,” said a transport official. “The state government will get to earn more revenue following its decision to grant carriage permits to private transporters to operate their buses on the two prime nationalised routes,” he said. Though all erstwhile state governments had made similar efforts, stiff opposition from militant UPSRTC employees had proved to be the major deterrent, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-to-open-up-two-nationalised-routes-for-private-buses/story-lh0SI6ochKPKtE2Hmc1JJI.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC penalises over 4,300 citizens for not wearing masks on first day of drive||On day 1 of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC’s) drive to penalise at least 20,000 citizens daily who don’t wear masks in public places, over 4,369 citizens were penalised Rs 8.73 lakh, according to BMC data. Overall, BMC has collected over Rs 1.05 crore from 38,866 violators since April.As the daily number of fresh Covid-19 cases is now over 2,000, BMC had on Monday announced a massive drive to book around 20,000 citizens daily for not wearing a mask in public places.However, on Monday, not even 50% of the target could be met. A BMC official said, “In general, the power outage caused a lot of hardships for the administration. Local trains were also shut for a while; and due to this, mobilisation became difficult. Starting Tuesday, we plan to meet the daily target of booking 20,000 citizens.”Also Read: Covid-19: Steady decline in cases in Maharashtra, trend could reverse in festive seasonAccording to BMC officials, further unlocking can happen only if there is adherence to wearing masks, social distancing and hygiene.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had on Monday said, “A large number of citizens do not wear masks; this will lead to the situation becoming difficult, thereby delaying opening up of the city.”Chahal added, “BMC is initiating a mass drive of penalising approximately 20,000 citizens per day who are found without masks in public. We have resolved to continue this drive on a daily basis for the next month at least, and it will be monitored personally by me every evening.”BMC had made it compulsory to wear a mask in public from the first week of April 2020 and has also levied fines since then for violating the order. The fine for not wearing a mask in a public place is Rs 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-penalises-over-4-300-citizens-for-not-wearing-masks-on-first-day-of-drive/story-7eBA2qaZcBw29Zc157AZWN.html
13-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Steady decline in cases in Maharashtra, trend could reverse in festive season||Maharashtra is witnessing a steady decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases for over a month now. But with festive season approaching, the state health department officials say the trend could reverse if people do not follow safety measures during celebrations. On Monday, Maharashtra reported its lowest spike in 90 days with 7,089 new infections pushing the state’s tally to 1,535,315. The state had recorded 6,741 cases on July 14. In Maharashtra, the daily cases peaked at 24,886 on September 11. Since the second week of September, the state has seen a decline in the daily caseload. The seven-day average of daily cases in Maharashtra touched 21,996 between September 8 and September 14, the highest so far. In the four weeks since, the average number of cases dropped and stood at 11,666 on Monday— down by 46% from the peak in September.In October, so far, the average rate of samples testing positive has been 17.09%, which has brought the state’s overall positivity rate further under 20%. Also read: The mystery of India’s low coronavirus death rateSince October 1, the daily rate of samples testing positive has decreased from 18.25% to 14.47% on October 11. In the last 24 hours, 54,322 samples were tested, of which 7,089 tested positive, which is a positivity rate of 13.04%.State health department officials warned that the curve may rise again with the festive season coming. Officials said that people will have to maintain discipline in celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali in the coming days as lowering the guard could shoot up the Covid-19 cases.“We have already witnessed what happens with increased movement of people; cases increased between June and September. We are seeing some decline in the number of cases over the last fortnight. The recovery rate has gone over 80%. People should be disciplined and maintain physical distancing and wear masks. Or else there could be some increase in new cases after the festive period,” a senior health department official said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-steady-decline-in-cases-in-maharashtra-trend-could-reverse-in-festive-season/story-JRlhjSUCPSoebhGeDvUlXO.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pollution levels continue to dip, AQI ‘poor’ at 298||The pollution levels over the national capital continued to worsen on Tuesday, as the air quality index (AQI) touched 298, or in the poor category . Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB) data showed that the hourly average AQI at 7 am touched 298. An AQI between 301 and 400 is considered to be very poor.Also read: Delhi’s air worsens as farm fires rage, wind speed stays lowCPCB data for Delhi on Sunday and Monday showed the AQI of 216 and 261, respectively.India Meteorological Department’s scientists attributed the accumulation of pollutants due to low-wind speed blowing over the national capital and a spike in stubble burning incidents the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-levels-continue-to-dip-aqi-poor-at-298/story-vJIj8IkFF26rHYRcpeoxLP.html
13-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government brings back Kolkata’s iconic double decker buses||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee unveiled two open-roof double-decker buses on Tuesday. “Such buses are usually seen in London and will be used here for hop-on hop-off tours. The booking can be done online from October 23,” she said. The buses will pass by heritage buildings and important landmarks in Kolkata such as Writers’ Building, GPO and Victoria Memorial. The authorities will revise the route to include more landmarks depending on the demand. “Folk artists will perform on the bus to showcase the culture of Bengal,” she added. The double-decker buses were introduced in the 1920s. The erstwhile Left Front government phased them out in the early 1990s. In 2005, the last bus went off city roads. In 2011, after coming to power, Banerjee directed the transport department to bring back the iconic buses. “As of now these two will be used for puja parikrama and pandal hopping. Later they will be used for tourism, such as hop-on hop-off tours. They are not meant for commercial services,” said a transport department official. Also Read: Bengal gears up for spike in Covid-19 cases during festive season, 24X7 control room set upThe new buses will have features like automatic doors, destination boards, panic buttons and CCTV cameras. While the old buses used to have two doors, these will have one door. Of the 51 seats, there will be 16 on the upper deck. “The buses will be painted in blue and white, the favourite colour of the chief minister, and will be BS-IV complaint. One of the main purposes the old double decker buses were phased out was that they used to consume a lot of fuel and hence were uneconomical. They were polluting too,” said the official. While the festive season has already started and puja shopping is going on in full swing, the construction of pandals is also in the final stage. In some places, the idols of Goddess Durga have already arrived. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is going to virtually inaugurate dozens of pujas over three days. Puja starts from October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-government-brings-back-kolkata-s-iconic-double-decker-buses/story-RIh6rqukSV2Mbfc5Xq4DTN.html
13-10-2020||Noida||About 100 power connections disconnected by Noida industries due to Covid-19 lockdown||Industrial units in the Gautam Budh Nagar have withdrawn about 100 power connections, due to the impact of Covid-19 imposed lockdown.Speaking to ANI, Virendra Nath, Chief Engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL) Noida division said: “Many industries and businesses have been affected by lockdown. We have got many applications after lockdown from divisions regarding reducing electricity load and some wanted to end their connections. Till now, about 100 power connections have been permanently disconnected and around 150 applications have come to reduce the power supply according to a factory power usage.”“Now things are stabilizing and load is generated among the industries,” he said. “It does affect our revenue as the place like Noida has big commercial institutions like malls, shopping centres etc,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/about-100-power-connections-disconnected-by-industries-in-nodia-due-to-impact-of-lockdown/story-lKGNVAjr0dgCe0WkmN3TRP.html
13-10-2020||Pune||Stolen silver, gold, cars worth ₹1.1 crore recovered from two by Pimpri- Chinchwad police||The arrest of two men has led the police to recovery of valuables worth Rs 1.1 crore from 34 crimes committed in Pune, Pimpri- Chinchwad and surrounding areas, according to Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash. The investigation and recovery of goods worth Rs 11, 137,000 was made by officials of Wakad police station led by senior inspector Vivek Muglikar. The two were identified as Vickysingh Jalindersingh Kalyani (31) a resident of Ramtekdi, Hadapsar, and Vijaysingh Andhasingh Junni (19) of Pisoli in Kalyan, according to the police. Among the valuables that were recovered, 100 kg was silver, 750 gm gold, four-wheeler vehicles, including one Hyundai Verna and two Maruti Suzuki Eeco. One domestic made pistol, five rounds, multiple blades and other weapons were also seized. The two were initially arrested in a case registered at Wakad police station under Sections 457 and 380 of Indian Penal Code for a theft of 3kg silver from PR Jewellers on August 20. However, the valuables seized from them were found to have reported stolen in 34 cases, including 5 registered at Wakad police station, 5 in Chikhali, 3 in Dehuroad, 6 in Nigdi, 3 in Pimpri, 2 in Chinchwad, 2 in Sangvi, 2 in Bhosari, 2 in Bhosari MIDC, and one each in Hinjewadi, Loni Kalbho, Lonikand, and Waliv, according to the police. The duo has collectively been involved in 41 serious cases in the past, according to officials of Wakad police station. The cases against them include murder, attempted murder and dacoity. The two were caught after the two Eeco cars, stolen from Lonikand and Loni Kalbhor, were captured in CCTV camera footage outside a jeweller shop in Nigdi-Pimpri. The police followed their trail to Kharadi, Chandannagar and Wagholi are for 10 days before Police Naik Pramod Kadam found them roaming in a stolen Hyundai Verna car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stolen-silver-gold-cars-worth-rs-1-1-crore-recovered-from-two-by-pimpri-chinchwad-police/story-NDPe9maevGlJAvwnQkOv2O.html
13-10-2020||City||Farmers’ rail roko stir bleeds Ludhiana’s industrial sector||The Ludhiana industry continues to face hardships as the recent strike and ‘rail roko’ agitations by farmers have spelt disaster on exports at a time when the businessmen are already reeling under losses due to shortage of labour and restrictions owing to the ongoing pandemic. Ludhiana, known for its cycle, cycle parts and machine tools industry is in deep waters as not only are the shipments being delayed, the supply of goods from here to the rest of the country is also getting severely hampered owing to non-movement of trains at the ports. The industry is facing a huge deficit of containers due to imbalance in import and exports at Ludhiana. The problem is so grave that the godowns usedto stock goods are full to capacity in absence of any movementand the production is taking a toll. President of United Cycle Parts and Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), DS Chawla said that the credibility of exporters is at stake. “Not only of cycles and cycle parts, but the rail roko agitation has also affected all types of exports in the state,” he said. Former president of UCPMA, Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma said that shipments have been delayed and as demand for cycles has swelled, they need to increase production but are unable to do so as the stocks are not moving. “Due to the ongoing pandemic, the supply of essential parts from China like spokes, steel valves have been severely hit. We are still facing a shortage of labour and now the farmers’ agitation has added to our woes. This delay will also raise the price of transportation now,” he said. President of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), Upkar Singh Ahuja said that the sudden increase of freight and other expenses are adding to losses and mental agony of industrialists.CICU has now written a letter to the PMO, ministry of commerce, ministry of MSMEs, and ministry of finance requesting their immediate intervention and highlighting the hardships being faced by exporters. The major commodities contributing to imports into Ludhiana are metal scraps and waste paper for 20 feet and 40 feet containers, respectively. Orders of metal scraps from Dubai dried up due to the ban on export by the supplier country amid the onset of Covid-19. The import of waste paper also saw a steep fall due to the same reason. Consequently, exports are either in waiting or are forced to rely on the empty containers from Delhi or Mundra ports at an additional cost of ₹20,000 and ₹30,000 respectively per container.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-rail-roko-stir-bleeds-ludhiana-s-industrial-sector/story-RlrYB3gnhQIztj7qA9MyNO.html
13-10-2020||City||Covid loosens its deadly grip over Ludhiana||After wreaking havoc in the months of August and September, the Covid casualty graph is finally showing a downward trend. As per the data shared by the health department, the first 100 deaths were recorded in 132 days but the next 100 deaths took merely 11 days. The virus reached its peak between mid-August to mid-September, claiming over 400 lives. However, after September 25, the contagion’s effect began to recede and the next 100 deaths were logged in 17 days. When contacted, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that it has been observed that deaths and even infections have been steadily decreasing in the district. “But that’s no reason to be complacent. In Delhi, it was witnessed that once the cases went down, people became careless and the cases shot up again,” he said. He urged people to continue observing distancing, wear mask in public and wash hands frequently. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the number of Covid recoveries is also increasing day by day. He informed that on Monday, four patients lost their lives. Three of them were from Ludhiana while one was from Jammu & Kashmir. The dead include a 57-year-old woman Bharat Nagar, a 77-year-old male from Dugri Phase-1 and a 71-year-old male from New Subash Nagar. The district’s yoll now stands at 802. With 75 new infections in 24 hours, the number of active cases in the district stands at 447.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-loosens-its-deadly-grip-over-ludhiana/story-nDVQ3Crgfw1NS2iaJb0MQL.html
13-10-2020||City||Two middle-aged men held with fake currency notes in Ludhiana||The Meharban Police on Sunday arrested two middle-aged men for allegedly printing fake currency notes and circulating it in the market. Police have also recovered nine fake notes, each having a face value of Rs 100, from them. The accused have neem identified as Sanjiv Rai, 42, of Chand Colony and Sunil Kumar, 40, of Karnail Singh Nagar. Their accomplice, Dalvir Singh of Rishi Nagar, is yet to be arrested.The duo told the police that they had started printing fake notes about a month-and-a-half ago. The computer and printing machine used in the crime is yet to be recovered. Sub-inspector (SI) Harshpal Singh said the two accused were arrested following a tip-off. They were headed to the Mangali bus stand from Meharban area at the time. Modus operandiThe accused used to print only fake notes of Rs 100 instead of high denomination notes to avoid suspicion. They also made sure to mix fake notes with original ones to avoid detection.A case under sections 489 A (counterfeiting currency-notes or bank-notes), B (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes), C (possession of forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes), D (making or possessing instruments or materials for forging or counterfeiting currency-notes or bank-notes) and E (making or using documents resembling currency-notes or bank-notes) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at Meharban police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-middle-aged-men-held-with-fake-currency-notes-in-ludhiana/story-791Udf6eb1JtoGP2mbwFVO.html
13-10-2020||City||Curfew gone, late-night revellers are back in Ludhiana||With Covid cases on a steady decline and the government lifting the night curfew, late-night revellers in Ludhiana are back and with a vengeance! A visit to the popular haunts of the city, including Pakhowal road, Malhar road, Sarabha Nagar, BRS Nagar (near Orient cinema), Model town, Dugri and Field Ganj, revealed that most residents are now confident of venturing out in the public as the number of cases have remained well below the 100-mark for the last six days. The weekends attract the most crowds as residents drive up to popular food joints and enjoy late-night snacks and savour on ice-creams with their friends and family. Booze lovers too are back to merrymaking as long queues are now common outside the liquor vends. The traders, meanwhile, are heaving a sigh of relief as they are finally raking in profits. Traders in most of the popular spots of the city, including Kipps market in Sarabha Nagar, Model Town market and Dugri market, have suffered massive losses since March 23, when the restrictions were brought in to check the spread of Covid-19.Gurkaran Tinna, the owner of Waterfront Grills on Pakhowal road, said, “Even after the government allowed us to resume our business, we were not making much profits due to the continuation of night curfew and Sunday lockdown. But now since these restrictions have been removed, our business is picking up pace.”Harpreet Singh, a resident of Model Town Extension, said, “I am trader. The only time I get to spend with my family is at night. We used to visit different places, including Sarabha Nagar market, Malhar road and other dhabas in night hours to grab a bite. But due to the night curfew, we were not able to move around much. But with the government lifting the restrictions, we are finally able to go out with the kids.”Mandeep Singh, another resident, said, “We used to play cricket with our friends at night and then visit our favourite eatery on Pakhowal road to gorge on paranthas. But due to the restrictions, our game as well as the late-night visits to the eatery came to a halt. But now we are happy that we are able go out again.”Sarabha Nagar main market traders’ association chairman Wangjenn Chiu said, “Our market is one of the favourite haunts of the city residents but remained desolate over the last few months. Though the response now is still low as compared to the pre-lockdown period, the numbers are slowing rising and we are looking at it as a positive sign.”Amarjit Singh, the owner of Green Hotel on Railway Station Road, said, “The lifting of night curfew has brought a major relief to the restaurant and hotel owners as well. It has also brought down the level of fear in the minds of residents. The restaurant business in the city mostly depends on bars and residents visit bars only during night hours. The restaurants have now opened up and the business has also increased to around 65-70 percent.” Keerat Bajaj, a wine contractor, said that there is some relief for his sector too as liquor sales had gone down drastically due to the night restrictions. A WORD OF CAUTIONThough the number of new infections is coming down and fatality rate is also down, youngsters roaming around the city without masks have become a cause of concern for the district health authorities. As the threat of a second wave looms large, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said there should be no room for complacency. “While it is a huge respite that cases are on a decline, residents should not be careless,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-gone-late-night-revellers-are-back-in-ludhiana/story-1casCWv1uKzHS4a0IBCyJN.html
13-10-2020||City||Sacrilege sparks tension in Punjab’s Sirhind, villagers block highway||Tension gripped Sirhind town on Monday after two incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib sparked anger among people who blocked the National Highway-1 connecting Delhi to Amritsar. The accused was caught by people at Tarkhan Majra village and was mercilessly thrashed. They later handed him over to the police. Following the incident, the irate residents of nearby villages and members of Satkar committee started converging at the Sirhind police station spot and later blocked the highway. This led to a massive traffic jam and ADGP law and order Ishwar Singh, Rupnagar range IG Amit Parsad and Patiala range IG Jatinder Singh Aulukh rushed to the spot to handle the situation. The accused, identified as Sehajvir Singh, 19, is a resident of Nabha. His search yielded a prescription slip from a Patiala hospital, where he was undergoing drug de-addiction treatment for the past one year. The accused was identified by his father, who was also brought to the spot. Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said Manjot Singh, sewadar of gurdwara at Tarkhan Majra, told police that the accused arrived at the shrine around 11 am and on the pretext of paying obeisance, he committed the sacrilege. “As I entered the gurdwara, I saw that the accused had torn pages of the Guru Granth Sahib. I raised alarm and overpowered the accused with the help of my father. Later, the villagers gathered and the accused was thrashed,” he said. Before he was taken away by the police, the accused confessed to have committed a similar act at Jallah village gurdwara, said the sewadar. After his arrest, the accused tried to mislead the police by speaking in Hindi and hiding his identity saying that he was Sahil from Delhi. But after cops grilled him, he said he was from Nabha. Two cases under section 295-A (hurting religious sentiments), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC and 18, 20 of The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 has been registered against the accused, said the SSP. “The reason why accused committed such an act is still unknown and he will be thoroughly quizzed once we get his remand,” he said. Kondal said after police assured a transparent investigation into the matter by involving the SGPC and the members of the Satkar committee, the protesters lifted the blockade at 9.30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sacrilege-sparks-tension-in-punjab-s-sirhind-villagers-block-highway/story-T94fJCfYKCpKs8wqHfYx2M.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mulund hospital fire: 82-year-old patient on ventilator support dies||An 82-year-old Covid-19 patient died while being shifted from Apex Hospital in Mulund after it caught fire on Monday evening. The patient was on the ventilator. A level zero fire was reported at Apex Hospital in Mulund on Monday at around 6.15pm.Prashant Kadam, deputy commissioner, Mumbai Police, said, “The 82-year-old male patient was on the ventilator and was in a critical condition. The family was informed in the morning itself about the patient’s condition, unfortunately, he died while he was being shifted.”Apex Hospital could not be reached for comment.According to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), “The fire was reported due to overheating of the generator. No injuries were reported due to the incident. However, a total of 40 patients including Covid-19 patients were shifted to other hospitals, including Mulund Covid-19 jumbo centre, as a measure of precaution.An MFB officer said, “The fire is brought under control, however, as a measure of precaution the patients were shifted. The generator caught fire as it was being used since morning due to power failure. Further investigations are on. All patients and staff of the hospital are safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mulund-hospital-fire-82-year-old-patient-on-ventilator-support-dies/story-hkaWkWFhNkVvEcHRVbqbVM.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Class-11 admission: 3rd round of counselling begins on October 14||The UT education department is set to hold the third round of counselling for admission to Class 11. As per officials, the three-day counselling will begin on October 14 (Wednesday). 17 government schools are offering seats in humanities stream, while some schools are ready to admit students under skill courses such as textile design, electronics and electrical technology, and fashion studies among others.Those interested to appear for the counselling will have to download the related form from www.chdeducation.gov.in. Scanned copy of the filled form needs to be mailed to admissionxiut@gmail.com between October 14 and October 16 (up to 5pm) along with a scanned copy of student’s Class-10 detailed marks certificate. Candidates will have to mention five preferences of streams.As per officials, no request for change of school or stream will be entertained during the session. Only students who weren’t offered any seat in the first two counsellings can apply. Any student caught furnishing a false claim will have his/her admission cancelled. Preference will be given to those who passed Class 10 from government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-11-admission-3rd-round-of-counselling-begins-on-october-14/story-NS1POIanxKYTD6epEIm5qN.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Power outage in Mumbai: Police control room affected for three hours||Monday morning’s power failure in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) severely impacted the functioning of the main control room of the Mumbai Police between 10am and 1pm, a senior officer said. The control room is the biggest and busiest emergency response system of the city, which registers over 5,500 emergency calls everyday. All the machinery to monitor activities such as CCTV network feed, wireless vans, mobile data terminals, tablets and GPS-enabled first emergency response vehicles, video wall or monitoring screens, computer and internet-based systems ceased to function during the three-hour outage. Police sources said that the emergency call response system on the 100 number helpline was also impacted and the personnel faced difficulties to resume its functioning in a full-fledged manner as the generators installed to supply power developed mechanical errors and could not be switched on immediately. “Our staff received phone calls of citizens in distress and had to take down the details of their exact locations as the existing system which gives live GPS location of the caller to the police control room and shows the location of the nearby police team on the monitor screen, was not functioning due to the disruption in power supply. We also had to provide the details of the caller to the police team patrolling manually through wireless communications or mobile phones. Because of the power failure, the entire process of emergency response slowed down for nearly three hours,” said an officer from the control room. However, Mumbai Police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police N Ambika said that the emergency calls response system remained unaffected during the power failure. All the five regional police control rooms, which coordinate with the main control room and local police for effective law and order management, were also badly impacted amid the power failure. “Operations at the regional police control room came to a standstill for over two hours as there was no power back up. Officers and staff used mobile phones to communicate,” said a control room officer from of one of the five regional police control rooms. Suhas Warke, inspector general of police (law and order), said that there was no adverse impact on the state police control room and the director general of police (DGP) office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/power-outage-in-mumbai-police-control-room-affected-for-three-hours/story-PKMRgerjyjBr8Jj9CqmUKM.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Notice to James Hotel for defaulting on ₹93-lakh property tax||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has sent a notice of ₹92.85 lakh to James Hotel for non-payment of property tax. A similar notice has been served on TDI Mall Jagat, also in Sector 17, for defaulting on payment of ₹42 lakh. The fund-starved MC is issuing notices for property tax arrears pending since 2004. “James Hotel has paid this year’s tax, but the previous year’s tax is pending. Hence, a notice has been issued,” said an MC official.The civic body had sent a notice of ₹59.92 lakh to TDI Mall Jagat on September 18, following which its operator deposited ₹17 lakh by October 10. Now, a revised notice has been issued to recover the pending amount. Reportedly, about 27% of property tax payers in the city have defaulted on their payments. Against last year’s collection of ₹53 crore, MC has till September collected only ₹40 crore in property tax. This tax is a major source of MC’s revenue. For recovering more than ₹8 crore in unpaid property tax bills, the MC has issued notices to at least 27,000 defaulters. Of these, 15,000 are residential and 12,000 commercial.Nearly 150 buildings of the UT administration have also been put on the defaulters list for owing the civic body more than ₹10 crore in unpaid property tax. A notice in this regard has already been issued to the executive engineer of the UT engineering department, under whose jurisdiction these buildings fall. The dues are pending for the period between 2004 and March 2020. If the pending dues are not deposited in time, these buildings can be sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/notice-to-james-hotel-for-defaulting-on-93-lakh-property-tax/story-tw07aQTHk653CkZzuXBq5K.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Healthcare facilities in Mumbai equipped with enough diesel to operate ventilators, ICUs in case of power outage: Civic body||After power outage was reported across the city on Monday morning, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) directed all hospitals and jumbo Covid-19 facilities to use their power back up to operate ventilators and intensive care units (ICUs) for all patients. In a statement on Monday afternoon, BMC said, “All the hospitals are equipped with alternate source of power, in case of power outage in the city, even though the frequency of such outages is low. As soon as the outage happened on Monday morning, all systems in municipal and private hospitals switched to alternate power supply to keep equipment such as ventilators, and intensive care units functional. BMC is cooperating with all private hospitals where needed and necessary,” the statement said. The health facilities were also directed to contact transport garages of the solid waste management (SWM) department on Monday morning for adequate supply of diesel for the next eight hours. According to a civic official, all private and municipal hospitals under the BMC’s jurisdiction are always prepared with a back-up power supply through high-power generators. “The SWD department always has enough diesel in storage for such emergencies. On Monday, after the city-wide outage, there was a surge in demand for diesel from many hospitals, and the SWM department at all 24 wards ensured swift supply of diesel to all the health facilities. Patient service in hospitals was not affected due to the outage.” The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) witnessed a power outage for over two hours on Monday morning. By afternoon, power was restored in several parts of the city in phases. However, in many areas, especially in the western and eastern suburbs, residents were without power for over eight hours. In some areas, the supply was cut again and was not restored till the time of going to press. Meanwhile, the civic body has requested Mumbaiites to store enough water as the pressure of municipal water supply across the city will be low on Tuesday owing to the power outage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/healthcare-facilities-in-mumbai-equipped-with-enough-diesel-to-operate-ventilators-icus-in-case-of-power-outage-civic-corporation/story-ZpfEYAFbwsxR8eX4M4dzQM.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Command centre to monitor smart field elements launched||UT adviser Manoj Parida on Monday launched the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) as a pilot project at the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) building in Sector 17.The main ICCC will come up in Sector 17 at a cost of around ₹295 crore and will be completed in 18 months. Meant to monitor smart field elements such as CCTV cameras, data of which will be channelised into a video wall for real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other key buildings of Chandigarh, including the MC office, the centre also hosts advanced video analytics system and will generate automatic alerts for events such as abandoned baggage, illegal parking, and crowd detection among others.He said surveillance cameras with analytics have also been installed at the entry and exit of parking lots which will not only help in effectively monitor the operation but also provide vital inputs like colour, make and model of the vehicle. “This technology can be used to generate alarms for blacklisted vehicles and search vehicles based on the attributes,” he added.The commissioner said that Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) featuring red-light violation detection, speeding violation, and automatic number plate recognition has been installed at two locations in the city. “This will help in making roads safer and reduce accidents. Additionally, public addressing system has also been installed to disseminate information to citizens,” he added. An adaptive traffic control system with a variable message signage has also been fixed at a traffic junction to keep track of traffic movement and provide maximum green time to the vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/command-centre-to-monitor-smart-field-elements-launched/story-3NSIS1F9cZSBlq4xNN0JZM.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: Civic-run hospitals affected, minor surgeries cancelled||Health services, especially in civic-run hospitals, were affected as a result of a power outage across the city on Monday morning. Most civic-run hospitals cancelled minor surgeries.As per medical requirements, hospitals have emergency power backup. All the emergency wards like casualty, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and Covid-19 centres did have adequate supply of electricity. However, civic-run hospitals like Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known Sion Hospital, BYL Nair, King Edward Memorial hospitals stopped power supply at their OPDs and general wards. Resident doctors had to examine patients in out-patient departments (OPD) in personal protective equipment (PPE) suits in darkness.“We don’t know how long there will be a power shortage. So, we had to stop the supply at OPDs, which don’t require emergency services. But as we had already received a large number of patients, we completed their checkup in the dark with torches and phone lights,” said a resident doctor from Nair Hospital.Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital, said, “We had power failure only for an hour. So, we kept the essential medical services running without any obstructions. In our hospital, no surgeries has been cancelled.” Around 12pm, Sion Hospital cancelled a few minor surgeries to avoid unnecessary complications during the procedures. “We have spoken to the electricity department of our hospital which informed us that we have power backup only for two hours. So, we are trying to arrange for more fuel to provide electricity in emergency wards longer,” said a resident doctor from Sion Hospital.Doctors said working in PPE suits in non-emergency wards was exhausting. “Once we wear the PPE, we can’t remove it until our duty is over. So, we have no option but to continue working in the suit even though the power outage made it worse. We are perspiring profusely in the OPDs but we can’t ask the patients to go away,” said a doctor from KEM Hospital.“It was exhausting to work in PPE without fans or light. But we were just praying that electricity be restored at the earliest as we have many critical patients on ventilator,” said a doctor from Sion hospital.Around 3.30pm, electricity was restored in most civic and government-run hospitals. But by then, OPDs were already closed. Private hospitals have been less affected by the outage. “Our medical services haven’t been affected in any way. We have a power backup pf upto 12 hours. The OPDs and surgeries are going on smoothly,” said Dr Ravishankar, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Lilavati Hospital. Authorities from Nanavati and Bombay hospitals also assured uninterrupted electricity supply to their staff in all the wards.Jumbo Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the city have adequate supply of electricity for their ICU beds due to automated power backup.Taking note of the power cut, IS Chahal, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner, instructed all hospitals to contract transport garages of BMC’s solid waste management department to arrange adequate supply of diesel for the next eight hours to run generators.BMC has refused to provide data on the total number of minor surgeries that had to be cancelled on Monday due to power outage. As per sources, surgeries will be rescheduled in a day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-civic-run-hospitals-affected-minor-surgeries-cancelled/story-VSIyZwT1NZ4YJVtb2Rg3JI.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s local train services come to standstill after disruption in power supply||Commuters experienced a harrowing time on Monday morning after local train services came to a complete standstill for more than two hours owing to the power outage. Services were disrupted between Churchgate and Vasai stations on the Western Railway (WR), as well as on the mainline and harbour line on Central Railway (CR). By 12.26pm, the train services were completely restored on all the lines.Amid the disruption, passengers were stranded inside local trains. Major stations such as Andheri and Borivli witnessed huge queues of commuters heading to their workplaces.“My train stopped ahead of Kurla station for 45 minutes. Nobody on the train had any idea about what had happened. It was only through WhatsApp and social media did I get to know about the power outage. The railway protection force (RPF) had helped women, senior and differently-abled passengers to de-board the train,” said Ghatkopar resident Anuja Bhosale.Around 350 passengers stuck inside local train compartments were assisted by 100 RPF personnel deployed on railway tracks. The disruption in services lead to chaos on platforms and outside stations. “I was heading to my office at Churchgate and there was a huge crowd outside Andheri railway station. That’s when I got to know about the power failure. I waited for an hour but the trains did not resume operations. So I headed back to my house,” said Andheri resident Dominic Rebello. Though the outage caused disruption in local services, no outstation train was stranded. However, CR and WR rescheduled the timings of 10 outstation trains after the outage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-local-train-services-come-to-standstill-after-disruption-in-power-supply/story-lT1OudtoI05hrAdSyxh2TO.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Syndics, senators urge V-C to hold PU senate polls||With two months coming to an end on October 15 since the senate polls of Panjab University were postponed, the senators and syndicate members of the varsity have urged the vice-chancellor to hold the election at the earliest. As the university has not taken any new decision regarding the election so far, over 20 members of the PU senate and syndicate have written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.”Earlier, it was justified to postpone the senate elections, but now the situation has improved and unlocking is already going on. University authorities should hold the elections immediately for the smooth functioning,” senator Navdeep Goyal said. The term of present PU senate is about to end on October 31. Senators and syndicate members have also cited the recently held PU’s teaching body polls to support their demand. The senate is a 91 members’ apex governing body of the Panjab University. Out of the total members, 36 are nominated by the vice-president of India, who is also the chancellor of the university. There had been friction between the opponents, Goyal group, which has majority in the PU syndicate, and the vice-chancellor ever since the election was postponed on August 15. After that, no syndicate meeting has been held so far. Though the vice-chancellor had convened an emergent online syndicate meeting twice in September, the members had refused to attend the same.Another PU senator Rajat Sandhir said, “It is urged that fresh dates for voting to various constituencies of senate be announced immediately so as to avoid any crisis resulting from the delay in election.”Panjab University’s vice-chancellor has, meanwhile, refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/syndics-senators-urge-v-c-to-hold-pu-senate-polls/story-pUjHZ89w4yuxwRsLzhVk5O.html
13-10-2020||City||Patiala man killed in hit-and-run at Zirakpur||A 30-year-old man from Patiala was killed when an unidentified vehicle rammed into his Honda Activa on Chandigarh-Ambala highway in Zirakpur on Monday morning. The victim was identified as Harpal Singh, who was rushed to a Dera Bassi hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival. As per the police, Harpal was on his way to Chandigarh from Patiala when the accident took place around 6am. He was not wearing a helmet, the police said. Cops are scanning the footage of surveillance cameras installed near the accident spot to get clues about the accused driver, who fled the scene. An FIR has been registered against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-man-killed-in-hit-and-run-at-zirakpur/story-JEnNDSmKJWrHQXrigLXTdP.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, urban belt hit more than rural by coronavirus||Urban areas in Haryana have outnumbered rural pockets in terms of Covid-19 mortality rate. The rural areas have registered 28% Covid-19 mortality rate as compared to about 72% in urban areas, a significantly higher proportion of virus spread.Though three districts—Sonepat, Nuh and Jhajjar—have reported higher number of deaths in rural areas, the remaining 19 districts have reported more fatalities in urban areas. As per the latest health department statistics, 1,150 infected patients from urban centres have died so far as compared to 429 from rural areas. The total number of fatalities reported till October 11 was 1,579. Health officials said the trend that virus had a far wider spread in urban areas was also evident from findings of the serological survey conducted in August. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said serological positivity of urban areas was also found to be higher at 9.59% as compared to 6.90% in rural areas. “The reasons behind higher rate of infection and deaths in urban areas are high density of population, intermingling and socialising, people’s tendency to dump safety measures and large scale movement of people. In comparison, people in rural areas have showed better adherence to safety measures. During lockdown, the residents did not allow outsiders to enter the villages,” the ACS said.Data shows that 58% of the dead were senior citizens (above 60) and about 47% had multiple comorbidities. Only 16% of those who died did not have any comorbidity, as per the data. “About 57% infected patients were on ventilator when they died while 21% were put on oxygen support. Around 15% patients were on bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP)—a kind of ventilator that helps in breathing,” a health official said. Infection rate down for third consecutive week For the third consecutive week, number of infections continued to drop. The state reported 8,277 infections last week (October 5-11) as compared to 10,096 the week before, a reduction of 1,819 cases. The state had reported 2,429 lesser infections between September 28 to October 4 as compared to September 21 to 27. There was a decline of over 5,000 infections between September 21 and 27. The state had reported an all-time high of 17,616 cases between September 14-20. Statistics show that though the health authorities stepped up sampling last week, testing 16,606 more people than the last week, yet more than 15,000 of the tests were done using rapid antigen kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-haryana-urban-belt-hit-more-than-rural-by-coronavirus/story-VYbGroYKQ9IgPgXqpYYnDK.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Six booked for violating safety norms at house party in Chandigarh||Six people were booked for violating Covid safety norms and causing noise pollution at a party being hosted at a Sector-38 house, police said on Monday. Complainant Mahesh of Kansal had called the police after he was allegedly assaulted by five persons — Sarwan Singla, Chetan Munjal, Kanu Sharma, Rinku and Peeta Talwandi — at the party. On their arrival, cops found that music was being played at volume beyond permissible limit and no one was either maintaining social distance or wearing mask. A case under sections 188, 269, 270, 323, and 506 of the IPC and various sections of the Noise Pollution Rules was registered at the Sector-39 police station against the five and the organiser of the party, Munish Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-booked-for-violating-safety-norms-at-house-party-in-chandigarh/story-xArfihTWrAR1g8xMrLdpXK.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||13 deaths, 1,066 fresh Covid-19 cases in Haryana||Haryana on Monday recorded 13 fatalities and 1,066 Covid-19 infections, the health bulletin stated. The death toll has mounted to 1,592 and the total number of positive cases have risen to 1,43,221.Of the 13 deaths, three people succumbed to the virus in Hisar, two each in Bhiwani, Sirsa, Panipat and Jhajjar districts and one each in Gurugram and Kurukshetra. Also, 1,225 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 1,31,228. Active cases stand at 10,401. The doubling rate in Haryana was 38 days on Monday and the tests per million count stood at 87,924. The bulletin stated that Gurugram logged 274 new infections, Faridabad 162, Rewari 64, Hisar 61, Kurukshetra 51, Sonepat 50, Panchkula 47, Rohtak 44, Sirsa 42, Jind 40, Yamunanagar 39, Jhajjar 28, Ambala 28, Mahendergarh 24, Karnal 21, Panipat 18, Palwal 15, Bhiwani 19, Fatehabad 19, Kaithal 18, and Charkhi Dadri 2. Khattar, govt officials take Covid pledgeChief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and government officials on Monday took a pledge to reaffirm the resolve to fight Covid-19 pandemic. An official spokesperson said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann ki Baat programme on October 8 had asked public to take a mass movement pledge against Covid-19. Taking the pledge at Haryana civil secretariat, Khattar said he will be vigilant and bear in mind at all times the risk to him and his colleagues from the virus. He vowed to take all necessary precautions, including social distancing and mask wearing, to prevent the spread of virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/13-deaths-1-066-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-haryana/story-NuYwAmwf8YZ3kEz1MODigK.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Recognition of private schools: Apprise court on decision in 2 days, HC tells Haryana govt||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana government to apprise it within two days about the decision taken on recognition of 15 odd private schools in the state.The high court bench of justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa acted on the plea from these schools alleging that the state has not notified the new norms for recognition which were to be looked into by a committee constituted in November 2019. The Haryana School Education Board has come out with a notification that it will accept enrolment forms and fee only from recognised schools. In November 2019, a committee was set up under the chairmanship of the director, secondary education, Haryana, to look into the issue regarding grant of recognition to temporary/unrecognised/provisional recognised schools on simplified norms. The schools were given extension of recognition for the academic year 2019-2020. However, till date, the committee’s report has not been submitted and the simplified norms have also not been notified. These schools have been left out of the notification on collection of forms and fee from students for the academic year 2020-2021, their counsel Pankaj Maini had told court. The matter will again be taken up on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recognition-of-private-schools-apprise-court-on-decision-in-2-days-hc-tells-haryana-govt/story-vvSlWUrbIhcgkSu4NvinEO.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Power outage in Mumbai: Why did city’s islanding system for uninterrupted electricity supply fail?||Why did the four decades old islanding system, meant to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to the city, fail to work when the power grid tripped on Monday? Developed by Tata Power in 1981 to handle disturbance, the islanding system is meant to ensure that the power systems of Tata and Adani plants are intentionally isolated or islanded from the external grid. This helps the power generated at the plants to be transmitted to concentrated areas and enables the authorities to continue supply to essential category customers. Of the approximate 2400MW-2600MW power supply to Mumbai, 1600MW is to be islanded, with Tata’s Trombay thermal plant’s 500MW, 600MW from hydrogeneration units in Khopoli and 500MW from Adani’s Dahanu plant. The system could not work as Tata plants failed to isolate from the rest of the grid. Adani Power’s Dahanu plant islanded 385MW (the supply has been reduced from 500MW owing to Covid). Since 1981, the islanding system in Mumbai has worked well on 27 of the 37 occasions of grid disturbances, according to industry insiders. Energy minister Nitin Raut said the islanding could not work because of grid failure at multiple centres. “Besides the tripping of circuit-2 at Kalwa-Padghe centre, Kharghar transformer tripped, Uran gas power plant developed a technical snag. This led to overload on Tata and Adani plants resulting in failure of the islanding system,” he said. Tata Power Company, in its statement, said: “Mumbai’s islanding system that saves the city from major power outages was separated, however, it could not hold as additional 900MW load dropped at 10:05hrs.” Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited, in its statement, said, “Islanding of Dahanu saved the essential supplies. Rest supplies are being restored as grid inputs get available from the state system.” Energy expert Ashok Pendse says the islanding system would not have worked in the wake of rise in demand. “Even if the islanding system had been activated, Mumbai’s demand could not have been met. Currently, the power demand in the city is 2400MW owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, but it goes upto 3200MW at other times and in that case islanding could not have worked. There would have been a shortfall of 800-1600MW over the supply from the islanding system.” The state had appointed an expert committee headed by IIT Bombay’s professor SA Khaparde to study a similar outage in Mumbai in November 2010. The committee submitted its report in June 2011.It had commented on the islanding: “With expected Mumbai demand touching to 500MW (in near future), the existing islanding scheme will not work. The islanding scheme needs to be reviewed for possible load-generation balance and accordingly islands need to be formed by separating other networks. Initially, both Tata Power Company and R-Infra (Now Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited) can be islanders together, but independent islands would be required to be formed in future, so they survive on their own available load-generation balance.” Pendse added: “A robust system of transmission with 400KV line as recommended in the report could have enabled direct supply to Mumbai, avoiding indirect supply through Kharghar and Kalwa. Why could the state not strengthen the transmission?” Raut said the proposal of laying of 440KV line for Mumbai will result in additional burden on consumers and hence has been put on the backburner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-outage-in-mumbai-why-did-city-s-islanding-system-for-uninterrupted-electricity-supply-fail/story-rHCm11Hta9Ice45zFztXcK.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Resumption of apni mandis: UT administration to take final call in month end||The UT administration will wait till October end to reconsider the reopening of apni mandis in the city.The markets organised in different sectors for retail sale of vegetables were banned in March after the Covid-induced lockdown was clamped.Stating that the administration will wait for Covid-19 situation to stabilise and improve, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will take a call on the issue at the end of the month. It is a matter of convenience and not of necessity as vegetables and fruits are available in other markets of the city.” Decision on Ramlila soonUT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration will soon (in a day or two) decide on granting the permission to organise Ramlilas in the city. The administration will take into consideration the decision of neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on the issue.“Approval to organise Ramlila is likely to be given, but the administration is still weighing in its options regarding the organisation of bigger Dussehra functions in the city. At such places, management of huge crowd in the wake of Covid-19 crisis is a concern,” said a senior UT official, who wished not to be named.In the Covid-19 review meeting, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed the deputy commissioner to ensure that the festivals are celebrated by people while following the Covid safety protocols strictly. Necessary guidelines should be issued while giving permissions for such public celebrations, he addedMeanwhile, Chandigarh Police held a meeting with Ramlila organisers and representatives of various religious organisations on Monday and directed them that thermal scanning of all visitors and volunteers will be mandatory during events in the upcoming festive season.UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal told the organisers that all entrances should have provisions for thermal screening and hand sanitisation. Even the organisers must get scanned before entering the venues, he added. Police also advised the organisers to ensure the usage of masks, maintenance of social distancing norms, and sanitisation of temples and Ramlila stages. Strengthening of dispensariesIn the meeting, Badnore stressed upon the need to strengthen the smaller health units located in various sectors. He instructed the director, health services, to ensure that more doctors are posted and more facilities provided in these dispensaries, so that patients do not throng the OPD facilities in PGIMER or GMSH-16.The administrator directed special secretary, health, to ensure that patients in home isolation are taken care of and provided necessary medicines and health kits. Regular monitoring and telephonic consultations with them should be done by dedicated doctors, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resumption-of-apni-mandis-ut-administration-to-take-final-call-in-month-end/story-ZKMohR9CZeGZnOqconY5dP.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Power failure: Schools in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai cancel exams, events and classes||The power failure in the city led to several schools cancelling their exams while many others cancelled online classes and special events. “We had our primary school exams today, but we had to cancel them and inform the students accordingly. Some of our teachers had come to the school for the exam and were stuck in school due to the power outage. We also had a storytelling event which had to be cancelled,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal of Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle. Sanghvi added that even after power was restored, classes could not be resumed. “The staff waited in the school till 2pm but since power had not resumed, we had to leave. Parents were already informed about the postponement,” she said.At St Mary’s School (ICSE) in Mazagaon, online classes had to be cancelled. “We informed all our teachers to communicate this to the students. Similarly, we told our non-teaching staff not to come today,” said Father Francis Swamy, principal of the school. Several teachers who were headed to go to school were stuck due to trains being stalled. “I had to go to school to make question papers for an internal test. Now I am heading back home as there are no trains,” said the teacher of a BMC school in Goregaon.At St Joseph’s School in Panvel, the semester exams took place as per the schedule before the power failure. However, most schools in Navi Mumbai and Panvel, too, had to cancel online classes.Yukti Rajan, 37, whose son is in class 2 of Reliance Foundation School, said, “My son Prithvi had online classes from 11.30am to 12.30pm. Around 11.20am, we got a message from school about the cancellation of classes due to power failure. The kids were overjoyed as this was an unexpected holiday.” Gouri Bhattacharya, vice-principal of Podar International School (CBSE), Nerul, said, “We had to cancel the online class owing to the power cut. The message was sent to the parents via our internal communication system.” At Ryan International School, Sanpada, the exam had to be postponed. “Since students can’t submit the online forms, the exam was cancelled and postponed. New dates have not been declared yet,” said a parent from Sanpada. (With inputs from Raina Shine)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/power-failure-schools-in-mumbai-navi-mumbai-cancel-exams-events-and-classes/story-x2VBIuA7RUOBNvTlqvRElJ.html
13-10-2020||City||Haryana farmers fret as basmati prices fall to ₹1,800 per quintal||For the first time in past several years, the PUSA 1509 variety of Basmati is being sold at ₹1,800 per quintal in Haryana, which is far less than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of ₹1,888 fixed for the Parmal varieties procured by government agencies. There is no fixed MSP for the Basmati variety.Raj Kumar, a marginal farmer from Ladwa, has been visiting the Kurukshetra grain market daily for last three days to sell the PUSA 1509. However, private traders are not ready to procure his produce above ₹1,800 per quintal. Several other farmers have also been left crestfallen since the prices of this premium aromatic variety of rice is ₹1,100 less than last year. Farmers blame it on lack of proper pricing policy as private traders have been making the most of it by procuring the variety at their own prices. Last year, farmers had fetched ₹2,700 to ₹2,900 per quintal for this Basmati variety. Farmers, however, say this year they will have to sell it below ₹1,800 since they have to repay their debts. Ram Kumar, a farmer from Yamunanagar’s Radaur said, “After waiting for three days, I had to sell my produce of two acres to a trader at ₹1,815 per quintal. I feared that the prices may fall further since there are no buyers. Therefore I sold it even below the MSP of parmal.” Lack of pricing policy Due to the lack of a pricing policy for the Basmati, farmers are left with no option but to sell their produce at prices fixed by private traders. On the other hand, growers of Parmal are not concerned about the prices since the government has fixed the MSP for this variety. Farmers say the per acre yield of Parmal is around 30 to 35 per quintal and they easily get ₹60,000 per acre. However, the yield for PUSA 1509 is around 18 to 22 quintals and the growers get below ₹40,000 per acre. Mahinder Singh, a commission agent at Nilokheri grain market, said, “It is because of the MSP. The difference between the earning from Parmal and Basmati is over ₹20,000 per acre. Farmers have been fighting to get the MSP for Basmati since the private traders have been buying the variety at their own prices.” People associated with the rice industry have also blamed the lack of proper pricing mechanism for the Basmati. Vijay Setia, former president of the All-India Rice Exporters Association, said, “There is no ban on export of Basmati and the government has also reduced the market fee and rural development fee from 2% each to half a percent. Still, the farmers are not getting any benefits and are left on the mercy of traders.” On more than 50% fall in the prices of Basmati, additional chief secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, PK Das said, “Earlier, there was a policy decision that the government agencies will procure the PUSA 1509 on the MSP of Parmal if farmers are forced to sell at lower prices. However, in past couple of years the prices of PUSA 1509 had gone up. We stand by our decision to buy Basmati on the MSP of Parmal variety if farmers are not getting fair prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-fret-as-basmati-prices-fall-to-1-800-per-quintal/story-N0NXV37R3jSn6lCs124q9O.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Water supply affected in Mumbai due to power cut; BMC urges citizens to use water cautiously||The power cut in the city on Monday affected water supply in the city, owing to which the supply will remain low-pressure. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed citizens to store water and use it cautiously as the supply will get normal by Tuesday afternoon.On Monday, a grid failure caused a widespread outage in the state capital and its suburbs, affecting train services, delaying exams and causing traffic jams.BMC, in a statement on Monday, said, “The power supply in the city was cut off for a few hours this morning, adversely affecting the work of the water treatment plant at Bhandup. As a result, the water supply in the city area was partially affected and has also reduced in some areas.”A BMC official from the hydraulics department said, “Water supply is affected and this means the supply pressure will be low. This is basically a cascading effect. Supply will be normal by tomorrow [Tuesday] afternoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/water-supply-affected-in-mumbai-due-to-power-cut-bmc-urges-citizens-to-use-water-cautiously/story-J2rtp79gJtnj3qA2yc6pEJ.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Power outage leads to water cuts in Thane, Kalyan, Bhiwandi; loom workers lose a day’s wage||Several areas of Thane, Kalwa, Mumbra, Kalyan and Bhiwandi were affected due to the power failure on Monday morning. While power was restored in some areas within a few hours, many areas in Kalwa, Kalyan and Bhiwandi had to wait till around 8pm. Power loom workers in Bhiwandi were the most affected as they lost a day’s pay due to the power failure.“The labourers working in these power looms are daily wage workers and get paid on the basis of how many metres of cloth they produce. Hence, a six-hour power cut means they lost earning opportunity for the day. Moreover, power loom owners have a deadline for supply of materials. The day-long power outage has left a huge impact on our production,” said Jivraj Nagariya, chairman of Power Loom Owners Federation, Bhiwandi. Some parts of Thane such as Upvan, Majiwada and Kopri did not have power for a long time while power connection in Vartak Nagar and Naupada was restored by evening. Kalwa, Mumbra, Bhiwandi and some parts of Kalyan did not have power till late in the night. “The repair work is in progress in a phase-wise manner. We are hoping that the situation will be under control at the earliest. However, areas like Shilphata, Bhiwandi and Mumbra will take some more time,” said Chetan Bijlani, public relations officer, Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB). The power failure also impacted water supply in Kalyan, Dombivli, Mumbra, Thane city and some parts of Bhiwandi. “Due to the power outage, pumping of water at Temghar was stopped on Monday for around five hours. Although water supply has been restored, water flow would be low till Tuesday morning. We sent an alert and requested all residents to use water sparingly on Monday,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).However, TMC and the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) ensured that Covid care centres and hospitals had power back up. “We made arrangements for power back up at our Covid care centres and hospitals. We also made arrangements for water tankers for areas where we were unable to supply water due to power outage,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.Students and professional working from home were also severely affected. Supriti Katkar, principal of Radcliffe School in Thane, said, “We had our online tests on Monday. Due to the power outage, not everyone could login online. So, we postponed the test and conducted it later in the day. However, some students were upset with the rescheduling.”“Not only our work schedules but also cooking and cleaning took a backseat as there was no water supply. We have a toddler at home and it was difficult to get her to sleep in the extremely hot weather without fans,” said Suhas Sawant, 35, a resident of Kalwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/power-outage-leads-to-water-cuts-in-thane-kalyan-bhiwandi-loom-workers-lose-a-day-s-wage/story-twrZe2K9fa1XujXUUtEusJ.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||High Covid positivity rate remains a concern in Chandigarh||The Covid-19 positivity rate in Chandigarh has dropped by 7% in the first 10 days of October when compared with the same period in September, though the overall rate continues to remain around 15% even as there has been a drop in the number of cases recently.Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive for every hundred tests conducted.Comparing the two periods (September 1-10 and October 1-10), the number of fresh cases has seen 62% drop and tests have gone down by 66%. However, there seems to be a renewed effort to increase the testing numbers, as the health department has started aggressive sampling in containment zones. While, on an average only around 650 tests were conducted in the first five days of this month, around 900 have been conducted daily in the next five days. In fact, 1,334 people were tested on October 12, highest this month. Overall, 88,819 people have been tested so far, of whom 13,260 have tested positive (positivity rate of 14.9%). What high positivity rate suggestsA high positivity rate suggests that testing has been restricted to a particular group, such as those reporting for testing or seeking medical treatment, without encouraging more people in the community to come forward and get sampledThrowing more light on it, a community health expert at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), who did not wish to be named, said, “High positivity rate indicates that the authorities are testing sick patients and those reporting for testing, which is as per the established protocol. However, if more random samples of high-risk groups or people in professions that have more public interaction, such as vendors, policemen and salespersons, are taken, it can lead to a higher case detection. It will also bring down the positivity rate.”The World Health Organisation had also suggested a positivity rate below 5% for a period of 14 days is an indicator that the epidemic is under control and that social restrictions can be gradually relaxed.What is admn doing to increase testingHealth officials said that testing more people has been a real challenge in the wake of declining numbers of new cases as residents have stopped coming forward to get tested.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang said that mobile testing teams have been sent to the MC office and UT secretariat besides congested areas like Hallomajra and Manimajra for testing people who come forward voluntarily. She said special drives for random testing have been conducted at the Police Colony, vegetable market and various community centres too.“If we see the single-day positivity rate, it has decreased from 30-35% from the peak time (in September) to 6-7% in recent days,” said health secretary Arun Gupta.Claiming the criticism over low testing in the first few months of the pandemic is “unwarranted”, he said: “As the prevalence was low, there was no need to randomly pick up people for tests. But now when we see widespread infections, we have resorted to non-targeted testing in containment zones as well as in market areas where public presence is more. Earlier, people themselves reporting was almost equal to our capacity for testing, which has now decreased. So, it also gives us more room for testing more people who seem to be at high risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-covid-positivity-rate-remains-a-concern-in-chandigarh/story-1ps4zp2E6mWoK7SqAScwML.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Power outage brings Mumbai to a standstill; probe ordered||Millions of people across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) went without electricity for between three and 12 hours, owing to a rare grid failure triggered by “multiple trips” during maintenance work on Monday morning. A power outage of this scale had last happened in November 2010, while in mid-2018, a fire on a transformer caused major electricity cuts in the city and its suburbs.Monday’s blackout from around 10.05am paralysed India’s financial capital, already strained by a pandemic, stranding thousands of train passengers; affecting hospitals, online exams and mobile telephone services; disrupting the new normal of work-from-home; trapping people in elevators and even causing the police control room to crash. While the power supply was gradually restored starting 1pm, many parts of the city (especially in eastern suburbs), Thane and Navi Mumbai were without electricity for more than 12 hours. In some areas, supply was restored only to be cut again and it hadn’t been restored until late night.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), MMR gets its power supply via four main transmission lines. Of the four, on October 10, there were issues with the Kalwa-Talegaon line, on which repairs were undertaken as a conductor was broken. Later, the 400KV Kalwa-Padghe line-1 also tripped, owing to excess voltage around 4.33am and work of changing the insulator was undertaken by the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL). While Mumbai’s supply was on via the other two transmission lines, Kalwa-Padghe line-2 was hit by technical problems and tripped at 10.01am. Thus, three of the four lines that supply power to Mumbai and surrounding areas were affected, officials said. This resulted in tripping of 500MW of Tata Power’s Trombay plant and 250MW of Adani Electricity’s Dahanu plant.The power fiasco prompted Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to order a probe and convene a meeting with officials, including state energy minister Nitin Raut, on Monday evening. “The probe will look into reasons for the outage, find out whether it was unavoidable and caused because of negligence on part of the officials concerned. The committee will also recommend measures to be taken to avoid such an occurrence in the future,” Thackeray said. He also asked officials to remain alert as there is a heavy rain forecast for the city. The CM meeting was also attended by minister of state for energy Prajakt Tanpure, senior officials from the government and representatives of Tata Power, Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) and Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) agency. The government is expected to set up a committee under its technical advisor Uttam Zalte, with experts from IIT-Powai, and officials from the energy department. Raut said, “The probe committee will do a technical audit and root-cause analysis, which will help us avoid any such failure in future. It will also see whether the department followed all protocols required, while going for the maintenance of the transmission system, all precautions were taken among others. The probe will find out flaws if any, but the transmission company today [Monday] did a commendable job by restoring electricity in just three-and-a-half hours.”The power outage in areas served by all four distribution companies —BEST, AEML, Tata Power Co Ltd and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL)— virtually brought the city to a standstill, with traffic jams caused by around 700 disrupted traffic signals and also dysfunctional street lights across the eastern express highway late in the evening. Meanwhile, Mumbai civic chief IS Chahal directed the administration to ensure diesel for generators for civic hospitals and Covid care centres.According to MSETCL, the Kalwa-Padgha line-1 was affected owing to over-voltage around 4.33am. Post which, restoration work undertaken. The cascading effect of multiple tripping lines resulted in affecting a total of 1,700MW load in Mumbai. The city’s demand is anywhere between 1,600MW to 2,600MW. Around 6pm, MSETCL stated that 70% of the power restoration has been completed and power has been restored mainly for essential services like railways and hospitals.While Mumbai has a well-known islanding system, which isolates itself during a state grid failure to continue supply to the city, Tata Power in its statement on Monday said that islanding could not hold owing to the additional drop of 900MW.The company said, “Mumbai’s islanding system, which saves the city from major power outages, was separated, however, it could not hold as additional 900MW dropped at 10.05 hours.”It further said, “Tata Power swiftly began restoration work to bring back supply from the 3 Hydro units and Trombay gas and coal units as soon as the MSETCL transmission lines were connected. Tata Power started restoring supply to its consumers progressively from 12 noon onwards. Tata Power regrets the inconvenience caused to its consumers due to this unforeseen event in power failure due to the transmission system failure leading to the cascading impact to all downstream suppliers of electricity including Tata Power, BEST and its consumers.”The MSETCL, which handles the units, stated that there were sparks observed at the Kharghar unit, too, post which both the Kalwa and Kharghar unit came down to zero load, also affecting the Trombay power unit, which is a major supplier for Mumbai.Dinesh Waghmare, managing director of MSEDCL, said, “Ideally, when there is a failure in the state grid, Mumbai could isolate itself owing to the Trombay and Dahanu power plants, however, on Monday, there was a cascading effect.”MSETCL said that the technical fault resulted in tripping 570MW of Tata Power, 440MW of BEST and 700MW of AEML.Tata Power caters to seven lakh consumers, while BEST and AEML cater to 10 lakh consumers in the island city and close to 30 lakh consumers in the suburbs respectively.AEML in its statement said that it went into islanding for essential installations in the city, though residential units did face power outage.AEML, in its statement said, “Due to transmission network failure outside of our system at around 10.05 this morning, power grid saw outages across utilities in Mumbai. However, AEML operated islanding facility successfully and continued successfully power supply to vital installations with the help of Dahanu Thermal Power Station (DTPS). We wish we had more power for which we are dependent on grid input. The power supplies to remaining consumers of AEML are being restored in phased manner as input power is being restored by Grid operations of Maha.”On Monday, Mumbai’s power demand was close to 2,600MW. While DTPS has an installed capacity of 500MW, Trombay has a capacity of about 1,100MW, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/power-outage-brings-mumbai-to-a-standstill-probe-ordered/story-psReskhURqozVJDoCJf4nN.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Nagpur resident booked for posting objectionable tweets against CM Uddhav Thackeray, Aaditya directed to appear before Mumbai cyber cell||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar, booked for making derogatory statements against chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and his son and environment minister Aditya Thackeray on social media, to appear before the cyber cell of the Mumbai Police at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) on October 16. The court has also directed Thakkar to hand over his mobile phone to investigators and posted the matter for hearing on October 23. A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, while hearing the plea of Thakkar to quash the multiple first information reports (FIRs) filed against him for the alleged objectionable tweets against the CM and Aaditya, was informed by advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud that Thakkar had got interim protection from a Nagpur bench of the HC in a similar plea there. Dr Chandrachud then informed that as per court directions in the previous hearing, his client had attended the VP Road police station where the FIRs was registered against him and had also recorded his statement there. However, he had to leave the police station in a hurry as he was informed that a police team from the cyber cell was coming to arrest him. In light of this, Dr Chandrachud submitted that his client should not only be given protection but also be allowed to have an advocate with him when he goes to the police station. He assured the court that the lawyer would be at a distance from where he could see Thakkar but not hear the questioning by the police. He further submitted that Thakkar was incorrectly booked under section 505 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as he had not incited any hatred between any community with his tweets. The advocate claimed that the accused should have instead been booked under section 504 (intentionally insults, gives provocation to any person) of the IPC. However, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the court that Thakkar had not cooperated with the police, nor complied with the previous court order and had run away from VP Road police station without signing the statement. Thakare said that this was done at the behest of the accused’s lawyer who was present with him at the police station. Thakare, however, submitted that if Thakkar was willing to attend the police station at VP Road and the cyber cell at BKC, police would consider his application to allow a lawyer to be present with him. With regards to the threat of being arrested under one FIR or another, Thakare said that even though Thakkar had approached the court to quash the FIRs, he had not restrained himself from making objectionable tweets against political personalities. Thakare also submitted that Thakkar had not deposited his mobile phone to the investigators. After hearing the submissions, the court directed Thakkar to attend the police station on October 16 between 11am and 1pm, and also asked him to deposit his mobile handset with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpur-resident-booked-for-posting-objectionable-tweets-against-cm-uddhav-thackeray-aaditya-directed-to-appear-before-mumbai-cyber-cell/story-jRSPkCB3IoNgcjAdcTKOOM.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Payal Tadvi suicide case: Mother writes to Maharashtra CM pleading government to file review against SC order||The mother of Payal Tadvi, a postgraduate student at BYL Nair Hospital who died of suicide last year, has written to Uddhav Thackeray, chief minister of Maharashtra and minister for law and judiciary, pleading to file a review petition against the order of the Supreme Court permitting the accused doctors to resume their postgraduate medical course in gynaecology and obstetrics. Payal Tadvi’s mother Abeda also said that they should allow these three doctors to resume their studies only after the trial in the case is over. Twenty-six-year-old Tadvi, a second-year medical student at Dr BYL Nair Hospital, died by suicide on May 22 last year. The Mumbai Police had arrested three senior doctors namely - Dr Hema Ahuja, Dr Bhakti Mehar and Dr Ankita Khandilwal on May 29, 2019. The accused were charged with abetment to suicide under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code and also for offences under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989 and the Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act of 1999. After spending nearly two months in prison, they were granted bail by Bombay high court on August 7, 2019. The high court, however, ordered that the three shall not enter the college and the licences issued to them by the Medical Council of India as well as Maharashtra Medical Council would remain suspended until the conclusion of the trial in the case. The Apex court last week relaxed the condition and said the three can go back to their studies provided they appear in court whenever the case is posted for a hearing and don’t attempt to influence witnesses. Against the order, the family wants the government to file a review petition. In the letter written in Marathi, Abeda also claimed that the anti-ragging committee of the Dr BYL Nair Hospital in their report held the three doctors guilty of ragging the junior doctor. However, Abeda alleged that even after the report, no action has been taken against the doctors. “Because of no action by the hospital, Maharashtra Medical Council, (MMC) ignored the report of the committee and revoked the suspension of the doctors. The doctors took the opportunity and approached the Apex court for relaxation in the condition. The government should now probe on who is responsible and take action,” Abeda said in her letter written in Marathi. Besides the family also staged a protest outside the hospital on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/payal-tadvi-suicide-case-mother-writes-to-maharashtra-cm-pleading-government-to-file-review-against-sc-order/story-HryLF5n0ZxtA3gAswW2iaK.html
13-10-2020||City||2 arrested for killing a labourer over work disputes in Kalyan, near Mumbai||Kalyan police arrested two men for killing a labourer from railway canteen construction site. The accused Gulam Ali Khan, 33 and Akil Khan, 38, had buried his body four days ago. According to police, the victim is identified as Mukesh Poreddiwar, 45. On October 10, railway canteen contractor Ghanashyam Rathod, found an unknown body while digging at the site for constructing the plinth of the canteen. The police reached the spot and informed the tehsildar about it. Senior inspector, NK Bankar said, “Initially the body could not be recognised as the face of the victim was damaged. The watchman and site manager informed that labourer Poreddiwar, has been missing from the past two days. They identified him through his clothes.” Bankar further added, “The deceased was from Gadchiroli and had worked at the site for just 12 days and stayed with Gulamali. We came to know the two had altercations several times after consuming alcohol over petty issues related to work. Khan who was angry on Poreddiwar, decided to kill him with the help of his friend Akil.” On the night of October 8, they assaulted him and beat him to death after he was drunk, damaged his face with a rock and buried the body at the construction site. Police have arrested the two accused on charges of murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-killing-a-labourer-over-work-disputes-in-kalyan-near-mumbai/story-hECysskSrpSPpHKYVGfpdK.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records lowest Covid-19 cases surge in 90 days||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 7,089 new Covid-19 cases — its lowest 24-hour rise in 90 days — to push up the state’s tally to 1,535,315. The state had recorded 6,741 cases on July 14. Maharashtra also reported 165 fatalities, taking the toll to 40,514. The number of active patients in the state stands to 212,439.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,620 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 231,066. Mumbai also reported 36 fatalities, pushing up the toll to 9,469. The city has 25,360 active cases. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, had 1,540 new cases and 35 deaths. The numbers going down in MMR is crucial for Mumbai as thousands of people travel in the region for business and work.Of the 165 deaths reported on Monday, 100 were from the previous 48 hours, while 21 were from the past week. The remaining 44 deaths were from the week before last. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state stood at 2.64%. Monday also saw 15,656 patients discharged, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,281,896. The state’s recovery rate also improved to 83.49%.The state has been witnessing a decline in daily cases over the past five weeks. The seven-day average of daily cases in Maharashtra touched 21,996 between September 8 and September 14, the highest so far. In the four weeks since, the average number of cases dropped and stands at 11,666 on Monday— down by 46% from the peak in September. In October, so far, the average rate of samples testing positive has been 17.09%, which has brought down the state’s overall positivity rate under 20%. The state’s overall positivity rate stood at 19.94%. Since October 1, the daily rate of samples testing positive has decreased from 18.25% to 14.47% on October 11. In the last 24 hours, 54,322 samples were tested, of which 7,089 tested positive, which is a positivity rate of 13.04%.However, the state health department officials warned that the curve may rise again with the festive season coming up. Officials said that people will have to maintain discipline in celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali in the coming days. “We have already witnessed what happens with increased movement of people; cases increased between June and September. People should be disciplined and maintain physical distancing and wear masks. There could be some increase in cases after the festive period,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-lowest-covid-19-cases-surge-in-90-days/story-tUuh3mPRBODCO8wfor6SII.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Instances of black marketing of critical Covid-19 medicines, but culprits nabbed: Maharashtra FDA to Bombay HC||Maharashtra food and drugs administration (FDA) on Monday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that there had been some instances of black marketing of two critical Covid-19 medicines but the culprits have been dealt with firmly.There were a few incidents of black marketing of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, which are required for supporting treatment of critical Covid-19 patients, were being sold above maximum retail price (MRP) by some unscrupulous elements without any drug licenses, FDA stated in an affidavit.It added that the FDA and police swung into action immediately and made sincere efforts to prevent black marketing of the critical drugs. As a result, five first information reports (FIRs) have been registered at Mumbai and Thane between July 10 and August 3, and 18 persons have been arrested in connection with the crimes.FDA has set up a control room and also provided a helpline to ensure that the critical medicines are made available to Covid-19 patients in time, it added.The affidavit was filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) by Jayesh Mirani, president of All Maharashtra Human Rights Welfare Association, complaining about black marketing of Remdesivir 100 and Actimera 400 injections and Fabiflu tablets required for treatment of critical Covid-19 patients.According to Mirani’s counsel, advocate Prashant Pandey, a Remdesivir 100 injection has an MRP of ₹3,000 but is being sold on the black market for over ₹30,000. Therefore, the injections and tablet should be made available by the government directly at Covid care centres.Besides, Pandey said, because of the artificial shortage of the medicines, relatives of Covid-19 patients are required to run from pillar to post to get these drugs, as they are not available at medical stores. He said he was told that in Mumbai, the medicines were available only with six suppliers.The PIL is expected to come up for hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/instances-of-black-marketing-of-critical-covid-19-medicines-but-culprits-nabbed-maharashtra-fda-to-bombay-hc/story-FE1MkjcJTDapeteJ1KR4oO.html
13-10-2020||City||Foetus found at Vashind, near Mumbai; father, boyfriend arrested||A dead foetus found near a building in Vashind three days ago led the police to a rape victim who was allegedly repeatedly raped by her father and boyfriend for over a year. The police have arrested the two men for sexually assaulting the 18-year-old girl who was pregnant after the constant abuse.A police officer from Vashind Police Station said, “The girl’s father is a 51-year-old school teacher while the boyfriend is a 21-year-old resident of Panvel. She was allegedly raped since she was a minor.”The girl was in a relationship with the man since she was in school however the girl’s family was against the match and so they shifted to Vashind a year ago. The two, however, continued to meet. Vashind police officers said, “We received a call from a resident of the same building that someone has thrown a foetus from the third floor. We immediately went on the spot and took the baby to the hospital where she was declared dead during the treatment. On inquiring in the building, when we come to know about this girl’s pregnancy. We reached to her and while questioning she told about sexual harassment by father and secret relationship with her boyfriend. We have registered a case under Indian Penal Code section 376 and sections under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act as the girl was a minor when the harassment started. Also, a separate case registered against the girl who is now 18, under Indian Penal Code section 315 for throwing the baby from the third floor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foetus-found-at-vashind-near-mumbai-father-boyfriend-arrested/story-hmR3PYgCdSS0GXjU6l4BTP.html
13-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Actor Rhea Chakraborty writes to CBI to take action against her neighbour for false allegations||Actor Rhea Chakraborty has written to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team probing the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, demanding action against her neighbour for giving misleading statements claiming Rajput had dropped Chakraborty to her residence on June 13. Rajput was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14. The case was first probed by the Mumbai Police, however, a month later, on the complaint of Rajput’s father, Bihar Police had registered a case of abetment of suicide and named Chakraborty and her family as accused. The case was later transferred to the CBI. Presently, CBI is probing all allegations and theories that were floated relating to Rajput’s death. During the probe, Chakraborty had claimed that she left Rajput’s house a week before the incident. However, her neighbour Dimple Thawani, in an interview had claimed that an eyewitness had seen Rajput dropping Chakraborty to her residence on June 13. Thawani had claimed that someone had informed her about this. Chakraborty, in her complaint against Thawani to CBI, has claimed that the neighbour “made patently false and bogus allegations against me knowing them to be false to mislead the investigation”. Further, the actor has claimed this amounts to an offence under section 203 (giving false information) and 211 (false charge of offence made with intent to injure) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “The offences are serious, and the allegations were made on Republic TV channel without any basis,” she said in her letter to CBI, seeking action against Thawani. The letter was sent a day after Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde claimed that they would make a list of people who gave misleading information about the incident. “We will be forwarding a list of people to CBI who made fake and false claims on TV and electronic media… with particular reference to Rhea Chakraborty. We will request CBI to take legal proceedings against them for misleading the investigations,” Maneshinde had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-actor-rhea-chakraborty-writes-to-cbi-to-take-action-against-her-neighbour-for-false-allegations/story-92G3aIArGJse3XhJaX6PII.html
13-10-2020||City||Zirakpur road rage: Woman among three more held||Three more people, including a woman, were arrested on Monday in the Zirakpur road rage case. Anil Thakur, 35, of Kharar was shot dead after he intervened in a brawl that erupted between his friends and another group on being denied to overtake the latter’s vehicle on Zirakpur’s VIP Road in wee hours of Saturday. Both groups were in SUVs. Thakur had rushed to the spot after getting a call from his friend.Police had booked seven people, including Happy Brar, a businessman from Faridkot, who had allegedly opened fire from his .12 bore pistol, hitting Thakur in his chest and abdomen.One of the co-accused, Ramesh Kumar, who runs a shop in Mohali, was arrested on Sunday. The three others have been identified as Ramesh Lal of Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, Lovepreet Singh, alias Luv, from Muktsar, and Ramandeep Kaur from Mansa. They will be produced in court on Tuesday. Police have also recovered two vehicles – Toyota Fortuner and Maruti Swift – that were being driven by Brar’s group. Police said the accused were using a fake Delhi registration number plate when one of the vehicles was recovered. Brar and two others are still at large. Raids are being conducted in Punjab, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-road-rage-woman-among-three-more-held/story-T0Ett0OFj9vPoQoOLpze9J.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Pay staff salaries or hand over hospitals, Delhi govt tells MCDs||The Delhi government on Monday asked the three municipal corporations (MCDs) to immediately pay salaries to doctors and other health care workers in their hospitals or hand over these facilities to the city administration. Taking cognisance of complaints from doctors of hospitals run by municipal corporations (MCDs) about not receiving salaries for months, Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain on Monday asked his department to issue letters to all the three MCDs, asking them to clear the dues of health care workers and supporting staff at north Delhi’s Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals.Resident doctors at Hindu Rao hospitals are demanding unpaid salaries for three months and timely release of wages every month.The urban development department then sent letters to the commissioners of the north, east and south Delhi municipal corporations, asking them to do the needful or hand over the hospitals to the AAP government. “Resident doctor associations of the above-mentioned hospitals have threatened to go on strike if their dues are not cleared on time and MCD failed to meet the deadlines for paying them on time. The above-said situation has led to inconvenience and improper treatment to Covid-19 patients and it has forced the Delhi government to shift Covid-19 patients from Hindu Rao Hospital to Lok Nayak hospital of the Delhi government for a continuum of medical care…,” read the note signed by Jain, which was sent to the state urban development department. The note said “it is evident that MCD is finding difficulty in proper running and management of their hospitals, which has led to anguish among doctors and paramedical staff, apart from causing inconvenience to patients relatives/citizens of Delhi during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and treatment of non-Covid ailments.”The minister further wrote that if the MCDs are finding it difficult to pay salaries and to run the hospitals, the three MCD commissioners should be asked to hand over all the hospitals to the Delhi government. He sought an action taken report from the urban development department in the matter. After this, the department’s ‘local bodies’ wing sent letters to the three MCD commissioners, saying that “serious concerns” have been raised regarding non-payment of salaries, wages and other dues to the medical, paramedical and other staff of Hindu Rao , Kasturba and other MCD hospitals.“...it is worth mentioning that under the extant recommendations of the 5th Delhi Finance Commission, the first and second instalments of basic tax assignment by UD department and grant-in-aid by health and education departments have already been released to the MCDs by Delhi government for financial year 2020-21. Apart from these released amounts, MCDs are having their own sources of revenue generation and thus have to ensure sufficient provisioning of funds to pay the salaries of the front line health workers in MCD hospitals during Covid pandemic,” the letter read. The letter said the MCDs should “expeditiously” clear all payments and submit a report to the department. “If DMCs are unable to pay salaries and facing difficulties in running their hospitals, they may consider handing over their hospitals to the Delhi government to avoid any further anguish to medical, paramedical and other staff and inconveniences to patients/relatives/citizens of Delhi during ongoing Covid pandemic,” the letter read. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, a councillor in the north Delhi municipal corporation, said, “The corporations are facing a financial problem and are unable to pay salaries as the Delhi government is not releasing funds. The government reduced our funds by nearly 58% due to Covid. The corporations have done a lot of work during Covid. We can run the hospitals provided the government clears the dues. As far as not paying salaries to our employees is concerned, the government too is not able to pay salaries to guest teachers, professors, doctors, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pay-staff-salaries-or-hand-over-hospitals-delhi-govt-tells-mcds/story-zFxfxVYk99DLH4hLibxDcM.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||North MCD doctors urge L-G to file FIR over unpaid salaries||A day after resident doctors of Hindu Rao hospital, a designated Covid facility, went on a strike over unpaid wages, senior doctors of north corporation-run hospitals urged the lieutenant-governor of Delhi to file an FIR against “authorities” for not paying their salaries for the last three months. In the letter addressed to LG Anil Baijal, the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association wrote, “MCDA requests your goodself to implement the order… by filing an FIR against the authorities responsible for non-payment of our salaries.” The doctors were last paid for the month of June. The order the letter refers to is the one sent by the union health ministry in June this year to all states. It “directed the states and UTs to ensure that salaries of doctors and health workers during Covid-19 related duty shall be released on time and the violation of which will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act”. “The union health ministry order says non-payment of salaries will be an offence. We are just asking them how will the order be implemented, who would file the FIR, who should it be against? We are asking the LG to implement the order – either file an FIR or give us our salaries,” Dr RR Gautam, president of the association, said. The L-G office did not respond to requests for a comment.The organisation represents 2,000 doctors from five hospitals run by the north Delhi municipal corporation as well as clinics, maternity centres, and dispensaries under it. Hindu Rao is one of the five hospitals run by the north corporation and the only one to treat Covid-19 patients, which were moved to Delhi government-run hospitals on Saturday ahead of the resident doctors’ strike. The other four hospitals run by the North Corporation are Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis, Maharshi Valmiki Infectious Disease hospital, Kasturba Hospital, and Giridhari Lal hospital. Kasturba hospital doctors  had earlier gone a strike for nearly 20 days to get their salaries for June. “We are not going on a strike at the moment because it will hamper patient care. We are hoping the government will pay our dues after this letter. However, if no action is taken, we will be forced to join the strike of the resident doctors,” said Dr Maruti Sinha, general secretary of the association . “The corporation currently does not have the money to pay salaries, we are working to get the funds in place. Our priority is to pay the doctors, health care workers and sanitation workers,” said North DMC mayor Jai Prakash. Meanwhile, even as more than 250 resident doctors continued their strike for the second day, the hospital has started preparations to open up for non-Covid-19 patients. Jai Prakash had earlier told HT that patients were moved on Saturday not because of the strike. He said Hindu Rao hospital had been receiving very few Covid-19 cases and could utilise its services better as a non-Covid hospital. The hospital had been designated as a dedicated Covid facility in mid-June after a spike in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-doctors-urge-l-g-to-file-fir-over-unpaid-salaries/story-BuQ6Fk31snw1IYvJ9KjH4O.html
13-10-2020||Education||Covid-19: Admission buzz missing in DU as admissions go online||Admission season has begun at Delhi University (DU) but amid the ‘new normal’ triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic and without the usual campus buzz. The crowds are missing, so are tents, special seating arrangements for students and parents and food stalls outside. And minimal staff is present as the admissions for undergraduate courses have gone completely online this year. On the first day of the admission process on Monday, the usually busy roads of DU’s north campus were deserted and the colleges remained usually silent. Quite a few colleges put up posters outside their gates, advising students to stay at home. A poster outside Ramjas College read, “Students and parents are not allowed in college premises due to pandemic”. Principal Manoj Khanna said, “Earlier you would not even get a space to stand in our corridors on the first day of admissions. But things are different this year. It looks very different but it’s the only way to conduct the admission process safely amid the pandemic,” he said.Ramjas has set up 22 rooms, each for every department, for admission work. Every time a student applies for any course as per the cut-off, the teachers on duty would get a notification on the portal. They would take out printouts of the application to calculate the ‘best of four’ and verify the documents. “We have set-up a four-step document verification process. Once the teachers-in charge of the department clear the admission, it goes to the co-convenor. Next it goes to the convenor and finally to the principal for the final approval,” Khanna said.Other colleges set up “online control rooms” to coordinate with teachers and administrative officials. The three-tier document verification process at Hindu, for instance, has more than 85 teachers and officials working together. “Generally, we would counsel non-eligible students who came to the college and ask them to try in the subsequent cutoffs or guide them accordingly. This time, we received applications with much lower cut-offs.Teachers are not very happy about using strong words like “rejected” for students who have scored as high as 93-94%,” principal Anju Shrivastava said.Jayesh Solanki, 18, who applied for the BA programme at Hindu College, said, “I had submitted my applications by 11.30 am today and the status is still pending. I called college officials who assured me my application would be processed and the delay was due to the load on the server.”According to the data provided by the DU administration, as many as 19,086 students had applied for around 70,000 undergraduate seats available in over 60 colleges by 8 pm on Monday. Of them, 1,628 applications were approved by the admission committees of the colleges and 920 of them completed the admission process after paying the fees. Miranda House set up a “virtual control room” to address real-time queries of parents and students between 10 am and 5 pm through video conferencing. A panel of four college officials were available throughout the day on zoom call. The meeting ID and password were displayed on the college website and at a huge banner outside the college gate beforehand. “We have been receiving queries from parents and students who are applying to other colleges as well,” the college’s acting principal, Bijayalaxmi Nanda, said. A “virtual tour” was organised for students who would have visited the campus had it not been the pandemic. “We are getting calls from several parents asking details about the campus. The Covid-19 pandemic has made everyone anxious. We thought it would help the parents if they could know the college a bit more, even if it was through a virtual medium,” Nanda said.Every year, student outfits would set up help desks across the campus to help new students and introduce them to their political groups. This year, however, very few people were physically present at the camps organised by the DU students’ union (DUSU) office. “We have set up online assistance desks with volunteers to help students. Other than that, we set up a control room at the DUSU office to help those students who may not have smooth internet facilities,” said DUSU president Akshit Dahiya.The online admission process and the pandemic left another set of people unhappy -- street vendors, photocopy shop owners, and rickshaw pullers, who would otherwise look forward to this time of the year to cater to students and earn some extra bucks. Naveen Kumar, who sells tea and snacks at a small kiosk near Hansraj College, said, “We would get the maximum sales during the admission process when hundreds of students and parents visited the campus. This time we hardly have any.”Sunil, a rickshaw-puller, said he would easily make 30-35 rounds a day from Vishwavidyalaya metro station to colleges during admissions. “I hardly get 6-7 rides a day now. I was looking forward to getting some work during the admissions. It broke my heart when I got to know everything will be done through the computer now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-admission-buzz-missing-in-du-as-admissions-go-online/story-tQUVnaVhy2zYzsGdkBHDfO.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||HC tells DU to declare results of final-year open-book exam by Oct 23||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the Delhi University to declare the results of all undergraduate final year students who had appeared for the online Open Book Examination by October 23, adding that no physical collection of the mark sheets would be allowed and the university should not insist on the students to come. A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad also asked the university to declare the results of remaining two post graduate courses on or before October 31. The DU has already announced results of 16 post graduate courses. The court was hearing a petition filed by law student Prateek Sharma and the National Federation of the Blind, who wanted better facilities for physically disabled students during examinations. The court has been monitoring the examinations and has been passing orders from time to time for their smooth conduct.On Monday, DU’s counsel MS Rupal filed an affidavit in the court stating that strenuous efforts are being made to expedite the evaluation process so as to enable the examination branch to declare the results for the undergraduate and post graduate courses. He said letters and emails have been sent to the principals of the college and heads of the departments with a request to expedite the process.He also told the court that the Sanjeev Singh, head of the computer branch, who was quarantined after testing positive for Covid-19, has joined duty. He said results of 16 PG courses have been declared and the results of MSc Geology and MA Geography is almost ready and would be declared in a day or two.The court, however, said the affidavit is silent on the date for the declaration of the BA (program) results. Following this, the bench directed the varsity to declare all the results on or before November 6 after the counsel for DU said that because of the high number of students, BA (Prog) results could not be declared by October 23.The bench also said that no physical collection of the mark sheet would be allowed and there would be no footnotes on the mark sheets that would require the students to come for the physical collection of the mark sheets. With these orders, the court also disposed of the plea and said that there are no further orders required.Delhi University had conducted the final-year examinations for undergraduate students from August 1 to 31 in the online open-book mode and later in the blended method (online and physical examinations) from September 14.On September 23, the court had expressed its concern on the extended schedule of the DU in declaring the results of examinations. It had said the varsity should take all steps to expedite the results as many students have to secure admissions in other universities in the country and abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-tells-du-to-declare-results-of-final-year-open-book-exam-by-oct-23/story-ZEBmqFTimQVggt42qyOlFM.html
13-10-2020||Education||DU switches to online admission process, less than 5% applications process on day 1||Only 920 students managed to complete formalities on the first day of admissions under the first cut-off list at Delhi University (DU) colleges on Monday. To ensure restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the university is conducting the entire process online this year. Last year, on the first day of admissions, 2,026 students were able to finish the process. According to the data provided by the university, as many as 19,086 students had applied for 70,000 undergraduate seats across 60 colleges by 8pm on Monday. Of them, 1,628 applications were approved by the admission committees and only 920 of them completed the admission process after paying the fees.Officials at several colleges said slow internet connectivity and elaborate online screening process – which involves checking the mark sheets and other documents, including caste certificates – took a lot of time.In the new process, the application of students goes through the at least three levels of verification. The course in-charge of all colleges verify the minimum qualification, eligibility, cut-off requirement, and certificates uploaded by the candidates. Once it is done, the convener or admission committee of the colleges check the application and after that, the college principal approves the admission. The applicants will then have to submit the fee to complete the process. DU dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said, “Some colleges expressed concerns and we have advised them to improve internet connectivity in colleges because a number of people from the same network connect to the same portal, which slows it down. So we have asked them to arrange for additional routers. Since not all colleges faced this issue, it shows that this wasn’t a central server issue but happened at the local server level. Besides, this is the first time colleges are conducting admissions online and it was the first day.”Officials at Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College, which has announced a 100% cut-off for three admissions to Political Science, Psychology and Economics this year, refused to share the data of applications received on the first day. College principal Suman Sharma said, “It will be difficult to confirm the exact number of admissions till the process under the first cut-off gets over. We have received maximum admissions in BSc in Mathematics and Political Science (Hons) on the first day,” she said. Around 300 students had completed the admission process in the college on the first day last year. The admission process under the first cut-off will be concluded by 5pm on Wednesday. The second cut-off will be released before October 19. Hindu College approved nearly 300 applications by Monday night and more than 100 among them had paid the fee. Of them, 15 had applied in BA (Honours) in Political Science – which saw the highest cut-off in the college this year at 99.5%. “Till 6.30pm, we had received 131 applicants for Political Science, of which 52 had to be rejected. Of these 131 students, at least 36 students had submitted 100% as their best of four aggregate,” said a college official, requesting anonymity. The course has 49 seats, according to data shared by university officials.Even for BSc (Hons) in Physics in Hindu College, 28 of the 67 applicants submitted their best of four aggregate as 100%. BSc (Honours) in Physics, the cut-off for which is set at 99.33%, has 79 seats this year. “The remaining applications are still being screened. The number of approved applications may increase by tonight,” said the official.Miranda House received 737 applications, of which the maximum number (87) were for BA (Honours) in Political Science – which had a cut-off of 99%. College acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said on Monday night that administrative officials were still processing the data and could not provide the total number of admissions. The college had enrolled 280 students on the first day last year. “Our team is making sure that the data is checked meticulously and that is taking time. Slow internet and other accessibility issues are causing a delay in processing,” she said.Ramjas College approved 150 applications by 7pm on Monday. College principal Manoj Khanna said that 20 of them had completed the admission process. “We got maximum applications in Political Science (Hons) and BSc in Statistics on the first day. We faced few issues in verifying the CBSE mark sheets online due to which there was a delay in clearing some applications. The slow internet connectivity on the university campus also slowed down the process. We will process and approve the remaining applications by Tuesday afternoon,” he said. Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) had received 200 applications in B Com (Hons) and 130 in BA (Hons) in Economics by Monday evening. College principal Simrit Kaur said they had processed 60% of these applications. “We will approve the admissions and process the remaining applications by Tuesday afternoon,” she said, adding that the overall process went smooth and the college witnessed only marginal glitches. At Sri Venkateswara College on South Campus, nodal officer Lata N said they had approved 157 applications by the evening. “Of which 50 have paid the fees as well. Around 110 applications have been approved by the teacher-in-charges and are pending with our admissions committee. Upon clearance, they will be sent to the principal for approval,” Lata said, adding that maximum admissions on the first day have been in BA (Honours) in Political Science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-internet-speeds-hit-admissions-at-du-on-day-1/story-52NOQs1K8MmAW69ieoa0VI.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi assembly peace panel resumes investigation of complaints against Facebook||The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee on Monday resumed its proceedings to investigate complaints it received against social media company Facebook for allegedly failing to take down hateful content from its platforms, especially during the Delhi riots in February.The panel questioned and recorded statements of two witnesses on Monday, both of whom said the social media giant urgently needed more transparency in its operations, functioning and grievance redressal systems.Facebook did not respond to requests for comment on the matter. Prabir Purakaystha, editor of the news website NewsClick and Pratik Sinha, author and co-founder of the non- profit fact-checking website Alt News, attended the hearing through video conference on Monday.According to a statement released by the committee, Purakaystha deposed that Facebook, through its business model allegedly thrives on the “virality” of hate as it grabs more eyeballs, so curbing hateful content on their platforms does not incentivise them.“There is an inherent conflict of interest within Facebook’s business strategy and curbing of hateful content. He [Purakayastha] also deposed that there should be more effective measures undertaken by Facebook with respect to grievance redressal mechanism as persons sending their grievances must be entitled to know as to what fate their complaint met. This will only infuse more public confidence in the platform,” read the statement, which also said the committee has been reconstituted by the Assembly Speaker with some new members, even as Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha remained its chairperson. As per the statement, Sinha said there is a “total opacity” in the functioning and structure of Facebook. He also is said to have cited various posts, which were widely shared during the Delhi riots but despite being declared fake, still exist on the platform without any requisite mark of caution. “He also emphasised that Facebook operations need to be more transparent, especially with respect to recognising the habitual offender and taking them down permanently. He also deposed that a much greater effort is required as their business model is itself proving to be a hindrance in executing their moderation policies,” the committee further stated.Monday’s hearing by the panel came after the Delhi Legislative Assembly told the Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday that it had summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on whether it contributed in any manner to the build-up of the February 2020 communal violence in the Capital.Mohan and Facebook moved the Supreme Court on September 22 challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the peace and harmony committee. The summons stemmed from the committee’s decision to look into Facebook’s role following several foreign media reports that purported to show the social media company may have acted in a politically partisan manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-assembly-peace-panel-resumes-investigation-of-complaints-against-facebook/story-VIyfhYZPc1EMFGd4TWNkXO.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||‘Laughable’: AAP on Congress and BJP’s questioning on pollution control measures||The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday questioned the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government on the measures it has taken to curb air pollution in the Capital, allegations which the party called “laughable.”The Congress asked why a report on the causes of Delhi’s pollution that was to be prepared by the state government in collaboration with Washington University had not been released.The 18-month-long study, announced in January last year, was aimed at collecting information which would help authorities not just to get a better idea of the chemical composition of Delhi’s pollution but also identify the source of pollutants in an almost real-time manner.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said, “The report should have come earlier this year, but there is no sign of it yet. The government has so far not announced that the project has been delayed.”Chaudhary said the Arvind Kejriwal government is “falsely blaming farmers” for the pollution in the capital. “They are trying to create confusion and fear among the people by blaming the farmers for the severe air pollution because of stubble burning without admitting the fact that a major source of pollution in Delhi is vehicular traffic. They are falsely blaming farmers. Even EPCA’s 2019 report says so. Studies done by The Energy Resource Institute and IIT-Delhi in the past few years say that vehicular pollution is the main contributor to pollution,” said Chaudhary.Praveen Shankar Kapoor, Delhi BJP spokesperson, said, “The government has collected ₹1,259 crore as ECC [environment compensation charges]. What exactly has the government done with the money? It is about time, they tell the people about what measures they have taken to curb pollution.”The state BJP said the AAP government claims about a funds shortage when it comes to the fight against pollution. “Why has the Delhi government not used the ECC funds to buy field residual (stubble) from neighbouring states?” Kapoor said.The Opposition parties said little has been done to bring down vehicular pollution in the Capital. Chaudhary said, “The government has not taken strong steps to improve public transport fleet.”An AAP spokesperson said,“These are laughable allegations There’s not a single thing that the Congress government in Punjab or BJP governments in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have done to control crop stubble burning or other major sources of pollution like themal power plants, despite repeated strictures from the Supreme Court. In fact this year, the number of farm fires has increased five times than the last year.”“On the other hand, Kejriwal govt has been a pioneer in battling air pollution which has made Delhi the only city in India where pollution has decreased by 25% in last 5 years instead of increasing,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-and-bjp-question-aap-on-pollution-control-measures/story-xItCkbKvhjsHMGlv4C07xJ.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi minister issues directives to construction agencies, orders micro-monitoring of 13 hotspots||The Delhi government has started cracking down on agencies and private individuals not following dust-control norms at construction sites even as air pollution levels saw a huge spike on Monday to push the air quality index (AQI) to 261, the highest so far this season. State environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday ordered five measures that government agencies and private individuals undertaking construction will have to follow to keep dust pollution in check at the sites. Addressing a press conference, Rai said as part of the Delhi government’s ‘anti-dust’ drive; he has been visiting construction and demolition sites across the city. Rai said while norms are in place at big construction projects operating in an area bigger than 20,000 square metres, many smaller sites were found to be ignoring dust-control measures. “Even if someone is building a house, if they take small steps such as covering the construction material and ensuring the site is sprinkled with water at regular intervals, it can make a great difference to the overall pollution levels, which tend to worsen every winter,” Rai said. Listing out the five measures, Rai said in all construction sites, irrespective of the size, 10-metre-thick metal panels will have to be installed to cover the entire site so that dust does not spread to nearby areas. Building material and the construction area will have to be covered with nets and green cloth sheets to trap its residue. “Construction agencies will have to ensure water is sprinkled inside the site and on the road outside at regular intervals. Construction sites bigger than 20,000 sqm will have to mandatorily install anti-smog guns to sprinkle water. They will make sure all vehicles carrying construction material or demolition debris are covered while in transit and when it is parked at these sites,” Rai said. Rai said soil and concrete when they spill over to the road break down into smaller particles with the constant movement of other vehicles and turn into ultra-fine particles that can enter people’s organs and bloodstream. “With Covid-19 still spreading in the city, it becomes all the more imperative that all preventive measures be taken before the winter season to avoid a spike in pollution levels,” the minister said. The wheels of vehicles carrying debris will have to be washed regularly to ensure construction residue is not circulated. Apart from keeping a watch on construction activities, the government has come up with ‘micro-monitoring’ teams to check pollution levels at Delhi’s 13 hot spots, Rai said. These hot spots are Rohini, Bawana, Dwarka, Okhla phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri, where pollution levels remain higher than other areas. “These hot spots come under nine deputy commissioners of the municipal agencies and we appointed the DCs as the nodal officers. They will keep a direct tab on any violation. Government agencies will keep in touch with these nodal officers to undertake any work in these hot spots,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-minister-issues-directives-to-construction-agencies-orders-micro-monitoring-of-13-hotspots/story-tAc9v8kTYWdXz0X2GNpcmM.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air worsens as farm fires rage, wind speed stays low||Delhi breathed the most polluted air of the season on Monday, the worst since February 26, with the air quality index (AQI) slumping to 261, in the ‘poor’ category -- which indicates breathing problems over prolonged exposure --- with low wind speed, no change in wind direction and increase in the number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana.The AQI on February 26 was recorded at 274.According to the CPCB bulletin, particulate matter (PM 2.5 and PM10) was the primary pollutant in the city air on Monday. PM2.5 and PM10, dangerous microfine particles that cause a variety of cardiovascular and respiratory problems, are triggered by road dust, industrial emissions and crop residue burning. Also read: Delhi air quality remains poor for fifth consecutive day on SundayScientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the accumulation of pollutants was a result of low wind speeds over the city coupled with an increase in the incidents of stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings, the AQI on Monday rose sharply to 261 from 216 on Sunday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The early warning system of the Union ministry of earth sciences had on Sunday predicted that the air quality would improve to land in the ‘moderate’ zone on Monday and Tuesday because of a change in the wind direction. According to the forecast, Delhi will receive wind from the southeast direction, which will limit the impact of stubble burning to a minimum. There was also a forecast of wind speed of up to 12kmph, enough to disperse the accumulation of pollutants.Contrary to the forecast, the average hourly AQI started rising since early Monday morning. At 6am, the hourly average AQI was 232. It progressively increased and touched 248 at 10am and by 2pm the pollution levels had peaked to 258.Also read: Delhi pollution levels likely to dip today, reach moderate levelThe levels of PM 2.5 (ultra-fine particulate matter with diametre less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM 10 (particles with diametre less than 10 micrometres) also showed an upward trend through the day.The levels of PM 2.5 rose from 91ug/M3 at 2pm to 119ug/m3 at 8pm. The level of PM 10 peaked to reach 258.3ug/m3 at 6pm. The prescribed safe standards for PM2.5 is 60ug/m3 and 100ug/m3 for PM10. Scientists at the IMD said that Delhi on Monday was “victim to several unfavourable factors”, including a delayed change in the wind direction, low wind speed and farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. The air quality is expected to improve only “marginally” on Tuesday, scientists said.“Delhi continued to receive north-westerly winds on Monday and the surface wind speed was as low as 8kmph during the day, which was not strong enough to disperse the polluting particles. We are expecting the wind to blow from southeast direction by late Monday, which would bring some respite but the effect will only be marginal,” said a senior IMD scientist.Satellite imagery recorded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) reported the most number of farm fires in parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday, since the harvest season began this season.Till Monday, Haryana reported 111 stubble burning cases and Punjab witnessed 700 such incidents.Pawan Gupta, research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association, said on Monday farm fires were more widespread in parts of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and also in parts of border areas in Pakistan.“On Monday, the crop fires were more widespread in India as well as in Pakistan. You can see hazy skies over the Indo-Gangetic plains and parts of central India. The PM 2.5 levels were also high in Delhi, Indore, Bhopal, Kanpur and Agra,” said Gupta.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said the government has started “micro monitoring” of all 13 pollution hot spots in the city and will soon deploy environment marshals to check violations of norms.Rai said all construction and demolition sites, irrespective of their size, will have to compulsorily take five steps – covering the area with a 10-metre-high tin shed and the construction and demolition waste with a green shade net, covering the vehicles carrying building material and water sprinkling.He said nine deputy commissioners of municipal bodies have been appointed as nodal officers to keep an eye on the situation at the hot spots.Rai also said that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch spraying of “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution at Hiranki village in Narela on Tuesday. The solution that decomposes crop residue has been manufactured to control stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-air-worsens-as-farm-fires-rage-wind-speed-stays-low/story-HJzmOzCOXp9auiWBONlVVM.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Wear N-95 masks without valve to beat pollution, Covid: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||With pollution levels on the rise in the city, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain urged people to wear N-95 masks without valves to protect against Covid-19 as well as pollution. “The best way to fight Covid-19 is to wear masks, maintain social distance, and practice proper hand hygiene. Wearing N-95 masks will protect people against both Covid-19 and pollution. Surgical masks are good enough to prevent Covid-19 and are also somewhat effective against pollution,” said Jain. However, caution against wearing masks with valves. With N-95 masks designed to keep out 95% of airborne particles, most come with an exhalation valve, which could act as an easy passage for germs and endanger those in close proximity if the user has an infection. The Union health ministry warns against the masks with the valves for Covid-19, as it will let out the viral particles breathed out by a person. Experts, however, said that wearing an N-95 mask may not be practical. “The minister is absolutely right technically; N95 masks are very good at keeping most airborne particles out, thereby preventing exposure to both the Sars-CoV-2 virus and pollution. But this may not be practical. One, these masks are very hard to wear for long durations: the small pore size means people have to make an effort to breathe. Two, they are expensive. These are meant for health care workers in areas with high viral load,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital. He said a simple triple-layer mask is good to prevent against Covid-19 and can keep larger pollutants like PM10 and smoke out as well. The dip in Delhi’s air quality has the experts worried, with several studies showing that increase in pollution levels can lead to increasing Covid-19 mortality. “There might be an increase in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 when the pollution levels go up; that’s what the current evidence suggests. It is well known that pollution exposure compromises lung function and immunity that can lead to complications in respiratory infections,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Currently, India’s case fatality ratio – fraction of deaths among those who test positive – stands at 1.53% as compared to the global average of 2.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wear-n-95-masks-without-valve-to-beat-pollution-covid-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-xSrvPfEUSjK5RHjPc4sfHP.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over Adarsh Nagar murder||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the female friend of Rahul Rajput, the DU student who was beaten to death by her brothers in Adarsh Nagar last week, had approached a nearby police station for help but was denied any assistance. The party threatened to take to the streets and launch a protest if strict action is not taken against the “erring officials”.AAP chief spokesperson and MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said Delhi Police, which comes under the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled central government, was completely silent when the girl reached out for help.“The girl requested Delhi Police to help because her family members were beating up the boy but the police refused to help and told her they will not be able to interfere in this matter. The AAP wants to know from the BJP why do police stations exist in Delhi? Are these police stations here to collect money from the people or to extort people or just to be silent or to help the people and stop crimes? If the police had intervened, then Rahul would have been alive. He was the only child of his parents,” Bharadwaj said at a press conference. Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said they were looking into the allegations.“A case of murder under section 302/34 IPC was registered and five accused (two adults and three minors) were immediately apprehended and further investigation is on. It is clarified that it was a dispute between two families over a personal issue and there are no communal overtones in the matter. The area is peaceful and police are keeping a close vigil. All are requested to refrain from spreading rumours or misinformation,” Arya said. Bharadwaj said an AAP delegation led by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia met the family of Rajput. On the same day, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta too met the family members.The AAP leader alleged Gupta tried to mislead the family and tried to spread communal hatred. Bharadwaj said the girl claimed there were eight people and not five. “Delhi Police have only arrested five people in the case. After the girl spoke to the media, the police took away her sim card and destroyed it. Today, I had a word with the area DCP on the issue, and she has denied the claim. Now, this girl will not be able to contact any person,” Bhardwaj said. Rahul Rajput, a tuition teacher and a second-year BA student, was beaten to death on the night of October 7. Police official said he died due to severe internal injuries and spleen rupture.Harish Khurana, Delhi BJP spokesperson, said, “AAP and Congress are doing convenient politics in Rahul’s case. On the one hand Sanjay Singh along with MLAs went to Hathras. But in the Adarsh Nagar case, Arvind Kejriwal, who is the head of the government, and Sanjay Singh, who is a Rajya Sabha MP from Delhi, has not utter a word.Only when the BJP president went to meet the victim’ family and after pressure from society, Manish Sisodia went to meet the family.Police have already arrested the culprits and girl has been sent to Nari Niketan.But why is Delhi CM still silent and not condemned this heinous crime?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-spar-over-adarsh-nagar-murder/story-znoYYt9UUv00lhfOYN9OUP.html
13-10-2020||Delhi||Centre has stabbed farmers in the back: Delhi CM Kejriwal hits out at farm laws||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday joined a protest leaders of the party at Jantar Mantar against the Centre’s three new farm reform laws, which were passed in Parliament last month. The protest, organised by AAP’s Punjab unit, was attended by ministers from the Delhi cabinet, other AAP leaders from the national capital and members of the Delhi legislative assembly.Farmers in several states have protested against the laws, with the primary points of contention the absence of any mention of a minimum support price (the government-decided floor) and the freedom given to private players and others to operate in areas beyond the physical boundaries of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs).Kejriwal said AAP is opposed to the laws, called for their abolition, and suggested that a law be introduced where MSP will be applicable to all farm produce.“Through these bills, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants to take farming away from the farmers and give it to the corporates. The farmers of Punjab gave birth to the Green Revolution by working hard and made the country self-reliant in producing and providing grains,” Kejriwal said in his address to the farmers and AAP supporters from Punjab. “This is the season of harvesting and sowing the fields, and farmers should have been in their fields. But instead of being on your fields, you have to be here at Jantar Mantar to protest. This is a blot on the society,” he continued.He reminded the ruling BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government that the party had promised, before the parliamentary elections in 2014, that it would implement the Swaminathan Committee’s report.“The BJP had promised to implement the Swaminathan report, which talks about the cost of MSP crop being 1.5 times more. But after winning the election, BJP scrapped MSP altogether. Only 6% of the crop is procured at MSP across the country, whereas 100% of the crop should be procured at MSP, and the cost of selling should be 1.5 times the production cost. What has been done is the opposite of what ought to have been done, that too without asking the farmers. You left the farmers to die by deceiving them,” he said.“The Central government has backstabbed farmers,” he alleged.He also alleged some political parties of doublespeak. “I am sad to see that some parties are playing politics over the issue. They do something in the parliament, do something else behind closed doors, and then pretend to hold protests among the public. There is a national party in Punjab with a very celebrated leader. When the BJP formed a committee to draft this bill, the party leader was present in the committee, who drafted the clauses of the bill to be passed by the Centre. But now, they are playing games and doing tractor rallies. Another party leader was a part of the cabinet that approved the bill and congratulated the BJP for passing the bill. She sat in the Lok Sabha while the bill was being passed and then resigned after the bill was passed. Do they think people do not understand their intent and actions? Now they are taking out tractor rallies and holding dharnas, against a law that is being brought and passed by themselves,” said Kejriwal.Sunita Duggal, BJP MP from Haryana’s Sirsa constituency, accused AAP of spreading misinformation. “Purchase of crops will continue at the minimum support price (MSP). The Prime Minister has himself assured this MSP rates have increased significantly between 2014-2020. Complete security of farmers has been ensured in the farm bills. The role of middlemen is completely eliminated. The Modi government is committed to double farmer’s income,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-has-stabbed-farmers-in-the-back-delhi-cm-kejriwal-hits-out-at-farm-laws/story-Boh0jXnAkMYH2U9K3sWYSP.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore to inaugurate MC’s petrol pump on October 15||Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will inaugurate one of the two planned petrol pumps of the municipal corporation on October 15. The MC has two petrol pump sites in Sector 51-A and Industrial Area, phase 2.The second will be made operational by October-end.“Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will inaugurate the Sector 51 petrol pump on October 15. The second petrol pump will also be made operational by month-end,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav.The financially struggling MC is hoping that the petrol pump will help it earn the much-required additional revenue. “After deducting all running expenses, we expect to earn a profit of Rs 3 crore annually from these two petrol pumps,” said Yadav.The MC had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in September for opening retail petrol outlets, which will be operated by the civic body. The UT administration had allotted plot number 4 on Vikas Marg in Sector 51-A to the civic body for opening and running the petrol pump.The UT had invited expression of interest from government oil companies for the same, following which the IOC was selected to ink the deal with MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badnore-to-inaugurate-mc-s-petrol-pump-on-october-15/story-tNCjO4SiaEiicSctSstlWO.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||CREST to survey households interested in installing solar plants||The Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) will be conducting a demand survey before it implements the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model in the city.The development came in the wake of directions issued by the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) to CREST on Monday. “The JERC asked CREST to gauge the demand levels for the scheme, and access the exact number of households which are interested in it,” said a senior UT official.The UT administration, in June this year, had approved a scheme for the installation of solar photovoltaic (SPV) power plants on rooftops in the residential areas under the RESCO model. As a pilot project, 2,200 systems will be installed on a first come first serve basis.Under the RESCO model, residents won’t have to spend a single penny on setting up the SPV power plant. The SPV plant will be installed by a private company.The residents will only have to give permission to set up the plant on their property. The maintenance of the equipment will be done by the private company, while the extra power generated by the plant against the power used will be paid to the company. After a period of about 15 years that will be decided through e-tender, the plant’s ownership will be transferred to the resident without any extra payment.All plots above 500 sq yards mandatorily have to get SPV power plants. But, with not many residents coming forward, Crest decided to implement the RESCO model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roof-top-solar-plants-scheme-crest-to-access-number-of-households-interested/story-9P3xVPgK7Gr2X1MU5sbcqN.html
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Foundation stone laid by Sonia Gandhi at Atal Tunnel goes missing, Congress threatens agitation||The opposition Congress in Himachal Pradesh has threatened to launch a statewide stir to protest the removal of party chief Sonia Gandhi’s inaugural plaque from the recently inaugurated Atal Tunnel across the Rohtang Pass. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had dedicated the tunnel to the nation on October 3, while Sonia Gandhi who was chairperson of the UPA government had laid the foundation of the tunnel in June 2010.Congress state chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore alleged that the foundation plaque bearing Sonia Gandhi’s name was removed from the tunnel ahead of its inauguration on October 3.Also Read: Atal Tunnel is a symbol of Atmanirbhar Bharat, will strengthen border infrastructure: PM ModiCONGRESS GIVES 15-DAY ULTIMATUM FOR RESTORING PLAQUERathore condemned the government and the district administration for the move. “If the government fails to put back the inaugural plaque within 15 days, we will launch a statewide agitation,” he said.He said that on June 28, 2010, Sonia has laid the foundation stone in the presence of state Congress leader Virbhadra Singh and former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal. “I was surprised to learn that the plaque is missing from the spot,” Rathore said. He added that it is the responsibility of the government and police to find out how the plaque went missing.COMPLAINTS OF DESTRUCTION OF STONES LAID IN CONGRESS RULE “Moreover, we have been receiving complaints from Lahaul-Spiti, Solan, Kinnaur and other parts of the state regarding the destruction of foundation stones laid during the Congress regime. FIRs for these incidents have been registered but no action has been taken till date which shows that these activities are being initiated to satisfy the ruling party and the district administrations,” Rathore claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foundation-stone-laid-by-sonia-gandhi-at-atal-tunnel-goes-missing-cong-threatens-stir/story-X2QX5jLKopiKyqny0yi9bJ.html
13-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand SDRF rescues man who fell into 250m ravine en route Kedarnath shrine||A team of the Uttarakhand state disaster response force (SDRF) on Monday rescued a man who had fallen into 250-metre ravine en route Kedarnath shrine in Jungle Chatti area of Rudraprayagi district. According to Praveen Alok, the media in-charge of SDRF, the Sonprayag police station informed SDRF on Sunday evening that one 36-year-old Sunil Shukla had fallen into a 250m ravine in Jungle Chatti area, which is located between Gaurikund and Ram Bada, on the way to the Kedarnath shrine. Alok said an SDRF team led by sub-inspector Naveen Kumar immediately left for the spot and started a search and rescue operation. Also Read: Three leopard foetuses found in Uttarakhand’s Almora for the first time“The team carried out a search and rescue operation in the night by descending into the ravine using flashlights and ropes. But due to the steep slope, and darkness, the man couldn’t be traced in the night,” he said. Alok said that in the morning, the search and rescue operation was resumed. “And finally, the injured man was rescued by the team. He had received serious head injuries. He was brought up by rope stretcher, given first aid and then rushed to the nearest medical facility at Sonprayag in an ambulance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-sdrf-rescues-man-who-fell-into-250m-ravine-en-route-kedarnath-shrine/story-zvQgVqL41TCMRKhkRlj9XI.html
