14-10-2020||City||4 Ludhiana MC branches get nodal officers||: With an aim to improve Ludhiana’s ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has appointed nodal officer for different branches of MC. They will look after the working of their respective branches and be held responsible for any negligence.Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with officials of different MC branches at the Zone A office on Wednesday. During the meeting, Sabharwal directed staff members to organise regular awareness and cleanliness drives in the city. Chief sanitary inspector Ashwani Sahota has been appointed nodal officer for health branch, superintending engineer (SE) Rahul Gagneja for bridges and roads department, SEs Rajinder Singh and Ravinder Garg for operations and maintenance cell and Kirpal Singh has been appointed nodal officer of horticulture branch. The staff has been directed to ensure cleanliness in the city especially ahead of the festival season. The officials of A2Z company have also been directed to ensure timely lifting of garbage from secondary dumping points. Also, the staff has been directed to ensure that every street vendor in the city should install a dustbin near his vend and waste should not be dumped in open. “A 15-day campaign, ‘My waste, my responsibility’, is being organised in the city and will conclude on October 16. During this campaign, we conducted meetings with religious organisations, residents’ welfare associations and market associations among others. Now, we have decided to continue with cleanliness and awareness drives to improve the city’s ranking in Swachh Surveskshan 2021. Nodal officers have been deputed for this purpose. I have also directed officials to start a challaning drive against regular offenders. Also, a drive will be organised against the use and trade of plastic carry bags in the coming days,” Sabharwal said. Ludhiana MC secured the 34th rank out of 47 cities with a population of more than 10 lakh in Swachh Survekshan 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nodal-officers-appointed-for-various-mc-branches-in-ludhiana/story-XE5SuDHWHXXDnx33klQsDP.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||31 more succumb, 549 test +ve for Covid-19 in Punjab||The pandemic continued its decline in Punjab on Wednesday, with 549 fresh cases and 31 deaths being reported, down from 692 and 34, respectively, on Tuesday. Maximum casualties were registered in Mohali (9), followed by Jalandhar (5), Ludhiana and Patiala (3 each). Bathinda witnessed the maximum cases (68, followed by Ludhiana (64) and Patiala (51).According to a medical bulletin, the number of infections has risen to 1,25,760, of which 7,760 are still active. As many as 3,925 people have died while 1,14,075 have recovered, including 970 discharged on Wednesday. Recovery rate stands at 90.7%. While 32 critical patients are on ventilator, 176 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 22,18,914 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, including 29,447 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/31-more-succumb-549-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-punjab/story-bP4LojLLgOF3VZpxEG4r9H.html
14-10-2020||City||Two held with 1kg heroin in Tarn Taran||Two men were arrested with 1-kg heroin during checking at Asal Uttar village in Bhikhiwind subdivision of Tarn Taran district on Wednesday.Identified as Gursewak Singh, alias Sonu, of Rattoke village and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Kalanjar village in the district, they were in touch with smugglers from across the border, said police.Sukhwinder Singh, alias Disco, who allegedly got them in touch with smugglers and arranged for the contraband to be supplied from across the barbed fence, is absconding. The three have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Drug smuggler’s ₹40L property frozenThe Amritsar rural police on Wednesday froze ₹40-lakh property of a smuggler, who was arrested with 300gm heroin and ₹23-lakh drug money in August 2019.Police said the accused, Simranjit Singh of Shahowal village in Ajnala subdivision, had procured the property, including ₹25-lakh worth in his wife’s name, using drug money. It includes a house, service station and car. The next step is to transfer the assets in the central government’s name, said senior superintendent of police Dhruv Dahiya, who had first initiated the process of freezing properties of drug smugglers in Tarn Taran.When it comes to drug trade, Tarn Taran and Amritsar are the worst-hit districts in Punjab due to their proximity to the international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-with-1kg-heroin-in-tarn-taran/story-LFXvMCirfGq1TTkv6u5JZP.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||MLA writes to Ludhiana DC, MC chief over non-functional street lights||: With residents raising hue and cry over non-functional street lights at Ferozepur Road, Malhar Road and other areas where development works are being taken up by the municipal corporation (MC) and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has written to deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal asking them to resolve the issue. Citing the upcoming festival season, the minister has sought a solution for the problem of non-functional street lights in his constituency (Ludhiana west) in two days. Also, he has sought strict action against officials responsible for the same. In the letter, Ashu has raised objections over removal of street lights from the site where development works are on. Also, he has sought information regarding the department which is responsible for ensuring that street lights are functional at Ferozepur Road and Malhar Road. A large number of street lights on the city’s main roads are lying non-functional. The issue has been raised several times, but both MC and NHAI are passing the buck. The MC has handed over the Ferozepur Road and Bus Stand Road to NHAI as an elevated road is being constructed by NHAI at this road. However, no department is taking the responsibility of repairing the street lights.Ashu said,”A large number of residents are complaining against the non-functional street lights especially at the Malhar road and Ferozepur road. The failure of authorities in repairing the street light might result in accidents. The lights should be repaired immediately and strict action should be taken against officials concerned .” Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said he has written to the MC commissioner Sabharwal and project director of NHAI to resolve the issue at the earliest so that residents should not face inconvenience especially during the festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mla-writes-to-ludhiana-dc-mc-chief-over-non-functional-street-lights/story-lXVdazfRhFlDGNbPRlRQyK.html
14-10-2020||City||Amritsar police arrests gangster Jujhar’s four aides with arms||The Amritsar police have arrested four aides of gangster Simranjit Singh, alias Jujhar, in separate operations on Wednesday.Three pistols — two US-made .32 bore and one .315 bore countrymade — besides 21 rounds were also seized.The accused have been identified as Sahil Singh, alias Gardela; Manak Singh, alias Sunny; Karan Sharma, alias Kalu; and Sonu, alias Kulcha, all of Amritsar.Two of them — Manak and Karan — were involved in shooting at a 50-year-old goldsmith in Amritsar on September 10, said police. Jujhar, who faces 15-odd criminal cases and was lodged in the Hoshiarpur jail, had claimed responsibility for the incident in a Facebook post. The four aides were also involved in two other shootings, said police.Jagmohan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP, law and order), Amritsar commissionerate, said Jujhar on being brought on production warrants revealed that Manak and one Hira Singh had opened fire at the goldsmith at his instance. Manak along with his associate Karan was apprehended from Moga on Wednesday. The other two were also arrested on the basis of leads provided by Jujhar, said police .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-police-arrests-gangster-jujhar-s-four-aides-with-arms/story-zRHXPwaf1isB4kRnOjBRBM.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||SC puts Punjab on notice on ex-DGP Saini’s plea for quashing fresh FIR in Multani case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Punjab government’s reply on a plea by former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini, seeking quashing of a fresh FIR lodged against him in the 1991 case of alleged murder of junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah asked the state not to “rush” in the matter and “don’t proceed any further”, while seeking its response within four weeks. The government told the top court that it would make a statement on the next date of hearing. The Punjab and Haryana high court had on September 8 dismissed Saini’s plea for quashing the case or transferring it to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On September 15, the apex court granted him interim protection from arrest in the fresh FIR. During the hearing on Wednesday, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Saini, said that the “illegal and malicious prosecution” of his client should be stopped as one case after the other is being filed in the matter. He said Saini retired as the Punjab DGP in 2018 and the problem with such cases lay in his having lodged five criminal cases against the present chief minister of the state. “I will show how vindictive the state is in this matter. I am fighting against the state and the chief minister,” Rohatgi said, adding that during Saini’s tenure as the Chandigarh SSP in 1991, there was an attack to kill him. He said following the attack, an FIR was registered and Multani was arrested in December 1991. “It is the case of Multani’s father that his son was tortured by Saini and others and it was the case of the state then that Multani had escaped and was never found,” Rohatgi said. Rohatgi said that Multani was not seen since 1991 and when his father filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court, the state government had said that Multani had escaped from custody. He added that in May this year, an FIR was registered at the instance of Multani’s brother, as his father had died in 2014. He said there cannot be a third FIR in the same incident and even the top court had earlier held that a second FIR cannot be registered. Claiming the Punjab government has no jurisdiction in the case as the alleged torture happened in Chandigarh, which is a Union Territory, Rohatgi said the state cannot add Section 302 (murder) to the FIR without leave of trial court. HC extends interim protection till November 3The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday extended its September 23 order, wherein the Punjab government was directed to issue a notice of seven days to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini if the state contemplates to arrest him in a criminal case. The interim protection has been extended up to November 3, the next date of hearing. “The fresh application and the main petition (filed in 2018) will be heard together on the assigned date,” said senior advocate Vinod Ghai, who is representing Saini. The detailed order is awaited. During the hearing on Wednesday, the state government is learnt to have raised issues with regard to “maintainability” of the plea. In October 2018, the high court had denied Saini a blanket bail but asked Punjab to give him one week’s notice in case he is to be arrested in a criminal case pertaining to the period when he served in the vigilance department and other important positions thereafter. The order was extended twice, but after the Covid-19 outbreak, the plea could not be taken up. In September, Saini filed a fresh application seeking modification of the order. The September 23 order covers any FIR registered against Saini for any incident during his entire service period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-puts-punjab-on-notice-on-ex-dgp-saini-s-plea-for-quashing-fresh-fir-in-multani-case/story-tCVlZcxbI1AtbxWNQurz3N.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||No relief for swimmers in Ludhiana as winter approaches||Despite the ministry of home affairs allowing swimming pools to reopen from October 15, athletes from Ludhiana have to move out of the district for practice during the winters as there are no indoor swimming pools here. The district sports department holds training for swimmers between April 1 to mid-October, following which swimming pools are shut down ahead of the winters. In the absence of indoor swimming pools in Ludhiana, swimmers have to move out of district.Balraj Sharma, general secretary of Punjab Swimming Association, said, “We had written to the ministry to reopen the swimming pools earlier, but they have granted permission now, when majority of the pools shut down as the temperature starts dipping. The swimmers will have to move to other district and states where there are indoor swimming pools so they can practice for next year’s competitions.”Due to the Covid lockdown imposed at the end of March, swimmers were unable to attend training sessions in summers this year.To provide swimming facilities round the year, an all-weather indoor swimming pool will be established by the municipal corporation in Ragh Bagh. Tenders for the project were floated in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-relief-for-swimmers-in-ludhiana-as-winter-approaches/story-EirM2bJ62liAGnsmZCZ9RJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Delhi University: Admissions under first cut-off closed, over 11,000 complete process till Wednesday||New Delhi: As the admission process for the first cut-off list drew to a close, at least 22,186 applications were approved across Delhi University (DU) colleges by Wednesday evening and 11,248 students managed to complete the formalities.According to data provided by the university, as many as 59,730 students had applied for 70,000 undergraduate seats across 61 colleges (excluding St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary) by 8 pm on Tuesday.Of them, 22,186 applications were approved by the colleges and 11,248 of them completed the admission process after paying the fees.Even though applications were closed on Wednesday, students who have already applied can pay the fee and complete the admission formalities by 12 pm on Friday. The university has switched to a completely online admission process this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second cut-off will be announced before October 19.Despite high cut-offs, colleges witnessed a huge rush of applicants and several courses at some colleges have already witnessed over-admissions. At Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), as many as 121 applications were approved for admission in BCom (Hons) and 125 for BA (Hons) in Economics by Wednesday evening. The cut-off for BCom (Honours) is 99.5% and BA (Honours) in Economics is 99% at the college.College principal Simrit Kaur said very few seats will be available in the second list. “We are still processing some applications and students are yet to pay fees to complete the process. We managed to get an adequate number of applications because we had set a realistic cut-off this year,” she said.Suman Sharma, principal of Shri Ram (LSR) College, which announced a 100% cut-off for admissions to Political Science, Psychology, and Economics this year, said they received a “huge response”. “We are still processing the applications and will be able to give the admission data by Friday evening. We are expected to have seats in almost all courses in the second cut-off, except for two courses,” she said. The college received the maximum number applications for Political Science (Hons) and BSc in Mathematics.At Hindu College, more than 1,000 applications were approved by Wednesday evening and around 500 of them paid the fees and completed the process. In Ramjas, as many as 500 applications were approved by the college by 7 pm on Wednesday with the maximum students applying for Political Science (Hons) and BSc in Statistics. College principal Manoj Khanna said, “Of these 500 approved applications, 130 paid the fees to confirm admissions. We still have 300 applications to process. We already have surplus admissions in some courses including some combinations of BA (prog) and History (Hons),” he said. In Hansraj College, 277 admissions were completed in Science courses, and 293 in Commerce and Humanities, collectively, by Wednesday evening. In Miranda House, 666 applications were approved by 5 pm and 324 of them had also paid the fees. Miranda House acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said admissions in Political Science (Hons) under the unreserved category are likely to close in the second list. “At least 60 candidates have already paid fees for admissions in Political Science. The unreserved seats in Geography (Hons) are likely to get filled in the first cut-off. We will have to wait till Friday to get a clear picture,” she said.The rush was equally heavy in off-campus colleges. In Rajdhani College, 377 admissions were approved by 7 pm with unreserved seats in English (Hons) and BSc in Mathematics filled under the first cut-off. In Aurobindo College, 490 candidates have paid the fees to confirm the admissions. Principal Vipin Aggarwal said, “We have already got surplus admissions in BCom (Hons), Political Science (Hons), and some more subjects. We might not have unreserved seats in the second cut-off for many commerce and humanities courses.”Several colleges reported high rejection rates due to the online process. SRCC principal Simrit Kaur said they rejected around 160 applications in the last three days. “Students who are not meeting our cut-offs are also applying on our portal. We have no other option but to reject the applications,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-university-admissions-under-first-cut-off-closed-over-11-000-complete-process-till-wednesday/story-1bNycWxMJ6gGEv2BVY9GCP.html
14-10-2020||City||Panipat man held for forcing wife to live inside toilet for 1.5 years||A man has been arrested for forcing his wife to live in inhuman conditions and locking her up inside a toilet since last one and a half year in Rishpur village of Haryana’s Panipat district, officials said on Wednesday.The woman, 35, was rescued from the toilet by a team of district women and child welfare department officials. In-charge of Sanoli police station Surender Dahiya said a case was registered against the accused Naresh Kumar under Sections 498A and 342 of the Indian Penal Code.The couple have been married for last 17 years and have three children—a 16-year-old son and two daughters aged 15 and 11. District women protection officer Rajni Gupta said a team reached the house with police after getting information that a woman was held captive by her husband. “We found her locked inside the toilet. During investigation, it was found that she was forced to live in inhuman conditions for the past one and a half year. She was not even provided proper food and drinking water,” she added.Gupta said the woman was taken to the civil hospital and later handed over to her cousin.Her husband claimed that she was having mental health issues. However, Gupta said the woman was able to identify all family members and replied to the questions asked by the team. “Her husband could not produce document related to treatment of mental illness,” she added.The district woman and child welfare department officers said the behaviour of her children was also not good towards her. They will be counseled to find out if they were involved with their father in locking the woman inside the toilet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-man-held-for-forcing-wife-to-live-inside-toilet-for-1-5-years/story-lOWqgotwv2jwGTheBFN6aM.html
14-10-2020||City||Three more succumb to the virus in Ludhiana||Three persons died while 64 were tested positive in Ludhiana on Wednesday. The deceased include a 64-year-old woman from Civil Lines, a 61-year-male from Rurka village, a 58-year-old male from Shahzad village. A total of 809 persons have succumbed to the virus so far. The cumulative count of cases in Ludhiana is 19, 403 out of which 18, 178 persons have recovered from the virus. As many as 410 cases are still active. Sharing details, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said a total of 3,36,279 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 3,34,696 samples have been received and reports of 3, 12,772 samples came back negative. As many as 1, 583 reports are still pending. He said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 19, 403, while 2, 521 patients are related to other districts and states. The DC informed that till date, 45,641 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-succumb-to-the-virus-in-ludhiana/story-D5mN9c8jpOg9JfOXWTXNoK.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP spreading false propaganda over attack on its state president: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for making provocative statements following the attack on its Punjab unit chief Ashwani Sharma’s motorcade in Hoshiarpur.Terming Sharma’s accusations against the Punjab Congress baseless, Amarinder said the BJP leader seemed bent on spreading false propaganda to promote the interests of his party. “These actions are clearly aimed at diverting the attention of the people from the farmers’ angst against the BJP over the farm laws,” he said.After the Monday incident, Sharma’s security had been beefed up and 16 Punjab Police security personnel, including commandos, are deployed with him currently, said the CM.Amarinder said all BJP leaders and office-bearers in the state had been provided adequate security for the past 10 days, since the farmers’ agitation gained momentum, and the director general of police was personally in touch with Sharma.Meanwhile, DGP Dinkar Gupta maintained that Sharma’s motorcade was confronted by around 25 protesting farmers who had been picketing the toll plaza for almost two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-spreading-false-propaganda-over-attack-on-its-state-president-punjab-cm/story-fL3o6hZFIX25fuQjXN7UzI.html
14-10-2020||City||Issuing of arms’ licences indefinitely suspended in Ludhiana||Issuing of weapons’ licences has been indefinitely suspended in Ludhiana following complaints of irregularities in the process.As per information, a local right-wing leader, Varun Mehta, had lodged a complaint with the Punjab director general of police, alleging that some city residents were acquiring the licences on flimsy grounds and were submitting fake documents for the process.Following this, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal put brakes on the issuing of licences and also formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the complaint.The district has currently has 16,500 licence-holders, having a total of 22, 000 weapons. As many as 500 applications are currently pending with the police department.The SIT, comprising joint commissioner of police (JCP) J Elanchezhian, deputy commissioner of police (DCP, law and order) Ashwani Kapoor and ACP, Licensing Branch, Ranjit Singh, will review the licenses issued in the last three years and also probe the grounds on which these were issued. As per sources, as many as 200 licenses were issued during this period, and many were on the recommendation of politicians. It is learnt that in a few cases, lower-rung police officers were also found involved in the issuing of the licenses.Source said that a general review of the applications of all 16, 500 license-holders will be conducted.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The weapons’ licence of those, who have not cited any valid reason, will be cancelled while an FIR will be registered against those whose documents are found to be forged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/issuing-of-arms-licences-indefinitely-suspended-in-ludhiana/story-5GZqjbXvZVN0Xl1LUQ5hXI.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Attack on Punjab BJP chief: Governor seeks report from chief secretary||Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday asked the chief secretary to submit a report on the recent attack on Bharatiya Janata Party state president Ashwani Sharma in Hoshiarpur.In his communiqué to chief secretary Vini Mahajan, the governor raised serious concern over the incident and said immediate action should be taken to book the culprits and proceed against them as per law. All security arrangements should be made by the state government to ensure the safety and security of Ashwani Sharma and all other leaders across party lines, said Badnore.A group of unidentified people carrying farmer union flags had damaged Sharma’s vehicle at the Cholang toll plaza on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway on Monday evening, even as the BJP has called it an attack by the Congress government.A high-level delegation of the state BJP, including former ministers Madan Mohan Mittal and Manoranjan Kalia, on Wednesday called on the governor to immediately look into the incident as well as the “fast deteriorating law and order situation” in Punjab.The delegation said Congress ministers and legislators have been repeatedly making provocative statements about BJP leaders not to be allowed to enter villages in the state. They alleged that earlier attacks on BJP offices in Amritsar and Ludhiana were also a direct fallout of such statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/attack-on-punjab-bjp-chief-governor-seeks-report-from-chief-secretary/story-P3P59uD2h2VG8b1KUanwRI.html
14-10-2020||City||Government agencies to procure PUSA 1509 basmati on parmal’s MSP: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said government agencies will also procure PUSA 1509 basmati variety of paddy on minimum support price (MSP) fixed for parmal. “If the prices of PUSA 1509 falls below the MSP, it will be ensured that the government agencies procure it at an MSP of ₹ 1,888 if it fulfills the norms required for moisture content,” Khattar said during a surprise visit to Panipat grain market. He directed officials to ensure that the farmers do not face any problem in selling their produce in the mandis. During an interaction with the CM, farmers and commission agents raised their issues and apprised him that as only HAFED is procuring parmal varieties, which is causing delay in procurement and lifting. The CM has issued directions that one more agency will start the procurement from Thursday. He also asked the Panipat deputy commissioner to ensure that farmers get all facilities, including food and drinking water, in the mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-agencies-to-procure-pusa-1509-basmati-on-parmal-s-msp-khattar/story-HFtA8j8z4sxAJE2xJge5xH.html
14-10-2020||City||Minor rejig in Kejriwal ministry, Rai to focus on pollution||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday did a minor rejig of his Cabinet by freeing environment minister Gopal Rai of two portfolios and handing them over them to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, senior Delhi government officials said. A senior official in Kejriwal’s office said Rai was relieved of two portfolios in order to help him focus completely on pollution-- a problem that peaks during winter and becomes public health emergency every year. According to an order issued by the government’s general administration department (GAD) on Wednesday, the employment and labour portfolios have been taken from Rai and given to Sisodia. The change was approved by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, the order stated. “Now, Rai will focus on his responsibilities as the environment minister. The coming three months are crucial because of the problem of air pollution in winter, handling which becomes even more important now because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Rai is now left with three portfolios: environment, forest and wildlife; development department and GAD. Sisodia, on the other hand, will have as many as 10 portfolios -- the highest among the seven ministers of the Delhi cabinet, including Kejriwal. The deputy chief minister has departments such as finance, education, tourism, art and culture and vigilance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-rejig-in-kejriwal-ministry-rai-to-focus-on-pollution/story-BKZK9weicDqbD02ALpmgGM.html
14-10-2020||Noida||In search of leopard, forest department rescues python from NTPC area||The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department team camping in NTPC Dadri area in search of a leopard, on Tuesday rescued a 10-foot long python from the spot instead. An NTPC spokesperson said that the python was spotted at 11.10 am. “It had coiled up near a tree. The NTPC workers first informed their higher officials, who then informed the forest department teams,” he said. PK Shrivastava, district forest officer, said, “The forest department teams were already present at the NTPC plant in search of a leopard that was spotted on October 7. When alerted about the python, the team immediately rescued it and released into the wild.” The leopard, meanwhile, remained elusive. It was first captured in CCTV camera at the premise. The officials had also found pugmarks and then laid a trap in the area. Srivastava said that the leopard may have escaped into the forest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-search-of-leopard-forest-department-rescues-python-from-ntpc-area/story-h0DKxzaajg2DD2NGPjjMdK.html
14-10-2020||Noida||Man kidnaps nephew’s son, sells him to couple||A couple and their friend were arrested by the Noida police on Wednesday for allegedly kidnapping a three-year-old boy on September 11.The suspects were identified as 40-year-old Yatbeer and the couple as Hasmat and Sama, who were in their thirties, all from Badaun district but living and working in Noida. According to police, the couple had an 10-year-old daughter but wanted a son.“Yatbeer worked as a security guard in sector 75, and was friends with Hasmat, an auto-rickshaw driver. Hasmat said he would give ₹1.5 lakh to Yatbeer if helped him find a male child to adopt,” said a police officer who did not wish to be named.Yatbeer came up with a plan to kidnap his nephew’s son, said police. Before the alleged kidnapping, Yatbeer had also allegedly introduced him to Hasmat. Yatbeer’s nephew family lived in Sarfabad.“On September 11, Yatbeer waited for the boy’s parents to leave for work and then took the boy while he was playing outside his home. He then handed the boy over to Hasmat who took them to his rented accommodation in Greater Noida. The couple then drove to their hometown in Badaun on a motorcycle,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 1.The boy’s father, Virendra, later that day registered a missinger person’s complaint with the police. “I had already gone for work when my elder daughter called me and said that my son was missing. We looked around for him for a while but when we could not find him, I called the police helpline. They also looked but there was no sign of my son after which I filed a complaint with sector 49 police,” said Virendra.“Yatbeer accompanied the family during the entire investigation going as far as to even questioning us about the developments. It was through manual surveillance and call detail records that his role in the kidnapping was found. After he was questioned, the whole incident came to light,” said the DCP.On Wednesday, Yatbeer was arrested from Sarfabad, while Hasnat was nabbed from the Haldoni crossing in Greater Noida. His wife was found at their house in Badaun from where the boy was also rescued. Police said that he was in good health and that had been given a new name too. “The boy had even begun to address the couple as his parents,” said a police officer. The boy was reunited with his parents too.Police said that while money was exchanged between the suspects, the exact amount was unclear. The phones and motorcycle used in the incident were also recovered.Sections for wrongful confinement and criminal conspiracy were added to the kidnapping charges and the suspects were produced before a magistrate before being sent to jail while the boy was handed over to his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-kidnaps-nephew-s-son-sells-him-to-couple/story-xGngtM3bcZNNnPApOrcw2O.html
14-10-2020||City||Haryana flouting Epca diesel genset ban, alleges AAP||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Haryana government of not complying with the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority’s (Epca) ban on the use of diesel generator sets in the national capital region (NCR) from October 15.“The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana is hell-bent on polluting the air that residents of Delhi breathe. The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order regarding retrofitting gensets is being openly disregarded by the Haryana government. Year after year, the Haryana government is making excuses to disregard Epca’s directions and refuses to ban gensets,” AAP’s national spokesperson of Raghav Chadha said at a press conference.He said, “The Haryana government’s contempt for the health of Delhi residents and the Epca should be dealt with an iron fist and strong action should be taken against them. Why should Delhi pay for the Haryana government’s negligence? This can’t be excused.”On October 8, the Epca told the Haryana government that the graded action response plan, which prohibits the use of diesel generator sets, will be applicable from October 15. The Haryana government had on Monday written to Epca, saying Gurgaon and Faridabad would face a power crisis if diesel generator sets are banned. The Epca so far has refused to step back on the issue and asserted that the action plan – aimed at preventing winter pollution in Delhi-NCR – will come into force. Vipul Goel, former cabinet minister in the Haryana government, who held the environment portfolio from 2014 to 2019, said, “Firstly, all heavy-duty gensets above 1000KvA are already fitted with emission-control equipment at the time of manufacture. If you want to blame smaller gensets, then Delhi should fix the issue within its boundaries instead of blaming us. Gurugram and Faridabad don’t use half the number of small generators that Delhi does in its markets and residential colonies.” Goel said the Haryana government has every intention to abide by Epca’s orders, and will work proactively to ensure permanent and uninterrupted electricity connections are granted to industries so that their output is not impacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-flouting-epca-diesel-genset-ban-alleges-aap/story-FiEY2frEMhgkhuIpEE0lEL.html
14-10-2020||City||Fake surety racket busted in Ludhiana||Police busted a fake-surety racket and arrested four people for allegedly forging property documents to get over 50 undertrials out on bail.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the gang operated in various courts and would reach out to advocates, offering to get surety for their clients for a fee.“To do this, they would first identify properties for which documents were available online and also ensure these were not on loan. They would then create a fake Aadhar card in the name of the property owner and even fake property documents, and submit these before the court when an accused needed surety,” the police commissioner said.“They charged anywhere between ₹15, 000 to ₹20,000 depending on the case,” added Sameer Verma, ADCP Zone 3.The accused have been identified as Harpal Singh alias Manoj Kumar, a resident of Phullawal village, Rahul Kumar, also from Phullawal, and Navdeep Singh from Guru Nanakpura, Civil Lines, and Harwinder Singh of Talwandi Noawad village.The racket surfaced when police observed that there was a rise in the number of accused jumping bail. Subsequent warrants issued against them revealed that wrong addresses had been furnished to acquire the bail. The matter was brought to the notice of police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, who then directed the local police to probe the matter. All four accused were produced before the court and taken into remand for further probe. “We are yet to determine if more people are involved in this racket,” said a senior cop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-surety-racket-busted-in-ludhiana/story-nlvP7eQPMbEk52yTFDFTIK.html
14-10-2020||Noida||Noida RWAs get central govt award for handling solid waste||NOIDA: The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) on Wednesday honoured three residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of Noida for proper handling of solid waste. The objective of the award is to encourage RWAs for doing their bit to make the city a cleaner place to live in, officials said. A BIS team had conducted inspection of the waste handling work done by the RWAs and subsequently selected three winners. The Noida authority had in September 2017 signed a memorandum of understanding with BIS that works under the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution. The BIS team assessed and finalized winners for the ‘Solid Waste Management Quality Award 2018-19’ on the basis of their performance in the solid waste treatment category. Sector 34 federation of RWAs secured first place with ₹1.5 lakh prize money, second position (with ₹1 lakh prize money) went to Sector 47 RWA, and third winner Sector 30 RWA got ₹75,000, said the officials. “Our team conducted an inspection, made an assessment and then selected three winners. The objective is to encourage all RWAs and socially active residents so that they work better in waste treatment and make the city cleaner,” said BK Sinha, a scientist and senior official with BIS.The officials said that all three RWAs were making compost out of waste generated at their campus.“We collected all kinds of waste at our community centre, segregating the same and making compost out of it. We did not send any waste to landfill site. And we were using the compost in our parks and green belts in our sector. By doing so, we not only saved money spent on buying compost for green areas, but also made the authority’s work easier that make efforts for waste collection and treatment,” said Dharmendra Sharma, general secretary of Sector 34 federation of RWAs.Sector 34 made compost by putting the food and other waste at pits at the community centre. “But now we have, with the help of the authority, set up a biogas plant that is making compost out of waste and also biogas to be used in our community centre,” said Sharma, who is leading the ‘waste to compost’ project.Officials of the Noida authority could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-rwas-get-central-govt-award-for-handling-solid-waste/story-VqsOhGUo3mtaiHoJCJzg7I.html
14-10-2020||Noida||GB Nagar DM to meet school representatives today over re-opening classes 9 to 12||Allaying fears of parents, the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate on Wednesday said that no student would be compelled to go to school. The Uttar Pradesh government, following central government guidelines, allowed schools to open from Wednesday for students of classes 9 to 12, almost seven months after they were shut following the coronavirus disease induced lockdown. The re-opening, however, will be subject to safety protocols put in place at schools.District magistrate Suhas LY on Wednesday said that he has scheduled a video conference meeting with school principals and school representatives to discuss the issue on Thursday. “We are creating a standard operating procedure to be followed by all schools and children once the school reopens. The issue will be discussed in detail in the meeting. The students will not be compelled to join the offline classes if they do not want,” he said. Yatendra Kasana, president Gautam Budh Nagar parents’ association, said they were against physical classes. “We have read in news that some developed countries reopened their schools and coronavirus cases started increasing again. They had to shut the schools again. We should not take the decision in a haste as this can put the students at risk,” he said. Kasana said that he conducted a survey of 250 parents and 80% of they were not in favour of sending their children to schools. Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, said that a private school had sent an email to him a few days ago asking if he would sent the children to school. “I replied in the negative. We are not comfortable sending the children to school. The government should wait till vaccine is developed,” he said. “The schools should leave it to the discretion of parents or students whether to attend schools or not. I am uncomfortable sending my kids to school in the present scenario. Attendance should not be made compulsory, “ said Sector 137 resident Gaurav Kumar Seth, whose son and daughter study in Class X. “We have got intimation from school that they will stop online classes from October 19 which is a cause of concern for me,” he said. On September 30, 2020, the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued an order to reopen activities in areas outside containment zones. The MHA guideline stated that the state government may take a decision in respect of reopening of schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner. It further stated that the students may attend the schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents and the attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parents. The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday announced reopening of schools from October 19 for students of classes 9-12 in two shifts. In the first shift, students of classes 9 and 10 may come to school, while in the second shift, students of Classes 11 and 12 may attend classes. A maximum of 50 per cent students should be called in a day and remaining 50 per cent the following day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-dm-to-meet-school-representatives-today-over-re-opening-classes-9-to-12/story-5EyvRIjN2lALBK0mcWz55I.html
14-10-2020||Noida||Work on loop to connect Yamuna Expressway with Eastern Peripheral Expressway delayed||The work on a cloverleaf interchange loop that, once completed, would have seamlessly connected Yamuna Expressway with the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) has been delayed for want of land.The loop is to be built on 57 hectares and the land for the project was to be given by Yamuna Expressway Development Authority (Yeida) and Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL). There has been a delay as the debt-ridden developer company is being taken over by the state owned NBCC Limited following a Supreme Court order. The Yeida was to provide 22 hectares and JIL the remaining land, said officials.The loop is a crucial project as it would also provide direct connectivity from the upcoming Jewar airport to Delhi-NCR via the EPE. In the absence of the loop, the motorists from Noida, Greater Noida and Delhi face inconvenience in reaching Eastern Peripheral Expressway as they have to travel through many congested villages such as Kasna and Ghangola. This loop will immensely benefit motorists and offer smooth ride to thousands of commuters, who use 165km Yamuna Expressway and EPE.The Yeida was scheduled to start work on the loop, to be built at a cost of ₹83.94 crore, by July 2019. The authority, in June 2019, had issued a tender and hired a contractor for the project. It had fixed deadline of 18 months for the project from the day the work starts on the ground. But work did not start at the site as JIL is yet to hand over the land for the project. “Following a Supreme Court order and also an order from the National Company Law Tribunal, the management of Jaypee Infratech Limited is being transferred to NBCC Limited, which will now hand over the land for the project. We hope that it will happen soon so that the work on the loop can start,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida .The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which has built the 135km EPE, could not construct the loop earlier because of land issues. The NHAI will fund the project and Yeida will construct the entry and exit to connect two important expressways. The EPE passes above the 165km Yamuna Expressway, near the Noida International University and Galgotia University campus.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on May 31, 2018, opened the 135km Eastern Peripheral Expressway with an aim to decongest Delhi roads and reduce air pollution caused due to vehicular emissions. The NHAI had constructed the EPE on the periphery of Delhi-NCR. A 22km stretch of the 135km expressway falls in Gautam Budh Nagar, passing through 39 villages in the district. However, for the past one year, commuters have to go through Kasna to reach the EPE and Kasna often witnesses heavy traffic congestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/work-on-loop-to-connect-yamuna-expressway-with-eastern-peripheral-expressway-delayed/story-FEl828jvy2QPG6LktuT9yM.html
14-10-2020||City||Where do we seat the students, asks Ludhiana school housing cops on Covid duty||With 15 of the total 30 classrooms at Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, occupied by cops on Covid-19 duty, authorities are in a fix on where to accommodate the students when the school reopens partially for Classes 9 to 12, as part of the fifth phase of unlocking process which starts today.Over 70 cops have been staying in the classrooms for the last five months and school will require them vacate these to ensure proper social distancing for students. The school has over 3, 000 students in Classes 9 to 12.The school principal has already written to the police commissioner and informed the district education officer (secondary) regarding the problem.When contacted, principal Navdeep Romana said, “We have already asked the parents for their consent but we can reopen the school only if the cops vacate our premises. As per our plan, we will be calling students of Classes 9 and 10 in the morning shift and Classes 11 and 12 in the afternoon shift.”Covid control room at another schoolAnother school that has been affected by Covid-related activities is the Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, where a control room has been set up and a few classrooms are being occupied by officials of various government departments. School principal Taskin Aktar said, “As per our plan, we will accommodate 15 to 20 students in one classroom. But we will face more problems when we have to set up the examination centre for Class-10 compartment exams here. The exam is scheduled for October 26 and at that time, we will require more rooms.”As per information, as many as 373 students are set to take this exam.When contacted, district education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I am aware of the issues faced by these two schools and will contact the departments concerned to vacate the rooms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/where-do-we-seat-the-students-asks-ludhiana-school-housing-cops-on-covid-duty/story-tyQZDhUqZx5SkaSCNT4LGO.html
14-10-2020||Noida||GBU made affiliate university for non-technical courses in Noida, Ghaziabad||The Uttar Pradesh government has announced that it will make Gautam Buddha University (GBU), an affiliate university for non-technical courses. The move, experts believed, is aimed at trying to contain the workload of Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut, which affiliates most of colleges in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. Prof Bhagwati Prakash Sharma, vice chancellor of GBU, said that he had received information that the government had made GBU an affiliate university. “The GBU will affiliate all non-technical programmes at Gautam Budh Nagar-based colleges from the next academic session. Lucknow-based Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (APJAKTU) will continue to affiliate programmes like B-Tech, MBA, MCA,” he said. The GBU will provide affiliation for programmes in humanities, law, journalism, fine arts, education, social sciences, Buddhism studies. The V-C said that the Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut, will continue providing degrees to students who are already enrolled and are pursuing their programme. “The UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to make GBU an affiliate university to promote quality education and streamline administrative works in academics. The chief minister has also decided to make GBU a Centre of Excellence in the field of Buddhism Studies,” office of UP CM tweeted on Tuesday evening. The GBU, came into existence in 2008 and is spread over 455 acres of green campus. The varsity has 4500 students and 500 faculty members, including 250 guest faculties. Noida Authority and Greater Noida Authority have been funding the university since it started operation. V-C Sharma said that the University is trying to become self-funded. “We have stopped taking grants from authorities since April 2019. The new move will further strengthen us to become self supported,” he said. The GBU is yet to figure out the total number of students, programmes and colleges for the affiliation. “In a meeting with government officials two weeks ago, we had proposed for affiliation of GB Nagar based colleges. We have not received any information about offering affiliation to colleges in Ghaziabad or other neighbouring district,” Sharma said. GBU is known for its unique integrated programmes for bachelors and masters degree. Its School of Management offers a dual degree programme BBA-MBA, and also B.Com (hons.), B.Sc. (Hotel Mgmt.), MBA, etc. The School of Information and Communication Technology offers five year integrated programmes in B.Tech-M.Tech; B.Tech; BCA; M.Tech; MCA. Similarly, the School of Engineering offers B.Tech; B.Arch; Dual Degree B.Tech.-M.Tech; M.Tech; M.Arch, etc. The University also has schools of Vocational Studies and Applied Sciences; Humanities and Social Sciences; Buddhist Studies and Civilization; Law, Justice & Governance, etc.Arvind Kumar Singh, director International Affairs, GBU, said that the University has over 100 International students from Vietnam, South Korea, China, Myanmar, Mongolia, Cambodia, Thailand, Yemen, Nepal, Afghanistan, USA, Canada, and Bangladesh. This year the university has completed admissions in most of the courses through online entrance examination. The university is seeking applications till October 31 in courses, where some seats are still vacant. Dr H Chaturvedi, director of Greater Noida-based BIMTECH, said that GBU becoming an affiliating university is a good move. “Due to the upcoming Jewar airport, a number industries will come up and offer job opportunities in the future. GBU should devise a mechanism and run job oriented programmes in its affiliated colleges. There is need to just channelize the existing infrastructure in a suitable way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gbu-made-affiliate-university-for-non-technical-courses-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-zp8WFxTvy2uFyFNyXdJsON.html
14-10-2020||Noida||Two held for gangrape of 13-year-old girl in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad police on Tuesday arrested two men -- one 30 years old and the other 21 --for allegedly gangraping a 13-year-old girl. The police said they came to know about the incident when doctors found her to be pregnant after she had complained of abdomen pain on October 10. The mother of the girl, in her FIR, stated that a few months ago the two men held her daughter at gunpoint and pulled her into the fields and raped her. The incident happened under the Modinagar police station area.“They also videographed the act. They also threatened with releasing the video and kill her family if she revealed it to anyone. Then they gave forced some sedative in to her and left her in fields before fleeing,” she said in her complaint. “My daughter was frightened after the incident and did not reveal anything. On October 10 she complained of pain in abdomen after which I took her to a doctor. The doctor told me that the girl was about four months pregnant. When I asked her, she narrated the entire incident after which I gave a police complaint.” The police said that the suspects are resident of same locality as victim’s and confessed to the incident.Police registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 376D (gangrape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison etc), 363 (kidnapping) and also levied provision of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “Based on the complaint given by the family we registered an FIR on October 13 against the two suspects and also arrested them. They both confessed to the crime,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-held-for-gangrape-of-13-year-old-girl-in-ghaziabad/story-FK14IrAI5oZMRaPThxEp5J.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Discom threatens to cut power to 65k streetlights over non-payment of dues in Delhi||Tata Power Delhi distribution Limited on Wednesday issued a statement and threatened to cut power supply to around 65,000 streetlights in its area from Thursday over non-payment of dues amounting to ₹22 crore by the Delhi government. The power discom in its statement said, “We all know that street lights act as a deterrent to crime and promote a sense of security among communities… However, due to the outstanding payments from the last 32 months, Tata Power-DDL is unable to maintain these street lights installed in several unauthorised colonies in north and northwest Delhi from tomorrow i.e. October 15, 2020. This may lead to unsafe conditions for lakhs of residents.”This statement prompted the Delhi government to convene an “emergency meeting” on Tuesday evening to resolve the matter. “Power minister Satyendar Jain reviewed the matter and it turned out that the Delhi government’s company DSIIDC Limited actually had pending dues to be paid to the discom for its streetlights. He directed the DSIIDC to the release the pending payment of ₹8.72 crores immediately, pertaining to the maintenance of 65,000 streetlights, and the rest by March 21,” said an official from minister Satyendar Jain’s office.After the meeting, a Tata Power-DDL spokesperson said that considering the positive development the discom has decided to continue maintenance of streetlights as usual for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/discom-threatens-to-cut-power-to-65k-streetlights-over-non-payment-of-dues-in-delhi/story-1eXqqoEDKo8gLcES7S099H.html
14-10-2020||Noida||Extortion threat ends in owner’s murder, 35-year-old woman arrested||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday arrested a 35-year-old woman for her alleged role in the murder an industrialist on Monday night. An autorickshaw driver was also arrested for allegedly helping in disposing of the body.Pinki Bhati, her husband 38-year-old Bunty Bhati and their friend 36-year-old Kamal Kumar allegedly planned to extort 38-year-old Ajay Panchal who was found dead on Tuesday, 7 kms from Haj House near Arthala where his vehicle was found the previous night. Police said Bunty and Kumar were absconding.“The suspects planned to extort the factory owner and she called him to her house in Arthala on Monday afternoon. The victim knew Pinki as a family friend. As per their plan, Pinki had called Panchal to her home and when he did, the other two were to walk in and accuse him of being in a relationship with her. They were then to blackmail him into giving money in return for not speaking about the matter,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (Sahibabad). “However, Panchal refused to be cowed down and in the ensuing argument, the suspects strangulated him in their house. In the evening, woman’s husband left the car abandoned near the Haj House. At around 2.30am on Tuesday, they bundled the body in an auto and dumped it in the Sahibabad industrial area,” Kumar said.The victim is survived by his wife and his two minor children.Several police teams were involved in the investigation after the body was discovered on Tuesday morning. On the basis of electronic surveillance, they discovered that the woman had called the victim. Police said that they also scanned dozens of CCTV footage and came across two in which the Panchal was seen entering woman’s house, while the other showed two men carrying a body from the house and putting it in the auto of Younis Khan, while it was still dark. Khan was arrested on Wednesday night from Mohan Nagar.Police said that apart from Khan, Bunty and Kamal, there was another man, yet to be identified, who helped them dump the body at Sahibabad industrial area. “Several teams are working to nab the suspects and they will be arrested soon,” Kumar, added. The initial FIR in the case was lodged for kidnapping but the IPC sections for murder and destruction of evidence were levied after the post mortem on Tuesday revealed that the deceased was strangulated. The police said that they will also levy IPC section 120B (criminal conspiracy). Panchal had a cable manufacturing factory at Rajendra Nagar industrial area and left his office at around 1pm on Monday and went missing thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/extortion-threat-ends-in-owner-s-murder-35-year-old-woman-arrested/story-taDIWwkaCGRvOu82WWKQyH.html
14-10-2020||Noida||Stubble burning at Kushaliya: DM suspends lekhpal, directs for FIR||Ghaziabad: In connection with an alleged incident of stubble burning at Kushaliya village near Dasna on Tuesday, the district administration on Wednesday suspended a lekhpal (local revenue official) and also directed for an FIR against the erring persons. The Ghaziabad district magistrate, Ajay Shankar Pandey, has directed the officials to be regular with checking of such instances and ensure that preventive measures are also taken up. HT had reported on Tuesday about the instance of stubble burning at Kushaliya. The daily had also shared some pictures of the incident with the district administration officials. Following that, the DM sent some officials for verification at the site and found that the instance of stubble burning had actually taken place, officials said. “In connection with the incident, I have suspended a lekhpal on account of lax supervision and also ordered for an FIR against the erring persons. I have also directed the agriculture department officials to be more proactive in approach and remain mobile in areas having farms so that such incidents are not repeated,” Pandey said. “Instead of enforcement, we are focusing more on preventive measures so that such incidents do not take place. I have directed officials for making announcements in villages and also to take up wall paintings so that farm owners keep informed about not to burn stubble. We have also asked officials to collect stubble and sent it to Gaushalas,” he added. According to the officials, the district magistrate sent sub-divisional magistrate to the spot at Kushaliya who found that farm is owned by different set of people while another person was entrusted for cultivation of crop. On the basis of the report received from the SDM, an FIR was filed under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 290 (punishment for public nuisance) and 291 (continuance of nuisance) at Masuri police station. “We have registered the FIR and have also asked our local police post in-charge to remain alert about such incidents so that they are not repeated,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). Pandey said that all the measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), which is coming into effect from October 15, will be implemented. “All the respective agencies have been asked to remain alert and take up pollution abatement measures in their respective jurisdictions. The UP Pollution Control Board officials will also keep a check and recommend penalty in case they find erring instances,” the DM said. Meanwhile, according to the Central Pollution Control Board figures on Wednesday, the air quality index in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida stood at 291, 286 and 273, respectively, all falling under the ‘poor’ category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “A meeting regarding GRAP was also taken on Wednesday by the divisional commissioner (Meerut) and she has directed all the departments to remain vigilant and ensure that pollution abatement measures are taken up on continuous basis,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stubble-burning-at-kushaliya-dm-suspends-lekhpal-directs-for-fir/story-5QmAyYKhvRdXK8IksrpP3M.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Contractors gather in Gurugram over pending payments from MLA’s firm||As many as 15 contractors from different parts of the country gathered in Gurugram on Wednesday and alleged that a construction company, owned by a sitting Haryana legislator from Meham, had duped them of crores of rupees. A police case in this matter was registered in the city last week against member of legislative assembly (MLA) Balraj Kundu for allegedly not paying dues of around Rs 14 crore to a contractor.Gurugram resident Parivartan Singh, who lodged the complaint against the MLA, said that he had taken the sub-contract of road construction in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh from KCC Buildcon, a company owned by Kundu, which had managed to bag the contract in Madhya Pradesh in 2017.“KCC Buildcon subcontracted the work of around Rs 75 crore to my company and I spent around Rs 41 crore on this work but was paid only Rs 28 crore. Despite repeated requests, the remaining payment was not made and after exhausting all options, I terminated the contract but later they agreed to settle the matter. Despite the promises, no payment was made and I had to approach the police in July 2019, but the case was registered only last week,” said Parivartan Singh, owner of Parivartan Buildtech.Sanjay Jain, a contractor who was addressing the media along with Singh and other contractors, said that his construction equipment was hired by KCC through a sister company, but they refused to make payment of Rs 75 lakh despite repeated complaints. “The authorities in MP did not pay heed to our complaints as we are based in NCR. We just want our dues to be paid,” he said.When asked about the allegations, MLA Balraj Kundu, who is the founder and chairman of KCC Buildcon according to the company website, said that the matter was politically motivated. “This is just a political conspiracy,” he said.However, the contractors said that a majority of them were from outside the state and not concerned with politics. “We are businessmen and have no connection with politics. We just want our money back,” said Devender Singh, who hails from Gwalior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/contractors-gather-in-gurugram-over-pending-payments-from-mla-s-firm/story-xsrmnp0uaFF6rA49A6w4lM.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram condominiums seek exemption from genset ban||Confusion reigned among residents of group housing societies, which depend on diesel gensets for electricity, over a blanket ban on diesel generators imposed by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) from Thursday.Residents said that they have neither received any notice nor direction from government authorities, and were not aware as to how this ban will be enforced. Residents said they are hoping for relief from the EPCA, as given over the last few years.Pradip Rahi, president, Atrium Condominium Welfare Association in Ramprastha City, said that they received a message on Tuesday regarding the ban on gensets from the maintenance agency. However, the residents of the society have opposed it.“The situation is not clear on this ban and it will hamper the lives of residents badly. It was the prerogative of the developer and DHBVN {Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam} to get regular power connection,” he said, adding that they have written to the EPCA on Wednesday, seeking relief in this matter.Pravin Malik, president, Sare Homes residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that officials of the pollution department also remained unclear on the enforcement of the ban on diesel gensets. “We don’t know what we have to do and how the ban will be implemented. The residents want us to reach out to the EPCA,” he said.Officials of the DHBVN, meanwhile, said that the ban on gensets is likely to impact only those condominiums which don’t have a power connection and solely depend on generators for electricity. “The projects where developers have not taken adequate load will also be partially impacted, but these are few. There are only 25 to 26 projects which are likely to get affected due to this ban,” a senior DHBVN official said.The DHBVN has also submitted a status report to the EPCA stating that around 26 projects, which either don’t have regular connections or had lesser-than-required load would be majorly affected by the genset ban. Officials said that there are around 60 more projects that would be partially impacted by the ban as they depend on standby power from generators, but the impact would be minimal, they added.Joginder Hooda, superintending engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram, said that power availability is adequate and field teams have been deployed to correct faults. “We are ready to give connections also, but developers must comply with requirements,” he said, adding that despite being given exemptions last year, developers have not met the conditions so far.The state pollution department, meanwhile, said that no directions regarding any exemption or relief to condominiums has been issued by EPCA and that the ban will be imposed strictly.Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of HSPCB for Gurugram, said that civic agencies will enforce the ban in their jurisdictions. “The ban on diesel gensets will be imposed in Gurugram as directed by the authority. Civic agencies such as HSVP, MCG, HSIIDC, GMDA and others will be implementing the ban in their jurisdictions,” he said, warning violators of strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-condominiums-seek-exemption-from-genset-ban/story-DrGyNTrLsilDkRJ5VHUVcN.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Grap comes into play, no diesel genset exemption for Gurugram||Measures to curb pollution in the city during winter, under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), will come into force today. In a first, there will be a blanket ban on diesel gensets, said officials, with no exemptions except for essential services detailed by the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA).In a letter to the chief secretary, Haryana, on Wednesday, EPCA chairman Bhure Lal mentioned that diesel gensets can only be used in hospitals and nursing homes, for elevators and escalators, by railway, metro, bus and airport services until Grap is in place. “You are requested to issue directions to implementing agencies to ensure enforcement of DG set ban except for above cited reasons... Sincere efforts must be made to ensure that the ban is effective and monitored rigorously.”Several housing complexes and condominiums across Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat and Bahadurgarh districts are reliant on diesel gensets for electricity, in the absence of power connections from the state agency, and also power backup. Besides, industries are also reliant on power backup to ensure continuous production.While neither the Haryana state government nor the district administration of Gurugram issued any order till late Wednesday specifically addressing the ban on diesel gensets, officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said it will most definitely be implemented, with regional officers assigned the responsibility for enforcement. A spokesperson for EPCA said, “We are a regulatory body. We have drawn up the plan and laid out of the mandate, but it is up to the state government to ensure that diesel gensets are not allowed to operate, in addition to other directions given by EPCA. What instrument they choose to use to surveil for violations, and enforce the mandate, is entirely up to them.” Kuldeep SIngh, HSPCB’s regional officer for Gurugram, said, “We have assigned five assistant environmental engineers as team leads, who will conduct site inspections of construction sites, condominiums, commercial complexes and so on, starting this week. If we find any DG set running, we will take appropriate action against the violator.” First drafted in 2016 by EPCA, and then implemented in 2017, the Grap prescribes four sets of measures, depending on the severity of air pollution. Every year on October 15, the measures for ‘poor’ and ‘severe’ air quality come into play. However, due to the inadequacy of the power department’s infrastructure to supply uninterrupted power to satellite towns in the National Capital Region (NCR), EPCA had until last year exempted Gurugram (and other NCR districts) from the ban on diesel gensets. In Delhi, on the other hand, the ban has been implemented every year, with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee taking the reigns on enforcement.However, this year, the order, which followed a meeting of the HSPCB with Bhure Lal, chairman of EPCA, on September 28, mentions clearly that diesel generator use will have to be regulated during winter. The Grap measures will be in force till March 15. S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, said, “As early as two weeks ago, we wrote to the deputy commissioners of these five districts, outlining very clearly the role each department will have to play.” He added, “While our regional officers in each district will be tasked with surveillance and taking punitive action, the power department will have as much of a role in ensuring the ban’s success.”KC Agarwal, chief engineer, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, confirmed this, saying, “We have been instructed by the HSPCB to ensure 24x7 electricity supply across the grid, which we will endeavour to do, particularly as many people will be working from home due to Covid-19. Any household or establishment eligible for a permanent electricity connection will receive one, but enforcing the ban on DG sets directly is not something we have been tasked with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/grap-comes-into-play-no-diesel-genset-exemption-for-gurugram/story-3lkbG16JPibUS2mOvtoLMM.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Regular sessions for senior students in government schools to start from today||Regular sessions for students of classes 9 to 12 of government schools will resume from Thursday. As reported by HT on Wednesday, state education minister confirmed that schools will run for three hours, from 9am to noon. Attendance, however, will not be compulsory as students who miss the class catch up through online sessions. School principals on Wednesday said that they have not received any notification from the state regarding the matter but they have been verbally told by the officials of the district education department to run the regular classes. A senior official from the district education department who preferred not to be named, said, “Teachers and principals have been told to follow the guidelines issued by union ministry of home affairs for reopening of schools. For regular classes, teachers have been advised to focus on students who are not actively taking online classes as they lack smartphones or computers.” Officials of the district administration that issues the standard operating procedures for unlocking did not respond on the matter on Wednesday.According to the education department official, once the classes resume, schools will get better idea in setting up their time tables for regular and online classes. “A proper time table will be prepared from tomorrow onwards after we take note of the response. It is likely that not too many children would turn up on the first day, but from Monday onwards, we expect the numbers to increase,” Sunil Kumar, principal of Senior Secondary Government School, Jacobpura. According to him, necessary safety arrangements have been made to prevent students from catching Covid-19 infectionThe official also said that the admission timeline for classes 9 to 12 has also been extended. The date of new admissions in government schools for classes 9 and 11 has been extended up to December 31, while for classes 10 and 12, it has been extended till October 31.Board students can also change their optional subjects till October 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/regular-sessions-for-senior-students-in-government-schools-to-start-from-today/story-zrCY0AKWKY422LjKJuSwEI.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Movie theatres set to open in Gurugram today||Movie theatres in the city will reopen from Thursday, seven months after the government ordered them to shut to contain the spread of Covid-19. Following the issuance of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) by the union ministry of information and broadcasting, multiplexes in the city were seen on Wednesday making arrangements to ensure social distancing.Owners of movie theatres said that ticketing will be made completely paperless and, for the first few weeks, they would screen movies released earlier.On October 1, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri had issued the Unlock 5 guidelines, allowing movie theatres and multiplexes to open with 50% of their seating capacity. As per the guidelines of the union ministry of home affairs, such establishments can open only in areas outside the containment zones. There are 39 movie theatres in the city, including multiplexes and single-screen theatres. Although Khatri did not respond to calls seeking comment on the matter on Wednesday, representatives of cinema halls said that they will be operating as per the government norms, ensuring that physical distancing is maintained — from the ticket collection to entry inside the auditorium. A representative from PVR Cinemas confirmed the multiplex will open in Gurugram on Thursday. The screening of films will, however, start from Friday with Hindi, regional, and English movies released earlier this year.Sanjay Barjatiya, regional head, North India, Miraj Cinema at Metropolis Mall, said that they will be running four shows initially. To avoid overcrowding at the box office, Barjatiya said, “We are opting for paperless ticketing system whereby once the payment has been made at the box office through card, ticket will be sent through an SMS.” PVR Cinemas too in their official statement said that contactless payments through digital wallets will be encouraged. A QR code ticket scanner will be placed at every entrance of a theatre.” Changes have been made inside the auditorium as well. According to the PVR representative,the seating arrangements have been made in such a manner that there will be one seat gap before and after each booking. Couple, family or groups would be seated together with an empty seat on either side of the booking. On the other hand, in the premium auditoriums, no seat will be left vacant since there is already a gap between the recliner seats. Barjatiya, however, said that they will be keeping every alternate seat vacant even if there are couples, families or groups. “We will be practising this seating arrangement for some time. Every alternate seat that will be kept vacant has been clearly market,” he said. Since the guidelines do not allow delivery of food and beverages inside the auditorium, Barjatiya said, “To ensure that there is no overcrowding at the food section, we have placed QR bar codes behind every seat. People will have to scan the code and place their food order, mentioning their seat number. They will have to come outside the auditorium to pick up their order.” Similar practice has been adopted by PVR as well. Barjatiya said that all the staff members of the multiplex have been tested for Covid-19. Besides, floor stickers will be placed to maintain a gap while entering the auditorium, duration of the intermission would also be extended to avoid crowding. Finally after the show is over, people will have to exit in a row-wise manner, maintaining physical distance. Bhanu Pratap Singh, who looks after the management of Raj Cinemas in Sector 14, one of the few single-screen theatres in the city, said, “Footfall will be relatively higher on Friday and the weekend. All arrangements for social distancing have been made. Posters will be pasted to encourage people for wearing mask when they enter the auditorium.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/movie-theatres-set-to-open-in-gurugram-today/story-ztv4rJoQErHLXJgKPKp7jP.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||GMDA preparing a list of vacant plots for converting them into parking spaces||To put an end to parking problems in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started preparing a list of vacant plots in the city that can be converted into parking lots. Last week, the GMDA directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Public Works Department (PWD), Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), and Haryana Shahri Vikas Prahikaran (HSVP) to start surveying vacant public lands in their respective jurisdictions with the aim of converting them into parking spaces.Parking continues to be a major issue in Gurugram as there are only 44-sanctioned parking lots, in addition to a solitary multi-level facility. As per officials privy to the matter, in the pilot phase, a vacant land near Sadar Bazaar and the Mini Secretariat building is being identified on a priority basis so that it can be converted into a parking space. For the remaining areas, a Geographical Information Survey (GIS) mapping will be carried out to ascertain the total number of available parking spaces. Vinay Pratap Singh, who is the additional chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA and the commissioner of MCG, had passed this direction to the departments concerned.“Parking continues to remain a problem in Gurugram. Therefore to increase available parking spaces, departments have been directed to identify vacant plots and convert them into make-shift parking spaces. This will also prove to be beneficial for the owners of the plots as this will curb the problem of illegal encroachments,” said Singh.He added that once the data on vacant plots from all departments has been consolidated, guidelines on parking fares, basic safety parameters would be decided upon. Further, with the help of GIS mapping, such parking spaces will be linked to GMDA’s OneMap Gurugram portal so that residents can get real-time information on the nearest parking space and the total number of spots available. Coincidentally, the MCG had introduced a similar policy in March 2018 as well. At the behest of the civic body, an aerial survey was carried out by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) that resulted in more than 150 vacant plots being identified across the city. However, no further action was taken by the MCG after the completion of the survey.Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) said that the GMDA should also think of converting vacant private lands for parking purposes and create a policy in this regard so that the total number of parking spaces can be increased substantially.“It is important to consider private vacant land for parking purposes.GMDA should introduce a policy that can allow change of land use with ease. This way, more parking spaces can be created. Additionally, the authority needs to ensure that there is a clear distinction between normal vacant plots and GMDA-sanctioned plots being used for parking, so as to ensure that residents inadvertently don’t park in the former,” said Sewa Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-preparing-a-list-of-vacant-plots-for-converting-them-into-parking-spaces/story-PJa4cmdD1nRSzxnsv5aGKP.html
14-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Girls grab top ten slots of BCA, BCom exams||Six students of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Ludhiana, bagged top ten spots in BCom and BBA sixth semester examination, results of which were announced by Panjab University on Wednesday.In BCom, Palak Dewan secured 3,254 out of 3,700 marks and topped in the varsity. While Sherill Arora clinched the fourth position by securing 3,235 marks. Another student, Yogita Chawla bagged the ninth position after scoring 3,198 marks in the university exams. In BBA, sixth semester, Nikita Jain secured 2,925 out of 3,400 and topped in the varsity. While Muskaan Singh scored 2,844 marks and bagged the fourth position and Sneha Gupta clinched the fifth position by scoring 2,840 marks. Topper, Palak Dewan said that consistent hard work and excellent lectures delivered by her teachers paved the way for her gold medal. BBA gold medallist, Nikita Jain, gives major credit to her parents and teachers. Principal, Ajay Sharma expressed his deep exultation over the unprecedented attainment of SACCM brainiacs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-girls-grab-top-ten-slots-of-bca-bcom-exams/story-JjcO4PqqxBOUT1rTSI1WCI.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram sees three consecutive days of ‘poor’ air||With a reading of 279 on the CPCB’s (Central Pollution Control Board) air quality index (AQI), the city saw its third consecutive day of ‘poor’ quality air on Wednesday. This marks the longest spate of unfavourable air quality in Gurugram in at least the last two months, as per the CPCB data. Earlier on Monday, the air quality in Gurugram entered the ‘poor’ category for the first time this season, with an AQI reading of 269. On Tuesday, it jumped to 288. With wind speeds remaining slow on Wednesday (not exceeding more than 10kmph) and with temperature continuing to drop (by half a degree Celsius), officials and experts said that pollutants from local emissions sources are continuing to accumulate in Gurugram’s atmosphere, with little opportunity for dispersal.“As we have clarified earlier this week, the current state of pollution is not due to stubble burning. Rather it is because of human activities within Gurugram itself, which is being exacerbated due to environmental factors, such as the lack of wind, rain and heat. We can hope for some relief if the provisions of the Graded Response Action Plan(Grap) are implemented effectively from Thursday,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB.This view was also supported by the ministry of earth sciences air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, which on Wednesday stated, “Winds are likely to be coming from east direction of Delhi because of which impact of contribution from stubble fires will be minimal.”Experts are of the opinion that the current spate of ‘poor’ air will continue, especially because the wind speeds have not shown any significant increase. “Even though wind speeds did improve to almost 10 kilometers per hour Wednesday in some parts of Delhi-NCR, pollutants were not dispersed. Temperature has continued to fall, and will do so steadily for another few days, resulting in lower ‘mixing heights’ of pollutants,” explained Sachin Panwar, a city-based air independent air-quality scientist.With stagnant wind conditions resulting in less diffusion of pollutants, Panwar said that conditions may, in fact, worsen before the week is over. As per a CPCB forecast, Gurugram is likely to have air quality in the upper end of the ‘poor’ category till at least Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-sees-three-consecutive-days-of-poor-air/story-hILJP6eLpnVDQTh1nrTz2J.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||New Covid-19 hot spots emerge in Gurugram||Covid-19 cases in the district are now being reported from the new hot spots, according to the data available with the district health department. These new hot spots include areas such as Feroze Gandhi Colony, Manesar, Farrukhnagar and Rajender Park, which, until the last week of September, were not showing peak numbers in terms of active cases. Presently, the district is reporting 260 new Covid -19 cases on a daily average for the last one week. Officials said that a large proportion of the new cases are being from these hot spots, although they refused to share as to what percentage of the new cases is being reported from these new hot spots. Data compiled by the district health department between October 4 and 10 shows that the urban primary health centres (UPHCs) of Feroze Gandhi Colony showed the highest positivity rate of almost 21% in the district, followed by 17% positivity rate in Manesar, 15% in Farrukhnagar, 14% in Patel Nagar and almost 11% in Rajendra Park. Feroze Gandhi Colony, Patel Nagar and Rajendra Park UPHCs mostly cover densely populated areas within Gurugram block, while Farrukhnagar is mostly a rural region. Manesar, on the other hand, is an industrial belt.According to the health officials, the positivity rate is based on the number of samples tested positive for the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test conducted in the government labs. Notably, the RT-PCR lab in Civil Hospital Sector 10 has been conducting more than 1,000 Covid-19 tests a day. These emerging hotspots have replaced some of the earlier worst-affected areas like Tigra, Chanderlok, Wazirabad, Patel Nagar, and Laxman Vihar, which had the highest number of cases over the last two months. The health officials, however, refused to share their positivity rates but said that in these areas new Covid-19 cases have come down when compared to the new hot spots. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Hot spot mapping varies every week based on which new areas emerge. Since we are in the unlock phase, cases are being reported from all areas. With the help of Aarogya Setu application and contact tracing of suspected cases, hot spots are automatically marked on the GPS systems based on which we hold our testing camps.”According to Yadav, continuous sampling and testing are being conducted in emerging Covid-19 hot spots. This exercise will continue till the positivity rate comes down to at least 7%. At present, the average positivity rate of the district is 7.5%. “The department has been retaining the overall testing in the district to an average of 3,000 per day. It largely includes RT-PCR tests. Due to the intensive sampling in the district and a steady trickle of new Covid-19 cases, between 250-260 on average, have put the Covid-19 trajectory of the district on a plateau at present. The number of active cases is fluctuating between 2,300-2,400, while the hospitalisation is varying between 150-170 patients.” On Wednesday, the district reported 269 new cases of Covid-19. The total count has reached 24,320, of which 2,327 are active cases, while 21,805 have recovered from the illness. The Covid-19 toll stands at 188, with one new death being confirmed on Wednesday. Out of total number of deaths, 136 patients had co-morbidity issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/new-covid-19-hot-spots-emerge-in-gurugram/story-B2s23lTw1bHQlZ3oGvgw9J.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Court grants bail to three more in north-east Delhi riots cases||A Delhi court has granted bail to three men in two separate cases related to the north-east Delhi riots, including a man who was arrested in connection with the alleged vandalism of a temple during the communal violence in February. The riots had left 53 dead and over 400 injured.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, on Tuesday, while granting bail to Gulfam, who stands accused in the temple vandalism case, said besides Gufam’s disclosure statement, there was nothing on record to connect him with the alleged crime. The court granted him bail on a bond of ₹20,000.Gulfam was lodged in Mandoli jail after he was arrested in the other case earlier. He has already been granted bail in that case. The court said there was no CCTV footage available on record to corroborate the prosecution’s case about his involvement in the vandalism.“Besides his own disclosure statement, prima facie, there is nothing on record to connect the applicant (Gulfam) with the commission of crime. Admittedly, the applicant has neither been named in the present FIR nor are there specific allegations against him. There is no CCTV footage available on record to corroborate the prosecution’s case,” the court said, while adding that there is no independent eyewitness corroboration of the incident either.“The applicant cannot be incarcerated for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter,” Yadav said.The judge later also granted bail to Rashid Saifi and Mohd Shadab in another riots-related case, saying they have not been named in the FIR; nor are there any specific allegations against them.The accused were arrested for allegedly looting, vandalising and torching a shop in Dayalpur area during the riots.Yadav said identification of Saifi and Shadab by beat Constable Gyan Singh was hardly of any consequence as the court was unable to understand why Singh had waited till March 3 to name the accused when he had categorically seen them resorting to looting and vandalism on February 25.“Being a police official, what stopped him from reporting the matter then and there at the police station or to bring the same to the knowledge of higher police officers? This casts a serious doubt on the credibility of this witness,” Yadav said in his order passed on October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-grants-bail-to-three-more-in-north-east-delhi-riots-cases/story-PneLdfHzDAqxash2sHFKqJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Punjabi song launched to deter farmers from burning stubble||MLA Gill constituency Kuldeep Singh Vaid and Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma have found a novel way for educating farmers about the ill-effects of paddy stubble/straw burning on the environment by releasing a Punjabi song.The song has been penned by Professor Gurbhajan Singh Gill and sung by Fatehgarh Sahib-based singer Ram Singh Albela while the music was given by Raju Dhiman.MLA Vaid and DC also flagged off 11 awareness vans, which will go village to village playing the song to encourage farmers to abstain from burning paddy straw. The awareness vans are the initiative of the ATMA and the agriculture department under “Paraali Sambhal Muhim-2020” and will cover all the villages in the district. Chairman Zila Parishad Yadwinder Singh Jandiali, additional deputy commissioner (development) Sandeep Kumar, chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal, were also present during the flag off.MLA Vaid and DC honoured singer Ram Singh Albela and composer Raju Dhiman, who were present at the event while also appreciated the efforts of Professor Gurbhajan Singh Gill for penning a song for a social cause.Vaid urged farmers to manage stubble in a mechanical way rather than burning it. He said that hazardous smoke that emerges from burning stubble was very harmful and it could cost lives, especially in the Covid-19 times.The DC said that the purpose of sending these 11 awareness vans in villages was to sensitise farmers against stubble burning. He once again appealed to farmers to abstain from burning paddy stubble citing that besides polluting the environment, hazardous gasses might aggravate the Covid-19 situation and could cost lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-song-launched-to-deter-farmers-from-burning-stubble/story-7Gzh7KFtcbRjqMfpO2uBXN.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||HC seeks JNU, Delhi govt response on plea by two students over hostel fee||The Delhi high court Wednesday sought the response of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on a plea by two PhD students, seeking to stop the varsity from charging them hostel and mess fee for the months from April to August, when they had vacated the hostel rooms due to Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Jayant Nath issued a notice to JNU and Delhi government and asked them to file their replies to the plea.The two students, Prachi Bansal and Vaishali Bansal, in their plea filed through advocates Abhik Chimni and Mayank Goyal, contended that the university was not allowing them to register for the monsoon semester, by withholding their hostel clearance. They said they would not be able to continue with their academic work if their registration is not allowed.The counsels told the court that on March 19, a notice was issued by JNU asking students to vacate the hostel rooms and now they were not allowed to access hostel rooms to carry out their academic work. They said the university is also asking them to pay hostel and mess fee for the months when the two students were not in residence at the JNU hostel -- i.e, from April to August.The counsels said the decision to charge mess fee is arbitrary in nature and claimed that the act is illegal and contrary to hostel rules.Advocate Monika Arora, representing JNU, said the hostel in question is a working women’s self-financed hostel and the petitioner students are getting HRA (house rent allowance) from the government. She said in case they have financial difficulties and their scholarships have been closed, the authorities will consider any representation made by them as per law. Otherwise, before the monsoon session, they will have to clear the dues, Arora said.During the hearing, the two students, as an interim relief, sought directions to the varsity to allow them to access their allotted rooms and also to allow their registration for the next semester.On this, the high court said the students are free to deposit the entire fee, without prejudice to their rights, and this amount will be subject to the outcome of their petition. It also said the students are free to access the hostel room to remove their belongings, with prior intimation to authorities, in accordance with rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-jnu-delhi-govt-response-on-plea-by-two-students-over-hostel-fee/story-psOFrEvSTDnxIYfpu405AI.html
14-10-2020||City||AAP asks public to support farmers against new agriculture laws||New DelhiHT CorrespondentThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday urged people from all walks of life to support farmers in their agitation against the recently passed agriculture laws. Party spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for passing the three controversial agriculture laws in Parliament and accused them of being anti-farmer.The three laws that have led to widespread protests are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. All three were cleared in the recently held Monsoon session of Parliament.“New farm laws of the BJP government will finish MSP in the country, now farmers will be forced to sell crops at a cheaper price and face losses. The AAP appeals to people from all walks of life – students, corporate employees, IT professionals, etc., to unite and support the farmers in this protest,” Bhardwaj said at a press conference.In response, Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Over last one month, farmers of the country have understood that the new agriculture acts will turn up their fortunes and agriculture income will phenomenally increase but unfortunately few political parties, including Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), are inciting farmers hoping to better their political fortune...” “Also, regarding MSP, it will be better if Saurabh Bhardwaj asks the AAP-led Delhi government to restore Krishi Status for Delhi farmers along with the AATMA subsidy scheme so that Delhi farmers start getting subsidy benefits that their counterparts in Haryana and UP are enjoying,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-asks-public-to-support-farmers-against-new-agriculture-laws/story-X1xoeStPDIeqGo1XwZ4D5N.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Yadav to hold rallies against farm bills in south Haryana||Swaraj India convener Yogendra Yadav on Wednesday said that he would be starting a ‘Kisan Bachao Yatra’ in south Haryana from Thursday to create awareness among farmers in the region about the issues surrounding the three farm bills that were recently passed.“The minimum support price (MSP) is an essential tool for helping the farmers, but this government is dismantling this system through legislation. We asked the government to discuss these issues with farmers but they pushed these bills without any thought,” said Yadav while addressing media persons in Gurugram.He said that he would tour agricultural produce markets or mandis in Tauru, Farruknagar, Pataudi, Ateii, Bhiwani, neighbouring areas and finally, Sirsa, where farmers are holding a permanent protest against these bills.He also said that farmers across the country were against the bills and although the government has said it that would liberate the farm sector, no farmers’ organisation was consulted on this.“The report of Swaminathan Commission has not been implemented and statements issued by the government are just to mislead the farmers,” he said, adding that farmers in Haryana and Punjab will have to fight for their rights as they benefitted largely due to the MSP.A joint association of 140 farmers’ organisations from across the country will continue these protests across the country till these laws are rolled back, he said.Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, refuted these allegations and said that neither MSP system nor mandis were going to be changed in any manner. “The MSP system will continue and there is no change in mandis. The only change is that farmers will have the freedom to sell the produce across the country and will have different options,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/yadav-to-hold-rallies-against-farm-bills-in-south-haryana/story-dCjY0WdRSPXfLdVjv6ZScO.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||28-year-old man shot at in Budhera||A 28-year-old man was allegedly shot at by an unidentified person in Budhera area on Monday late night. The police said he suffered one gunshot wound in the chest and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Delhi, where his condition is stable. The police said they received information of the incident on Tuesday morning from a hospital in Budhera. The accused person is yet to be identified. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, “In the initial statement, the victim said that he was inebriated in a field somewhere in Budhera and could not recall the specific time or location. He said that he had been drinking liquor at the same spot for two successive days. In the stupor, he claimed, he could not remember who shot at him. He did not mention any enmity with anyone.” The police said the man claimed that it was only after he felt some pain in his upper body, he noticed that blood was oozing from his chest. A passerby took him to a hospital in Budhera and he was later referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. “His condition is stable. We are corroborating the chain of events. No arrests have been made so far,” said the police official quoted above. A case was registered against the unidentified accused person under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) and relevant sections of The Arms Act at Rajendra Park police station on Tuesday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/28-year-old-man-shot-at-in-budhera/story-pusbiDzmtiFod0zsk37ViJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Dog sterilisation drive comes to a halt in absence of doctor, staff||The dog sterlisation drive being carried out at the animal birth control (ABC) centre in the Haibowal dairy complex has come to a halt in the absence of doctors and labourers. As per the information, the work was stopped in September last week, when labourers and the doctor involved in the project denied working on the project citing personal reasons. This is the second time when the project has come to a halt in the last three months. Earlier, the project was stopped in August due to the exodus of labourers amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Requesting anonymity, an MC official said that labourers started returning to their hometown after the lockdown was announced in March, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of dogs sterilised per day also dropped and the project was put to a halt in August. Then, the Hyderabad-based company which is taking up the project in the city, arranged around half a dozen workers to commence the project in September. Only one team was working in the city as before the lockdown, two teams were deputed on the work. Earlier, the civic body used to sterilise over 500 dogs a month, but now only around 500 dogs have been sterilised in six months after the lockdown was announced. It is said that the team left the work after the incident wherein a stray dog, which was discharged from the centre after sterilisation, died in mysterious circumstances. The woman who took the dog to the centre took the matter with the police. Perturbed over the incident, the dog catcher and the staff involved left the work, the official said. Despite repeated attempts, MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana, who is also the in-charge of the MC health branch, was not available for comment. The project was commenced in 2015 and as per the officials over 42,000 dogs have been sterilised in the city so far.Stray dog menace continues to haunt residentsResidents are a harried lot as stray dog menace continues to haunt them. The municipal corporation has been receiving complaints on a regular basis from different parts of the city. A resident of Dugri, Phase 2, Swaranjit Singh said, “Stray dogs create a lot of nuisance in the area and even attack people. The dogs have scratched the cars of residents and despite numerous complaints submitted with the MC, nothing has been done so far.”In a recent case, the security guards of a housing society at Pakhowal road had beaten a stray dog to death following which the police had booked unidentified persons under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Section 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dog-sterilisation-drive-comes-to-a-halt-in-absence-of-doctor-staff/story-9ZEpbZM0tGahFdzFaRqIwN.html
14-10-2020||City||Ravana Dahan to be organised amid precautions||The district administration on Wednesday permitted organisers to hold Dussehra celebrations in the city by adhering to guidelines issued by the state government. The state home department on Tuesday issued detailed guidelines for Ramleela and Dussehra celebrations.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and commissioner and police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal conducted a meeting with different Dussehra committees at the CP camp office on Wednesday. During the meeting, officials apprised the committee members of the guidelines and also sought their suggestions.Organisers have been directed to avoid organising langars, fairs and putting up stalls as it will result in huge gatherings. He said that Ravana Dahan is allowed but organisers should keep the function short and cap the gatherings.As per the guidelines, gatherings for Dussehra festivities can be permitted beyond the limit of 100 persons outside containment zones subject to certain conditions. “In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/space in the view, with the permission of the district magistrate and strict observance of social distancing, wearing of masks, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser, the festivities can be permitted beyond the limit of 100 persons,” read the guidelines.In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity is allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons.Further, the authorities said that it would be mandatory to depute Covid monitors at the event to check compliance of guidelines during celebrations. DC Sharma said, “We are witnessing a downfall in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported on a daily basis and we should remain cautious. The Dussehra committees have been permitted to organise Ravana Dahan amid safety measures.”Member of Shri Ram Lila Committee (Daresi), Dinesh Marwaha said “We will organise Ravana Dahan in Daresi but the height of the effigy would be reduced and the event would be held with limited gathering. We will make arrangements to live stream the event through social media or local cable operators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ravana-dahan-to-be-organised-amid-precautions/story-fs7KsIGchqmrF059R5klLI.html
14-10-2020||City||Movie buffs will have to wait as multiplexes yet to take final call on reopening||Even though cinema halls have been allowed to open from October 15, movie buffs in the city will have to wait for some more time to enjoy films on the big screen as Ludhiana’s major multiplexes are yet announce their reopening plans.There is no word yet from the managements MBD mall, Westend mall, JMD solitaire mall at railway station road, Silver Arc mall, Flamez mall at Malhar road, and Pavillion mall, on when they plan to start screening again.The management cited low footfall and no new releases as the reason behind the delay in reopening the cinemas. Also, some claimed that the state government has not yet issued any official orders for re-opening of cinema halls and only the Centre has issued an order in this regard.The Centre has allowed multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres to reopen from October 15, with up to 50% of their seating capacity.Manager of solitaire cinemas at JMD mall, Sanjeev Sharma said, “We have not yet received any official order from the state government to open multiplexes. Also, no new movie has been released. We are yet to decide whether to open the cinemas or not.”MBD group spokesperson Sandeep Dua said, “We have not yet received a copy of the official order from the state government to open the cinemas. So we are yet to take a call.”The staff members at SRS cinemas in Omaxe mall situated on Ferozepur road said that the higher authorities have not yet decided on opening the cinemas due to low footfall and no new release of movies.Marketing manager of Westend mall, Ramesh Gandhi said, “We have not yet received any orders to open the cinemas from the higher authorities, but it is expected that the cinemas would be reopened soon. The final decision would be taken in a day or two.”Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma, however, said as per the guidelines issued by the Centre, the cinemas can be opened by adhering to the guidelines/SOPs issued by the Union and state governments.The cinema halls have been closed due to the ongoing pandemic since March-mid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/movie-buffs-will-have-to-wait-as-multiplexes-yet-to-take-final-call-on-reopening/story-VjjHSvIrcvntWpArLtkmlL.html
14-10-2020||City||HP assembly speaker, minister Markanda among 247 test positive for Covid||Himachal Pradesh recorded 247 fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, taking the state’s total tally to 18,009. Of the new cases, 54 were reported in Shimla, 37 in Solan, 34 each in Kullu and Mandi, 27 in Sirmaur, 17 in Kangra, 15 in Bilaspur, 11 in Hamripur, nine each in Chamba and Una and five in Lahaul-Spiti. Himachal assembly speaker Vipin Singh Parmar tested positive for Covid-19 in late evening. “After initial symptoms, I got tested and the results came as positive. I am home isolating at my official residence and will be back soon after recovering,” Parmar wrote on his Facebook page. State information technology and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, 54, has tested positive for Covid-19. Markanda is in isolation at his official residence in Shimla. He developed symptoms of coronavirus infection and underwent the test for Covid-19. “I had come across a corona positive person. I have tested positive and have isolated myself at the residence on the doctor’s advice,” he shared on social media. DEATH TOLL REACHES 250 The death toll in the hill-state has touched 250-mark as one more patient succumbed to the contagion. Wednesday’s fatality was reported in Mandi district. Till date, Kangra district has recorded maximum 55 deaths, followed by Shimla where 54 people have died due to the virus. Solan, the worst hit district in terms of number of cases, has recorded 35 deaths. The case fatalities in state are at 1.4%. OVER 15K RECOVERIES Meanwhile, the recoveries in Himachal have crossed the 15,000-mark as 232 more people were discharged on Wednesday. The total recoveries stand at 15,217 The recovery rate in the state is 84.7%. There are more than 2,500 confirmed cases per million. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 1.2% every day. The state has conducted 3.33 lakh test—over 45,000 tests per million. With 3,376 cases Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 2,696 people have been found infected. Mandi has 2,177 cases, Sirmaur 2,052, Shimla 1,784, Una 1,432, Bilaspur 1,052, Hamirpur 1,046, Chamba 995Kullu 936, Lahaul-Spiti 251 and Kinnaur 212. INTER-STATE BUS SERVICE RESUMES AFTER 7 MONTHS Himachal Road Transport Corporation resumed its interstate bus service after seven months. The decision to resume bus services was taken in view of the upcoming festival season as well as demand from the common masses. Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown had put brakes on interstate transport in March. The service have been resumed on 25 routes that mainly include Chandigarh, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Ambala among others in the first phase. Inter-state Bus Terminal (ISBT) Shimla in-charge Rama Nand Thakur said as many as six buses have been sent to Chandigarh from Shimla which were filled up to permitted capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-assembly-speaker-minister-markanda-among-247-test-positive-for-covid/story-VWuIdLEziMvL1Ip93e5JAM.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal hopes theatres will strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines||On the eve of the opening of cinema halls, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hoped on Wednesday that they would adhere to the coronavirus safety guidelines and follow protocols of social distancing and sanitisation. At a meeting with the representatives of cinema hall associations, Kejriwal said the people and the associations would have to work together to revive the economy of Delhi.“I hope that the cinema halls will follow the guidelines and SOPs of the central as well as the state government. It is extremely necessary to follow the social distancing and sanitization protocols in the cinema halls,” he said.Kejriwal said that the last seven months had been very tough, adding that the whole country and the whole world is suffering from the coronavirus pandemic. “Delhi has fought a very tough and a strong battle against Corona. The most important thing is getting Delhi’s economy back on track, which has dismantled due to the Corona lockdown. Now, we have to bring Delhi’s economy back on track through our collective efforts. We cannot stay in lockdown forever, we have to open the economy of Delhi. Since Unlock 1, we have started opening the economy of Delhi as per the guidelines and orders of the Central government,” he added. The meeting was attended by representatives from theatre companies like PVR, Inox and others, who assured the chief minister of full adherence to all the guidelines.The Centre allowed multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres to reopen from Thursday within the framework of a set of SOPs. Late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s last theatrical release ‘Chhichhore’ is among the films that will have a big screen re-release as cinemas in several parts of the country get ready to open after seven months. As per the guidelines, cinema-goers will have to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile. There is a complete ban on eating and drinking while watching the film. The audience will have to be seated according to alternative seating arrangements and there will be a cross mark on the seat that cannot be occupied. The entire system of purchasing tickets will be online and the air-conditioning will be adjusted as per laid-down guidelines. Entry and exit gates, seats, and lobbies will be sanitised from time to time and the cinema halls will be cleaned after every show, it said. Everyone in the cinema hall will be required to stay in masks and management will have to provide sanitisers to the viewers, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-hopes-theatres-will-strictly-follow-covid-19-guidelines/story-NO5AZEHxjEJfaMqoENDmNI.html
14-10-2020||City||Navratri: First Vande Bharat train to reach Katra today||Ahead of the Navratri festival which begins this Saturday, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has mobilised its resources to ensure strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines. Also, foolproof security is in place at Katra and Vaishno Devi shrine.Reasi district police chief, SSP Rashmi Wazir, said, “We have deployed five quick reaction teams in Katra and three in the Bhawan (sanctum sanctorum). Eight police checkposts are on setup along the tracks leading up to the cave shrine and round-the-clock patrolling will be done during the festival.”She added that armed security personnel, policemen and CRPF personnel will guard the pilgrimage 24x7.“We are confident of an incident-free Navratri festival,” she said. Wazir said Udhampur-Reasi range deputy inspector general of police, Sujit Kumar, reviewed the arrangements for the ensuing festival in Katra on Tuesday.“The cap on per day pilgrims to the shrine has been increased to 7,000 from 5,000. The first Vande Bharat train will reach Katra at 2pm on Thursday. During the festival, two special trains, apart from Vande Bharat, will also run from Banaras and Delhi,” she added.The health department has also augmented its infrastructure setting up more testing kiosks and staff in Katra, including the railway station.Every pilgrim arriving in Katra will have to undergo rapid antigen test (RAT) before being allowed to proceed on the pilgrimage.In case anyone is tested positive, they will have to remain in quarantined in Katra for 10 days. A few hotels have been identified for paid quarantine. The administration is giving another option for those who test positive. If they don’t want to be in quarantined for 10 days, they can avail cabs to return to their home by road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navratri-first-vande-bharat-train-to-reach-katra-today/story-JiLW1AtLSEGvs9op5zIxnL.html
14-10-2020||City||Efforts on to catch remaining 14 inmates who fled Hisar observation home||A day after three of the 17 juvenile undertrials, who escaped from an observation home in Hisar, were arrested by the police, efforts are being made to round up the remaining 14 inmates.Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said the police is examining photos and address of the juveniles and contacting their families to know about their whereabouts. “We have taken several steps to apprehend them. 15 teams have been formed to look for them. We urge people not to give a lift to any suspicious person and alert us immediately. Police have been deployed at all nakas and toll plazas in the district to check vehicles,” he said.A police official, on condition of anonymity, said to arrest the juveniles is an uphill task for the police since they cannot release their pictures or disclose their identity. “Nine of the escaped juveniles were booked for murder and three of them for attempt to murder. We are finding details of their closed ones where they could possibly go,” he added.Earlier, one of the inmates was caught near Chaudhriwas village and the other from Talwandi Rana village, both in Hisar district, while the third juvenile’s arrest location was not shared by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/efforts-on-to-catch-remaining-14-inmates-who-fled-hisar-observation-home/story-fVJrDtrVrq2z3i8fosaxvO.html
14-10-2020||City||Himachal Kisan Sabha observes ‘MSP Day’ to press for various demands||The Himachal Kisan Sabha on Wednesday observed “Minimum Support Price (MSP) Day”, demanding the Centre to implement the recommendations of the National Commission on Farmers (Swaminathan Commission), among other things.The farmers stressed that they should be paid the declared support price for their food grains, appropriate MSP for fruits, flowers, vegetables, milk, honey, wool should be fixed, supplementary industries should be set up for the products made in the state so that additional yields can be processed, proper arrangements should be made for cold stores for perishable fruits and vegetables.State unit president Kuldeep Singh Tanwar said that they are reminding the state and central governments of the promises made to the farmers of Himachal before the 2014 general elections, in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured that their debts would be forgiven. As per the recommendations of the Commission, remunerative price of the crop will be given.“The farmers of Himachal were promised that MSP will be given for fruits, vegetables, milk and flowers produced in the state, but these announcements by PM Modi have proven to be blatant lies,” he added.Tanwar alleged that the farmers were being cheated by both the Centre and state government. Despite the MSP of maize has been fixed at ₹1,850 in the state, farmers here are getting only ₹1,100 to ₹1,200 per quintal. Millions of farmers in the state, who are growing around 8 lakh tonnes of maize, are affected, but the government is not worried about it, Tanwar said, adding that on the contrary, the ruling party is engaged in vindicating the recently passed “anti-farmer” bills in Parliament.It should be noted that the MSPs for maize, wheat and paddy have been fixed in the state, but neither the Food Corporation of India (FCI) procures these crops nor does the government. The farmers sell surplus wheat and paddy in the neighbouring state of Punjab or Haryana. The FCI does not buy maize because it is not part of the public distribution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-kisan-sabha-observes-msp-day-to-press-for-various-demands/story-n8D5H4xcEetgG2wFZ8hGiJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Himachal resumes interstate bus service after 7 months||Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) on Wednesday resumed its interstate bus service after a gap of about seven months.The decision to resume bus services to the neighbouring states was taken in view of the upcoming festival season as well as demand from the common masses.Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown had put brakes on interstate transport in March.The service have been resumed on 25 routes that mainly include Chandigarh, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Ambala among others in the first phase.Inter-state Bus Terminal (ISBT) Shimla in-charge Rama Nand Thakur said as many as six buses have been sent to Chandigarh from Shimla which were filled up to permitted capacity.“All the buses were sanitised, passengers were asked to wear masks properly and also follow the guidelines issued by the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” he said adding that service on more routes will be restarted soon.Meanwhile, buses to Chandigarh were also resumed from Dharamshala ISBT.HRTC regional manager for Dharamshala zone, Pankaj Chadha said the resumption of buses will provide much-needed relief to the commuters, especially from border areas, who travel to the other states daily.He said the HRTC-approved eateries where the buses services halt for meals have been directed to maintain hygiene and ensure social distancing. “They have also been asked to keep liquid soap or sanitisers at the entrance,” he said adding that the HRTC authorities will carry out surprise checks to ensure that the eateries comply with the directions.In Una, three interstate buses to Chandigarh were resumed. A passenger, Amit Kumar, who was travelling to Pinjore from Una said earlier he had to reach his destination via Bilaspur which would take at least five hours.“Resumption of interstate bus services will save both time and money,” he said.Wait for rail service Trains services will not be started on the world heritage Kalka-Shimla track from October 15, however, the railway authorities do intend to resume the same very soon, officials said on Wednesday.Shimla railway station superintendent Prince Sethi said that the rail services on the Kalka-Shimla railway track will be started as soon as they are notified by the Railway. “We are well-prepared and ready to start the rail operations and are waiting for the notification,” Sethi said.The railway services were halted earlier this year due to the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-resumes-interstate-bus-service-after-7-months/story-XSkOnfmMAO9Z85r9YRrNdI.html
14-10-2020||City||Demand to resume Pune-Daund shuttle train service||PUNE The demand to restart the Pune-Daund shuttle train service is growing after the Pune-Lonavla local train resumed service on October 12.As many as 10,000 passengers travel by the Pune–Daund shuttle Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) train, according to officials.The “Daund Pune Daund Pravasi Sangh”, a group of daily passengers, on Tuesday, met Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta who is the nodal officer for train operations in Pune region and demanded resumption of the shuttle train service.“There are around 10,000 people who are using the Pune-Daund train facility, including those in emergency services sector like government offices, semi-government, banks, police department, blood banks, hospitals and others. They face inconvenience due to lack of train service,” said Vikas Deshpande, secretary, Daund Pune Daund Pravasi Sangh.“At the meeting on Wednesday, the Pune police commissioner assured us to talk to railway officials on restarting the train service,” he said.Ganesh Shinde, a Daund resident who works at a bank in Pune and is a regular train passenger, said, “Many residents of Daund who work in Pune are facing issues due to unavailability of train service. I stayed at one of my friend’s house for two months during the lockdown so that I could go to office.”“As the Pune-Lonavla local train service has resumed, I hope this shuttle service will also restart soon,” he said.The DEMU train service between Pune and Daund was inaugurated in March 2017 by the then Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu. It is a 76 km train route and there are ten halts on the route – Hadapsar, Manjari Budruk, Loni, Uruli Kanchan, Yavat, Khutbao, Kedgaon, Kadethan, Patas and Daund.The Pune-Lonavla train services can be availed by people working in the essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demand-to-resume-pune-daund-shuttle-train-service/story-TokSUZ53swXbUWdwlTS1LK.html
14-10-2020||City||Video of cops thrashing 3 of family outside police station in Jind surfaces on social media||A video of a group of policemen beating up a woman, an elderly man and a divyang belonging to a family outside Jind’s Alewa police station on Tuesday has surfaced on social media.The family of blacksmiths, hailing from Jind’s Bighana village, was protesting outside the police station after the cops allegedly failed to initiate action against robbers, who had looted their house a week ago.In the video, a group of four woman, an elderly man, a divyang and few children, can be seen arguing with the police. A policeman also tries to abuse a woman and touch her inappropriately. “This road is not of your father. Remove them (directing another cop) from the road. If you will not clear the road, I will register an FIR against you and put you behind the bars,” a police official purportedly says in the video.After the video surfaced, police on Wednesday booked Mahabir, his wife Pooja, Raju, his son Devi, five unidentified women and seven children under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 383, 145 and 146 of the Indian Penal code.Mahabir said instead of arresting the robbers, police brutally thrashed them and inappropriately touched a woman. “Police is trying to suppress our voice by filing an FIR against us. Where should a poor man go to get justice?,” he said.Jind deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Pushpa Khatri said, “Uchana DSP Jitender Khatkar will investigate the case and strict action will be taken against the police officials if found guilty.” She said the police was investigating the loot case and the protesters could have avoided this incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/video-of-cops-thrashing-3-of-family-outside-police-station-in-jind-surfaces-on-social-media/story-dcf01UlK8Rk0ekHC6ayCUK.html
14-10-2020||City||Security forces neutralise two militants in Shopian encounter||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday, officials said.They said that a cordon and search operation was launched in the afternoon after getting information about the presence of militants in Chakura area of Shopian.“A cordon was laid and contact was established. Firefight ensued. Two terrorists eliminated,” Chinar Corps said in a tweet.The identity of the two slain militants was yet to be ascertained as the searches were still going on till the filing of this report.The forces also recovered an AK weapon from the site, the army said.Police in a tweet said that the militants were still unidentified.This is the fifth encounter between terrorists and security forces in Kashmir so far this month. During this period, 12 militants were killed across the valley.Foiled suspected LoC intrusion by Pak: Army The army on Wednesday claimed to have foiled an intrusion by the members of Pakistan’s Border Action Team (BAT) on Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.Army’s Chinar Corps said the suspected BAT infiltration bid was blocked in Tangdhar sector of Kupwara.“Today (Wednesday) early morning, alert troops observed suspicious activity by 3-4 intruders, close to forward post along LoC. The timely action averted the infiltration bid,” it said in a tweet.The army has started more searches in the area. “Surveillance is under progress,” it said, but did not clarify what happened to the intruders.As per the officials, BAT is a mix of regular Pakistani soldiers and militants who are known for attacks on the Indian Army on the border. Pakistan has always denied these allegations.Arms recovered in Kupwara On Tuesday, police said a joint party of the army and police recovered a large cache of arms and ammunition in the district’s Gundi Shath area. This included five pistols with 10 magazines, five grenades and 138 rounds of ammunition.On October 10, the army had said that Pakistan tried to send weapons, including four AK-74 rifles and some magazines using a tube across the Kishanganga river in Keran sector of Kupwara.GOC of army’s strategic Chinar Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju had said that not only militants but there are attempts to send weapons across the LoC and international border from Pakistan.“The desire for Pakistan to push weapons is very much alive. It happened in Keran, Tangdhar, Jammu sector, and even Punjab. The motive to push weapons is to keep the people of Kashmir tangled so that terrorism remains here. We always try to stop this so that there is less damage here. We want help from the people to stop terrorism,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-forces-neutralise-two-militants-in-shopian-encounter/story-f03wnlHCde8GkHRmN4nEZI.html
14-10-2020||City||Political parties yet to announce candidates for Baroda bypolls||Even as two days are left for filing nominations, political parties in Haryana are yet to announce their candidates for the Baroda bypolls slated for November 3.The last date for filing nominations is October 16. Scrutiny of documents will be done on October 17 and withdrawal of papers will be allowed till October 19. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.While addressing mediapersons here, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief OP Dhankar said he along with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, agriculture minister JP Dalal, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Rai MLA Mohan Lal, who is also the party’s Sonepat district president, will meet BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi on Wednesday to finalise the candidate for the by election.“ I am reiterating the ticket will be given to a dedicated BJP worker. This election is important for us and also a litmus test for Congress, who have been winning from here since last three assembly polls. Hopefully, we will select our candidate by Thursday. We have assigned duties to 27 leaders and each of them will look after two villages. We hope to repeat the performance of the Jind bypolls,” he added. Later, while interacting with reporters in Delhi, Dhankar said they have suggested names of four candidates before the party’s election committee for the bypolls. “Our candidate will be announced by Thursday,” he added.INLD likely to make announcement todayThe Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala said his party will announce their candidate on Thursday and file nominations on October 16.“We will give ticket to a party worker, who stood with us in tough times. Our entire focus in this election will be to highlight the plight of farmers, workers and deprived people. The BJP-JJP government will have to face the farmers’ brunt and they should come with security in villages while seeking votes,” the Ellenabad MLA added. Meanwhile, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said the senior leaders of the Haryana Congress will meet in Delhi on Thursday to finalise their candidate.Experts says political parties are delaying the announcement to stop rebels from shifting to other parties. A total of 25 candidates had applied for the BJP ticket and 28 aspirants want the Congress ticket. The seat fell vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12. The Indian National Lok Dal has won the constituency from 1977 to 2005. The saffron party’s nominee has never won from the constituency, which has 54 villages. Half the voters here belong to the Jat community. In the 2019 assembly elections, Congress nominee Sri Krishan Hooda defeated wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt by 4,840 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-parties-yet-to-announce-candidates-for-baroda-bypolls/story-hanLc9MEigOagqiC8YlCgM.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Online admissions for PG courses at Chandigarh colleges start on Oct 15||The online admission process for various postgraduate courses in government and aided colleges of Chandigarh will start on Thursday.The last date to apply for MA, MSc, MCom and MPEd courses is October 22. Students applying for courses at the six government colleges can access the website www.dhe.chd.gov.in, while admissions at an equal number of private government-aided colleges will be done through their respective websites. Around 3,500 seats in MA, MCom and MPEd courses and around 800 seats in PG diplomas are available in the 12 colleges.Admissions will be done on merit basis and the final merit list will be displayed at 4pm on October 26. The applicant will receive an SMS notifying them to deposit their fee after a college seat is assigned. Applicants have been advised to give their contact number with Whatsapp and their working e-mail ID for effective communication.PU extends last date for PG coursesMeanwhile, Panjab University on Wednesday extended the last date for applying online for various postgraduate courses in its teaching departments, institutes and regional centres, to October 22. Applications can be submitted online at http://onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in.Admission schedule Last date to apply October 22 (5pm)Display of provisional merit list October 24 (3pm)Reporting of discrepancies October 25 (3pm)Display of final merit list October 26 (4pm)Online admission at college level October 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-admissions-for-pg-courses-at-chandigarh-colleges-start-on-oct-15/story-tezjEwpEFuHU3YrbeDNCGI.html
14-10-2020||City||Navratri SOPs: Arogya Setu app must for devotees visiting temples in Shimla||With Navratri around the corner, the district administration has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the nine-day festivities.As per these SOPs, it will be mandatory for all the devotees visiting temples to download Arogya Setu App in their mobile phones. They will be thermally scanned at the entrance of temples. Any person having fever or flu-like symptoms will be kept in the isolation room within the temple premises and tested for Covid-19. If found infected, the devotee will be sent to a quarantine centre. Children below 10 years of age, senior citizens, pregnant women and patients suffering from various diseases are advised to avoid visiting temples.Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap said online aarti arrangements will be made for the convenience of devotees. If senior citizens want to visit the temple, they can come early in the morning or late in the evening to avoid crowds.He said that temples committees should ensure that their premises are sanitised four times a day — twice in the morning and evening.“All the shops near Jakhu, Tara Devi, Sankatmochan and Kalibari temples will remain closed during this period,” he added.Offering prasad, touching idols prohibited To ensure social distancing, cirlces will be marked inside and outside the temple premises. Offering any kind of prasad and chunni in the temple, touching the idols, applying tilak, hawans, mundan and kanya pujan will be prohibited. Special arrangements will be made by the temple administration for the entry and exit of devotees. Social distance and masks will be mandatory.Kashyap said that temple committees should make arrangements in advance for storing devotees’ shoes. Donations in temples should be monitored by CCTV cameras which would be opened after three days as per the SOP. Cash counting and packing of bundles would be done under special sanitisation arrangements. He instructed the operators to arrange additional donation boxes so that there is no inconvenience.He has directed all sub-divisional officers and temple trustees of the district to provide information about the measures to prevent Covid-19 by installing hoardings, distributing pamphlets and other public information around the temple. He said it would be mandatory to mark information on the temple surroundings.Buses to be sanitised four times a day The DC informed that during Navratri, the buses of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) will come from the bus stand and Anandpur bifurcation to the temple. Parking for the temple will be arranged on Anandpur road. He said the buses going to the temple would be sanitised four times a day and also instructed the concerned officials to prevent crowding in buses.He informed that during Navratri, temple committees will make arrangements for food and beverages for the police, HRTC and other employees who will be on duty at the premises.The DC said during this period, the closing time of temples will be extended by one hour to avoid any kind of congestion. He also ordered all the sub-divisional officers to issue necessary instructions regarding the compliance of special standard operations at all the temples of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navratri-sops-arogya-setu-app-must-for-devotees-visiting-temples-in-shimla/story-B5Xx0slC8Ba4nVEmVYf4MJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Gupkar Declaration: Farooq & Co will face grave ramifications if agenda bleeds Kashmir again: J&K BJP chief||Reacted sharply to the meeting between NC president Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina has warned the trio of “serious ramifications if they tried to push their anti-India Gupkar agenda to bleed Kashmir again”.On August 22, six regional and national parties unanimously resolved to fight for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed before August 5, 2019, saying the measures taken were “spitefully short-sighted” and “grossly unconstitutional”.However, Raina said, “Articles 370 and 35A will never be restored. It murdered the human rights of communities like Gujjar-Bakarwals, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Paharis, women, Valmikis and the west Pakistan refugees.”In a video message on the party’s twitter handle, Raina claimed that Gupkar Declaration is nothing but a pro-Pakistan and anti-national agenda. “The people of J&K have nothing to do with it. They have already trashed it,” he said.Raina added that the three leaders were trying to shield themselves to save their skins and hide their sins.“People of J&K want peace, brotherhood and development. Whosoever tries to conspire and pursue Gupkar agenda will not be spared,” he said, adding that Articles 370 and 35-A meted out gross discrimination to west Pak refugees, Gujjars-Bakerwals, SCs/STs, Valmikis, women and nationalist people in J&K.“Articles 370 and 35-A gave birth to separatism and terrorism. It will never come back. It is a history now. These conspirators are again trying to bleed Kashmir, but we won’t allow them to succeed in their sinister designs. We will not allow their Gupkar agenda and won’t let them vitiate the atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir again,” he asserted.Raina said the Gupkar agenda has been coined in Kashmir in an attempt to hoodwink the people and for Farooq and company to save themselves. “But people know that when they were in power, they committed sins with impunity,” he said.“If Farooq and Mehbooba dare bleed Kashmir via their hidden agenda, they will have to face serious ramifications,” he said concluding the two-minute video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gupkar-declaration-farooq-co-will-face-grave-ramifications-if-agenda-bleeds-kashmir-again-j-k-bjp-chief/story-NBOUadlx8ygJ1caUayv8oL.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||PEC postpones semester exams, to be held after Diwali||Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, has decided to postpone its semester exams that were to begin on November 2. Though the new dates have not been announced, the exams will be held after Diwali, which falls on November 14.The decision was taken on Wednesday following a proposal by student representatives that the exams be scheduled after Diwali during a meeting with PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi. This was the second such meeting after PEC earlier this month had decided to conduct on-campus semester exams in November in batches.“We will reschedule the exams and the new schedule will be announced soon,” Sanghi said.However, students’ proposal to conduct the exams online was turned down. The institution is planning online exams for only international students.The decision to conduct on-campus exams was taken in a meeting of deans and HoDs of the deemed to be university earlier this month. This had invited resentment from students. Exams to be repeatedOn students’ suggestion, the college is planning to hold the exams again for those who won’t be able to appear for them in November. However, the proposal is subject to the approval of the PEC senate that is likely to discuss the matter next week.The institution has also decided not to hold exams pending from the previous semester, which could not be scheduled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were earlier planned in December. The students will be graded as ‘pass’ or ‘fail’ on the basis of their past performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-postpones-semester-exams-to-be-held-after-diwali/story-J4HiAImXkCLQm0GQ1hROBJ.html
14-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata malls focus on safety protocols to tackle increasing footfalls ahead of Durga Puja||With rising footfalls in the run-up to the Durga Puja festival, the authorities of shopping malls in the city are taking all health safety measures, including the use of ultraviolet rays to sanitise elevators and handrails, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Wednesday.They also felt that strict adherence to safety guidelines has helped them attract visitors.Leading shopping malls such as Acropolis, South City and Quest are currently experiencing a surge in footfalls ahead of Durga puja and expecting that number of visitors will further rise with multiplexes reopening from Thursday. “We are careful about safety protocols since the reopening of our mall and diligently following all the guidelines. We will allow people up to 50 per cent of our standard capacity of around 50,000,” Acropolis head K Vijayan told PTI.Around 25 washbasins have been installed outside the mall and no one is allowed to enter the premises without a mask, he said.“Strict vigil on enforcement of the guidelines helped us attract people. Around 3,500 permanent and outsourced employees also remain safe. No one among our staffers has been detected with the disease till now,” Vijayan said.South City mall has witnessed a 20-30 per cent jump in footfall in recent weeks and is also concentrating on the frequent sanitisation of common touchpoints, an official said.The shopping destination in the southern part of the city recorded over 40,000 footfalls on Sunday.“We are also displaying boards and video messages about health safety guidelines and asking all store employees and security officials to maintain social distancing norms,” South City head Manmohan Bagree said.Quest Mall VP Sanjiv Mehra said following the health safety protocols is their highest priority.“We are not much concerned about the crowd with around 30 per cent footfall. It may go up to 50 per cent as the festive days near,” he said.With increasing retail sales, the mall authorities are witnessing higher conversion rate, the percentage of people that walk in and make a purchase, as compared to that of last year.Compared to the pre-puja period in 2019, sales at food courts were up by 25 per cent this year, Bagree said.According to them, festival advances to government employees and puja bonus to many private entities will further boost consumer spending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-malls-focus-on-safety-protocols-to-tackle-increasing-footfalls-ahead-of-durga-puja/story-NMb2UTZatgy7cZNqRHI4MM.html
14-10-2020||Pune||Joint anti-terror exercise by army, police in Pune||The Indian Army’s Counter-Terrorism Task Force (CTTF) and Quick Reaction Team (QRT) of Maharashtra police jointly carried out the anti-terror exercise in Pune. The purpose of the exercise was to “harmonize the drills and procedures of both army and police for activating anti-terrorist Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) to counter any terrorist actions in Pune.” The exercise, organised by agnibaaz division at Lullanagar on Friday involved the participation of quick reaction teams, dog squads and Bomb Disposal Teams (BDT) of the army as well as Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) of Maharashtra police. A simulated exercise scenario was built up regarding the presence of terrorist in the family accommodations at Lullanagar, based on which Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) of the army initially established the outer cordon. The traffic control on the nearby roads was jointly carried out by Maharashtra traffic police and the corps of military police army. “It involved room intervention drill, a search of the room for any unidentified items/explosives by dog squads and their neutralization/ diffusion by the bomb disposal units. An equipment display was also organized, showcasing important equipment required for the conduct of this exercise. The exercise was carried out taking all safety norms of Covid-19 into consideration and the strength of participating troops was scaled down accordingly,” stated the statement released by the defence spokesperson. The exercise provided an opportunity for both army and the police to cooperate, coordinate, co-opt and streamline their drills and procedures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/joint-anti-terror-exercise-by-army-police-in-pune/story-PWCX7sXod4RcUwqZWQUZCI.html
14-10-2020||Pune||Pune on yellow alert for next three days||Pune district, along with Mumbai, is on a “yellow alert” for the next three days, starting Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “The strength of the system which was formed in the Bay of Bengal is reducing, but it is expected to cross Pune district and adjacent areas. Heavy rain at isolated areas is expected for Pune city on Wednesday and Thursday, though overall, rainfall will be moderate. However, the ghat areas of the district may get heavy to very heavy rain,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD head, Pune. A red alert has been issued for districts like Kolhapur, Satara, Sindhudurg and Osmanabad. While for Ratnagiri, Sangli, Solapur, Parbhani and Beed, the IMD has issued an orange alert. On Tuesday, the city received 5.9mm rain, while Lohegaon received 6.0 mm. “Rain activity will continue in the Maharashtra for this week along with parts of central Maharashtra. Vidarbha region is also expected to receive rains,” added Kashyapi. As rain with thunder and lightning is forcecase, the State disaster management unit has issued orders regarding precautionary measures. “All the district officials have been told to stay alert and keep precautionary measures in place. People living in low-lying areas should be alerted about the situation,” the order stated. Forecast Oct 14, 15: Moderate rain with isolated heavy rain with thunder and lightning (isolated very heavy to extremely heavy rain in ghat areas) Oct 16: Moderate rain (isolated heavy rain in ghat areas) Oct 17: Light to moderate rain Oct 18: Light rain Oct 19: Very light to light rain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-on-yellow-alert-for-next-three-days/story-hrak1O50Ly8h5AXRnphURJ.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab calls special assembly session on October 19 to introduce Bill to negate Centre’s farm laws||The Punjab government will convene a special session of the Vidhan Sabha on October 19 to bring a legislation to counter the Centre’s farm laws. This was decided at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on Wednesday through video-conferencing. The chief minister had earlier announced that his government will fight the “anti-federal and vicious farm laws tooth and nail through legislative, legal and other routes”. He had said that he would call a special session of the assembly to bring in amendments to the state laws to negate the impact of the central legislation. With the cabinet decision, the Punjab governor has been authorised to convene the 13th (special) session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha, as per clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution. The 12th session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha concluded on August 28, 2020, in which a resolution was passed by majority to reject the contentious farm ordinances viz The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 besides the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, promulgated by the Union Government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-calls-special-assembly-session-on-october-19-to-introduce-bill-to-negate-centre-s-farm-laws/story-JBlhBwbSNF6xUcB32MtcNP.html
14-10-2020||City||Cabinet nod to plan to fill 1 lakh govt jobs in remaining term||Chandigarh To fulfil Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s promise of providing 1 lakh government jobs to youth in the remaining term of his government, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved a ‘State Employment Plan 2020-22’, to fill vacant jobs in government departments, boards, corporations and agencies in a phased and time-bound manner. The recruitment will be done on central government pay scales. A state-level function that the CM will preside over will be held on Independence Day 2021 for formal joining of selected candidates in 2020-21. All departments may advertise respective vacancies by October 31 this year. Administrative departments will be solely responsible for ensuring transparency and fairness of recruitment within the stipulated time.A spokesperson said the cabinet had authorised the CM to make such amendments/additions/deletions to the plan as the situation may warrant. In March, the CM had announced that 50,000 direct quota vacant government posts shall be filled in 2020-21 and another 50,000 posts in 2021-22, as part of the government’s flagship programme ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’.The employment generation, skill development and training department has collected direct quota fill-able vacant posts, category-wise, from administrative departments. These are Group A (3,959), Group B (8,717) and Group C (36,313) for a total of 48,989.There would be no interviews for recruitment to Group-C posts. However, candidates selected on the basis of tests shall present themselves for counselling, to be held by the department concerned for physical verification of candidates and their documents.All engineer posts, of junior engineer (JE) and above in all departments, boards, corporations, authorities etc shall be filled through the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) by holding a common exam. If certain posts are to be withdrawn from the purview of the Staff Selection Board or the PPSC, it would be done only under exceptional circumstances.Regarding direct quota vacant posts of Group-A and Group-B to be filled through the PPSC, the departments had been asked to refer these posts to the commission, for recruitment by October 31, 2020, with the process to be completed by June 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-nod-to-plan-to-fill-1-lakh-govt-jobs-in-remaining-term/story-ZqE6k9gTfJoRJYlMi9m2QO.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Use Mumbai rain water for irrigation, industries: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari has written a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, suggestingthat rain water from Mumbai be used for irrigation, supply to industries around the city and for horticulture in cities like Nashik and Ahmednagar.Excess water can also be carried to drought-prone areas for domestic and other uses to overcome water scarcity, he said in the letter.“If systematically planned, flood water, drainage and sewerage can be diverted towards Thane (adjoining Mumbai), and the entire diverted influx can be stored in a dam after treating the water midway,” he said.“This water can be used for irrigation and industries around the city and for horticulture purpose in cities like Nashik and Ahmednagar,” Gadkari said.This plan can help to solve “troubles created due to the Mithi river” in Mumbai which has become a critical issue over the years, he said in the letter.“I propose that a barrage should bebuilt on the Mithi riverand the water can be flown into the sea,” he said.The Union transport minister also said the state government should take up a project to convert all city roads into cement-concrete roads “as tar roads do not sustain heavy rains”.Concrete roads can be constructedin Mumbai along with advanced drainage system to carry sewerage and flood water, he said.Gadkari called for an integrated plan to resolve the problems of flood, drainage management, sewerage, potable water in Mumbai.He said the task of preparing a DPR (detailed project report) should be handed over to an international consultant.He also asked the state government to prepare a DPR for formation of state water grid to overcome the recurring crisis of floods.Gadkari marked a copy of his letter to NCP president Sharad Pawar, state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, and ministers Balasaheb Thorat, Ashok Chavan and Jayant Patil. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress are alliance partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/use-mumbai-rain-water-for-irrigation-industries-nitin-gadkari/story-TUaw10scP3D1XJz5BYMgbJ.html
14-10-2020||Patna||Bihar STF arrests wanted CPI(M) leader, three arms peddlers; recover firearms||Bihar Police’s Special Task Force (STF) teams have arrested five persons, including an outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) leader and arms dealers, from Patna, Begusarai and Bagaha in the poll-bound state on Wednesday. The STF teams have recovered eight pistols, 16 magazines, three mobile phones and Rs 1.9 lakh in cash from the arms dealers. An STF official said that the wanted Maoist leader Mahesh Oraon, a native of Balmikinagar under the jurisdiction of Bagaha police station, is accused of violence and cases related to the Arms Act, 1959, and the Explosives Act, 1884. The cases against him were lodged in Saraiya, Laukaria and Balmikinagar police stations. Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Sharad Yadav’s daughter joins CongressThe STF authorities said the then Bettiah superintendent of Police, Jayant Kant, had arrested Oraon in 2018. However, he got involved in Maoist activities again after he came out of the jail in December 2018. He has been booked under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. STF personnel has arrested Mohammad Moqim, a resident of Munger, and Ramesh Manjhi and Kamal Sharma, who belong to Siwan, in Begusarai for allegedly smuggling arms to criminal gangs.Moqim was nabbed when he had come to deliver a consignment of arms near Lakhminia railway station under the jurisdiction of Balia police station. This is the fourth arms haul in October, and days ahead of the three-phase Bihar assembly polls, which will be held on October 28, November 3 and 7.Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Tejashwi Yadav files nomination papers from RaghopurNarendra Tiwary, a wanted criminal, was arrested from a bus stand in Patna. Tiwary is a resident of Ekma police station area in Saran district and was wanted in over a dozen cases of robbery, loot, and kidnapping. Tiwary was recently involved in the abduction of a four-year-old boy named Ayush for ransom. He was handed over the Saran police authorities for further interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-stf-arrests-wanted-cpi-m-leader-three-arms-peddlers-recover-firearms/story-DwahEbtND4dxw48y215kfK.html
14-10-2020||Pune||7 months on, general body yet to approve Swargate-Katraj route||Seven months after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave its nod to the detailed project report (DPR) for the Swargate to Katraj metro line on March 17, the general body of the civic body has still failed to approve the proposal.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in PMC has not given its nod to the proposal the 5.4km Swargate to Katraj metro corridor. The proposal has not been placed before the general body, which is conducting its meetings online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol accepted that there has been delay in approving the proposal for the Swargate-Katraj route, which will be one of the most crucial routes given the high footfall expectancy on the stretch. “Due to the Covid-19 situation the proposal got delayed. I am assuring everyone that in the next general body meeting, the proposal will be brought up for discussion and with the support of all parties it will get a nod. The general body meetings are held online and there are time limits, so it got a little delayed,” said Mohol. The 5.4 km Swargate-Katraj stretch will most likely to be underground and will cost Rs 4,283 crore. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) elected member Ashwini Kadam from Sahakarnagar, said, “The ruling BJP is busy only in unnecessary purchasing of things and blaming the opposition parties on various issues. If the proposal gets the nod immediately, at least the administrative work can be completed and it can be submitted to the state government.” According to the DPR prepared during last year, the per kilometre cost of the metro line is estimated to be Rs 783.85 crore. There will be four station on the stretch, which is an extension of the Swargate-Nigdi line being developed by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro). Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “All parties are of the view that there should be an extension for the metro corridor between Swargate and Katraj. But till date the administration has not given us any presentation about how it will be get carried out. My demand is that while approving this proposal, PMC should ask for 50 per cent share in revenue from Maha-Metro which would get generated through commercial properties. This revenue should be utilised for the strengthening PMPML.”About the project5.464 km- Length of the proposed projectRs 783.85 crore- Estimated per kilometre cost for the route Rs 4,283.72 crore- Total estimated cost of projectRs 27.61 crore- Estimated cost for rehabilitation and resettlement Rs 111.6 crore- Estimated cost for land acquisition19,350.733 sq m-Land required for the project March 2020- Maha-Metro prepared the DPR for it and received nod from standing committee There are four proposed stations on the stretch *Swargate *Gultekdi (Market yard) *Sai baba Mandir *Katraj junction Expected footfall due to Swargate-Katraj corridor 2027 -2037 -2047 -2057 95,000 -158,000 -187,000 -197,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-months-after-standing-committe-nod-swargate-katraj-route-yet-to-get-pmc-general-body-green-signal/story-nxtDlnbw1CWpUbzeAQ87TK.html
14-10-2020||Dehradun||8-ft long python found in Uttarakhand roadways bus, gives mechanic fright||When a mechanic of the state roadways in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur area went to inspect a bus, parked in the workshop since March due to suspension of state transport services owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, he came face to face with an eight-feet-long python. The mechanic was checking the engine compartment of the bus when he spotted the python rustling in the compartment. Having experienced the fright of his life, he jumped out of the bus and alerted other employees. “The Bus was parked after surrendering documents in the regional transport office to save taxes since March due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Now, such buses have been released to ply again on different routes after the government’s recent permissions for resumption of intra and inter-state bus services. Buses are being checked and maintenance is being carried out. During one such inspection, a python was spotted in the bus here on Tuesday,” said Rakesh Kumar, assistant regional manager, Rudrapur depot.Watch: 10-feet long python rescued by forest dept in Greater NoidaKumar said that Charanjeet, the mechanic, had boarded the bus to check the engine of the bus which was previously being operated on the Tanakpur route before the lockdown was implemented.After he spotted the python and jumped out of the bus, forest officials were called in the workshop to rescue the python. “As soon as we were informed about the python resting inside the engine compartment of the bus, we called forest officials to rescue it. A team immediately arrived at the workshop and captured the python and later released it in the forest,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/8-ft-long-python-found-in-uttarakhand-roadways-bus-gives-mechanic-fright/story-hcwviexMENSLiTTJRCJlfP.html
14-10-2020||City||Pay Rs 16 lakh to families of 4 boys who drowned in illegal quarry: NGT tells Goa govt||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Goa government to compensate the families of four boys who died after they drowned in a quarry pit, ordering the mines department to give the families Rs 16 lakh each with the liberty to recover the amount from those operating the illegal quarries. “The four students succumbed to injuries due to falling in the pit left uncared for, thus, the family members of the deceased are entitled for the payment of compensation of Rs 16 lakh each with interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of the order. The State of Goa (Department of Mines) is directed to pay the amount of compensation to family members of the deceased,” said the tribunal.“The state of Goa may recover the amount from the polluters on Principle of Polluters Pay. Any amount paid to the family member of the deceased may be deducted from the above amount. The state may recover the total amount from the polluter according to law,” the NGT ruled. The NGT arrived at the compensation amount by calculating the average amount the boys, all 14, would have earned if they were to go on to live healthy lives and work for at least 25 years of their active lives. “At a minimum rate (the Minimum Wages as prescribed by the Government of India is Rs. 433/-) and for easy calculation, we have taken Rs 400 and at the rate of minimum 20 days’ work, the amount of compensation which is to be paid or for which the family members of the deceased are entitled are approximately Rs 16 lakh,” the NGT ruled. “The award of compensation not only compensates an individual, satisfies him personally but helps in curing the social evil. It may result in improving the work culture and help in changing the outlook. When a person or institution is involved in commercial activities then any injury or damage caused by the act of these commercial activities must be compensated,” the NGT said. In September last year, four students went for a swim in the quarry that was filled with rainwater and drowned. The four were part of a group of 40 boarders from a hostel who were taken for a trek at Tuem village in North Goa.Laterite quarries of stone used to build houses are large pits that are filled with water during the rains and end up being traps, not just for unsuspecting humans but also for animals who fall into the pits.“The consumer must not be made to run from pillar to post. Where there has been capacious arbitrary or negligent exercise or non-exercise of power by the authorities or instrumentalities, the forum must be provided in the department itself to hear the grievances and take a decision to redress the public grievance,” the NGT said. Petitioner S M Walawaikar had approached the NGT alleging several quarries were operating illegally in the villages of Ozarim, Mandrem, Tuem, Corgao, Nagzar, Casarvornem and Alorna of Taluka Pernem, praying for directions to forthwith stop the illegal mining and refill all the pits and stone quarries with mud and stones. The mines department admitted that 35 sites in Pernem were operational and that no quarrying permit or quarrying lease has been granted in these cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pay-rs-16-lakh-to-families-of-4-boys-who-drowned-in-illegal-quarry-ngt-tells-goa-govt/story-dfhICZb8kmMI8yCEOfRo1N.html
14-10-2020||Dehradun||Mahakumbh 2021: Coin pickers of Ganga to be deployed as lifeguards||For the first time in its history, Mahakumbh, scheduled earlier next year in Uttarakhand, will utilise the services of coin pickers of Ganga as lifeguards, given their expertise in diving and knowledge of depth at various Ganga ghats. These coin pickers earn their livelihood by collecting coins offered to river Ganga by devotees. They dive into the river, sometimes use a stick, magnets, pieces of glass, hollow plastic boxes and their feet in tracing coins lying on the riverbed. The mela administration has decided to use their services by further training them to assist the mela force in ensuring safety of pilgrims taking a dip in Ganga and rescuing them in case they drown or get washed away. Mela administration officer in charge Deepak Rawat said, “They have a good knowledge of the depth at various ghats and I have seen them picking up coins even when the river is swollen.” Terming it as a unique initiative, Rawat said, “These coin collectors spend a major part of their life on Ganga ghats and are good divers and swimmers. So we thought of taking the help of around 100 of them during the mela and they would be paid for their services.”Also read: In a first, passes to be issued for Mahakumbh in Haridwar next yearSunil Pal, who lost his father at an early age, has been earning his livelihood by picking coins, utensils and leftover clothes and other items from Ganga ghats. “We have been informed by Har-Ki-Pauri police personnel about this idea of involving us as divers during Mahakumbh. We are excited about this proposal as it will give us an identity and provide us an additional employment,” said Sunil Pal. Thirty-four-year-old coin picker Pawan Madhuraj earns anywhere between ₹50-150 per day, depending on the occasion. “Besides coins, we also collect utensils, coconuts, items related to funeral rites and leftover clothes at Ganga ghats. At Har-Ki-Pauri alone, there are about thirty such coin collectors whose livelihood depends on this work,” said Madhuraj, who collects coins at Har-Ki-Pauri. Pradeep Jha, president of Ganga Sabha which manages the affairs of Har-Ki-Pauri, said that apart from Jal police divers, their own Ganga Sevak Dal volunteers are also expert divers who will pitch in with their services during Kumbh and other festive bathes. “The decision of using coin pickers will further strengthen the safety of pilgrims. This is a good decision,” he said Akhada Parishad, the apex body of saints, which fixes dates and related rituals of the fair, has also welcomed the initiative to utilise the skills of coin pickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/mahakumbh-2021-coin-pickers-of-ganga-to-be-deployed-as-lifeguards/story-jsAfn3hAAXytFnPeOEyE0L.html
14-10-2020||Jaipur||Laxmi Vilas disinvestment case: Arun Shourie appears before CBI court, denies wrongdoing||Former Union disinvestment minister Arun Shourie appeared before a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday and said that neither was there any procedural violation nor undervaluation in the disinvestment of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur.He also denied any political motive in the case regarding the 2002 sale of the Indian Tourism Development Corporation-run hotel in Udaipur. He furnished a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each.The Rajasthan high court has already dismissed the allegation of undervaluation of the disinvestment.Presiding Officer Pooran Kumar Sharma has fixed the next hearing on Thursday.Also Read: Court stays arrest of ex-minister Arun Shourie in hotel sale caseSpeaking to reporters outside the court, Shourie said the CBI has submitted closure reports twice in the disinvestment of Laxmi Vilas Palace. The CBI in its closure report has stated 14 such points, on the basis of which the agency found that there was no merit in the case. Despite the closure report, the CBI court has taken cognizance of the court. “I have written five books on the Supreme Court, but never questioned the motives of the court,” he said.Shourie said that the biggest charge concerns undervaluation and has no logical basis.He said a petitioner, one Ambalal Nayak, had challenged the evaluation process in the high court, but the court had dismissed the charge.When the CBI started an investigation in 2014 on the basis of an anonymous complaint, the price was estimated to be Rs 150 crore and now it is said that assets worth around Rs 250 crore have been undervalued and sold. Shourie, however, said all the allegations are baseless.On September 15, the special CBI court ordered the registration of criminal cases against former Union disinvestment minister Arun Shourie, chairperson and managing director of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsna Suri, former disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal, then managing director of investment firm Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and then head of valuation firm Kanti Karamsey Karamsey Vikamsey. The case centres on the sale of the Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, earlier run by the Indian Tourism Development Corporation, to Bharat Hotels Limited in 2002. The CBI filed an FIR in 2014, alleging that the government lost Rs 244 crore in the sale. The special court had issued arrest warrants against the accused persons, which the high court had stayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/laxmi-vilas-disinvestment-case-arun-shourie-appears-before-cbi-court-denies-wrongdoing/story-p72zJZKaPdVDtbNuUVQaCO.html
14-10-2020||Pune||Former corporator booked in extortion case in Pune||A former corporator from Khed has been booked in a case of alleged extortion involving Mangesh Karad, managing director of MIT. The complaint in the case was lodged in August 2018. The former corporator was identified as D Bhosale, according to the police. “They had filed the complaint in some other parts. It went around all the places and finally reached us only three days ago. So, we have registered it. What happened after the alleged demand was made is not yet clear,” said senior police inspector Suraj Bandgar of Loni Kalbhor police station. The extortion money was allegedly demanded in the presence of three witnesses and involved a land dispute with the university, according to the police. A case under Section 384 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Loni Kalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/former-corporator-booked-in-extortion-case-in-pune/story-lhY4UH6w72oT6El9ty6OzN.html
14-10-2020||Pune||18 arrested for gambling operation outside Pimpri court||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested 18 people for running and participating in a gambling den on an open ground near Pimpri court. The owner of the operation was identified as Vinaykumar alias Palya Ram Sahajivan Kurmi (36), a resident of Laltopinagar area of Pimpri, according to the police. While he was running the operation, the others were playing in the den that was operating in the open under the shade of a tree, according to the police. “The social security squad was working towards gathering information with an intention of reducing illegal businesses when, on October 12, an anonymous informant provided information about Kalyan matka gambling operation in the circus ground of Laltopinagar” read a statement from the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The men were found with cash, seven mobile phones, and other supplies like pens and printouts used for gambling, all worth Rs 85,390. Among the seized belongings, ₹54,370 was cash, according to the police. A case under Sections 188, 269, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 12(a) of Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, Section 50(b) of National Disaster Management Act and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations was registered at Pimpri police station against the 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/18-arrested-for-gambling-operation-outside-pimpri-court/story-tRK0f1uSCqPnwObHP3MsHM.html
14-10-2020||Pune||68-year-old in Pune promised ‘potential dates’ by caller, duped of Rs 3.7 lakh||A 68-year-old man from Pune was duped of Rs 3.7 lakh by people who promised him with contacts of potential dates. The 68-year-old is a resident of Quarter Gate area of Pune and has transferred a total of Rs 3,74,000 to various bank accounts over four months between July and October. The unidentified accused promised to put him in touch with women who could be potential dates for him, according to the man’s complaint. The complainant had approached the cybercrime police station officials who registered the case and then transferred it to Samarth police station. A case under Sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c)(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/68-year-old-promised-dates-by-caller-duped-of-3-7-lakh/story-hHQKEJdbONC715ExxvzL6I.html
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Movie theatres in Gurugram set to reopen from tomorrow: All you need to know||Movie theatres in Gurugram will reopen from Thursday following relaxations issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in unlock 5.“Our preparations for running operations are very solid and we have been preparing for it over the last seven months. We aim to provide a safe movie experience to our customers amid Covid-19,” Sanjay Barjatya, Regional Operations Head, Miraj Cinemas, told ANI.According to the guidelines released by MHA, cinema halls can open for the viewers again from October 15.Here are the SOPs to be followed:1. Movie theatres in Gurugram will reopen with 50 per cent capacity from Thursday amid the Covid-19 outbreak.2. According to the rules, owners have arranged for 50% of viewers to sit in the halls with paperless ticket arrangement as well as sanitisation of all the seats.3. Outside the cinema halls, masks have also been arranged for visitors entering the food gallery keeping in mind social distancing measures.4. All incoming viewers will need to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/movie-theatres-in-gurugram-set-to-reopen-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-PoXPK1OjbpqeTQG7e3SY6H.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmer leaders walk out of meeting with Union agriculture secretary||Representatives of farmer unions from Punjab walked out of a meeting with Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal at Krishi Bhawan in Delhi on Wednesday, saying they were expecting to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar who could decide on their demands to repeal the three farm laws. With the meeting ending on an inconclusive note, the farmer union leaders said the rail blockade and protests will continue even as they meet in Chandigarh on Thursday to decide on the further course of action. “We accepted the Centre’s invite for talks but were disappointed. Contrary to our suggestion, there was no one at the meeting who could decide on our demands,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, the general secretary of Bharti Kisan Union (Dakounda), a key farm union of Punjab. When Agarwal tried to pacify the seven farmer representatives, asking them to stay for talks, they handed over their memorandum of demands and walked out. “We refused to talk to him (Agarwal) but we gave him the memorandum in which we have demanded that the new laws be repealed. We want the minimum support price (MSP) on all crops to be made a legal right for farmers and open-ended procurement should be guaranteed. The proposed power bill that the Centre plans to adjudicate should also not be introduced as it will further hit farmers,” Patiala said. BID TO DELAY DECISION ON DEMANDS: FARMERS On the “competent authority”, he said: “We were expecting Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar or at least the minister of state to talk to us, but we were made to meet the agriculture secretary. We see this as an attempt to delay decision-making on our demands.” The farm union activists have laid siege to key rail routes in Punjab since September 24, impacting the supply of the essential services such as coal for the state’s thermal power generation units, the movement of foodgrains to consumer states from Punjab’s godowns, and the supply of fertilisers such as di-ammonium phosphate and urea needed for sowing Rabi crops. After the Centre invited the farm unions for talks, 29 farm bodies of the 30 protesting against the farm laws nominated seven spokespersons. ANTI-GOVT SLOGANS RAISED OUTSIDE KRISHI BHAWANOn coming out of Krishi Bhawan, the farm union representatives raised anti-government slogans. They were joined by at least 50 representatives of different farm bodies had gathered outside the meeting venue.Police personnel were deployed outside Krishi Bhawan to avert any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmer-leaders-walk-out-of-meeting-with-union-agriculture-secretary/story-z4sS4YhQix8HJCfPOFthXN.html
14-10-2020||Lucknow||Second dolphin death in 5 days in UP’s Bulandshahr; probe panel set up||The death of another dolphin, the second in five days in Narora area of Uttar Pradsh’s Bulandshahr district, has evoked concern among experts about protection of this highly endangered fresh water species in the Upper Gangetic Basin.The chief conservator (forest) of west zone, N K Jaanu, said a committee of five officials, including members of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and WWF India, has been formed under the chairmanship of the divisional forest officer ( DFO) to probe the death of two dolphins in the Narora area.“I have directed them to submit their report in two days and make arrangements for a proper post-mortem of the animal,” said Jaanu.In the latest instance, a dolphin was found dead in the lower Ganga canal near Ramghat bridge on Tuesday. Previously, a young dolphin was found dead near Narora village on October 9. Earlier in January, a dolphin was found dead near Jalapur Jora village Meerut’s Hastinapur area.Also read: Fund-starved zoos to be developed on PPP model The total population of dolphins in Upper Gangetic Basin (176-km stretch of Ganges between Bijnore and Narora barrages) is 41, as per the latest joint survey of WWF India and forest department.State’s chief wildlife warden Sunil Pandey also announced that a committee of senior officials would be set up to investigate frequent death of dolphins. Pandey said forest officials and staff needed to be more vigilant to protect these highly endangered animals, which had been included in Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Act.Dr Sandeep Behera, consultant of National Ganga Clean Mission( NGMC), said, “We must put an effective check on the frequent death of dolphins.”He said the stretch of Ganga between Narora and Garhmukteshwar was declared a Ramsar site (wetland site of international importance) because of these dolphins and the community’s participation in their conservation. But, he alleged, officials could not develop a management plan for the site in past 15 years. Important sites are called Ramsar sites because of the Ramsar Convention, an intergovernmental environmental treaty established in 1971 by Unesco, which came into force in 1975.A senior forest official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Prima facie, illegal fishing in the river seems to be the reason for the death of these two dolphins.”As dolphins are mammals, they need to come out of the water every three to four minutes to breathe. Blind by birth, they differentiate between light and dark by using sonar rays. They detect and escape obstacles inside the water through the rebound rays. However, fisherman use nylon nets and the sonar rays pass through these. As a result, there is no rebound and the dolphins are unable to detect the nets, getting entangled in them and then dying of suffocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/second-dolphin-death-in-5-days-in-up-s-bulandshahr-probe-panel-set-up/story-rQoT9ctoGJikfEaty8UJiJ.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||IMD’s improved air quality models capture air pollution spike in Delhi||The air quality forecast models for Delhi and the rest of India have improved according to India Meteorological Department, which will lead to better forecasts this year and identification of air pollution hot spots.The October 15 forecast for India shows PM 2.5 concentrations ranging from 100 to 200 micrograms per cubic metre. The 24-hour safe standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. When it comes to PM 2.5 concentrations in Delhi, the entire city seems to be impacted by concentrations of over 200 micrograms per cubic metre as per IMD’s ENFUSER model.Also Read: AQI enters red zone, all eyes on farm firesThe air quality forecast model system for integrated modelling of atmospheric composition (SILAM) for India has been improved by implementing global emission inventories for coarse and fine particulate matter at 10 km resolution. “Earlier we had 50 km resolution. Plus, we have also added land cover and land-use data to obtain a better forecast,” explained Vijay Soni, a scientist at the air pollution division of India Meteorological Department (IMD).A very high-resolution city scale model has been operationalised for Delhi to identify air pollution hot spots and street-level pollution. The model utilises air quality observations, road network, building, land use information, high resolution satellite maps, population data etc to generate forecasts. The results are being evaluated to capture pollution hot spots in Delhi, Soni said.Now the air quality warning system will also provide forecasts for Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi at 2 km resolution. “For the Delhi model, we are using real time air quality data from ground monitors, traffic congestion data, road network data, etc. to identify hot spots. We will be able to share this information on our bulletins also,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/imd-s-improved-air-quality-models-capture-air-pollution-spike-in-delhi/story-XAnGUXN7NWBEmBH9rpO9IN.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Diesel generators banned in Delhi from Thursday; essential services like hospitals, railways exempted||The Delhi government on Wednesday banned use of diesel generators, except those needed for essential or emergency services like hospitals and railways in Delhi as Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) against air pollution is implemented from Thursday.“Delhi Pollution Control Committee hereby bans the operation of electricity generator sets of all capacities, run on diesel, petrol or kerosene in Delhi with effect from October 15 till further orders, excluding those used for essential or emergency services,” the official order read, according to PTI.The essential services that are excepted include Delhi Metro, airports, railway services, health care facilities, interstate bus terminals. The DPCC has also directed power companies to provide uninterrupted power supply to people. GRAP, anti-pollution measures, will be effective in Delhi and its neighbouring areas from October 15. The measures under GRAP were first enforced in Delhi-NCR in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-control-board-orders-banning-of-diesel-generators-from-thursday-essential-services-like-hospitals-railways-exempted/story-5AxhvyICfXFgGmfggLtkLL.html
14-10-2020||Lucknow||Azamgarh minor raped, threatened by neighbour, accused arrested||A minor girl, aged around 13 years, was allegedly raped by her neighbour in a village in Azamgarh district early on October 9, the police said on Wednesday.The accused was arrested on Tuesday, four days after the alleged incident following a complaint filed by the mother of the survivor in this regard, the police said.A senior police officer said the victim’s mother named a 20-year old youth for allegedly raping her daughter early on October 9 and for threatening to kill her if she disclosed the incident. The crime allegedly took place when the survivor and her sister were at the house of the accused, the mother said in her complaint.Also Read: Law student asked to explain volte-face in Chinmayanand case, faces perjury chargeSuperintendent of police (Azamgarh) Sudhir Kumar Singh said, “The case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of IPC following a complaint by the victim’s mother in this regard.” He added that the POCSO Act had also been invoked against the accused.Also Read: ‘Male members to be questioned’: CBI again summons Hathras gang-rape victim’s brotherThe accused was booked under Section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on October 12 and the accused was arrested on Tuesday.During interrogation, the accused confessed to the offence, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/azamgarh-minor-raped-threatened-by-neighbour-accused-arrested/story-f1VhHveXPHnXhNkrhIt8aI.html
14-10-2020||Dehradun||Elderly couple found murdered at home in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar||A retired BHEL officer and his wife were found murdered at their residence in Haridwar district, the police said. The incident came to light on Tuesday evening when neighbours got suspicious as they didn’t spot any movement around the house for some time. Also, the deceased couple’s daughter, who lives in New Delhi, informed the local police control room of her parents not picking up the phone despite repeated attempts. When the police went to their house in Shivalik Nagar, they found PS Agarwal, 80, and his wife Beena Agarwal,75, lying in a pool of blood in separate rooms. All the cupboards and storage racks were found open and household items were thrown around the place, indicating it might be a case of robbery. Also Read: Ahead of Kumbh 2021, Upper Ganga Canal to close for repairs in HaridwarSenior Superintendent of Police D Senthyl Aboodai Krishan Raj, who arrived with police officers at the residence, said that a probe is on to nab the culprits. “CCTV camera footage from different areas is being scanned and forensic experts have collected fingerprints and related forensic evidence from the spot. The police team is probing all the angles to solve the case,” Krishan Raj said. Following the incident, the locals demanded regular and routine night patrolling by a police team in their area, where primarily retired government and army officials live. Local MLA Aadesh Chauhan and Shivalik Nagar Palika chairperson Rajeev Sharma also arrived at the spot to inquire about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/elderly-couple-found-murdered-at-home-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar/story-xjEdPF8RDmvsWQAwhnnkiP.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic police to address citizens as sir, madam or shriman, shrimati||Recently appointed joint commissioner of police (traffic) Yashashvi Yadav has issued a circular stating that politeness from traffic police will be mandatory from now onwards. Yadav said, “We will fine the traffic violators as per law, but with politeness. I have asked my personnel to address citizens as ‘sir’ , ‘madam’ or ‘shriman’ , ‘shrimati’.”Yadav said, “There are lots of scuffles between vehicle drivers and traffic police. We have also observed that rudeness is the reason behind such scuffles and most people hate to encounter the police. This circular will build a respectful bond between police and the common man.”Also Read: Covid-19 patients are not untouchables: Bombay HC fumes at hospital’s refusal to examine pregnant woman“A person is usually aware of the traffic rules he or she has flouted. But if this is put across to them politely, the person will surely think before repeating it in the future,” the officer added. “We thought talking politely and gently will be very helpful for better communication between policemen and citizens,” Yadav further said.“The traffic police will be given a week’s time to change their tone while talking and after that if any of them appear to be talking rudely with anyone they will have to face administrative action,” Yadav added.There are more than 3,000 policemen in the traffic division and around 2,500 traffic policemen interact with people on the road daily. Before this in 2006, a similar circular was issued by the then police commissioner of Thane D Shivanandan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-police-to-address-citizens-as-sir-madam-or-shriman-shrimati/story-bhYfXJyvUw8tX4N39AkIKN.html
14-10-2020||Lifestyle||Festive shopping? Log in to see, shop, support #local online||Every year, the festive season begins with much fervour and enthusiasm with shopping plans for first Durga Puja and Navratri, and later Dussehra and Diwali. This year, much has been changed due to Covid-19 pandemic. And to maintain social distancing and follow other necessary precautions, people are preferring to not to step out of their homes unless it’s absolute necessary. But shopping for festivals doesn’t stop, and in such a case online portals have turned out to be the most preferred options. According to a survey by Local Circles, 41% Delhiites are expected to use e-commerce websites as their primary shopping channel. In an extensive study of 30 days, to understand how Indian consumers will spend during the festive season, online v/s offline channels, this survey was conducted at a national level and specifically in 50 top cities of India. “It received over 300,000 responses from consumers across 330 plus districts of India. In the Delhi polls, 19,028 responses were received. 41% chose e-commerce sites and apps while 29% said they will call local retail stores and get things home delivered. Only 16% said they will physically visit malls, markets and local retailers for the festive shopping. Overall, 79% e-commerce shoppers say they will consider buying festive items online supporting local artisan and business (#localforvocal),” says Sachin Taparia, founder of the community social media platform. It’s interesting to note that many, during the time of Covid-19 lockdown, learnt to shop online so that they are self-reliant to buy whatever they need, without taking help from their family. Madhu Bansal, a resident of south Delhi, says, “Before Covid-19, I preferred to shop from my local market, after comparing the prices and different qualities of products available. But, now I’m left with no option... ever since the pandemic hit, my son isn’t letting me go out to shop. He actually gave me a tutorial on how to shop online while checking quality and comparing price range. Now I’ve mastered the art! I’ve been ordering online for a while. In fact, for Navratri, I prepared a list to compare the price range on various websites, and then ordered what I needed. I‘m excited to receive all the items before Navratri begins.” Those buyers who are keen to support #LocalForVocal have decided to pay serious attention to where they are ordering their needs from. “I get confused while making the payments, so my husband asked me to make COD for most of the items, and I find it easy. My focus remains on buying from Indian karigars and companies. It does take some time to read about the company but I don’t mind putting that much of effort to support our economy. I would urge other shoppers also to support small-scale businesses and entrepreneurs,” says Manju Saraf, a resident of Bengali Market. It’s also the season of sales, and some of the e-commerce websites have decided to enable local shops, kiranas and other neighbourhood stores this festive season. Working women, who are tied up due to their busy office schedule and household responsibilities, are elated to know this. “My husband has been telling me about how websites are supporting local kiranas since Modi ji spoke about it,” says Ekadshi Gupta from Gurugram, adding, “We’ve thus been purchasing clothes and most other products online, and ensure that whatever we buy is sourced from Indian craftspersons. Now, as local kirana stores are also becoming part of e-shopping, we can buy groceries from there, too.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/festive-shopping-log-in-to-see-shop-support-local-online/story-VSXff1OcqmUOIK0PrfOcGI.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Under which provisions private hospitals requisitioned for Covid treatment: HC asks Maharashtra||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government to clarify about the legal provisions under which private hospitals are being used as dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) healthcare facilities.A two-member division bench, comprising Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala, has also directed the state government to clarify if the latter is willing to appropriately compensate private hospitals following their requisition under Section 65 of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005.Also read: Covid-19 patients are not untouchables, says Bombay HC to hospital for refusing to examine pregnant womanThe bench made the observation while hearing a petition filed by Viveka Super Speciality Hospital and Research Centre, a private healthcare facility, in Nagpur, challenging the validity of two notifications by the state government.The notifications were issued by the state government on April 30 and May 21 following which an order was also put out by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on August 31, directing the petitioner hospital to spare 80℅ of its beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Advocates Kartik Shukul and Abhilash Shriwas, who represented the petitioner hospital, submitted that neither the notifications nor the civic order issued under Section 65 of the DM Act, 2005, were in legal conformity.They pleaded that the bid to requisition 80% of the hospital beds was void because of the absence of an order.The bench found merit in the petitioner’s submissions, and asked the divisional revenue commissioner and the NMC commissioner, who were present for the hearing, about the legal provisions under which they had requisitioned private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.However, both the officials were clueless about the court’s query and sought time for a response.“If orders as contemplated under Section 65 of the DM Act, 2005 or under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which have not been passed to date, it is not understood as to how and under what authority there can be interference in the management of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, either by the state government or by the empowered officers under the said Acts,” the court said.It added that if the notifications were issued under these legal provisions, then obligations contained under Section 66 of the DM Act, 2005, regarding the payment of compensation would follow.The bench will hear the petition next on Thursday (October 15).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/under-which-provisions-private-hospitals-requisitioned-for-covid-treatment-hc-asks-maharashtra/story-pvo9wJMfMroJTxPWrIg0rK.html
14-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP MP urges Amit Shah to seek report on use of chemicals to disperse protestors||Bharatiya Janata Party MP Locket Chatterjee has urged Union home minister Amit Shah to seek a report from the Mamata Banerjee administration in Bengal over the alleged use of “harmful chemicals” to disperse the crowd during a political protest rally on October 8. In her letter, the MP also alleged that such chemical weapons were used in China to gag the Opposition and were new to India. “The people of Bengal will be highly grateful to you if you could kindly seek a report from the state government regarding the use of chemicals in water cannons to disperse the crowd,” Chatterjee wrote to Shah. Also Read: Balwinder Singh a target in TMC’s fight against BJP, says Akal Takht jathedarEarlier too the BJP had alleged the Kolkata Police had sprayed water mixed with chemicals during the Nabanna Cholo rally organised by the party to protest against political killings in the state. The state government, however, refuted such allegations saying that it was coloured water, which is used globally. “No chemical was used in the cannon water; it is wrong information. The intent to use coloured water is to identify a person post-dispersal for further necessary action as per the law if deemed fit and if required,” Alapan Bandopadhyay, chief secretary of the state had told media persons. The letter sent by Chatterjee also states that the police had used bombs, tear gas and lathis to disperse the ‘peaceful crowd’. It also mentions the allegend manhandling of Balwinder Singh. “The chemical that was used by the police as a tool to identify protestors made people sick and breathless. This was a very similar sight to that of China where political opponents are gagged and are stopped by chemical weapons and are not allowed to protest against the atrocities of the ruling regime,” the MP wrote in her letter to the Union home minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-mp-urges-amit-shah-to-seek-report-on-use-of-chemicals-to-disperse-protestors/story-7w8h0nA7VYDyAwL3HmiuPK.html
14-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan sets example with social audit of all Covid-19 programmes||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday decided to get a social audit of Covid-19 welfare programmes done with the help of non-government organisations, a first for the country.After getting suggestions from social activists, Gehlot announced that social audit of relief work undertaken during the pandemic would be conducted through a government organisation having social workers as its members. “A governing body will be constituted soon for social auditing and social workers will also be nominated in it,” he said.During the pandemic, especially during the lockdown, the Rajasthan government took initiatives to help the needy through schemes such as Rs 3,500 one-time financial assistance to meet daily requirements, paid in three instalments; free ration to the needy and social security pension among other measures.Welcoming the decision, social activist Nikhil Dey said Rajasthan is the first state in the country to announce the holding of a social audit of all relief work done during Covid-19. However, states such as Telangana and Jharkhand, too, have done a concurrent social audit of some schemes, mainly related to MNREGA but Rajasthan decision for an overall audit to bring transparency in public spending sets a good example. Dey said Rajasthan was a pioneer in conducting social audits and has a directorate which wasn’t working as per the protocol of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) directions. He claimed that Gehlot has now announced provision for a governing council within the directorate.More RTIs disposed of during lockdown, says minister; experts disagree“We hope Rajasthan will once again take the lead in conducting social audits in the country. We hope that all Covid expenditure done anywhere in the country including through the PM Cares fund will be subject to a social audit,” he said.Addressing a national level webinar on the Right to Information Act (RTI), Gehlot said the appointment of chief information commissioner (CIC) and other information commissioners will be done in the next one month in the state.“The entire process of appointing the commissioners and obtaining information through RTI applications will be made online by December 31,” he said.Also Read: Paddy purchase up, other crops sell below MSPSocial activist and RTI proponent, Aruna Roy, suggested for a transparency policy for ensuring accountability in governance. She said that public information portal is an important medium of people’s communication with the government, and to maintain its system, an advisory group or council should be formed at the state level. Dey added that there should be a law for accountability of public servants and pointed out that if Rajasthan implements the law, it would be the first state in the country to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-sets-example-with-social-audit-of-all-covid-19-programmes/story-7XJk48axahuxpIiI5jjCFJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Once forgotten, 1918 Spanish flu memorial gains following amid Covid-19 scare in Goa||Right outside the expansive cemetery at Raia village in South Goa stood a stone structure covered in moss, overgrown weeds and creepers. It was scheduled to be demolished to make way for a wider road as part of highway expansion between Margao and Ponda, two towns in South Goa. Little was known or spoken about the structure but its engraved inscription bore testimony to its true purpose. “E M (Em Memória) das vítimas de gripe de 1918” (In Memory of the Victims of the Flu of 1918) reads its plaque. Until earlier this year, the stone monolith that once had a cross at the top, which had collapsed due to lack of care, was given very little attention. That changed in July-August. As coronavirus (Covid-19) cases emerged in the village, people began flocking to the memorial, turning to it to pray for the survival of near and dear ones.On Sunday, October 11, work on restoration of the cross was completed and it was reconsecrated in a simple ceremony. Ever since, it has seen a steady stream of devotees and visitors who light candles and pray for the recovery of those ailing from Covid-19. “The Regidor (village administrator), Olivo Costa, and village elders got together to built this structure in memory of those who had died,” recalled Margarida Tavora e Costa whose lineage traces back to Olivo Costa. Legend has it that the village of Raia and the neighbouring village of Rachol, which is host to a Portuguese era fort and military garrison, were particularly affected by the Spanish flu of 1918 and as the bodies began filling the cemetery, the villagers had to expand the burial grounds in what would resemble a mass grave. The memorial was built atop the extended burial grounds to remember those who had perished. Locals say 318 people are believed to have died of Spanish flu in and around the village. “If not for the events of this year, who would have thought about this memorial? Even I didn’t know it existed,” Margarida said, adding that she was inspired to take the initiative to restore the memorial with help from her extended family. It is one of the two known memorials dedicated to victims of 1918 Spanish flu that still exist in Goa, the other one being in Salvador do Mundo. Stories surrounding the 1918 epidemic are mainly passed down through oral tradition. Anna Antonetta Fernandes, 88, recalled through her son, Marius Fernandes, the stories that she was told by her mother of the ‘gripe’ that afflicted the land leading to a piling up of bodies in her village that were carried up the hill away from human habitation and buried without any ceremony. In her book about health in colonial Goa, Fatima da Silva Gracias spoke of minimal effort by the government to contain the pandemic. “The first case of influenza in Goa was reported in 1917 in Bardez taluka (North Goa). It coincided with acute shortage of provisions. In Siolim (Bardez), eight to ten persons died daily. The outbreak did not attract any particular attention of the government as cases in the early period were not fatal. Able-bodied workers suffered the most on account of influenza. Pregnant mothers who suffered from influenza either died or miscarried or delivered premature babies,” Gracias said in her book. “The inhabitants of this territory in panic would run away at the mere sight of a dead body being carried away. The Government did not implement immediate measures to control or prevent the spread of the disease,” she wrote. Figures of how many succumbed to the flu across the colony are also hard to come by. The memorials are all that remains of the 1918 pandemic and today, they are relevant again. “I had a vision to restore what was done by our ancestors because of our family memory. During this time of the pandemic, we have to give back and we have to come together,” Margarida said.As to whether the memorial will still be demolished for the highway project, local MLA Aleixo Lourenço said, “There is no question of removing the Cross now, from where it stands. Whoever comes up with these ideas has an evil mind.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/once-forgotten-1918-spanish-flu-memorial-gains-following-amid-covid-19-scare-in-goa/story-VobuVy0yfCusX9P4OCFROM.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Payal Ghosh apologises to Richa Chadha, Bombay HC disposes of defamation suit||The Bombay high court on Wednesday disposed of the defamation suit filed by actor Richa Chadha against actor Payal Ghosh, after Ghosh informed the court that she had withdrawn the allegedly defamatory and derogatory statements against Chadha and tendered an apology. After both the parties submitted consent terms agreeing that they will not file any case against each other nor would they seek compensation, the court accepted the same and disposed of the suit against Ghosh. However, Chadha’s suit against film personality Kamaal R Khan and a TV channel will continue as Khan submitted that he would contest it. The court has asked him to file an affidavit and posted the matter for hearing after six weeks. AK Menon, while hearing the suit, was informed by advocate Nitin Satpute who represented actor Payal Ghosh that as per court directions both parties had amicably settled the issue which had arisen out of the comments Ghosh made about Chadha when she accused film director Anurag Kashyap of sexual misconduct. Also Read: Richa Chadha thanks NCW, Rekha Sharma for responding to her defamation caseSatpute said that as per the October 12 directions of the court, both parties had arrived at a settlement and had filed their consent terms. Advocate Saveena Bedi, representing Chadha, concurred and said that the consent terms were arrived at amicably and were finalised and signed. As per the settlement, both had agreed not to file a case against each other nor seek compensation. Chadha had filed the defamation suit seeking a compensation of Rs 1.1 crore from Ghosh, film personality Kamal Khan and a TV channel for sharing and airing alleged derogatory and defamatory comments made by director Anurag Kashyap about Chadha while allegedly seeking sexual favours from Ghosh. During the initial hearing, the high court had directed both Chadha and Ghosh to settle the matter and issued an injunction against news channels and portals from sharing or airing disputed content till the suit was decided. Advocate Manoj Gadkari, appearing for Khan, informed the court that his client was willing to contest the suit but would refrain from sharing the derogatory posts on social media. Advocate Nikhil Mishra, appearing for the channel, also said that they would contest the suit and argue against the injunction issued by the court. After hearing all sides the court accepted the consent terms between the actors and disposed the suit against Ghosh but said that the suit would continue against Khan and the channel and posted the matter for hearing after six weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/payal-ghosh-apologises-to-richa-chadha-bombay-hc-disposes-of-defamation-suit/story-NHL7RoYlvgtwC3Um7IuYTN.html
14-10-2020||Dehradun||Stranded American siblings wait for Centre’s nod to unite with parents in Nepal||Uttarakhand government has written to ministry of home affairs (MHA) seeking permission to send two stranded American siblings to Nepal to meet their parents after their attempts to cross over didn’t yield positive results due to lack of immigration related documents. The siblings who study in a boarding school in Mussoorie have been stranded since the lockdown was imposed late in the month of March. During the Unlock phase, they tried to go to Kathmandu to their parents but were stopped at the Indo-Nepal border at Banbasa in Champawat district since their immigration process was not complete. Himanshu Kafaltia, sub-divisional magistrate of Tanakpur in Champawat district said that the two children have been lodged at a state guest house till their documentation gets complete. “We have written to the MHA seeking permission to open the border and allow them to go to Nepal. The children study in Class 12 and Class 10 in a boarding school in Mussoorie. Till we get a response from the MHA, the district administration is taking care of the children. We have also spoken to the US embassy which is in touch with the Central government,” said the sub-divisional magistrate. Also Read: Ahead of Kumbh 2021, Upper Ganga Canal to close for repairs in HaridwarThe official added that the children booked a taxi from Mussoorie and reached Champawat. He further said that the children’s mother is of Nepali origin and father of US origin. The parents stay in Kathmandu. “If we do not get a response from the MHA within a week, we will send the children back to Mussoorie as the paper work could take more time,” added Kafaltia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/stranded-american-siblings-wait-for-centre-s-nod-to-unite-with-parents-in-nepal/story-DRoO0EZxnGeQGTISBWKyeL.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Religious places, gyms on Maharashtra priority list for unlocking, cinema halls may have to wait||The Maharashtra government is planning to open up more activities and the unlocking will be complete by the end of the November amid pressure from various fronts and sectors, despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The places of worship are also expected to be allowed to reopen over the next few weeks. The move is significant in the backdrop of a recent letter war between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The main opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, tried to muddy the waters by launching a state-wide protest demanding reopening of temples.Also read: India crosses 7.2 million Covid-19 case mark with 63,509 new infections as cases rise marginally The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (mVA) coalition government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, has extended the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions in the state until October 31.However, it has allowed four lakh restaurants, bars, and eateries to reopen from October 5. It has permitted industries operating in the densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), a Covid-19 hotspot, to resume their commercial activities from early October.Intercity and long-distance trains within Maharashtra have also been allowed and frequency of the suburban trains within MMR has been increased. At present, the suburban trains, which are considered to be the lifeline of Mumbai, are still catering to frontline essential workers, who are busy battling the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the state government has yet to allow the reopening of schools, colleges and other educational institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, auditoriums, and assembly halls. Political, social, and cultural gatherings are still out of bounds, as part of the existing restrictions.Maharashtra was among the first states in the country to enforce lockdown restrictions from March 14 ahead of the 68-day nationwide impositions that were imposed 11 days later. State health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday had said that Maharashtra was planning to lift all lockdown restrictions by the end of November. “Barring a few, almost all the activities have been allowed as of now. Some of the activities will be thrown open by the end of October and the remaining by end-November,” he had said.Though the central government has allowed cinema halls to reopen from October 15, the theatres and multiplexes in Maharashtra will still have to wait for some more time. “Our priority is not theatres and multiplexes. Unlike other metropolises and cities, theatres and multiplexes in Mumbai are crowd-pullers and cannot be allowed to reopen immediately. We are thinking of reopening temples and gymnasiums. A decision to this effect is expected to be taken over the next few days,” said an official from Mantralaya, the state secretariat, requesting anonymity.The state authorities are expecting a spike in Covid-19 cases following further easing of lockdown restrictions. “The sequential surge due to these activities is expected by next week. Reviewing the situation on the expected surge, the decision over reopening of religious spaces is expected next week,” the official said.CM Thackeray has announced that schools, colleges and other educational institutions would not be allowed to reopen until Diwali to be celebrated on November 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-religious-places-gyms-on-maharashtra-priority-list-for-unlocking-cinema-halls-may-have-to-wait/story-nUvTKvpjOi8PAK8mi9lbTL.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 patients are not untouchables: Bombay HC fumes at hospital’s refusal to examine pregnant woman||kanchan.chaudhari@htlive.comCoronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients are not untouchables, a Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has said while expressing displeasure over a state government-run hospital’s refusal to clinically examine a woman, who had moved court in a bid to get her advanced pregnancy terminated after she was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the viral disease.“We fail to understand as to how the Covid-19 patient cannot be clinically examined by doctors,” said the two-member division bench, comprising Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala. The court made the observation while noticing that the Chandrapur-based government medical college had not clinically examined the pregnant woman after she had tested Covid-19 positive.“As we understand, day in and day out Covid-19 patients are being treated in hospitals. There is no question of them being untouchables,” the bench added.Also Read: Covid-19: ICMR studying reinfections; identifies 3 casesThe petitioner had moved the HC seeking permission to medically terminate her 23-week pregnancy while contending that the scan report has revealed that the foetus was suffering from several deformities.She had pleaded before the court that her doctor was of the opinion that there was substantial risk after the delivery, as the newborn could suffer from physical and mental abnormalities. The bench on October 7 had directed the government medical college authorities to constitute an expert panel to examine the petitioner and submit a report in a bid to determine whether her plea for medical termination of her 23-week pregnancy could be upheld.An additional government pleader submitted the report before the bench on Monday (October 12). However, the judges were annoyed after the government lawyer informed them that the petitioner would have to be clinically examined to ascertain, if she was fit to undergo the termination of her pregnancy.The bench directed the expert panel to clinically examine the petitioner and to take a decision on the mode and manner in which the termination of the pregnancy could take place. The bench also ordered the panel to decide whether the termination of pregnancy could be done when the patient was yet to recover from the viral infection and submit a report before the court.The bench will give its verdict on Thursday on the basis of the panel’s report. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-patients-are-not-untouchables-bombay-hc-fumes-at-hospital-s-refusal-to-examine-pregnant-woman/story-XOkX9IkdVDkR5cozFY0YwJ.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Police ask govt to bar entry of vehicles carrying arms, ammo, explosives through Atal Tunnel||The Himachal Pradesh Police have proposed that the state government bar the entry of army and civilian trucks carrying arms, ammunition and explosives through the strategic Atal Tunnel across the Rohtang Pass that provides all-weather connectivity to the border district of Lahaul-Spiti. The proposal is among the recommendations made by a five-member committee set up by state director general of police Sanjay Kundu to suggest measures for the tunnel’s security. Headed by inspector general of police, security and intelligence, Daljit Singh Thakur, the committee comprises deputy inspector general of police, central range, Madhusudhan; superintendent of police, Kullu, Gaurav Singh; superintendent of police, Lahaul and Spiti, Rajesh Dharmani; and a representative of the intelligence bureau. The committee submitted its proposals to chief secretary Anil Khachi recently and suggested that the movement of vehicles carrying explosives be barred from plying through the 9.02-km tunnel, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3. The members of the committee had earlier visited Jawahar Tunnel in Banihal and the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Tunnel at Chenani-Nashri to study the security set-up adopted by the Jammu and Kashmir Police. TWO POLICE STATIONS AT TUNNELThe committee also proposed multipurpose barriers at Solang, 14 km down the South Portal at Dhundhi, and at Teling close to the North Portal in Sissu. It asked the government to make budgetary provisions for two police stations, one at the North Portal that will be supervised by the Lahaul and Spiti SP, and the other at Dhundhi at the South Portal under the jurisdiction of the Kullu police. Both police stations will have 45 personnel each to monitor the security and deal with law and order. They will be provided two police control room (PCR) vans to manage traffic inside the tunnel. STUDIED SAFETY PRACTICES IN TUNNELS ABROADThe five-member team had also studied safety practices followed in tunnels in the Swiss Alps, China, Japan and Pakistan. The Atal Tunnel is 25km from Manali and located at an altitude of 3,060 metres, while the North Portal near Teling situated at 3,071 metres. It is a horseshoe-shaped, single-tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres. Built at a cost of Rs 3,300 crore, the tunnel is significant from the defence point of view. The Border Roads Organisation completed work on the tunnel in a decade, overcoming geological challenges that included the difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah fault zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-police-ask-govt-to-bar-entry-of-vehicles-carrying-arms-ammo-explosives-through-atal-tunnel/story-zubw2I0e7fRofBLTZFwOmN.html
14-10-2020||Lucknow||UP CM to attend Ayodhya’s star-studded Ramleela this year||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will attend ‘Ayodhya Ki Ramleela’, a nine-day mega event in the temple town during Navratri this year, featuring Bollywood actors as characters from Ramayan in this Ramleela.Bharatiya Janata Party MP from West Delhi, Pravesh Sahib Singh Varma and Bollywood actor Vindu Dara Singh met CM Adityanath on Tuesday and extended an invitation for the Ramleela. Accepting the invitation, the chief minister promised to attend the Ramleela on any one day during its nine-day schedule. The ‘Ayodhya Ki Ramleela’ will be a major event in the temple town this year, starting from October 17 and ending with Dussehra on October 25. The mega show will be performed at Laxman Quila on the banks of river Saryu. Vindu Dara Singh, son of late actor Dara Singh, who had essayed the iconic role of Lord Hanuman in Ramanand Sagar’s TV serial ‘Ramayan’, will follow in the footsteps of his late father. He will play the character of Hanuman in this Ramleela. Manoj Tewari, actor-turned-politician, who is BJP MP from north-east Delhi, will play Angad, son of legendary king Bali of Kishkindha kingdom. Also Read: Covid shadow, permission delays force Ramlila bodies in Chandigarh to call it quits this yearFamous Bhojpuri actor and Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan will play the character of Bharat, Lord Ram’s brother. The role of Sita will be portrayed by Kavita Joshi and that of Lord Ram by Sonu Sagar. Yesteryear Bollywood comedian, Asrani, will play Narad Muni. Other Bollywood actors who figure in the Ramleela are Raza Murad, Shahbaz Khan, Avtar Gill, Rajesh Puri and Rakesh Bedi. Also Read: 15-year-old Dalit girl ends life after ‘rape’, police ‘inaction’ in BundelkhandHowever, no spectators will be allowed to attend the event due to Covid-19 protocol. The event will be telecast live on channels and social media. This year due to the pandemic, events on Deepotsav in Ayodhya have also been cancelled. Since the BJP formed government in Uttar Pradesh in March 2017, Deepotsav is celebrated every year in Ayodhya on Diwali eve. But there will be no let–up in grandeur when it comes to lighting diyas at Ram Ki Paidi. The ghats will be decked up with diyas and will be decorated like previous years. However, people will only be able to participate virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-to-attend-ayodhya-s-star-studded-ramleela-this-year/story-PXu71al0hraWtIpgzgrokO.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC to scale up testing to 20,000 per day||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to scale up to 20,000 daily Covid-19 tests in Mumbai from the present average of 15,000. The decision was taken in a meeting of municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, deputy municipal commissioners, and assistant commissioners of all 24 wards, on Tuesday. RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests done daily will now be scaled up. A little over two weeks ago, BMC was conducting about 13,000 tests a day, and had scaled up to 15,000 tests. Of those 30-35% are rapid antigen tests, and the remaining are RT-PCR tests. On October 12, BMC conducted 9,133 tests, and on October 11, it conducted 9,265 tests, much lower than the average of the past week at 14,000 daily tests. So far, BMC has conducted 1,271,087 tests, with a positivity rate of 18.5%. It has conducted 98,421 tests per million till date. A senior civic officer said, “All assistant commissioners have been directed to further scale up testing in their respective wards and meet the target everyday. Each officer can pick methods to do so but they have been urged to meet the target. It will mean that we organise more fever camps, ramp up contact tracing efforts, and test all high risk contacts of positive cases.” Since BMC began to scale up testing from up to 10,000 at the end of July to 15,000 in October, the positivity rate has seen only a slight drop, from 20% to 18.5%, a senior civic officer said, “We are getting a decent positivity rate, as the number of cases reported in the city per day has also gone up to over 2,000. Further scaling up of testing will help identify positive cases faster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bmc-to-scale-up-testing-to-20-000-per-day/story-bx6GkLd0R1LVTfvrD2Tj2J.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||In 1st response to same-sex marriage, Centre cites 5,000 yrs of Sanatan Dharma||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on pleas by two same-sex couples seeking legal recognition of their marriages, arguing that the lack of formal acceptance of their union under Indian laws was a violation of their constitutional rights.A bench of justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and justice Asha Menon issued notices to the authorities and posted the matter for further hearing on January 8, 2021. The bench also said age-old inhibitions have to be shed when advocate Rajkumar Yadav, one of the counsels for the Centre, submitted that this is a peculiar circumstance and this situation has not been faced in 5,000 years of Sanatan Dharma.Also read: Delhi HC to hear PIL on same-sex marriage“We may shed our inhibition. The laws are gender-neutral. You please try to interpret the law for the citizens of Sanatan Dharma in the country. This is not an adversarial litigation. This is for the right of every citizen of the country,” justice Menon said.Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said that the issue would require a detailed reply. During the proceedings, the court sought to know from the counsel for the petitioner whether the concept of marriage has been challenged in the plea because the term “marriage” has not been defined. “Please understand that till the concept of marriage is not challenged, it would not be able to move forward in the matter because marriage is not defined. There is otherwise no question on the maintainability of the pleas but in both the Special Marriage Act and Foreign Marriage Act, the term marriage has not been defined,” said the court.Explaining the difference, senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy said the only difference between the SMA and Foreign Marriage Act is that the latter allows foreigners of Indian origin to marry. She said the plea is not on the customary or religious laws. “This is about the civil law, a statute provided by the Indian law for inter-caste, inter-faith, modern couples , same sex couple etc,” she said, adding that many judges have said that sexual orientation cannot be ground for discrimination.The first petition was filed by two mental health professionals -- Kavita Arora, 47, and Ankita Khanna, 36 -- who said they had been living together as a couple for eight years, were in love with each other, but unable to marry as both were women.“The petitioners are like any other couple you might meet, except they are both women,” their petition read.The second petition was filed by two men – Vaibhav Jain, an Indian citizen, and Parag Vijay Mehta, an overseas citizen of India, who got married in the United States in 2017. An Indian consulate refused to register their union this year under the 1969 Foreign Marriage Act.The couple, who were in a relationship since 2012 and were supported by their families and friends, also claimed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, this non-recognition of their marriage prevented them from travelling to India as a married couple.“The petitioners submit that non-recognition of same-sex marriages is a wanton act of discrimination that strikes at the root of dignity and self-fulfillment of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) couples,” the petition read.The two women said that issues like opening a joint bank account, buying family health insurance, or securing address proof – things that a married couple takes for granted – were a struggle for them. On September 30, they approached the marriage officer (the sub-divisional magistrate, South East Delhi, Kalkaji) seeking solemnisation of their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954.“The marriage officer would have solemnised the marriage of any similarly placed opposite-sex couple. Sexual orientation discrimination is constitutionally prohibited under Article 15, but the petitioners were refused the right to marry a person of their choice on grounds of their sexual orientation alone,” they said.The petitions argued that the non-recognition of marriage between LGBTQ persons violated the fundamental rights of liberty, equality, life and freedom of expression guaranteed to them by the Supreme Court judgment, Navtej Johar vs Union of India, which decriminalised adult, consensual same-sex relations in 2018.The Delhi high court is already hearing a petition filed by defence analyst Abhijit Iyer Mitra and three others. In response to that petition, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said last month that Indian values didn’t recognise same-sex unions.The two petitioners were represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and advocates Arundhati Katju, Govind Manoharan and Surabhi Dhar. Guruswamy and Katju were among the lawyers who convinced the Supreme Court to read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code which criminalised homosexuality, in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-seeks-govt-response-on-pleas-of-2-same-sex-couples-for-legal-recognition-of-marriage/story-XSk27xFFj4NoTQ1Mzv5MFK.html
14-10-2020||Bhopal||MP woman stabs man 25 times for repeated ‘rape’ for past 15 years||A 31-year-old woman at least 25 times stabbed a man, who had allegedly been raping her for the past 15 years in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna, 214 km north of capital Bhopal. The man died on the spot, said police.After killing the resident of a village in Ashok Nagar, Brijbhushan Sharma, on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, the woman immediately informed the police about what she had done, said Ramprakash Verma, town inspector, Cantt police station in Guna. The inspector said, “The woman told us that Sharma used to reside in her neighbourhood in a village in Ashok Nagar. Sharma first raped her in 2005 when she was 16-years-old. The woman kept silent as Sharma kept blackmailing her with videos of his act to threaten and rape her ever since.” “The woman told us that after her marriage was solemnised with a man in Guna, he started visiting her home in Guna to blackmail and rape her. On Monday night, he came to her house again in an inebriated state. The woman’s husband was not present at home as he is posted in another district. Her two kids were sleeping in another room. When he started assaulting her, she brought a vegetable knife from the kitchen and stabbed the man repeatedly.”Also Read: BJP turns Cong leader’s ‘Bhookhe Nange’ jibe at MP CM into #MaibhiShivraj campaign “The woman’s anger could be gauged from the deep injuries on Sharma’s body caused by repeated stabbing,” Verma added. Police arrested the woman under section 302 (murder) of IPC and she will be produced before the court on Wednesday, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-woman-stabs-man-25-times-for-repeated-rape-for-past-15-years/story-n9zhmiCBbJpHZvp8backRL.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal minister Ram Lal Markanda tests positive for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh information technology and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, 54, has tested positive for Covid-19. Markanda is in isolation at his official residence in Shimla. The minister, who represents Lahaul-Spiti in the assembly, was on a visit to the tribal constituency ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Atal Tunnel across the Rohtang Pass on October 3. Markanda returned to Shimla on Tuesday. On reaching Shimla, he developed symptoms of coronavirus infection and underwent the test for Covid-19. “I had come across a corona positive person. I have tested positive and have isolated myself at the residence on the doctor’s advice,” he shared on social media. Markanda is the second state minister who tested positive after attending the Atal Tunnel inauguration. He was part of public functions in his constituency after the inauguration. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago. He had come in contact with Banjar MLA Surender Shourie, who despite having tested positive had received defence minister Rajnath Singh along with Thakur at the helipad in Manali on October 2. State jal shakti minister Mahender Singh, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj and power minister Sukhram Chaudhary have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-minister-ram-lal-markanda-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-fyCG71c51GSKlwa5O0o59M.html
14-10-2020||Education||Covid-19: Calcutta HC rules in favour of guardians, tells 145 schools to slash fees by 20%||The Calcutta high court has slashed fees charged by schools in West Bengal by 20%. This has come as a big relief for guardians who have been demanding a waiver of tuition fees during the Covid-19 pandemic. “There will be no increase in fees during the financial year 2020-21. Beginning April 2020, till the month following the one in which the schools reopen in the physical mode, all 145 schools (party to the petition) will offer a minimum of 20% reduction of fees across the board,” the court said the interim order passed by the court. The order also stated that charges for facilities not availed of will not be permissible. For instance, additional charges for laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities will not be permissible during the months that the schools have not functioned in the physical mode. Session fees traditionally charged periodically will be permissible, but again, subject to a maximum of 80% of the quantum charged for the corresponding period in the financial year 2019-20. “The United Guardians Association has been demanding this for long. Our stand has been validated. Even though only around 145 schools were party to the petition, there are thousands of private and aided schools in the state. Our protest would continue as we want such waiver to continue for at least two years because the effect of the pandemic will not fade overnight and the economy will take time to recover,” said Supriyo Bhattacharya, secretary of the association which represents guardians of students from 110 schools. The order also stated that there would be no increase in salaries of teachers or of other employees during the financial year 2020 – 21. “This is untenable and the schools would be in a very bad shape. It is indirectly asking the schools to close down,” said Nabarun De, joint secretary of the association of schools for the Indian School Certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/covid-19-relief-for-guardians-as-calcutta-high-court-slashes-school-fees-by-20/story-XaWBjA5jCAdgIxO2d40Z3J.html
14-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Man who threw acid on three minor Dalit girls in Gonda arrested||A man suspected of throwing acid on three Dalit sisters, aged 8, 12, and 17, in Gonda district was arrested after being shot at during an exchange of fire with the police midnight Tuesday, the police said Wednesday morning. The police said the suspect, Ashish alias Chotu, suffered a bullet wound in the right leg and has been admitted to a community health centre for treatment. He was caught a few hours after chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognisance of the incident and asked for tough action against those responsible for the act on Tuesday night. Also Read: 4-year-old allegedly raped in Hathras, month after gang-rape of Dalit womanGonda additional superintendent of police (ASP) Mahendra Kumar said the suspect’s name had surfaced in the investigation when one of the three girls revealed that he had been “troubling” the oldest sister for quite some time and pressuring her to talk to him. He said the suspect lived near the girls’ house in Paska town. Kumar said the police exchanged fire with the suspect near Baikunth Nath College on Colonelganj-Hujurpur road when he was returning to Gonda from his sister’s place in Bahraich. He said the suspect’s motorcycle skidded while he tried to flee after spotting the police team. He said the suspect opened fire on the police team, following which the police fired back. He said the team recovered a countrymade firearm and cartridges from the suspect’s possession. Early Tuesday, the suspect had attacked the three sisters with an acid-like caustic fluid while they were sleeping inside their house. The oldest sister suffered major injuries with 30% burns on her face, eyes and chest, while the other two suffered minor injuries with 5% and 7% burns on their harms, respectively. The sisters were attacked when they were sleeping in a room on the second floor of the house; the attacker is believed to have climbed up the ide of the wall to throw the chemical at them from the open window. The police said doctors had confirmed that all three girls were out of danger. The police also took forensic experts’ and a dog squad’s help to track the suspect. The girls’ family had not voiced suspicions about anyone, but it was apparent that some local people familiar with them were involved in the incident, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-man-who-threw-acid-on-three-minor-dalit-girls-in-gonda-arrested/story-BdnMiUj6l26AsW4Sxq8ZfO.html
14-10-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh sees 37% decline in fresh cases in past three weeks||Madhya Pradesh has seen a decline of 37% in fresh Covid-19 cases in the past three weeks even as the state’s recovery rate has gone up to 88.4%, according to an official communique from the government.As per the statement, the health department shared these numbers with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in the state, held on Tuesday night.Despite these numbers, however, Indore, Bhopal and certain other districts continue to cause concern. “During the district-wise review, it was found that the highest new cases are in Indore and Bhopal. In Indore, 418 new cases and in Bhopal, 213 new cases were reported on Tuesday. However, the rate of growth of the number of cases in all the districts is continuously declining; it is 1.59% in Indore and it is 1.15% in Bhopal,” said the official statement.“The chief minister instructed the collectors of Balaghat, Sehore and Harda districts to pay special attention to the situation,” the statement said.Also read: What you need to know about Covid-19 todayThe number of active cases in the state is 14,932. There has also been a significant decline in the fatality rate in the state which is at 1.78%.There has also been a significant improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Gwalior, Ujjain and Morena districts.Additional chief secretary Mohammad Suleman said the situation in Madhya Pradesh was reviewed in detail by Union health secretary Luv Agrawal on Tuesday.“The Union secretary has given instructions regarding the arrangement of cold chain in the state for the corona vaccine in the coming time. Chief minister Chouhan directed the authorities to ensure action accordingly,” he added.Suleman said 55% of the total Covid-19 cases in the state were in home isolation, while the rest were admitted in hospitals. Patients under home isolation were being continuously monitored through the Control and Command Centre set up in every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-sees-37-decline-in-fresh-cases-in-past-three-weeks/story-1JypcAwi9mM7AWZcURaQOJ.html
14-10-2020||Bhopal||BJP turns Cong leader’s ‘Bhookhe Nange’ jibe at MP CM into #MaibhiShivraj campaign||A Congress leader’s use of an insulting phrase--‘Bhookhe-Nange ghar ka’ meaning from a very impoverished family-- to describe Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s alleged rags to riches story was turned into a political campaign by the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday, with the launch of a #MaibhiShivraj campaign on microblogging website Twitter. The campaign triggered a political debate in the run-up to the state legislative assembly bypolls to be held in 28 assembly constituencies on November 3 and elicited an expression of regret from the Congress leader who had made the remark. The insult was hurled at Chouhan by state Congress’ farmers’ cell president Dinesh Gurjar, while addressing an election meeting in Ashok Nagar area on Sunday.“Respected Kamal Nath is the second biggest industrialist of the country. He is not from a ‘Nange-bhookhe parivar’ like Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The latter used to have 5 acres of land. Now he has thousands of acres of land.” As the video clip went viral on social media, Chouhan responded with a tweet on Tuesday, “Now, Congressmen call me bhookha-nanga. They may stay blessed with their affluence. I am happy to serve people of Madhya Pradesh with seriousness and commitment.” Earlier, talking to journalists, Chouhan said, “Kamal Nath ji, I am bhookha-nanga. That’s why I started giving loan on zero percent interest rate to farmers, made a provision of an addition of Rs 4000 to PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, laptops to students and reintroduced Kanyadan scheme.” Also Read: Overburdened with a loan, farmer dies by suicide in MP’s Bundelkhand“We follow the ideology of our patriarch Pt Deendayal Upadhyay who had said that the service of the poor was the worship of God and that the poor had the first right over natural resources. Kamal Nath ji, you can call me a bhookha-nanga, but I will continue to work for uplifting the poor and for their rights,” Shivraj continued. The campaign on Twitter drew a good response with views expressed for and against Chouhan. Gurjar, however, soon expressed regret at the use of the insulting phrase but at the same time alleged that the phrase was quoted out of the context as part of a conspiracy.Also Read: HC directs MP admin to lodge FIRs against violators of Covid-19 protocol in political meetings“A selective part of my speech was made viral on social media as a part of conspiracy against me and my party. What I meant to say that Chouhan called himself a farmer but the fact remains that he amassed wealth after becoming the chief minister, whereas Kamal Nath ji really served the poor by giving them electricity for Rs 100 per month, waiving loans of farmers, Rs 51,000 grant for marriage of girls from poor families etc when he was the chief minister. However, if any particular phrase in my speech hurt the CM I regret the same.” State Congress spokesperson Durgesh Sharma said, “What Dinesh Gurjar said is being misinterpreted by BJP leaders for their political gains in the bypolls. The entire state has seen a tremendous rise in wealth of the CM in all these years. This found reflection in our farmers’ cell president’s speech.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bjp-turns-cong-leader-s-bhooke-nange-jibe-at-mp-cm-into-maibhishivraj-campaign/story-toLXat0nLDuAnw2hOKKxcJ.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s cinema halls reopen from tomorrow: All you need to know||All cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes are allowed to function from Thursday in Delhi—but with a limited seating capacity and a series of other measures aimed at safety from Covid-19—under guidelines of the Central government which were notified by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) last week.In Delhi, cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres have been shut since March 12, much before the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of cinemas, issued by the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry, make a six-foot distance between people watching films mandatory. It also mandates staggered entry and exits from cinema halls, including during intervals. Also Read: Let cinemas open from Oct 15: Delhi govt to L-GSanitisation of halls after each screening is also mandatory. Seats have to be left vacant for social distancing and marked with fluorescent markers. Crowding in lobbies, common areas, and lifts is barred. The guidelines suggest longer intermissions to allow audiences seated in different rows to move in a staggered manner.The multiplex association of India had said in a statement: “We are committed to ensuring a safe, secure and hygienic cinema-going experience for the movie-lovers…The permission from the Delhi governments to reopen cinemas will help to ensure that the cinema exhibition sector is able to quickly recover from the dire economic and financial impact of the epidemic. We look forward to welcoming back moviegoers to a safe and amazing brand-new experience at our cinemas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-cinema-halls-reopen-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-bOXPosDLlhfckAyrEpyi4H.html
14-10-2020||Kolkata||TMC-BJP war over farm laws triggers poll preparation in Bengal’s agrarian belts||The villages were a bastion of Left parties till a Trinamool Congress (TMC) wave changed the political landscape of West Bengal in 2011.Now, the 40,203 villages in the state have emerged as the priority for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the run-up to the assembly polls due in another six months. Launched on Tuesday, a new three-phase programme will be carried out by the BJP to reach out to the state’s farmers through interactive sessions, where party leaders will listen to their problems and convince them about the benefits of the new farm laws that were recently passed by the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre. Also read: Six Union ministers, MPs to lead BJP’s outreach plan in West BengalTMC and Left leaders, who, too, are working on the ground to counter the BJP, feel that the saffron camp wants to make deeper inroads into the villages because they hold the key to get a majority in the 294-member Bengal legislative assembly. In the 2018 panchayat polls, which were marked by violence, the BJP could make dents only in a few rural pockets. However, the equation had changed in last year’s parliamentary elections after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. Each of these seats is made of seven assembly segments. According to the 2011 census, there are 40,203 villages in Bengal, where 68.13 % of the state’s 9.13 crore people lived. Bengal has 909 towns. The state’s current projected population is 10.09 crore. “Till October 15, we will visit farmlands and discuss people’s problems and the new laws. On October 16, meetings will be held in the BJP’s 14,000 shakti kendras (organisational centres) each of which will cover one panchayat samiti area. In the last phase, seminars will be held from October 18 to 20,” Mahadeb Sarkar, president of the state unit of the Kisan Morcha, the BJP’s peasants’ front, told HT. “The strategy for the seminars will be decided by the state leadership in Kolkata on Wednesday,” he added. On Tuesday, Sarkar met farmers in the Lalmath area in Nadia district’s Ranaghat North-West assembly constituency that the TMC had won in 2011 assembly and 2014 parliamentary elections with 54 % of the votes polled. The tables were turned last year and the BJP won the Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat with 53 % of the votes polled, a 35% increase over its last election result. The saffron camp is sensing an opportunity to go for an electoral kill in the assembly polls. “After the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had come to power in 1977, it had promised land ownership to farmers with the slogan ‘langol jar, jomi tar’ (land belongs to those who own the plough). But the farmers suffered because the CPI (M) did not formulate any substantial agricultural policy. The TMC followed suit, although it had won the 2011 polls on the strength of its agitation against acquisition of farmland for industries,” said Sarkar. “In sharp contrast, former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee took major steps for the benefit of farmers. PM Narendra Modi has taken it forward with the new farm laws and schemes such as Kisan credit card, Kisan Samman Nidhi etc. Farmers have suffered during the TMC regime because of middlemen. The Kisan Morcha is convincing farmers that Modi’s one-nation-one-market policy will transform their lives. The BJP will reap the benefits of our efforts,” said Sarkar. The analysis of last year’s parliamentary election results showed that the biggest contribution to the BJP’s performance came from the vote bank of the CPI (M) and its partners. Out of 40 Left candidates in the race, 39 failed to secure one-sixth of the votes cast in their respective seats. The direct beneficiary was the BJP. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had admitted the electoral trend as well. This huge shift in Left votes was seen in agricultural belts as well, including those where the BJP could not win. For example, at the TMC stronghold in Contai in East Midnapore district, two-time TMC Member of Parliament (MP) Sisir Adhikari got 50% of the votes polled, and the BJP’s Debasish Samanta and CPI(M)’s Paritosh Pattanayak had bagged 42% and 5.3% of the votes polled, respectively. In the 2014 parliamentary elections, the CPI (M) had come second after it secured 34.72 % of the votes polled in the Contai parliamentary seat. CPI(M) Politburo member Md Salim has been campaigning in the agrarian belts of South Dinajpur, Malda and other districts against the farm laws and the TMC’s policies since last week. “We have seen a good turnout at our meetings. The BJP and the Kisan Morcha have the advantage of using the network of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Small groups of four–five people are visiting the homes of farmers. However, the poaching won’t help the BJP. The farm laws will become its Achilles heel,” Salim told HT from a village in Malda. “Land is a precious thing. Mamata Banerjee’s campaign against us at Singur (the site of the aborted small car project by the Tata Group) and Nandigram (the site of a proposed chemical hub) helped her win in 2011. But she did nothing for those farmers. No project came up at these places. Land that had helped her win will also lead to her loss. The Left-Congress alliance will be the main contender against the TMC in next year’s assembly polls,” said Salim. The TMC, too, is campaigning against the BJP, especially in the north Bengal districts, where the BJP had won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats last year. Former CPI(M) Rajya Sabha (RS) member Ritabrata Banerjee, who is now a part of the TMC’s state committee, is campaigning in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district. “The new farm laws have created fear in the agrarian belts. It is no small thing that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which was all along an ally of the BJP, left the NDA. In Bengal, farmers have staged agitation. We are telling them that these laws may lead to a food crisis,” said Banerjee. A formal campaign might not help the BJP win votes in the agrarian belts, said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay. “Telling people what is good and what is bad does not work in our villages. The BJP, or any party for that matter, has to listen to their grievances and understand their feelings. In both Singur and Nandigram, it was the local population that had started the agitation. They already knew the problem. Mamata Banerjee only took it forward,” said Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-bjp-war-over-farm-laws-triggers-poll-preparation-in-bengal-s-agrarian-belts/story-FNsjU3crDf5Wdoj2Ay9cPJ.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI improves marginally but remains in ‘poor’ zone||A day after the air quality of the city touched 300, in the ‘poor’ zone, the pollution levels improved marginally on Wednesday morning, recording 278 at 7am.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings, Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) settled at 278 on Wednesday. Also read: AQI in red zone, all eyes on farm firesThe average PM 10 levels in Delhi on Tuesday rose from 252ug/m3 at 7am to 300ug/m3 at 1pm, before it finally started reducing to reach 293.2ug/m3 at 5pm. A senior scientist at IMD said that Delhi on Tuesday received easterly winds with a speed of 6-8kmph. “Around afternoon for some time, the wind speed improved a little because of which the air quality managed to remain in the poor zone and not slip to the very poor zone. The situation will be similar on Wednesday and Thursday, there is no significant improvement. From October 16, we are expecting that the air quality will start improving,” the scientist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-improves-marginally-but-remains-in-poor-zone/story-zEwPXm6U5yjIjE06iRicDK.html
14-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Tej Pratap shifts seat to stronghold Hasanpur||Jailed Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and former health minister Tej Pratap Yadav on Tuesday filed his nomination papers for the Hasanpur assembly seat in Samastipur district, switching his constituency from Mahua in Vaishali district.Tej Pratap was accompanied by his younger brother and leader of the opposition Tejas-hwi Prasad Yadav when he submitted his nomination form. “My elder brother has filed his nomination for the Hasanpur seat as there was a demand {that he do so} from the people of this constituency. He will win with a big margin,” Tejashwi said.He said the perception that his elder brother had changed his constituency for fear of losing Mahua was false. “Tej Pratap, as Mahua MLA, has worked for development of the constituency by bringing in a medical college and also initiating road projects worth ₹900 crore during his tenure. He has changed his seat because people of Hasanpur wanted it,” he said.The leader of the opposition is due to file his nomination form for re-election to the Raghopur seat on Wednesday.Hasanpur, an RJD stronghold, is considered a safe seat for Tej Pratap as it has sizeable number of Yadav and Muslim minority voters as well as the scheduled caste community – the traditional vote base of the RJD.RJD insiders said one important reason why Tej Pratap switched his constituency were based on feedback from the ground that the 32-year-old lawmaker had a low winnability quotient in Mahua as a section of voters, mainly Yadavs, were not happy him.Tej Pratap’s decision to divorce his wife Aishwariya Rai in November 2018 and Rai’s accusation that she was ill-treated has left the party’s core voters unhappy, people familiar with the details said. “There are family reasons behind Tej Pratap’s decision to shift to Hasanpur,” said a senior RJD leader close to the RJD chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-tej-pratap-shifts-seat-to-stronghold-hasanpur/story-1wRLpGXZD0gvGfZn2m5MgK.html
14-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Nitish intensifies attack on Oppn as poll battle heats up||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday held up Bihar’s record of development during his 15 years in power and took a swipe at the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and its leader Tejashwi Yadav, as he sought another mandate for his coalition government in the three-phase assembly elections.“See our work and see your record in your 15 years of rule. We know how to do work and how to get it done by others. On the other hand, there are people who don’t have any experience...what is needed in Bihar, they have neither any idea nor any experience to perform,” Kumar said in a speech by video link to 24 constituencies that will vote in the first phase on October 28. Tejashwi has promised to create one million jobs in Bihar and qualitatively transform health-care and other social sectors if the RJD’s alliance with the Congress and smaller parties is voted to power — a claim Nitish Kumar ridiculed.“In their 15 years’ rule, 95,734 government jobs were created. And it includes the period when Jharkhand was part of Bihar. From 2005 till date, we have provided 6.8 lakh government jobs,” said the CM , whose Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), is part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Is there any province in the world which can claim to provide government jobs to all the youth?”A survey conducted in February 2006, after he came to power towards the end of 2005, had shown that only 39 people on average used to visit a primary health centre in Bihar in a month, Nitish Kumar claimed. “The figure now stands at 10,000 visitors per month because of substantive improvements in the health-care system,” he said.The CM claimed credit for opening an engineering college in every Bihar district, connecting villages with concrete roads, bringing them electricity and improving farmers’ incomes.Kumar added that his government had worked for the welfare of all, irrespective of caste and religion.“For us, the service of people is the biggest religion while for others, getting material benefits is the religion,” he said.He reaffirmed that if given another chance, his government would unroll Saat Nischay (seven resolves) Part 2 to develop Bihar further.In Part 1, launched during his 2015-20 term, comprised schemes to ensure basic amenities such as piped drinking water, functional toilets, sewerage and electricity.The second part will focus on enhancing the skills of the young people to brighten their jobs prospects, promoting entrepreneurship among women, and reinforcing irrigation systems and health services, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-nitish-intensifies-attack-on-oppn-as-poll-battle-heats-up/story-J6RRomVCC7xiFFEckawP4O.html
14-10-2020||City||Case against Gurnam Charuni for using derogatory language against PM||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has been booked for allegedly using derogatory language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video message posted through his Facebook account. Charuni had posted the video against the recently enacted farm laws. The case has been registered under Sections 153 A, 504, 505 (2) and 120 B of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act on the complaint of Sahil Guliani, a resident of Shahbad. Shahbad police station in-charge Devender Kumar confirmed the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-against-gurnam-charuni-for-using-derogatory-language-against-pm/story-fZRq3uSlwCBDaRpS6gFvBK.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nine deaths, 1,081 new infections in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded nine fatalities and 1,081 new Covid-19 infections, the health bulletin stated. The death toll has mounted to 1,601 and the total number of positive cases has risen to 1, 44, 302. Of the nine deaths, three people succumbed to the virus in Hisar, two in Gurugram and one each in Faridabad, Rewari, Sirsa and Yamunanagar.Apart from that, 1,154 more patients have been cured in the past 24 hours, taking overall recoveries to 1,32,382. The number of active cases stand at 10,319. The doubling rate in Haryana was 38 days on Tuesday also, while the recovery rate was 91.74% and fatality rate 1.11%. As per the bulletin, Gurugram reported 250 new infections, Faridabad 168, Rewari 72, Hisar 85, Mahendergarh 50, Kurukshetra 37, Sonepat 42, Panchkula 17, Rohtak 41, Sirsa 40, Jind 33, Yamunanagar 25, Jhajjar 26, Ambala 40, Karnal 23, Panipat 24, Palwal 15, Bhiwani 35, Fatehabad 21, Kaithal 18, and Charkhi Dadri 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-deaths-1-081-new-infections-in-haryana/story-Zcm7p5zWKFY0LUU37MmQnL.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||With AQI crossing 300, five Haryana cities fare worse than Delhi||The air quality of Faridabad, Charkhi Dadri, Panipat, Kurukshetra, and Jind was worse than the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. While AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 is satisfactory, 101 to 200 moderate, 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor and 401 to 500 severe, as per the CPCB norms. On Tuesday evening, the AQI of five cities-- Faridabad, Charkhi Dadari, Panipat, Kurukshetra, and Jind-- crossed 300 points and the air quality was put in the category of “Very Poor.” On the other hand, the average AQI of Delhi was 300 points. However, the CPCB data says, the AQI of certain parts of Delhi such as Rohini, Narela, Dwarka, Kirti Nagar, Wazirpur, and Lajpat Nagar was also categorised as “very poor” with the AQI of these areas going past 300 points. The quality of air in other Haryana cities like Karnal, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Sonepat, Gurugram, Bahadurgarh and Manesar was described as “poor” on Tuesday after the AQI crossed 200 points. According to S Narayanan, member secretary of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), the air quality report of Monday was also poor. “The AQI is going towards poor levels. In Karnal and Kurukshetra, stubble burning seems one of the key reasons, but in Gurugram and Faridabad, there are local factors responsible for the pollution,” Narayanan said, assuring that the state government was taking all necessary steps to improve AQI. The air quality of cities falling under districts, such as Bhiwani and Rohtak, having very small areas under paddy cultivation, was better than the areas under paddy cultivation, clearly pointing that stubble burning was the main cause of pollution here. The analysis of the data points towards a steady surge in farm fires, affecting the quality of air in Haryana cities, especially those under paddy belts of the state. Until Monday evening, 158 new incidents of Active Fire Locations were detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in the state, increasing the total number of farm fires to 1,264 since September 25 when the monitoring began. According to HSPCB data, the per-day average of active fire locations has increased to over 150. Kurukshetra district topped the chart with 260 incidents, followed by Karnal (238), Ambala (172) Kaithal (170), Fatehabad (102), Yamunanagar (92), Jind (90), Sonepat (42), Hisar (41), Sirsa (17) Palwal (16), Panipat (15) and Panchkula 11 till October 12. Apart from farm fires, industrial pollution too is adding to the problem in Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonipat, Karnal, Panipat, and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-aqi-crossing-300-five-haryana-cities-fare-worse-than-delhi/story-bL9Dp1tk5i10rwrKOP7BuL.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Choking NCR districts: Haryana gets into action after EPCA highlights violations leading to pollution||It is learnt that the EPCA chairman Dr Bhure Lal, during a video conference with top-rung bureaucrats on September 28, had presented photographs of violations in Gurugram, Sonepat, Panipat, and Faridabad that were leading to pollution, and stated that he would visit these districts in October to review the situation. This meeting, as per government functionaries, had set the ball rolling after which a number of activities were started under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP).Government sources say the state government has given a collective assurance that the deficiencies indicated in the NCR areas will be rectified and the hotspots in other areas of NCR districts of Haryana will also be identified by the district administration to address the issues. Detailed directions were issued to the deputy commissioners (DCs) of NCR districts to tackle pollution issues on priority. The DCs were asked to focus on dust control measures, solid waste management and prevention of bio mass burning, controlling industrial pollution, regulating diesel generators and control of vehicular pollution. According to S Narayanan, member secretary of the HSPCB, a number of activities are being undertaken by the DCs under GRAP. “Construction and demolition activities are one of the primary factors behind air pollution in the NCR districts,” said Narayanan, assuring that every necessary step was being taken to contain air pollution. “But the reports of air quality index are not satisfactory,” he added. In a recent communication to all the DCs of NCR districts, the HSPCB had said that as suggested by the Central Pollution Control Board, the builders may be advised to submit another undertaking that they would cover the construction materials and use the sprinklers and anti-smog guns regularly, failing which their projects will be liable to be stopped. The HSPCB has directed Gurugram and Faridabad districts for special emphasis on ensuring that builders cover the construction project sites and sprinkle water wherever necessary, while asking to act against violators without fail to ensure proper dust management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/choking-ncr-districts-haryana-gets-into-action-after-epca-highlights-violations-leading-to-pollution/story-7TXOJoWg3TQZYqb72556FJ.html
14-10-2020||City||Mumbai power outage: Few areas may see power cuts for 2 more days||Parts of Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane are likely to see power cuts for the next 48 hours as repair works on the Kalwa-Talegaon line – one of the four main transmission lines that supply power to Mumbai and its adjoining areas and which tripped on Monday leading to power outage in the city – will take two more days, officials from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said on Tuesday. Millions were inconvenienced on Monday as the outage due to grid failure brought the city to a standstill. While the Kalwa-Talegaon line snapped on Saturday, the Kalwa-Padghe line-1 tripped on Monday morning leading to excess load on the Kalwa-Padghe line-2, which tripped at 9.58am. Electricity supply was restored in the eastern suburbs, Navi Mumbai and Thane only after midnight, while several consumers also complained of repeated power cuts in their locality. CM Uddhav Thackeray ordered a probe into the incident, even as experts stressed the need to augment Mumbai’s power capacity. Officials said the conductor fitted to the Kalwa-Talegaon line on hilly terrains snapped and fell into the valley on October 10. Dinesh Waghmare, managing director, MSEDCL said, “Our team is working there continuously, but intermittent rain is delaying the process.” At midnight, state energy minister Nitin Raut said the staff was working on a war footing to restore power in parts of Mulund, Thane and Navi Mumbai. He had earlier said the areas did not receive power supply as around 500MW of Tata Power plant was not in sync with the system yet. Later he tweeted, “Tata’s generation started and picking up. I am personally monitoring the situation and assure you that it will gain momentum in an hour.” On Tuesday, sources from Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) and Tata Power said there were no major complaints of power cuts. “If one line fails, the rest can take the load. But unfortunately on Monday, there was a cascading effect,” Waghmare said. An official from the Maharashtra State Energy Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) said that works on both the Kalwa-Padghe lines were completed. Dr Ashok Pendse, a noted power expert, said, “It is important to strengthen the transmission system as 40-50% of Mumbai’s power supply is generated outside the city. A 400-KV additional line is also required to meet the increasing need and we need to probe why Tata’s islanding system did not function.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-power-outage-few-areas-may-see-power-cuts-for-2-more-days/story-zTENX60k8wjmPb3OLjZgoK.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers accept Centre’s talks offer, meeting today||Punjab farm bodies and unions protesting the passage of three farm bills in the monsoon session of parliament will meet the secretary, Union ministry of agriculture, at Krishi Bhawan on Wednesday to discuss the issue. As many as 29 of 30 farm bodies protesting since September 24 reached a consensus and nominated seven spokespersons for the talks. The Majha-based Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee decided to stay away from the dialogue claiming it was an attempt to divide farmers because farm unions from other states were not part of the talks. “In the marathon meeting that lasted for about five hours in Chandigarh, all issues were discussed threadbare. We have decided to use the opportunity the best possible way and will press the Centre for repeal of three farm bills passed hurriedly; minimum support price on all crops be made a constitutional right: and assured and open-ended procurement,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Dakounda. He is one of the seven members who will represent the farmers. “However, our protest will continue. We will not lift the blockade on railway tracks, toll plazas and business establishments,” added Patiala. He said the delegation will also remind the secretary of the NDA government’s promise to implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan commission. However, BKU (Ugrahan-Ekta), the largest farmer body, has decided to remove the blockage on railway tracks after an appeal by the Punjab government to allow movement of good trains so that supply of essential commodities to and from the state isn’t disrupted. Justifying decision for talks with the Centre, Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Rajewal) chief, said that participants in Tuesday’s meeting decided that it is wise to initiate dialogue. “Let us see how our issues are dealt. If talks take place in conducive environment we will move further; otherwise we have the option to stage a walkout,” he added. The farm bodies are scheduled to meet on October 15, after the return of the representatives from Delhi to work out the next course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-accept-centre-s-talks-offer-meeting-today/story-ry9VvHG7kek6ed1pSdVJ0I.html
14-10-2020||City||Power supply in Mumbai Metropolitan Region fully restored, will check if there was sabotage behind outage: Maharashtra minister||Stating that the power supply to Mumbai has been fully restored, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut on Tuesday expressed the possibility of flaws and failures in following protocol at administrative level during Monday’s power outage. Besides the probe into the power failure, the minister said they were checking if there was any sabotage attempt. Excerpts from an interview with HT:Some parts of MMR are still facing power cuts. Why has the government not been able to fully restore power supply? Mumbai’s peak hour requirement is 2700MW, which has been fulfilled now and the electricity supply has fully been restored. A few areas may be still facing outage because of the repair and maintenance works by private companies. Our officers have been constantly monitoring the situation. We restored the electricity in a record time of 3.5 hours, which otherwise would have required 8 hours. There are allegations that administrative negligence and failure to manage the snag led to the power failure… We have been examining various aspects that are expected to be responsible [for the outage]. Prima facie, the protocol for periodic maintenance and preventive measures does not appear to have been followed. Proper monitoring between two lines for load maintenance during the repair [was needed as] maintenance of one line was not done. This resulted in tripping of the second line as due arrangements did not appear to have been taken for the additional load on the second line. It needs to be seen if the snapping of the jumpers and conductors could have been averted by having pre-studied their previous records. Snapping of the conductors in remote parts of Talegaon (on Kalwa-Talegaon line) might have been the result of lack of proper patrolling using drones in these densely forested areas. It also needs to be seen if overload indication before tripping of the second line on Kalwe-Padghe line was received at our control room... Does this mean administrative flaws have been found and caused the outage? I have asked the department to submit me the preliminary report on this. We are expecting it in a day or two, until then I cannot comment if it was negligence. Private companies are also alleging there was no proper communication from the government companies and it led to failure on their side... Yes, there was a communication gap between our entities and private companies. The probe will also check if the protocols while dealing with such a situation were followed. Not only this, I have also asked to check if there was an attempt of sabotage which led to the outage. We will also check if the ongoing power war between private companies had any link with the incident. The islanding system, which has been boasted about in the past, did not work during Monday’s crisis. What is the reason? There were multiple failures in transmission lines resulting in load on lines of Tata Power and Adani Electricity. This was the major reason why the islanding did not work. The Khaparde committee report submitted to the government in June 2011 after a similar power failure in November 2011 had suggested strengthening the transmission system in Mumbai... Augmenting the transmission lines will cost ₹4,000 crore, which will result in burdening consumers to recover it. We do not think it is required at this juncture as we have been able to supply power without any disruption. Secondly, we have also asked the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission for their advice on it. Why was the report not implemented in the past nine years? I have asked the department to make a presentation on the recommendations on the committee report. We will prepare an action taken report which will be implemented in a time-bound manner. Consumers are waiting for government’s decision on exorbitant bills raised during the Covid-19 lockdown. There were reports that the government was mulling 20-30% discount... They are not exorbitant bills. The bills were issued on the average unit load in the absence of actual meter reading due to the lockdown. Disputes related to the reading can be resolved anytime. We haven’t so far decided on the discount on these bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-supply-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-fully-restored-will-check-if-there-was-sabotage-behind-outage-maharashtra-minister/story-RsuMYGm3graOGZGebKSJkJ.html
14-10-2020||City||24-year-old man beheads grandmother for ‘practising black magic and sorcery’ in Maharashtra’s Palghar district||The Vikramgadh police have formed two teams to nab a 24-year-old man who allegedly beheaded his grandmother in Yeshwantnagar area of Palghar district on Sunday. The accused, Kailash Sakharam Dhangte, suspected that his grandmother Soni, 62, used to practice black magic and sorcery owing to which he had been keeping ill for many months. The duo used to regularly have arguments on the issue, said inspector Mahesh Balwantrao of Vikramgadh police station.On Sunday evening, a similar fight on the issue ensued between the two and in a fit of rage, Dhangte picked up an axe and beheaded Soni when, said Balwantrao. After Kailash’s father Sakharam returned from the field, he saw his mother dead body. During the probe, the police discovered that Dhangte used to have arguments with his grandmother over his suspicions and that he was missing since the murder. They received inputs about him hiding in a nearby jungle and formed two teams to nab him. “We have filed a murder case against Dhangte and the axe has been sent for forensic analysis. We will nab him soon,” said Balwantrao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-man-beheads-grandmother-for-practising-black-magic-and-sorcery-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-district/story-XG09HC2jf5hCnAA4p9dfKM.html
14-10-2020||City||Punjab-origin man pleads guilty to immigration advice offence||Southall-based Balvinder Singh Madan of Punjab origin has pleaded guilty of providing unregulated immigration advice, contrary to provisions of a law that regulates advisers, the Office of the Immigration Service Commissioner (OISC) said on Tuesday.Madan, 40, has admitted to the offence at the Westminster Magistrates Court, where his conduct was ruled contrary to Section 91 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999. He is due to be sentenced on October 28.He gave immigration advice and services even though he did not possess the relevant authorisation, training or qualifications between October 2017 and April 2018 at offices in north-west London, the OISC said.Commissioner John Tuckett said: “This offence is serious. Immigrants often find themselves in a vulnerable position; Mr Madan demonstrated what can happen when unqualified individuals hold themselves out as immigration advisers.”The OISC is an independent public body, established under the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, to regulate the provision of immigration advice and services in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-man-pleads-guilty-to-immigration-advice-offence/story-rRacgsKELo9EeBjTRmfkHL.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Youth beheads his 80-year-old grandmother in Mumbai; held||Bandra police on Tuesday morning arrested a 24-year-old man for allegedly beheading his grandmother at her home in Cosma Colony near Mount Mary church on Monday night. The police said the accused, Christopher Pereira, sat next to the body of the 80-year-old victim, identified as Rosy Ganesh Rao, after the murder, until the police reached the spot and arrested him.Pereira was addicted to alcohol and was at a rehabilitation centre in Thane for the past one-and-a-half years. On Monday evening, he was discharged from the centre and returned home. The police have refused to divulge any further details.The murder came to light around 10am on Tuesday when Pereira’s cousin and Rao’s granddaughter Abigail Dias went to the victim’s home. Pereira told Dias that he had committed the murder. Dias then called the police, following which Pereira was arrested. Pereira’s parents are in Goa and they have been informed about the murder, said police officers. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 9, said, “We have registered a case under 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the accused is in police custody. The exact time of murder and motive behind the brutal murder is still under investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/youth-beheads-his-80-year-old-grandmother-in-mumbai-held/story-1z7j8o8Xk4OLEri586l8KI.html
14-10-2020||City||TRP fraud: Four accused to stay in Mumbai Police’s custody till Friday||Four of the five accused arrested in connection with the manipulation of television rating points (TRPs) by three TV channels will stay in police custody till October 16, even as the crime branch recorded statements of Hansa Research’s CEO Praveen Nijhara and deputy general manager Nitin Deokar for the second consecutive day. The crime branch arrested Vishal Bhandari, 20, former employee of Hansa Research; Bompalli Rao alias Sanjiv Rao, 44 (on October 6); Shirish Shetty, owner of Fakt Maratha; and Narayan Sharma of Box Cinema (on October 9). The fifth accused, Vinay Tripathi, a former employee of Hansa Research, who was arrested from Mirzapur district in Uttar Pradesh, was produced in a local court and given transit remand till October 15. “We have asked Nijhara and Deokar to submit the list of employees from the past five years,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. “We have also recorded statements of Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh. We have recorded statements of Prasant Kumar, CEO of Group M Advertising. Madison World’s founder and chairman Sam Balsara’s statement was recorded earlier and he submitted a few documents on Tuesday,” said Vaze.Meanwhile, crime branch has issued summons two executive editors of Republic TV Niranjan Narayanswamy and Abhishek Kapoor and asked them to be present to record their statements on Wednesday. The crime branch has initiated a separate inquiry in connection with a document, alleged to be a report of Hansa, shown on Republic TV. The crime branch mentioned in the summons that “the document telecast, purportedly belongs to Hansa Research Group private limited, and the same is required to be ascertained from you.” Claiming that they were being targetted by the Mumbai Police, Republic TV in its statement said: “The right to report is guaranteed under Article 19(1) of the Constitution... Republic Media Network will fight this...”A crime branch team comprising four officers visited Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) office and recorded statements of a few officers, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trp-fraud-four-accused-to-stay-in-mumbai-police-s-custody-till-friday/story-1kxAucBdCRKBm4CQ3hIORI.html
14-10-2020||City||Attack on Punjab BJP chief’s car: FIR registered against unidentified persons||Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against unidentified persons for attacking the car of Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma at Cholang toll plaza on Jalandhar-Pathankot highway on Monday night. At least 25 people allegedly carrying kisan union flags had attacked Sharma’s car and broke the front and rear windshields, though the BJP’s state chief called it an attack by the Congress government. The police had grabbed the CCTV footage of the incident from Cholang toll plaza which showed some flag-bearing persons charging towards Sharma’s car as it slowed down. However, none of the attackers has been identified so far. Sharma said he was often greeted with slogans by the protesters whenever he passed through the dharna site on his way to Pathankot, but never faced such a violent situation. “I can say this with certainty that assailants could not be farmers. It is the handiwork of Captain Amarinder Singh,” he had told the media after the incident. It is pertinent to mention here that some farmers’ organisations have put up a permanent dharna at the toll plaza for the last several days. The FIR has been registered under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides various sections of the National Highways Act.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Mahal said an investigation was going on.Party workers protest outside mini secretariat Meanwhile, BJP workers on Tuesday staged a protest in front of mini secretariat against the attack on party’s state chief. Dubbing the incident “most unfortunate”, district president Nipun Sharma claimed that the Congress government was behind it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-punjab-bjp-chief-s-car-fir-registered-against-unidentified-persons/story-xZTt8Adze4KMOO2x8H2dZK.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police issue show-cause notice to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami||Mumbai Police have sent a show-cause notice to Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, asking him why a chapter proceeding under section 108 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) should not be initiated against him. The three page notice was issued on October 10.Sudhir Jambavdekar, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (Worli division), who has issued the notice, has asked Goswami to remain present before him on Friday. Jambavdekar, a special executive magistrate, confirmed the development, but refused to further comment.Republic Media Network, in a statement released late on Tuesday night, stated, “In the continuing malicious attempt to muzzle and intimidate Republic Media Network, the Mumbai Police has now issued a show-cause notice against Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami for raising questions in the Palghar lynching case and the shocking mega gathering amidst Covid-19 lockdown in Bandra, Mumbai. The summons as well as the show-cause notice issued to Arnab Goswami reeks of an openly spiteful and deeply motivated witch hunt by the state government of Maharashtra against a free press that holds the political dispensation accountable.” The statement further read, “The agenda of the Mumbai Police is crystal clear, given the fact that their latest show-cause notice stands in complete violation of the orders of the courts of law. It is in the public domain and well-documented thereof that the honourable Supreme Court of India and honourable Bombay high court, both, passed orders on Arnab Goswami’s broadcast of the Palghar and Bandra incident cases. The legal facts must be reiterated so as to serve proof of the motivated agenda by the state machinery against Republic. The specific facts are as follows: The hon’ble Supreme Court in its judgment dated May 19 held that no other complaint can be initiated in respect of the Palghar broadcast of April 21. The Supreme Court in its order had observed “the need to ensure that the criminal process does not assume the character of a vexatious exercise by the institution of multifarious complaints founded on the same cause in multiple states” and extended protection “against any coercive steps arising out of and in relation to the” FIRs till a legal remedy was sought in the Bombay high court. The hon’ble Bombay high court judgment of June 30 suspended all criminal proceedings in respect to the FIRs registered against Arnab Goswami, based on the Palghar and Bandra news reports. The Bombay high court, staying the two FIRs filed by Mumbai Police against Arnab Goswami observed: “We cannot have the spectacle of a Damocles’ sword hanging over the head of a journalist while conducting a public debate. India is now a mature democracy“, and stated that “no coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioner”. Therefore, the summons and show-cause notice issued by the executive magistrate, who is also the assistant commissioner of police, Mumbai (Worli), has no legal basis and is in contempt of court orders.” “Republic Media Network officially states that we will leave no stone unturned to take every legal step available to fight the malicious agenda,” the statement concluded. The notice (of which HT has a copy) refers to the objectionable coverage of two incidents – the lynching of sadhus at Palghar and the gathering of migrants outside Bandra station during lockdown – and stated that Goswani and his channel gave a “communal colour” to the incidents and tried to “incite communal tension between Hindu and Muslims”. The notice further stated that Goswami’s channel “spreads caste and communal tension”, which can “easily be seen from the extremely abusive, communal and hateful comments from the viewers of videos of the shows on YouTube”.Goswami has two first information reports (FIRs) registered against him at NM Joshi Marg and Pydhonie police stations in which similar offences have been mentioned for “inciting hatred and communal tension between two religious groups or communities”.A senior inspector of NM Joshi Marg police station sent a proposal to Jambavdekar, seeking preventive action against Goswami. Acting on the proposal, Jambavdekar initiated the process.Goswami will have to provide satisfactory reasons on why a preventive action should not be taken against him.If the ACP does not find Goswami’s response satisfactory, he can initiate chapter proceedings against the latter and the editor-in-chief would have to sign a legal security bond for good behaviour for a year. In case he violates the bond, he would then have to pay penalty Rs10 lakh. He would also have to pledge that he would not indulge in any act of dissemination of seditious matter. Goswami has to produce a person as ‘security’ who would take responsibility of his behaviour for the period mentioned in the bond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-issue-show-cause-notice-to-republic-tv-editor-in-chief-arnab-goswami/story-jIOfvRCEvVKn1EO1SYRW8I.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir slams attack on BJP state chief, says no place for violence in democracy||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday condemned the attack on Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Punjab unit chief Ashwani Sharma, stating that there was no place for violence in democracy. In a statement, Sukhbir called the attack the work of “anti-social forces who wanted to sabotage the ongoing kisan agitation against the agricultural marketing laws”. He said nothing could be achieved by resorting to violent activities. “Those resorting to such attacks can never be well-wishers of the farming community,” he added. The SAD president also asked the Congress government to come down heavily on anti-social forces that were being used to defame the farmers’ cause and not encourage them in any manner whatsoever. “We are very clear that farmers cannot indulge in any such actions and we will oppose any attempt to blame them,” Sukhbir said. Call spl emergency session: SAD to speakerThe SAD’s legislative wing on Tuesday asked Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh to call a special emergency session to enact new legislation to make the entire state a “single marketing yard”, annul the amended APMC Act of 2017, and announce that three central agriculture laws will not be implemented in Punjab. In a representation to the speaker, the SAD MLAs led by legislature party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the new agriculture laws were an attack on the federal structure and the state assembly should act like a bulwark to ensure the powers of the states were safeguarded. “We cannot stand as mute spectators when the powers of the state are being steadily diluted,” they told the speaker. Claiming that Punjab and Punjabis were facing an existential crisis, the Akali legislators, including Bikram Singh Majithia and Gurpartap Singh Wadala, told the speaker “the time to save the annadaata from utter ruin is now”. They said this could be done by enacting a legislation to safeguard the farmers of Punjab from the ill-effects of the agriculture laws. Govt trying to sabotage farmers’ struggle: AAPThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh of indulging in ‘skullduggery’ by unsuccessfully trying to ‘torpedo’ the farmers’ struggle against the three new laws.In a statement here, AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Budhram said their party would not allow the Congress government to succeed in its ‘evil designs’. “The state government has been repeatedly stating that there was an acute shortage of essential commodities due to the ‘rail roko’, but it should tell us about the steps it took to prevent it because the farm organisations had announced their agitation months ago,” they said.Sandhwan said the chief minister should have taken care of all the essentials well before the farmers’ agitation, and sought his resignation for ‘failing’ to run a government. Videoconference with farmers a sham: Former minister MannDescribing the videoconference between Union ministers and farmers a sham, former Punjab minister and chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Tuesday questioned why didn’t the Union government do this exercise before passing the “anti-farmer” ordinances.In a statement issued here, Mann said this was a futile attempt to mislead the farmers and arhtiyas. “Had the central government been sincere, then it would have passed the ordinance after due consultation with the farmers,” he added.He also slammed the Centre for not releasing the state’s share of GST despite several reminders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-slams-attack-on-bjp-state-chief-says-no-place-for-violence-in-democracy/story-ZbkGMBgiWFvLaWT751Ro4N.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Jannayak Janata Party’s Haryana chief Nishan Singh tests positive for Covid-19||A week after Haryana deputy chief minister and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader Dushyant Chautala tested positive for Covid-19, his party’s state unit chief Nishan Singh on Tuesday announced that he has tested positive for coronavirus infection, too. In a tweet, Nishan Singh urged all those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested. “I will remain in home isolation and can’t meet anyone for the next 14 days,” he said. Last week, Nishan Singh had met Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP state chief OP Dhankar, JJP national vice-president KC Bangar and senior party leader Harsh Kumar in Delhi to discuss the joint candidate for the Baroda bypoll on November 3. With both senior leaders of the JJP down with the virus, leaders of ally BJP have taken on campaigning in Baroda. Chautala has been facing farmers’ anger over the recently enacted farm laws. The farmers have been protesting near his house in Sirsa, seeking his resignation from the Manohar Lal Khattar government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jannayak-janata-party-s-haryana-chief-nishan-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-vPKHRKnz9LnZ4qELFzxG6N.html
14-10-2020||City||Justice eludes us, sacrilege incidents haven’t stopped in Punjab, say Behbal Kalan firing victims’ families||The families of Gurjeet Singh and Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who were killed in the police firing at Faridkot district’s Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, say justice has not been delivered to them while the incidents of sacrilege continue to happen unabated in Punjab. Gurjeet, a resident of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan of Niamiwala village in the district, were protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village two days earlier. Disappointed over delay in the delivery of justice, Krishan Bhagwan’s son Sukhraj Singh said, “Even five years after my father died protesting against the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, such incidents have not stopped in Punjab. A sacrilege incident happened at Fathegarh Sahib on the same day (October 12) five years after the Bargari sacrilege.” “This is the result of delay in justice as the criminals have no fear of law. Those responsible for my father’s death are roaming freely. Even the policemen booked in the case are out on bail. We will continue to fight until justice is delivered. The probe by the special investigation team (SIT) recently picked some pace, giving us some hope. We are going to hold ‘shaheedi samagam’ at Behbal Kalan on Wednesday in the memory of my father and Gurjeet Singh,” he added. Gurjeet’s father Sadhu Singh said, “The Badals and the Congress are equally responsible as they have failed to provide justice to my son during their tenures. The recent sacrilege incidents have pained us more. ” “The Sikh organisations have done nothing to get justice in the past few years,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/justice-eludes-us-sacrilege-incidents-haven-t-stopped-say-behbal-kalan-firing-victims-families/story-1t8dmbyWk1pGf4jYU4mzWJ.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets lights showers; government issues weather alert from Wednesday-Saturday||The city, suburbs and parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received light showers on Tuesday evening.The Maharashtra government issued a statewide weather alert between Wednesday and Saturday based on India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) yellow alert for the state. The alert was issued by the disaster management department to all district collectors, highlighting the possibility of torrential rains with thunder, particularly for coastal districts (south Konkan).The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 2.2mm of rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Tuesday while the Colaba observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 1.2mm of rain in the same period.Around 4-6mm of rain was recorded across Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayander, Panvel, Kalyan and Dombivli.IMD has issued an alert for heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in Mumbai on Thursday and Friday. Thane and Palghar could expect heavy rain across isolated areas on Thursday. Light to moderate rain is expected for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a forecast for extremely-heavy rain has been predicted for Raigad for Thursday.According to IMD, the deep depression over north-coastal Andhra Pradesh moved further west-northwestward and weakened into a depression over Telangana on Tuesday. “It is very likely to move west-northwestward and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area by early Wednesday morning, which is likely to allow rain enhancement over Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Meanwhile, a sharp spike in pollution levels was witnessed on Tuesday. The air quality index (AQI) shot up from Monday’s 87 (satisfactory) to 121 (moderate) on Tuesday for PM2.5 pollutant, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). AQI between 51 and 100 is ‘satisfactory’, and 101-200 is moderate. Researchers said a rise in humidity had allowed pollutant levels to increase on Tuesday. An AQI of 115 (moderate) has been predicted for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-lights-showers-government-issues-weather-alert-from-wednesday-saturday/story-N9CJBCVYGzqdOkXmkUufbO.html
14-10-2020||City||‘Inappropriate’ remarks against Bhagat Singh: Singer Jassi Jasraj booked||Ludhiana police on Tuesday registered an FIR against singer-turned-politician Jasraj Singh Longia alias Jassi Jasraj for making inappropriate remarks against Bhagat Singh. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Vishal Nayyar, president of Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Welfare Society.Vishal, who is also a grandson of Sukhdev Thapar, along with members of the welfare society, had also staged a protest at Jagraon bridge, demanding action against the accused singer. Vishal said Jasraj’s statement has hurt their sentiments. “A video of Jassi Jasraj had gone viral on social networking sites wherein he was making indecent remarks against Bhagat Singh and raising slogans against the martyr,” he added. Division Number 8 SHO Jarnail Singh said the FIR against Jasraj has been registered under Section 294 (obscene acts and songs) of the IPC and a hunt was on to nab him.Jasraj had unsuccessfully contested from Bathinda seat on the AAP ticket in 2014. Later in 2016, he was suspended from the party for six years over his ‘anti-party’ activities. In 2019, he was fielded from Sangrur parliamentary seat by the Punjab Democratic Alliance (PDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inappropriate-remarks-against-bhagat-singh-singer-jassi-jasraj-booked/story-vYR46kYSvjSxyI9XdOU2GO.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council announces association polls on November 6||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) has announced district Bar association polls on November 6. It also set aside the notification for Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) polls for October 24 put out by the election committee head, senior advocate KS Sidhu. BCPH chairman Karanjit Singh said the notification was in violation of norms as the elections for district Bars in both the states and Chandigarh and high court Bar have to take place on the same date. Earlier too, the HC Bar body and Bar Council had locked horns over online elections announced by Bar Council for September 30 and October 1. Subsequently, the matter reached the high court and election notification was quashed. Bar Council is a statutory body which regulates entry into legal profession and has nearly 1 lakh members in the two states and Chandigarh. The HC Bar has about 4,000 members practising in the high court. A section of HC Bar lawyers feels that Council has no role to play in the poll process of the high court Bar. Detailed poll schedule is yet to be announced by BCPH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-council-announces-association-polls-on-november-6/story-3GYByok3KBAqwyN1Ts6HOO.html
14-10-2020||City||Five years on, probe into police firing at Faridkot’s Behbal Kalan, Kotkapura still a work in progress||The investigation into the October 2015 Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing episodes, which sparked statewide protests, seems to have reached no conclusion so far with the special investigation team (SIT) having filed as many as six chargesheets in the cases. Two Sikh protesters— Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village in Faridkot district— were killed during the protest at Behbal Kalan. The SIT recently named the then director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini as accused in both the firing incidents. It has named a total of 11 people, including nine police personnel, as accused, with one of the cops turning approver. What happened on Oct 14, 2015 The police teams opened fire on the people protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura on October 14, 2015. Gurjeet Singh and Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who died in the firing, had joined the villagers holding a demonstration at the Behbal Kalan bus stand against the sacrilege incident at Bargari two days earlier. Also, many people were seriously injured in the firing which started at around 3am at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan around 9:30am. Gurjeet sustained three bullet injuries, including one in the head, while Bhagwan Krishan received four bullets. What triggered the protests A ‘bir’ (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015, triggering outrage. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari village. After the sacrilege incident, the residents of the town and nearby villages started protesting at Kotkapura. Soon, Sikh protestors from other districts started gathering at Kotkapura following which additional police force from Moga, Bathinda and Ferozepur districts was sent to Faridkot. Later, a unit led by now suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umaranagal (then Ludhiana police commissioner), who is also an accused on the case. The situation got tense after police attempted to remove the protesters from dharna site at Kotkapura and later at Behbal Kalan, which resulted in the firing. How things panned out Soon after the firing episode, the police lodged two FIRs against the protesters and justified the firing as an act of self-defence. Faced with anger among the Sikhs following the death of two protesters, the then Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government formed an SIT led by then ADGP IPS Sahota to probe the sacrilege and firing incidents. An FIR was lodged against unidentified police personnel in the Behbal Kalan firing on October 21 at the Bajakhana police station. Also, the government formed a commission led by Justice (retd) Zora Singh to probe the sacrilege incidents. Besides, a ‘peoples’ commission’ headed by Justice Markandey Katju (retd) also probed the incidents and blamed the police for an “excessive use of force on innocent people”. The SAD-BJP coalition’s defeat in the 2017 assembly elections was attributed largely to the sacrilege and police firing by political observers as the issues were raked up the opposition. The new Congress government headed by Capt Amarinder Singh formed the Justice (retd) Ranjit Singh commission whose report was tabled in the assembly a year later. A resolution was passed to take back the sacrilege cases from the CBI and a SIT was constituted to probe the police firing incidents. The Ranjit Singh commission indicted the cops in its probe report. An FIR (number 129) was registered at the Kotkapura police station against unidentified police personnel on August 7, 2018, in connection with the Kotkapura incident. Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal and actor Akshay Kumar appeared before the SIT in November that year. The SIT probe The SIT found that the cops opened fire on the peaceful protesters on Umaranagal’s direction and later conspired to fabricate the evidence to cover up the incidents. So far, the SIT has named Saini, Umaranagal, former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma and ex-SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher as accused in both the cases. While former Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar, then ADCP Paramjit Singh Pannu and SP Baljit Singh are accused in the Kotkapura case, SP Bikramjit Singh, former SHO Amarjit Singh Kular, Pankaj Bansal and Suhail Singh Brar are accused Behbal Kalan firing case. Inspector Pardeep Singh, who was one of the accused, has now turned an approver. What next The SIT is preparing to file a final chargesheet in the police firing cases. A strong legal battle awaits ahead as more than a dozen writ petitions moved by the accused with demands, including that of changing SIT member IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap, are pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The cases are at the stage of framing charges in the trial court at Faridkot. The SIT is exploring options to nab Saini, who was named as accused in both cases recently, as he has seven-day notice protection from the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/behbal-kalan-kotkapura-episodes-5-years-on-probe-into-police-firing-still-a-work-in-progress/story-rUW7IvaeqtvDcD7uduM3NI.html
14-10-2020||City||SAD’s Sangrur women wing chief booked for extortion||The president of Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD’s) Sangrur women wing (rural), Paramjit Kaur Virk, has been booked on the charges of extortion, Barnala police said on Tuesday, adding that four persons have also been arrested in the case. Virk is currently at large, the police said, though it has been learnt that she has tendered her resignation, claiming that she was being falsely implicated. The district leadership of the SAD, meanwhile, refused to comment on the issue. Those arrested have been identified as Makhan Singh, 44; Gourav Kumar, 24; Paramjit Kaur, 37; and Gurwinder Kaur, 48. Barnala Sadar station house officer (SHO) Baljit Singh said the accused had reportedly called the complainant, a resident of Patiala district, to Handiaya village and “clicked his pictures in a compromising position with a woman”. The Patiala man then submitted a complaint to the Barnala senior superintendent of police (SSP). “The accused also demanded ₹10 lakh from him and took away ₹20,000 from his wallet,” the SHO said. The FIR mentions that the accused had also called the complainant to a party’s meeting on August 25 and threatened to circulate his video. “The accused even made me sign some documents related to my car,” the complainant told the police. The FIR against all the accused has been registered under sections 386 (extortion), 392 (robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Barnala Sadar police station. “Four accused were arrested on Sunday and their police remand has been secured. However, we are conducting raids to arrest Paramjit Kaur Virk,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-s-sangrur-women-wing-chief-booked-for-extortion/story-NpE3pAllsjyz2FGP227D5M.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Fatka gangs re-emerge in Mumbai after a lull during lockdown, 3 members held by Wadala GRP||After a lull in criminal activity because of the Covid-19 lockdown, fatka gangs have returned to the Mumbai suburban railway tracks, even before the train services are fully restored. Three members of one such gang known to attack and rob commuters on trains were arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) at Wadala.The three accused, identified as Mohammed Bilal Shaikh, 25, Allauddin Shaikh, 20, and Tareef Mandal, 27, were arrested after commuter Omkar Prashant Kulkarni immediately informed GRP officers at Reay Road railway station about being hit with a stick, and robbed of his mobile phone. The incident occurred when Kulkarni, a resident of Ambarnath, was travelling with his friend Swapnil Gadak from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Wadala and was standing on the footboard and talking on his phone. The train was about to reach Reay Road station when Kulkarni was hit on his hand, and his mobile phone fell near the tracks. When the train reached Reay Road station, Kulkarni informed the constables at the platform. “Kulkarni directed them to the spot where he saw one of the accused trying to escape. The constables chased the accused and arrested them,” said Rajendra Pal, senior inspector, Wadala GRP. During questioning of the accused, GRP officers discovered that the three were arrested for a similar crime in 2018, in which a passenger, Ketan Vitthal Vadendra, 38, had lost his life. “The three had been arrested for similar offences in 2016, 2017 and then in 2018 when a commuter died after he fell off the train when he was hit by Mohammed,” added Pal.Mohammed and his accomplices were charged with murder at the time, but they managed to get bail and continued to repeat the same offence. “There seems to be no deterrent. Robbing mobile phones from commuters travelling on crowded trains has become easy money for these gang members, who disappear into slums or thickets along the railway tracks,” said Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fatka-gangs-re-emerge-in-mumbai-after-a-lull-during-lockdown-3-members-held-by-wadala-grp/story-PQLpTJvu3dsWnwoiRziJgN.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 12.5 lakh faulty RT-PCR test kits in Maharashtra, to be replaced, says Health minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra has 12.5 lakh faulty RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) faulty test kits in circulation, said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday. Confirming that these kits were purchased by the government from a private company, Tope said tests done using these kits have revealed a lower positivity rate, and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, has pointed out that these kits were faulty. Tope said the government has stopped the supply of these kits with immediate effect and action will be taken against the company. “The only option that remains now is that companies supplying such kits should be blacklisted,” he said, adding that the faulty kits will be replaced by ones supplied by NIV so that testing in the regions where these kits were distributed does not stop. The minister said a team of experts from NIV will also be appointed to verify procurement of kits, to ensure such an incident does not recur. Citing that testing is a crucial aspect in the battle against Covid-19, Tope said any sensitivity of such kits below the positivity rate of 27% will lead to erroneous results. “The state government will exercise full vigilance in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-5-lakh-faulty-rt-pcr-test-kits-in-maharashtra-to-be-replaced-health-minister-rajesh-tope/story-P3P1lVa3Uh61ACq4zLyjiN.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Row between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and CM Uddhav Thackeray may not end soon||Although chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s response to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s letter on reopening of places of worship was a bit surprising, it was not unexpected. The tussle between Raj Bhavan and Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has been going on for the past seven months. The letter war between the two people occupying constitutional posts is an outcome of the same.The uneasy relations between governor Koshyari, a former BJP leader and ex-CM of Uttarakhand, started with the formation of the MVA government in November 2019. While the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP were trying to cobble up a coalition, they were shocked when BJP tried to form government with a breakaway faction led by NCP’s Ajit Pawar. The Sena targeted Koshyari for recommending lifting of the President’s Rule in the state and administering oath to Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar as the CM and deputy CM early morning. The experiment failed; the three-party coalition formed the government.The first major friction between the MVA government and governor was witnessed in April, when the latter refused to accept the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the state legislative Council. Thackeray was facing a constitutional issue as he had to get elected to either of the two houses of legislature within six months of swearing in as the CM. As elections to nine seats of the Council could not be held due to the pandemic, the cabinet recommended Thackeray be nominated to the Council by the governor as one of the 12 members who are nominated to the upper house every six years. The 12 governor-nominated seats are meant for people from different fields such as literature, social service, education, art, etc and these berths are vacant. MVA wanted Koshyari to make an exception due to the unprecedented health crisis. Koshyari refused to accept the cabinet’s recommendation, leading to MVA criticising his intentions. It was only after Thackeray reached out to PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, a solution was worked out. The governor wrote to EC and the election for nine seats was announced. The parties reached a consensus on not holding a contest. BJP bagged four seats, NCP-Sena two each, while Congress got one. Thackeray was elected to the council. The camaraderie between Raj Bhavan and Thackeray was short-lived. The past few months saw Koshyari taking a tough stand on issues and differing with the state, sometimes even summoning officials. He refused to accept state’s decision to not hold examinations for final-year students. He met actor Kangana Ranaut who complained to him against Sena-ruled civic body’s move to demolish parts of her office. He also met a retired naval officer who was assaulted by Sena workers for circulating a post against CM on social media.According to Sena leaders, Thackeray chose not to have an issue with the governor all this while. He even tried to mend fences with his aide Milind Narvekar periodically visiting Raj Bhavan. However, Koshyari’s strongly worded letter over reopening of temples and questioning Thackeray’s Hindutva credentials irked him, they say. It is the first time in the tussle that Thackeray retorted with an equally strong language (and his party ensured that the letter was put in the public domain).There was no response from Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. NCP chief Sharad Pawar has backed Thackeray and sought the attention of the PMO to the issue.It is unlikely that the tussle between Raj Bhavan and MVA government and CM Thackeray will end here. In fact, it may become more bitter, as the nominations of 12 members to the Council are pending. “The entire episode is unfortunate. Such a friction between governors and elected governments are now common in some states, but Maharashtra never witnessed something like this. The kind of language should have been avoided. It may be seen as a friction between Delhi and state government,” opined political analyst Hemant Desai. “The sad part is serious problems such as Covid-19 pandemic and state of economy are not getting centre stage amid this noise,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/row-between-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-and-cm-uddhav-thackeray-may-not-end-soon/story-RIuPrFopNEGDsobNDqGyKO.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP stages protests seeking reopening of temples in Maharashtra amid Covid-19 outbreak||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra staged protests across the state on Tuesday demanding reopening of temples amid coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.BJP workers gathered in large numbers and staged protests in front of temples in Mumbai and other parts of the state. They also criticised the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and alleged that the latter could reopen restaurants and bars despite the contagion, but not temples.BJP workers shouted slogans against the state government while flouting the protocol to maintain social distancing that has been enforced because of the viral outbreak.The agitations were reported from some of the prominent temples in the state such as Siddhivinayak temple at Prabhadevi in Mumbai; Sai Baba temple in Shirdi; Tambdi Jogeshwari temple in Pune; and Vitthal Rakhumai Temple in Pandharpur.At the Siddhivinayak temple, the BJP supporters performed a symbolic aarti in front of the shrine. “The state government has reopened restaurants, bars and wine shops but it is not allowing the temples to reopen. They are playing with the sentiments of the devotees,” alleged BJP’s Pravin Darekar, who is also the leader of the opposition in the Maharashtra state legislative council.He blamed the government for non-compliance of social distancing norms, as he alleged that the latter was responsible for inciting the public to take to the streets.At the Tambdi Jogeshwari temple, the BJP made a person dress up as Kumbhakarna, who could be seen sleeping on a road.The BJP likened the Uddhav Thackeray-led government to Kumbhakarna and asked the state authorities to accede to their demand of reopening temples.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said that the government was cautious in reopening temples because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. He had stated it was the responsibility of the state government to ensure the safety of the public unlike his political rivals.State BJP president Chandrakant Patil warned the state government not to test the patience of the priests, religious sects and devotees by not acceding to their demand to open the temples. He said that the even the Ashadhi wari, one of the major events at Pandharpur, was cancelled view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “When all things are being reopened except temples, then it is injustice on the part of the government,” said Patil who led the agitation at Shirdi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-stages-protests-seeking-reopening-of-temples-in-maharashtra-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-VIv8XEkkK3asfv1XKNgM8L.html
14-10-2020||Bhopal||HC directs MP admin to lodge FIRs against violators of Covid-19 protocol in political meetings||Taking cognisance of violations of Covid-19 protocol in certain political meetings in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior and Datia districts from October 3 to October 6, 2020, High Court’s Gwalior bench directed the district magistrates to lodge FIRs against violators of Covid-19 protocol in organising of these meetings, as per the interim order of the high court.The interim order from a double bench of the high court, consisting of Justice Sheel Nagu and Justice Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava, came on Monday on an interlocutory application (IA) filed by petitioner Ashish Pratap Singh’s counsels.Those named in the IA for and on behalf of whom the respective meetings were held, as the petitioner has stated, include union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, state Congress president Kamal Nath, energy minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet and BJP candidate on Gwalior seat Pradyumn Singh Tomar. Others mentioned in the application include Munnalal Goel, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Gwalior East; Satish Singh Sikarwar, Phool Singh Baraiya, Ramniwas Rawat and Sunil Sharma, all Congress candidates in the region. Also read: Foreign secretary Shringla, US deputy secy discuss upcoming 2+2 dialogueThe court said, “In view of the above situation, especially the information received by the reports of amicus curiae and contents of I.A. 6084/20 filed by petitioner, cognizable offence under IPC/Disaster Management Act prima facie appears to have been committed.”The court ordered lodging of FIRs against defaulting persons as per the directive of the court in its interim order dated October 3, 2020 “against all defaulting members of congregation and defaulting functionaries of the Govt/state/political parties on whose behalf, behest and for whom and in whose presence congregations took place violating the Covid-19 protocol”.Referring to the submission made by additional advocate general Ankur Modi, that veracity of the factum regarding the congregations as informed by the petitioner and other sources and the breach of Covid-19 protocol was being verified, the court invoked the apex court’s judgment in Lalita Kumari case and said, “The police cannot go into truthfulness, genuineness or veracity of the information of cognizable offence before registration of FIR. The verification about genuineness, veracity and truthfulness of the information can be gone into only after registration of offence, i.e. during the process of investigation.”The next date of hearing is October 19 by which the compliance reports regarding the interim order are to be filed to the court by the superintendents of police in Gwalior and Datia, as per the order.When contacted, the state’s additional advocate general at Gwalior, Ankur Modi said, “The court directed the administration to act in light of the apex court’s judgment. It didn’t mention any name or names as far as lodging of FIRs is concerned.”State Congress’ spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “The administration in Gwalior-Chambal region already lodged an FIR against state Congress president Kamal Nath showing a biased attitude despite the fact he didn’t violate the Covid-19 protocol. Now, the administration must show courage to lodge FIRs against BJP leaders.”State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Bharatiya Janata Party respects the law and never violates it. Since the direction has been given to the district administration, it should take action in the light of the court’s order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/hc-directs-mp-admin-to-lodge-firs-against-violators-of-covid-19-protocol-in-political-meetings/story-HLVGJKAV0QzOtjhUxppVPM.html
14-10-2020||City||Illegal land mining: 16 stone crushers found in Kharar’s Majri block||With the unearthing of 16 illegal stone crushers, which have been allegedly operational for the last several months, the Majri block in Kharar continues to remain the epicentre of illegal land mining in the district.On Monday, a team constituting Ropar divisional commissioner Rahul Tewari, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain and district mining officer Gurpreet Pal Singh visited the spot and found the crushers.Dayalan said, “We received a complaint of illegal crushing operation from Majri block and we found 16 unregistered crushers here. A team of the mining department, pollution department, power department and the police has been formed to check the illegal activity.”The DC added that Section 144 for vehicles being used for mining during the night will be imposed in the area. “We will be sealing all illegal crushers and strict action will be taken against their owners,” he added.Past raidsOn July 16 this year, the mining department had raided Gocher village and found that 5,000 cubic feet of gravel had been freshly taken out. The officers had also seized a crusher, which was parked a little distance from the said village, but had been recently employed for digging.On July 6, Majri police had booked former director general of police (DGP) Paramdeep Singh Gill along with 44 farmers of Saini Majra, for allowing illegal mining of their land, under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act. A fine of ₹11 crore was also imposed on them.In July last year, a penalty of ₹52 crore was imposed on 193 land owners in three villages of Kharar’s Majri block—Mianpur Changar, Kubaheri and Abhipur—for allowing illegal mining on their land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-land-mining-16-stone-crushers-found-in-kharar-s-majri-block/story-PSwzd8tLyFjX4Z5jLvIrCP.html
14-10-2020||City||MP Manish Tewari lays foundation stone of ₹1.41-crore community centre in Nayagaon||Member of parliament Manish Tewari on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of the community centre in Nayagaon, which is to be built at a cost of ₹1.41 crore.Talking about the problem of garbage disposal in the area, the MP said with the allotment of land for a dumping ground, the problem will be resolved soon. “A JCB machine and a sewage cleaner machine are also being bought to update the sewerage and for leveling of the area.” Electricity meters, 24x7 ambulances for residentsTewari said the installation of electricity meters in the region outside the red line area, which is a much awaited requirement of the residents, will be restarted. The 24x7 ambulance services had been made available at Nayagaon gurdwara, and could be availed by anyone in need, he said. The MP said that PCR vans for updating the police services in the area were also on the anvil, adding that decreasing the amount of mapping fees was also being explored.5 new tube-wells sanctionedListing the development projects for Nayagaon, the MP said that a total of five new tube-wells had been sanctioned under the urban environment improvement project, out of which two had already been installed at Vikas Nagar and Dashmesh Nagar. The remaining three will each be installed at Chhoti Karoran village, Ward no 12 and at Dashmesh Nagar near the post office, he added.₹2.6-crore water meter project in progressA pilot project of installing water meters for each household amounting to ₹2.6 core was also under progress, for which administrative approval had been received, he informed. Further, for improving water pressure in the town, five boosting stations with UGSR capacity of 2 lakh litre had been proposed, for which a cost estimate amounting to ₹1.54 crore had been sent to the local bodies department, the MP said. Construction of high-level bridge approvedAdministrative approval for construction of a high-level bridge on Patiala ki Rao river at Nayagaon village leading to Singha Devi temple had been received and tender will be allotted by the end of October, Tewari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mp-manish-tewari-lays-foundation-stone-of-1-41-crore-community-centre-in-nayagaon/story-3yUuDegkhqeR8lGdzAWITL.html
14-10-2020||City||Illegal possession of countrymade liquor: Himachal man held with 312 bottles||The detective staff of the Panchkula police arrested a resident of Solan, Himachal Pradesh, for illegally possessing 312 bottles of countrymade liquor here.The accused was identified as Suresh Kumar of Kulhari Wala, Solan, Himachal Pradesh.On the night of October 12, a police team was on patrolling duty near Gill dhaba on the Pinjore-Baddi highway when they received a tip-off and barricaded a patch.A white car was stopped and on checking, police found 312 bottles of liquor meant “for sale in Haryana only”.As Suresh could not produce any licence or permit, he was arrested under Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (Haryana Amendment Bill, 2020).318 boxes seized in Dhakolii The police and the excise department arrested a truck driver for illegally carrying 318 boxes of illicit liquor at Dhakoli in Zirakpur of Mohali district Accused Rohit of Panipat told the police that the truck’s owner, Anil, was from Rewari.Addressing the media persons, superintendent of police (SP, rural) Ravjot Grewal said, “A joint operation was conducted and a truck bearing a Bihar registration number was found to be illegally carrying 318 boxes of Imperial Blue whisky. We are trying to ascertain whether the liquor was meant to be used in Bihar elections and how a Chandigarh dealer sold so many boxes meant for sale only in the UT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-possession-of-countrymade-liquor-himachal-man-held-with-312-bottles/story-jiteU4BiQ1jwq570AKBECI.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Capping Covid-19 treatment rates: Maharashtra government to hold discussions with IMA to ‘resolve grievances’ of doctors, hospitals||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday agreed to hold discussions with representatives of the state branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to try to amicably resolve the grievances over capping the rates for treatment of Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients at private hospitals. During the course of the hearing of a petition filed by IMA, the bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Milind Jadhav opined that an attempt should be made to resolve the issues involved in the petition at a high-level meeting with government officials, considering the fact that the petitioner body represents a large number of doctors. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni assured the court that some senior government officials will sit across the table with IMA representatives and try to resolve the matter amicably. IMA moved the HC through advocate Nahush Shah, challenging three notifications issued by the Maharashtra government on April 30, May 21 and August 31, directing all healthcare providers to provide treatment and procedures Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients at prescribed rates. It has contended that the Maharashtra government’s actions are “excessively harsh and oppressive and are likely to have a chilling effect on the healthcare system of the state.” The petition states that apart from the fact that capping of rates of treatment was beyond the statutory power of the state government, the rates fixed under the notifications that are being challenged are highly arbitrary. “No scientific basis or analysis seems to have been conducted in arriving at these price restrictions and the periodic extension of theses notifications, now till November 30, has placed healthcare providers in a financially precarious position, such that a majority of them have reached a point where it would no longer be financially viable to continue operations,” the petition stated. “The price stipulation to treat Covid-19 patients is highly discounted and does not cover even the cost incurred on treating the patients, making the operation of the hospital illusory beyond a point,” said the petition, while explaining the effect of the May 21 notification. The petition added that the notification not only prescribed cap on 80% of all beds in hospitals and on the rates for procedures and essentials, but sought to regulate the doctors’ fee as well. IMA has, in its petition, also taken strong objection to the fact that while the government chose to provide restrictions on healthcare providers and doctors, it has not taken upon itself to subsidise any part of the input costs the hospitals had to incur, by either providing free PPEs or oxygen supply or the like, or even tax breaks on essential medical equipment. The decisions contained in the notifications was not “well thought out and in fact appears to be a populist appeasement measure taken for oblique motives and without considering the ground realities of the difficulties foisted upon healthcare providers and doctors,” the petition stated. It added that Delhi has also capped prices, but the exercise in the national capital has been conducted in close consultation with hospitals and therefore, the prices fixed there are considerably higher than that those prescribed by the Maharashtra government. Advocate Nahush Shah said the petition is now posted for further hearing on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/capping-treatment-rates-maharashtra-government-to-hold-discussions-with-ima-to-amicably-resolve-grievances-of-doctors-hospitals/story-h3Od4jby4tLZSZfAoVva1N.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||After shifting Aarey car shed, Mumbai Metro 3 and 6 to be integrated before Saki Vihar station||Following the state government’s decision to shift the Metro-3 car shed to Kanjurmarg from Aarey Colony, the underground line (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) line will be integrated before the proposed elevated Saki Vihar station of line 6. After this, it will be a common elevated line with six stations till the newly proposed Kanjurmarg depot site. The modification necessitated by the decision to scrap a car shed at Aarey is likely to cost over ₹500 crore more, according to estimates. Significantly, the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which is funding the Metro-3 project, stated that it has not received any formal notification about the change in car depot from the state government or the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing line 3. On Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the car shed for Metro-3 will not be constructed in Aarey, but at Kanjurmarg, along with the Metro-6 depot. The state government has already allocated the 45-hectare land to MMRDA. Of this, 25 hectares will be utilised for Metro-3. According to officials, a portion of line 3 is expected to be at-grade after Seepz before it joins Metro-6. The whole cost is expected to increase by around ₹400-525 crore, with ₹400 crore for Metro-3 and another ₹125 crore estimated for Metro-6 work. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), who has been the brain behind the whole plan, said that while the detailed project report (DPR) for Metro-3 will have to be reworked a bit, the difference for Metro-6 will be increased platform size beyond the integration of the two lines to accommodate the line 3 coaches. “It will be an additional cost of ₹125 crore. There will be no changes in the Metro-6 alignment apart from the platform size to accommodate the line 3’s eight-coach trains as the platforms for Metro-6 are designed for six coaches,” Rajeev said. However, the depots at the Kanjurmarg site will be different for both the lines. “While some amenities will be common, the depots will be different,” he said. As the line gets integrated post the Saki Vihar station, the headway between two trains will also be more. Metro-3 was planned as a 33.5-km underground corridor from Colaba-Seepz while Metro-6 is a 14 -km elevated corridor from Lokhandwala till Vikhroli on the eastern express highway. The completely underground line, which was expected to be operational by mid-2021, will now be operational only by 2023-24 as it takes a minimum of two years to construct the depot. On HT’s query regarding the change in car depot site, a JICA representative said, “JICA has not received any formal notification about the matter from MMRC or the state government on the matter and our information is also based on media reports. Hence, we are not in a position to comment on it right away. It would be better to get in touch with MMRC directly to get details. JICA shall be in a position to make a comment when the matter is formally submitted to JICA and we are able to examine it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-shifting-aarey-car-shed-metro-3-and-6-to-be-integrated-before-saki-vihar-station/story-Ri3ZVRFUnYNIZR3cLk1uCN.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ramlilas get the go ahead in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration on Tuesday gave nod to holding Ramlilas from Wednesday in the city.Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar gave the in-principle approval to 20 Ramlila committees, subject to the receipt of a no-objection report from police.The organisers will have to strictly adhere to standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be issued in a day or two.As per the order, Ramlila should be staged from 8pm to 12am, and the sound system should be played in compliance with instructions issued by the environment department. The organisers will submit a list of 25 “able-bodied” volunteers for each Ramlila, and strictly comply with SOPs of preventive measures or guidelines to be issued by the administration from time to time, failing which action will be initiated against them. Also, no Ramlila can be organised in a containment zone.Bhagwati Prashad Gaur, president of the Chandigarh Kendriya Ramlila Mahasabha, said, “We are likely to get permission for the remaining 30-odd committees by Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ramlilas-get-the-go-ahead-in-chandigarh/story-VBgqa6lxYmvRLV80HcoKvL.html
14-10-2020||City||Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi Express back on track from October 15||The Northern Railways has decided to restart Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express via Chandigarh from October 15 in view of the upcoming festival season. Train number 02011/02012 will run daily. It remained cancelled since the lockdown was announced in March.The train will depart from the New Delhi railway station at 7:40am and reach Chandigarh at 11:05am. On the return journey, it will depart from Chandigarh at 6:20pm and reach New Delhi at 9:55pm. Buses to Himachal Pradesh this weekMeanwhile, with the Himachal Pradesh government deciding to start its interstate bus service, including to the City Beautiful, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking will also be starting its service to the hill state this week.“In a couple of days, we will start bus service to Shimla. Other destinations in Himachal Pradesh will also be considered,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport.CTU had resumed resume interstate bus service to Punjab and Haryana on September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-delhi-shatabdi-express-back-on-track-from-october-15/story-xFxJgYLQ1jTS0ARA00hKBJ.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Governor Koshyari in a letter war over places of worship||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray engaged in a letter war over the reopening of religious places in the state, as part of the unlocking of Covid-enforced curbs. In the acrimonious exchange of letters, the governor, making a case for reopening places of worship, asked the CM if he had “turned secular”. Thackeray shot back a letter, asking if Koshyari does not believe in “secularism as enshrined in the Constitution”, adding that his Hindutva doesn’t need the governor’s certificate. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, fears that opening up religious places would lead to crowding and consequently, a spike in Covid-19 cases. Earlier in the week, health minister Rajesh Tope hinted that everything across Maharashtra would open by November-end, albeit in a phased manner. Maharashtra, which is the worst affected state in India, has 1,543,837 Covid-19 cases and 40,701 deaths thus far.Speaking for reopening of religious places that have been shut since the lockdown was put in place in March, the governor, in his letter dated October 12, said, “It is ironic that while on one hand, the state government has permitted the opening of bars, restaurants and beaches, on the other hand, our Gods and Goddesses have been condemned to stay in the lockdown… I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular’ yourselves, the term you hated (sic)?”Thackeray, in an equally strong response on Tuesday, said, ”Why should you have this question? Are you saying that simply opening religious places stands for Hindutva and keeping them shut is secular? Also, don’t you accept that secularism is an important tenet of the Constitution by which you were sworn in as governor?”The CM said the government is actively thinking about demands to open religious places, but their primary duty is the safety of people during the pandemic. “In your letter, you have referred to my Hindutva ideology and that is right, but my Hindutva does not need your certificate,” he said. In a reference to actor Kangana Ranaut’s visit to Raj Bhavan last month, Thackeray added, “My Hindutva does not permit me to welcome home a person, who called my Maharashtra or Mumbai as Pakistan- occupied Kashmir.”Amid the tussle, the opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), launched protests across the state, including Mumbai, Pune and Kolhapur, demanding the opening of temples and other religious places. In Mumbai, an agitation was led by the leader of Opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar and BJP leader Prasad Lad outside Siddhivinayak temple in Prabhadevi, Dadar.State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said the state government can formulate guidelines and open religious places like it has done for other things. “The manner in which the CM has responded to the governor is not correct. The governor has said that all religious places should open. A lot of people want to visit places of worship. He has said that not to teach them Hindutva, but it has to be taught because they have kept Hindutva aside for the sake of power,” Patil said.NCP president Sharad Pawar wrote to prime minister Narendra Modi, expressing pain at the erosion of standard of conduct by the office of the governor. In his two-page letter, Pawar said intemperate language was used in the letter by Koshyari. Pawar also enclosed the copy of the governor’s letter to PM Modi and quoted a few paragraphs from it.While stating that the governor has the right to his opinion and independent view on the matter of opening up of religious places, Pawar said he was “shocked and suprised” at the language of the letter, which was released to the media.“I am sure you too would have noticed the intemperate language that has been used. In the very Preamble of our Constitution the word ‘Secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the Chair of the Chief Minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution. Unfortunately Hon. Governors’ letter to the Chief Minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party.” He added that he believes in a democracy, free exchange of views between the Hon. Governor and the Hon. Chief Minister must take place, but “tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the constitutional post occupied by the individuals.”Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the chief minister’s response to the governor’s request is “unfortunate”. Fadnavis backed the governor and said that he get representations from all quarters on various issues and points it out to the government. Similarly, he sent a letter with regards to reopen religious places. “I got to know about the CM’s response through media and it is unfortunate. Though it is a three-party government, it is surprising that in the Shiv Sena government, which calls itself a Hindutva party, a party that claims to be fighting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s battle for God, country and principles, there is injustice towards temples,” Fadnavis said in Jalgaon.Meanwhile, Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut lashed out at governor and asked if Koshyari is not secular. Raut said that the CM responded to the letter in “Thackeray-style”. He added that CM’s letter is a “historic document” and a “lesson” on how to respond to an “interfering Raj Bhavan and governor” in a “courteous” manner.Raut said that Koshyari is the constitutional head of the state and his job is to only oversee if the state is functioning as per the constitution or not while leaving the remaining things to the public-appointed government. “How to go about the unlocking of the state, the state government, chief minister and his Cabinet ministers will decide. So nobody should doubt if we are for Hindutva or not.“Uddhav Thackeray is not just the chief minister but also the Shiv Sena chief and more importantly the son of Hinduruday Samrat Shiv Sena pramukh Balasaheb Thackeray, who sparked Hindutva in the country. We do not need lessons on Hindutva and is strong. Our mind and soul are for Hindutva,” Raut told reporters after a meeting with Thackeray at Matoshree on Tuesday.NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbal said, “I have not read what the governor wrote, but being secular is not wrong. Our constitution itself is based on secularism. The Thackeray family is devout and they regularly visit their family deity near Lonavala. The Covid-19 is such that thousands of people would go to religious places and it could be dangerous. Considering this, if the chief minister has decided to go cautiously there is nothing wrong in it.”Congress, the third partner in the MVA government, too, took a dig at Koshyari and questioned if he has written a similar letter to chief minister of Goa, where he is holding an additional charge as Governor.“Koshyari in his letter has hurt the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India by commenting upon secularism. It is not expected from a person who has been sworn in the name of the constitution and who administered an oath to chief minister as per the provisions in the constitution. We have two more questions in this regard. Has honourable Koshyari written a similar letter to Goa chief minister as he is the governor of that state too? Similarly, we would like to know if the President of India endorses the governor’s remarks on secularism?,” Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said,Prakash Ambedkar, chief of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA), took a mellow stance on the issue, stating that he does not agree with the language of the governor’s letter, but stands by the demand made by him. Ambedkar led a protest in Pandharpur in August-end, demanding to open the famous Rukhmai temple there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-governor-koshyari-in-a-letter-war-over-places-of-worship/story-PAHZKj4It1GAn6fZxo7eBO.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 8,522 Covid-19 cases, tally up to 1,543,837||Keeping with the trend of declining Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks, the state on Tuesday reported 8,522 new infections, below 10,000 for a second day in a row, taking the tally to 1,543,837. The daily count of fatalities, too, decreased to below 200 for a second straight day to 187, taking the toll to 40,701. Mumbai’s number of new infections, too, remained low at 1,325, which is the level it had maintained from June to August, before the September surge. The tally is 232,391 cases. Of the 187 fatalities reported on Tuesday, 38 were from Mumbai, taking the city’s toll to 9,507, 19 from Pune (13 in the city and three each in rural parts and Pimpri-Chinchwad), 19 in Nagpur district and 10 in Navi Mumbai. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state, however, remained constant at 2.64%The fall in new infections was witnessed across the state. Pune district clocked 1,304 cases (490 in city, 587 in rural parts and 227 in Pimpri-Chinchwad), while Nashik and Nagpur logged 774 and 657 cases. Solapur, Satara and Sangli, the western Maharashtra districts which had been reporting high number of cases for a few weeks, saw 258, 266 and 259 infections respectively.The state, however, has been conducting fewer tests in the past two weeks compared to last month. The daily tests average in 13 days of October fell to 75,138, from the daily average of 88,209 tests in September. In the first two weeks of September (1-15) the state saw 12,70,131 tests at a daily average of 84,675 tests, which went up to daily average of 91,743 tests in the next fortnight between September 16 and 30. The fall in the number of tests comes, surprisingly, when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced to increase the daily testing to 1.5 lakh. During his video conference with prime minister Narendra Modi last month, Thackeray said the state was planning to increase testing by double to take it to 1.5 lakh mark. State health minister Rajesh Tope, on Saturday, directed the district authorities to increase the testing aggressively to contain the transmission.The positivity rate in the state has, however, declined to 16.31% in October after hovering around 20% over the past two months. In the first two weeks of September, the positivity rate was 24.04% which fell to 20.82% in the second fortnight between September 16 and 30. The daily caseload of Covid-19 cases has witnessed a significant fall over the past three weeks. Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of Indian Medical Association said, “Fall in the positivity rate even after reduction in the tests, is a good sign. But in any case the tests should not be reduced as it may lead to more fatalities when our CFR is already high in the country. More importantly, when we have been lingering under the possible threat of a second wave of the infection, which has been witnessed in many countries across the globe, the authorities should not let their guard down. As a result of restaurants being allowed to open from October 5 and Navratri festival beginning on October 17, we can expect surge in cases 14 days later.” According to officials from the health department, although the positivity rate is falling steadily and would help them to achieve the target of below 10%, the high CFR is a matter of concern for the authorities. An official said that when the other states have been able to bring CFR down in the recent past, it’s hovering at 2.65% for past few weeks. “The high rate of mortality is because of the poor ratio of contact tracing per infection,” he said.64,099 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours at the positivity rate of 13.30%. The recovery rate touched 84.03% after 15,356 infected people were reported to have recovered in 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered patients to 12,97,252. The number of active patients in the state stands at 205,415. Pune has the highest, 40,733, number of active patients, followed by Thane (31,527) and Mumbai (24,019).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-8-522-covid-19-cases-tally-up-to-1-543-837/story-3uErXNraC9YFzFEUWxthlK.html
14-10-2020||Mumbai||India Post Mumbai releases stamped masks to raise Covid-19 awareness||The India Post, Mumbai, on Tuesday released stamped masks to mark National Philately Day and to increase awareness about the need for wearing masks to prevent the transmission and spread Covid-19. The masks are made of cloth and have pictures of stamps imprinted on them. Additionally, a special stamp collector’s pack consisting of exceptional stamps were also released on Tuesday. The initiative is an attempt to make masks attractive and at the same time also drive home the point of the importance of wearing masks in public during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The stamped mask is a brainchild of post master general of India Post, Mumbai, Swati Pandey. “At a time when the country fighting dauntlessly against Covid-19, we should create awareness among people about usage of masks,” said Pandey. Covid-19 is a respiratory illness, and masks help in trapping infected droplets that are released while talking, sneezing and coughing. Four months ago, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made it mandatory for Mumbaiites to don masks while stepping out of their homes and imposed a penalty on those violating the rule. The World Health Organisation has also stated that masks must be used as part of a comprehensive strategy of measures to suppress transmission and save lives. Meanwhile, the India Post Mumbai on October 15 also plans to launch ‘Know Your Postman’ initiative on the occasion of Mails Day. “On this day, every postman will be given one virtual identity card that they can provide to their customers, so that they can be contacted immediately whenever needed,” said the statement released on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/india-post-mumbai-releases-stamped-masks-to-raise-covid-19-awareness/story-VTbRLvBai8y2d5AHdO4I1I.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Schools unlikely to reopen in Chandigarh this month||The Chandigarh administration is unlikely to give the go ahead to open private and government schools in the city this month.“With private schools and parents not in favour of it, it will be difficult to open these educational institutes in October,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. The final decision will be taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in the war room meeting, he said.Schools have been shut since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They were opened partially in Chandigarh from October 21 for students of Classes 9 to 12, who required “guidance” from teachers.The Centre, in the Unlock 5 guidelines issued at the beginning of this month, had permitted schools to be reopened from October 15 for academic consultations for students of lower classes as well.On October 8, Badnore had directed education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill to hold talks with parents over physical attendance of students in schools. The education department then sent forms to each recognised private school in the city to get their response, which came back negative. It is learnt that parents were not on board with this idea, and even schools that had reopened partially last month reported low attendance. In fact, in government schools, attendance was between 1,500 to 2,000 despite getting parents’ consent from around 25,000 students. Meanwhile, online teaching is still going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-unlikely-to-reopen-in-chandigarh-this-month/story-T2b8XQcV4aXxfq0fkJB0BN.html
14-10-2020||City||Dalit youth thrashed, ‘forced to drink urine’ in Fazilka, 3 booked||An FIR has been registered against three persons for thrashing and allegedly forcing a 22-year-old Dalit man to drink urine at Chak Janisar village in Fazilka last week, police said on Tuesday. The case was registered on Monday night after the victim’s medico-legal report (MLR) was submitted by the Jalalabad civil hospital. Gurnam Singh of Muktsar’s Chak Madarsa village was allegedly beaten up by Simranjit Singh, Ramandeep Singh and Jagvir Singh on October 8.His brother Bohar Singh on Tuesday said that Gurnam was coming to meet him at Chak Janisar when he was mistaken for a thief by a group of villagers.“When I called him, an unknown person answered and said the phone was recovered from a thief. I rushed to the spot and saw a mob surrounding my brother, who was forced to drink urine at a dharamshala. I have identified the culprits,” he added.Investigating officer Iqbal Singh of Vairo Ke police station said Gurnam was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. “In a purported video clip, a youth was seen being beaten up by a group of people. The authenticity of the video is being verified. Gurnam stated that the accused were under influence and he was subjected to the atrocity by a group,” he added.No arrest made so farThe police have so far made no arrests in the case. Denying any delay in registering the FIR, Fazilka SSP Harjeet Singh said the police hadn’t not received any complaint from the victim directly. He said the youth was badly thrashed and there was no evidence to suggest that he was forced to drink urine.“Two days after the incident, Gurnam was taken to a government hospital in Jalalabad by his family members. The hospital authorities forwarded his MLR to the police as the patient had sustained injuries. The police took cognisance of the official communication from the hospital and contacted the victim and his family for further action,” the SSP said.The FIR has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (abduction), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dalit-youth-thrashed-forced-to-drink-urine-in-fazilka-3-booked/story-Psd7VyxelVqDHhFkvXlCyL.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Dilpreet Dhahan’s role surfaces in Gurlal Brar’s murder outside Chandigarh mall||Gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, who gained notoriety after taking responsibility for shooting and injuring Punjabi singer Parmish Verma in Mohali in April 2018, is suspected to have arranged shooters and weapons from behind bars to kill his rival Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide Gurlal Brar, who was shot dead outside a mall in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area in wee hours of Sunday.Dilpreet was arrested in a police encounter in Sector 43 in July 2018 and is presently lodged in Ropar Central Jail.“We have got Dilpreet’s production warrants,” confirmed Chandigarh senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal.According to sources, Dilpreet will be produced in court on October 19, from where Chandigarh Police are likely to take him into custody for interrogation in connection with Brar’s murder. Soon after Brar was gunned down by three motorcycle-borne assailants, slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group had posted on social media, taking responsibility. Brar, 26, a former student leader, had allegedly played key role in killing Bambiha gang’s Lavi Deora at a fair in Kotkapura, Punjab, in 2017. In the post, the Bambiha gang had claimed that Lucky, who is staying aboard, had got Brar killed to avenge Deora’s murder. Lucky’s name had also cropped up when Dilpreet along with Sukhpreet Singh Buddha and two other associates had attacked Parmish Verma in 2018.“Lucky, Dilpreet and Sukhpreet operate as one gang. They had eliminated Brar owing to gang rivalry,” said a senior Chandigarh Police officer, not wishing to be named. Soon after the attack on Verma, singer-actor Gippy Grewal had also lodged an extortion complaint against Dilpreet. Earlier, on April 9, 2017, Dilpreet was caught on camera shooting at a Hoshiarpur sarpanch outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh. 25 men running extortion racket for Bishnoi identified After a Facebook page in Lawrence Bishnoi’s name posted a threat of bloodshed in retaliation to Brar’s killing, Chandigarh Police identified about 25 people running an extortion racket on behalf of the jailed gangster. “We are in the process of taking action against Bishnoi’s men running the racket,” said Chahal. Police are learnt to be in touch with businessmen who received the threats so that complaints can be filed. Currently lodged in a jail in Rajasthan, Bishnoi is in touch with his gang members and is still active on social media. He is named in a number of murder and attempt to murder cases in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chandigarh.Tricity coordination meeting today In wake of the recent incidents of gang violence, UT director general of police Sanjay Baniwal has called a meeting of all senior officials of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula on Wednesday. The meeting to be held around noon will focus on ways to plug easy escape routes for criminals in the tricity and improving coordination between police departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-dilpreet-dhahan-s-role-surfaces-in-gurlal-brar-s-murder-outside-chandigarh-mall/story-LWr12VaEjSObL7OXljpLZP.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh University filed most patents in 2018-19: Report||Mohali’s Gharuan-based Chandigarh University has emerged as the top varsity in India which filed the highest number of patents in a year, its management said on Tuesday. The university had filed 336 patents in a year, according to the annual rankings for 2018-19 recently released by the office of controller general of patents, designs and trademarks. The university has filed 779 patents so far.CU announced that as per the Intellectual Property India’s annual report, in the overall patent filing category, 27 IITs have collectively filed 557 patents and are leading the table. However, with 336 patents in a year, Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has emerged as the leading stand-alone institution to file highest number of patents, followed by Tata Consultancy Services with 239 applications, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research with 202 applications and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited with 173 applications.CU chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said, “Since its inception, Chandigarh University has given research and innovation top priority and to inculcate the spirit of doing research, the university has earmarked an annual budget of ₹6.5 crore.”“The university has set up more than 30 industry-sponsored R&D labs and 14 centres of excellence where experts from industry are directly working with students on real-time projects to develop futuristic products, technologies and services that can help society and mankind,” he added. CU’s dean research, Dr Sanjeet said, “The highest number of patents have been filed in the field of product manufacturing (203), which is followed by information technology (148), domestic category which comprises health and hygiene, human safety, and appliances (113), and automation (85).”“The university had established 50 core research groups consisting of 1,500 students and faculty members who had contributed in filing 336 patents. Continuing its pace and exemplary performance in the field of research and innovation, 443 new patents have been filed till date in 2019-20, thus taking the total number of patent applications filed by the university to 779,” the dean research added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-university-filed-most-patents-in-2018-19-report/story-Da3Bi9WhIT8DoerJSS3XrJ.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Sisodia says Centre, EPCA doing very little to control pollution in north India||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said air pollution across northern India was rising because of stubble burning and accused the Central government of ‘completely failing’ to implement anti-pollution measures in all states concerned, despite getting ample time to do so. Sisodia also criticised the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca), saying it could not get enough out of the neighbouring states to tackle air pollution, which peaks during winter and plunges Delhi into a public health emergency year after year.Both the ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the Epca denied Sisodia’s claims. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Sisodia demanded immediate and concrete steps be taken to check pollution in north India.Sisodia’s comments came on a day when Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) settled at 300 on Tuesday, just a point short of slipping into the ‘very poor’ zone -- the worst this season so far. “Smoke from crop burning in the neighbouring states has started showing its effect this time also. The Delhi government has consistently been taking many concrete steps both this year and over the past few years to tackle pollution. But the Central government’s concern about pollution is witnessed only for these three months every year,” Sisodia said.He questioned the role of Epca and asked why it has been “unsuccessful” in controlling from other states.“Like those state governments, Epca also seems to failed in controlling pollution. The Central government will have to take the responsibility for preventing pollution throughout northern India. Due to inactivity of the Centre in cases of stubble pollution, smoke from Punjab or Haryana reach Delhi every year,” he said. Countering Sisodia’s allegations, an official spokesperson of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change said, “The central government believes in working to end pollution and has taken various anti-air pollution initiatives in the last six years. To control stubble burning, machines for stubble cutting worth Rs 1,400 crore have been provided to Punjab and Haryana farmers, which has resulted in a reduction of about 15% and 20% pollution from stubble burning in these states, respectively.”Bhure Lal, Epca chairperson, responded by saying that the monitoring body has been in touch with the state governments of Punjab and Haryana for nearly a month, ever since the first signs of farm fires were spotted through satellite imagery. “We have been in touch with the governments of Punjab and Haryana and have been taking regular updates of the work that they are doing to keep a check on the stubble burning instances,” Lal said. The deputy chief minister reiterated that the issue was ‘affecting crores of citizens living in North India’. “The Central government cannot keep sitting idle throughout the year and engage in tokenism when pollution levels increase,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-says-centre-epca-doing-very-little-to-control-pollution-in-north-india/story-pIeECu6tHmpsuoj33wwl2H.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Dust bowls drown Delhi in pollution haze||On a day Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) plunged to 300, just one point short of slipping into the ‘very poor’ category, major construction sites were spotted flouting pollution-control norms, enveloping the surrounding areas in clouds of dust, Hindustan Times found during a spot check. Despite directions issued by Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai to agencies and private individuals carrying out construction and demolition activities to follow guidelines or face action, work continued in blatant disregard of the rules and the dust generated, HT found during a visit to major construction sites across the city. On Tuesday, Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 300, in the poor category, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s evening bulletin. Data shows the prominent pollution on Tuesday was PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres), which is primarily dust. Data from the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), showed that the average PM 10 levels in Delhi touched 239ug/m3. In India, the acceptable mark of PM 10 levels is 100ug/m3. The rules mandate covering of the construction site with nets and 10-metre-thick metal sheets to stop the dust from spreading to neighbouring areas, covering of the construction material in transit and regular sprinkling of water at the spot and on the roads outside.At Mathura Road, where the public works department (PWD) is building a tunnel road to ease traffic, metal barricades placed to separate the worksite were unevenly placed and were not enough to hold the loose dust and construction material from blowing all over the area. The constant movement of fast-moving vehicles on Mathura Road led to a cloud of dust, making matters worse. “From a few metres away, you can see the difference in the air around this area. It is hazy and dust keeps flying around. You cannot keep your window pulled down because of the dust,” said 38-year-old Meera Mehta, who commutes on Mathura Road every day. The reporter noticed that while the main construction site was covered, the peripheries had mounds of loose soil, concrete waste and debris, which had become a cause of pollution. The nearby Ashram intersection -- one of the busiest roads in the city, where the PWD is constructing the 750-metre underpass that connects the Nizamuddin Railway Bridge -- was no different. The site was covered with metal barricades but the loose soil that was piled up was flying around, becoming a bane for commuters. While parts of the construction site were covered with green sheets, they were barely enough to cover the excavated soil. There were no signs of water sprinklers anywhere at the site. “We have directed all our contractors to ensure that all dust-control measures ordered by the environment ministry are followed. Water is being sprinkled regularly to ensure the dust does not fly around. Since we have a few sites where construction work is going on in full swing, there might have been some slip-ups. But if there are any lapses at any site, we will rectify that,” said a senior PWD official, on the condition of anonymity. At Bhairon Marg near Pragati Maidan, where India Trade Promotion Organisation’s (ITPO) building is being constructed, all dust-control rules went for a toss, with parts of the site along the main road left uncovered and dust flying around. As the excavator dug through the ground, forming knolls of soil, only a torn piece of a green cloth was seen—which lay as an ornamental piece on the side. Most construction sections adjoining Bhairon Marg were not covered with metal barricades. The construction agency, NBCC (India) Limited, did not respond to HT’s queries on the measures being taken by them to abide by the Delhi government orders. Rai said the government will take action if rules are violated. “We are going to be very strict in ensuring that dust-control measures are followed at all construction sites, government or private. If we find that the listed norms are not being followed at any site, we will take stringent action and work will be stopped,” Rai said. Over the last four days, Rai has been inspecting major construction sites as part of the government’s efforts to check dust pollution. During these inspections, big agencies such as the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have been slapped with hefty fines. An analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), a Delhi-based think tank, showed that road dust was the second-largest source of air pollution in Delhi (18-38%), while construction contributed towards 8% of the city’s pollution load. However, experts said these two were not mutually exclusive. Siddhartha Gauda, a Bengaluru-based air quality researcher, said uncovered roadside construction activity becomes a primary reason for increased dust or PM 10 levels in an area. “Cement, concrete particles and loose soil not only remain suspended in the air but when they slip onto kerb sides and onto the roads, the movement of vehicles keeps them suspended in the air. Vehicular movement keeps breaking this dust into smaller and more fine particles,” Gauda said. While these big sites are in the government’s radar, in many parts of the city, small-scale, private construction activities are also contributing to localised pollution. In parts of Laxmi Nagar, New Ashok Nagar and Seelampur, local residents and business owners were seen constructing houses or repairing shops. “For over three months, labourers could not be found and now many people are constructing houses or building additional floors or repairing shops. In these narrow roads, how do you expect us to put on metal sheets or cover construction material with nets?” said Sardar Harinder Singh, a shop owner in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dust-bowls-drown-delhi-in-pollution-haze/story-xYkYyRqRxmZWsdVGBz4dxJ.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||In pandemic-hit Delhi, people opt for doorstep delivery of govt services||Over a month after the Delhi government resumed doorstep delivery of services, it has received 11,612 requests and over 93,321 calls at its centralised number, 1076, till October 8, shows official data.According to Delhi government officials, bulk of the requests are related to the revenue department. Transport and Delhi Jal Board are the other two departments which have received most requests. The doorstep delivery service, which was launched in September 2018, was closed for over five months due to the nationwide lockdown was announced due to the Coronavirus pandemic. With admissions going on in schools and colleges, the district magistrates’ offices were getting a lot of requests from people to get income, caste, domicile etc certificates. People had to queue up outside the DM offices to get the certificates in June and July. However, they can now get them delivered to their houses. Of the 11,612 service requests, 10,873 were for the revenue department which provides 15 services, including certificates for income, caste (SC/ST/OBC), domicile, dead and birth orders, etc. As per the data provided by the Delhi government, the revenue department has disposed of nearly 80% of the requests (8,618) by September 23.The transport department, which provides 19 services under the scheme, has received the second highest number of requests. Of the 377 requests received, 127 have been disposed of. The DJB, which has four services under the scheme, has disposed of 118 out of 171 requests till September 23.An official said, the remaining are under process—under the service level agreement, a service request has to be processed within 14 days from the date of booking.Transport and revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, who is also head of administrative reforms department that manages the doorstep deliver service, said, “People have been waiting for doorstep delivery of services to resume, especially in the wake of Covid, and we have tried to scale up our services since resumption on September 1.”He added, “Our call centres have been functional as soon as they were allowed to resume as per Unlock guidelines of the government, and we had ensured disposal of all pending applications before we resumed services. With Covid-specific standard operating procedures in place, I am sure this will revolutionise the way in which public services are delivered in our country and play a key role in reducing spread of the viral disease in government offices.”While the government is getting a lot of calls, officials say, not all calls turn into service requests. “It is because many are queries and the appointment is not booked until unless we ensure the applicant has all the documents available. Moreover, no bookings are being taken for containment zones. On an average, we get 350 service requests daily,” said an official, aware of the development.While the service is gradually picking up, the biggest challenge before the government is to deliver at a time when the number of cases are on a rise and there are over 2,700 containment zones.The frequently changing containment zone list is adding to the difficulty in providing the service. Explaining the problem, an official said, a person might not be in a hot spot when the service request is booked. But when the mobile Sahayaks, roped in by the government to provide the service at the doorsteps, visit them, it is possible that by then the area would have been declared a containment zone. A senior official with the administrative reforms department said, “Our mobile sahayaks call the person before paying a visit. If the person’s house is in a containment zone on the day of the visit, then we postpone the service. We can’t provide services in containment zones. The service request will be processed after 15 days or when the area is out of the containment list. The call centre is updated with information about the containment zone.”For its ambitious project, the Delhi government had outsourced the work field work to VFS Global, which had hired mobile sahayaks, for hassle-free doorstep delivery of service. “The well-being and health and safety of the mobile sahayaks and citizens remain the focal point of our safety measures, which include: no appointments being taken in containment areas, wearing of adequate protective gear, such as masks, gloves and usage of sanitisers by all team members, following of physical distancing norms, and mandatory downloading of the Aarogya Setu application by all team members to assist them in tracking of safety norms in different areas,” VFS Global said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-pandemic-hit-delhi-people-opt-for-doorstep-delivery-of-govt-services/story-FCrXLM6XWFndCsvbdImfLN.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||North corp fined ₹20 lakh for flouting dust-control norms at Bhalswa landfill||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai Tuesday issued directions to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) for imposing a fine of ₹20 lakh on the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for violating dust control norms at the Bhalswa landfill site. After a visit to the landfill on Tuesday, Rai said the north corporation was found flouting dust pollution norms at the site. “I have asked the DPCC to impose a fine of ₹20 lakh on the north corporation. The municipal corporation has been directed to immediately increase the number of tankers used for sprinkling water to prevent dust from flying in the landfill area,” he said. Rai added, “We have issued guidelines for all government and private agencies to take anti-dust pollution measures. We have directed everyone to follow these directives. Action will be taken against anyone not doing so.” Rai in a press conference on Tuesday had released five measures that all government and private agencies will need to follow to control dust at construction sites. The steps included installing wind shields and barriers on the periphery of the construction/demolition site, covering debris with tarpaulin, using a green net to prevent dust from flying, regular water sprinkling, and covering of trucks carrying construction material. The minister also said the government has started “micro monitoring” of all 13 pollution hot spots in the national capital and will soon deploy environment marshals to check for violations. He said all construction and demolition sites, irrespective of size, will have to compulsorily take the five steps to check pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-corp-fined-20-lakh-for-flouting-dust-control-norms-at-bhalswa-landfill/story-5sNcDINyKqFHaXMhiM3MSM.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Somnath Bharti acquitted in 2014 case of assault on African woman||A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted former Delhi law minister Somnath Bharti of charges of leading a mob that assaulted an African woman in south Delhi in 2014.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) Harvinder Singh passed the judgment in the case related to an alleged assault on a citizen of Democratic Republic of Congo, who was then studying at Amity University, Noida. According to the police, on September 26, 2014, the woman was assaulted by a mob allegedly led by the AAP MLA.“Vide separate judgment directly dictated and pronounced in the open court, accused namely Somnath Bharti stands acquitted for offences punishable under section 323 IPC read with section 149 IPC, section 147 and section 109 IPC,” the court said in a short two-page order.Bharti did not respond to repeated calls and texts. However, advocate Mohammad Irshad, counsel for Bharti, said that his client has been acquitted by the court after the witnesses and the complainant were untraceable and did not come to the court. A detailed copy of the judgment is yet to be uploaded on the official website of the Delhi courts.Police lodged a first information report (FIR) on January 19 against unknown accused on the court’s direction and booked them for various charges dealing with wrongful confinement, criminal intimidation and act intended to insult the modesty of a woman. On Sep 29, 2014, a charge sheet was filed by the police against Bharti and 17 others for molestation and creating a ruckus on January 16 midnight when a mob allegedly ‘raided’ a house in south Delhi, police said on Wednesday.The 18 accused were formally charged under 16 sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 153-A (promoting enmity between classes), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (outraging modesty of women), 509 (uttering any word or making any gesture intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 147 (rioting).Police, in an over 100-page charge sheet, had cited around 40 prosecution witnesses, including nine African women.The court had asked the police on September 10 to file the final status report on the investigation. The court order came on a plea of the woman who sought registration of an FIR against unknown people for creating a ruckus at her house between 1am and 3am in Khirki Extension.The minister had gone to the house after receiving complaints about an alleged prostitution and drug racket in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharti-acquitted-in-2014-case-of-assault-on-african-woman/story-D7Tl0VLoPv1LfIJUvqNGVL.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||To speed up rejuvenation of water bodies, DJB comes out with SOPs, three-pronged strategy||To speed up work on the rejuvenation of water bodies in the national capital, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has recently come up with a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and a three-pronged strategy. As part of the new rules, a few such projects will be clubbed together before tenders are floated, and each project will be divided into three phases -- garbage removal and excavation of the waterbody; arrangement of water from a nearby sewage treatment plant; and landscaping of surroundings.Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said, “The ‘revival of water bodies’ project is one that is close to my heart. Tenders have been floated for 59 water bodies and work has been awarded for 46 water bodies. The work at 10 sites -- Ibrahimpur, Karala, Daulatpur, Neelwal, Hiranki, Sirsapur, Mungeshpur, Bindapur, Nangli Poona and Tikri Kalan -- is likely to be completed soon. Wastewater being discharged into these water bodies shall be treated through sustainable wetlands, enabling a green process of wastewater purification and a step towards enhancement of local microclimate and biodiversity. For transparent execution of the rejuvenation work on the remaining water bodies, SOPs have been finalised, which will ensure uniformity in procedures that are being adopted at present.”The DJB has recently completed rejuvenation work at a waterbody in west Delhi’s Rajokri. A senior DJB official, on condition of anonymity, said the board has approved the SOPs to speed up the work on pending projects. The protocols (mentioned above) are part of the new SOPs that were finalised on September 13, according to a document seen by HT.The DJB has to rejuvenate more than 200 water bodies in the city – most of them are lakes and ponds – and it has already initiated work on 155 water bodies, said a senior government official, not wishing to be named.The official further said these SOPs will apply to 72 of the 155 projects. For the remaining 83 projects, consultation contracts have been awarded to CSIR-NEERI and the consultants have prepared project reports on 71 projects in hand. Work order has also been issued for 46 projects, the official quoted above said.These projects include the water bodies in Ibrahimpur, Karala, Daulatpur, Neelwal, Hiranki, Sirsapur, Mungeshpur, Bindapur, Nangli Poona and Tikri Kalan, the official said. These villages are located in the west, south-west north-west peripheries of the capital city. “Water bodies should be clubbed into packages of 30 to 50 (in) each package and bids should be floated in parallel to expedite the process,” said the document.The clubbing of projects is a strategy earlier used by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for several projects such as the construction of classrooms across schools and the setting up of mohalla clinics (primary health care centres).According to the SOPs, all water bodies should have three phases of development. The first phase includes removal of garbage, fencing of site and excavation of the waterbody up to the desired depth. The second includes the arrangement of water source for rejuvenation from the nearest sewage treatment plant or the setting up of an on-site plant for directly treating wastewater. The third phase includes landscaping of water bodies to create a public space. While environmentalists have welcomed the move, they said treated water from STPs shouldn’t be used to revive water bodies. Diwan Singh, a Delhi-based environmentalist who has been working for the revival of water bodies, said, “It is good that they have come out with SOPs. But instead of STP water, they should use water from stormwater drains to recharge the water bodies. By using the water from STPs, we are just polluting the groundwater, as the STP water is not 100% clean. Wherever treated water has been used in water bodies, that area has ended up stinking,” Singh said.Experts also stress on the need to have biological communities in the waterbody to ensure it is sustainable. CR Babu, professor emeritus at Delhi University’s School for Environment Studies, said, “The aim should not just to rejuvenate the waterbody, but to ensure that it is self sustainable. For that, the waterbody should have biological communities, which can survive only in fresh water. The biological oxygen demand (BOD) in treated water is very high. If STP water is used, then authorities will have to pump the treated water again and again to maintain the required BOD level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-speed-up-rejuvenation-of-water-bodies-djb-comes-out-with-sops-three-pronged-strategy/story-jR4akc5HEdjmexhtBglOuJ.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao Hospital de-notified as Covid-19 facility, docs from two more hospitals to go on strike||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital, where resident doctors are currently agitating over unpaid salaries, was on Tuesday removed from the list of designated Covid-19 facilities in the national capital, the Delhi government said. Hindu Rao is one of the five hospitals run by the north corporation and the only one to treat Covid-19 patients.The other four hospitals are Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis, Maharshi Valmiki Infectious Disease hospital, Kasturba Hospital, and Giridhari Lal hospital.The resident doctors association (RDA) of Hindu Rao Sunday went on an indefinite strike after the civic body failed to clear the salary dues. Abhimanyu Sardana, president of RDA, Hindu Rao Hospital, said doctors are continuing with their strike. “From Wednesday, resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Rajan Babu Institute will also join the strike,” he said. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the RDA of Kasturba Hospital said doctors have not received salaries since July. “We would like to inform you that we will be on strike for the next seven days, from October 14 to 20, or till our salaries are paid. After October 20, all resident doctors will give in their resignations en masse,” read the statement.In an order issued by principal secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt on Tuesday, the government said Hindu Rao Hospital was declared a designated Covid-19 facility on June 14 in view of the surge in cases back then.“A request has been received from the commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, for converting Hindu Rao Hospital to a non-Covid hospital. The matter has been examined and in view of the low average bed occupancy of the hospital and the request received from the North DMC, the hospital is being removed from the list of designated Covid-19 hospitals with immediate effect,” read the order.The Delhi government, on Saturday, ordered the shifting of Covid-19 patients from Hindu Rao to its own health facilities. Seventeen patients were shifted Lok Nayak Hospital and three to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, while those in the intensive care unit of Hindu Rao Hospital continued to remain there.Civic officials said the out-patient department (OPD) of the 900-bed hospital reopened to non-Covid patients from Tuesday. “The Delhi government agreed to our demand of de-linking Hindu Rao Hospital. Since the order, already 137 non-Covid patients were attended to at the hospital’s OPD. As for salaries, we are trying to disburse the funds by next week. But, the order will be from bottom to top, which means that the lower rung staff will be paid dues before the doctors,” said Jai Prakash, mayor of North corporation. AAP DEMANDS SPECIAL SESSION Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and civic bodies in-charge Durgesh Pathak Tuesday demanded that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled civic bodies call a special session and pass a proposal to hand over both Hindu Rao and Kasturba Gandhi hospitals to the Delhi government. “The BJP should immediately call a session of the MCD and pass the matter in the house and in the standing committee by which these hospitals can be handed over to the Delhi government under the AAP. The AAP will run these hospitals within the available budget and develop these hospitals like the way we have developed the health infrastructure in Delhi,” he said. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, who is also a councillor in the North corporation, said, “The corporations are facing a financial problem and are unable to pay salaries as the Delhi government is not releasing funds. The government has further reduced our funds by nearly 58% on account of the pandemic. Even the Delhi government is unable to pay salaries to its own guest teachers, professors, doctors and so on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hindu-rao-hospital-de-notified-as-covid-19-facility-docs-from-two-more-hospitals-to-go-on-strike/story-H3ohaMHQGjcfJqZz9VvQaJ.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||324 kg cottage cheese worth Rs 58,000 seized in Barwala near Chandigarh||Acting on tip-off that adulterated cottage cheese (paneer) was being sold at Barwala in Haryana, officials from the food and drugs administration, Panchkula, and the chief minister’s flying squad, seized 324 kilograms of the milk product after a raid. It was estimated to cost Rs 58,000. Samples have been sent to a laboratory in Karnal for analysis.The raid was conducted at 6 am on Tuesday following the tip off that cottage cheese was being sold from a rented room in Barwala.Panchkula food safety officer, Dr Gaurav Sharma, said he could not comment on the quality of the product till lab reports were received, which, he said, “have been sought in two days.” Dr Sharma said product was being manufactured in Narwana and t brought to Barwala in a car. The sellers “had taken a room on rent where they used to store the paneer to supply to villages close by at cheap rates.” In fact, the low price, Rs 160 to Rs 180, per kg, almost 50% less than market rates, had first raised suspicions, he added.Later it was found that the sellers also did not have a Food Safety and Standards Authority of India license, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/324-kg-cottage-cheese-worth-rs-58-000-seized/story-VMaIiLP6QYQKMBWF6lUZpI.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hazy conditions expected through the week in Chandigarh||Hazy and dry conditions have been forecast for the next five days in the city by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Due to the formation of a depression in the Arabian Sea, low level easterly winds are expected to be active in the region,” said Surender Paul, IMD director. Hazy conditions are also likely due to the dry weather, especially in the mornings and evenings with a 2°C to 3°C rise in temperature, he added.There are chances of a spike in pollution due to the haze. Temperatures went up on Tuesday, with the maximum at 36.1 °C from Monday’s 34.6 °C ; and the minimum at 21.8°C from the previous day’s 20 °C.The next few days are likely to see highs of 34 °C and 35 °C and lows of 21 °C and 22 °C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hazy-conditions-expected-through-the-week/story-7BZlVlxsEMfLe5LW80YKvN.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal launches bio-decomposer solution, says states must work together against pollution||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said state governments should stop blaming each other and work together to find a solution to the problem of stubble burning, one of the major contributors to air pollution Delhi-NCR during winters. Kejriwal, who was launching the first batch of the bio-decomposer solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), which promises to turn crop residue into manure without having to burn the stubble, said that while farmers of neighbouring states and people of Delhi are bearing the brunt of stubble burning, “governments have shut their eyes”. “State governments should stop blaming each other. We have to work together to find a solution to the issue. All agencies and governments need to take it seriously now,” Kejriwal said at the Hiranki village in Narela, where the spraying of Pusa bio-decomposer solution started on Tuesday. Kejriwal said that if the Delhi government can make efforts to prevent stubble burning, so can other state governments. “When the process was in its initial phase, I made attempts to contact the Central government and if they wanted, they could have worked with us to address the issue,” he said. “We got to know about the technology developed by the Pusa Institute in September, and so did they. We have to work together with sincerity,” he said. The bio-decomposer developed by Pusa Institute was sprayed free of cost in around 800 hectares of land in Delhi where non-basmati rice is grown. “While the farmers of neighbouring states and the people of Delhi are bearing the brunt of stubble burning, governments have shut their eyes. I hope that they take concrete steps so that the entire north India gets rid of high levels of air pollution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-launches-bio-decomposer-solution-says-states-must-work-together-against-pollution/story-f3IM0hEnyTJIJBz8psKRjM.html
14-10-2020||City||DU gives students 14 days to submit fresh OBC certificates||New Delhi: The Delhi University (DU) on Tuesday allowed candidates seeking admission under the other backward class (OBC) and economically weaker section (EWS) categories to enrol with certificates issued before March 31, 2020, and asked them to submit new certificates attesting to their eligibility within 14 days of admission.Several students and a section of teachers had raised concerns over colleges not accepting older OBC and EWS certificates issued. According to DU admission rules, students are required to submit certificates issued on or after March 31 in the year of admission. This year, however, owing to the Covid-enforced lockdown many students could not get new certificates issued.In an email sent to all colleges on Tuesday, the DU admission branch said it was brought to their notice that the nodal officers in some colleges were insisting on the latest EWS/OBC certificate. The admission branch has directed the colleges to allow students to take admissions by submitting the self-attested copy of the acknowledgement slip and undertaking of ensuring the production of the certificate within the stipulated period mentioned in the undertaking.In the undertaking, students have been asked to provide details of their application for the new certificate. “I undertake that, my admission against reserved seat is subject to the submission of valid OBC (Non-Creamy Layer Validity) / EWS Income and Asset Certificate authentication for the the assessment year 2019-20 within the given time limit of 14 days from the date of admission subject to the last day of the admission,” it reads.In case the students fail to submit the required certificate/documents within the given time limit, they will not be able to claim admission against the reserved seat. “I also state that I am aware of the fact that my admission is subject to the validation of my original certificates, otherwise my admission is liable to be cancelled,” the undertaking added.Students have welcomed the decision. Hritik, a resident of Dwarka who is seeking admission in BA (Hons) in Sanskrit, said he could not apply for a new OBC certificate issued earlier due to the prevailing situation. “Last month, I visited the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) office and was told to apply online. My certificate is yet to be issued. I am glad that the university has given us some more time to get a new certificate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-gives-students-14-days-to-submit-fresh-obc-certificate/story-1u8zCutvWVoSm2fKMIJjgK.html
14-10-2020||Education||Admissions pick up on Day 2 in DU, over 6700 manage to complete process||Undergraduate admissions picked up pace across Delhi University (DU) colleges on Tuesday, with around 7,640 applications being approved and 6,790 students managing to complete all required formalities. The university has switched to a completely online admission process this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the data provided by the university, as many as 49,712 students had applied for the 70,000 undergraduate seats across 61 colleges (excluding St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary) by 8pm on Tuesday. Of them, 7,640 applications were approved by the colleges. Of these, at least 6,790 students completed the admission process by paying their fees.The admission process went slow on the first day on Monday, the first day of admissions for the new session, when only 920 students managed to complete formalities under the first cut-off list. The admission process under the first cut-off will conclude by 5pm on Wednesday, with the second cut-off set to be released on or before October 19.Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College, which has announced a 100% cut-off for three subjects — Political Science, Psychology, and Economics this year — had received over 300 applications for all courses on offer by Tuesday evening. College principal Suman Sharma said, “We are still in the process of approving these applications. We got the maximum applications for Political Science (Hons) followed by BSc in Mathematics.”When asked if the three subjects having 100% cut-offs are likely to be available in the second list, she said, “We are expecting to have seats in all the three courses in the second list. We never wanted to fill the seats with 100% scorers only.”At Hindu College, more than 321 students had paid their fees and completed the admission process till Tuesday evening. In Ramjas, as many as 300 applications had been approved by the college by 7pm on Tuesday, with the maximum students applying for Political Science (Hons) and BSc in Statistics. College principal Manoj Khanna said, “We have 75 seats in Political Science and as of now 100 applications have been approved by the college. It seems the course won’t be available in the second list.”In Hansraj College, 103 admissions were done in Science courses, 225 in Commerce and Humanities, collectively, by Tuesday evening. In Rajdhani College, 230 admissions were approved by 6pm, with the maximum of them being for BSc (Hons) in Mathematics. Meanwhile, several colleges said that problems of slow Internet connectivity and an elaborate online screening process – which involves checking the mark sheets and other documents, including caste certificates – continued to eat up into a lot of their time on the second day of admissions as well.An official of a North Campus college, on condition of anonymity, said, “The entire process is taking a lot of time since we have to cite reasons for any application that we reject. Students with cut-offs much lesser than ours have been applying and we have to reject them. To open the form, extract the email id, and then write a response takes a minute at least. Classes are also going on, so the staff is busy with that as well. Hence, the entire process has slowed down.”Miranda House acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said, “Though nodal officers have been burdened with a lot of work, the least we can do for students scoring 95-96% is tell them why they are not getting admission. Earlier, they used to come to college and a lot of physical counselling went into it. Parents and students need some sort of response if their applications are not cleared.” Till Tuesday evening, the college had approved around 340 applications, out of which 142 students had paid the fees. Officials said the college is likely to close admissions for BA (Honours) in Political Science for the second cut-off list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/admissions-pick-up-on-day-2-in-du-over-6700-manage-to-complete-process/story-hI3dUZuUnsO7KDh3SYYiVM.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Sisters dead, brother injured in hit-and-run on GT Road in northwest Delhi||Two sisters, aged seven and four, died while their five-year-old brother and 55-year-old uncle were injured after an unidentified speeding vehicle hit them while they were crossing the GT Road in northwest Delhi late Monday night. The two girls died during treatment at different hospitals on Tuesday, while the boy and their uncle are critical. The police are yet to identify the vehicle.According to the police, just short of midnight, they got a call about the incident that took place at about 11.45 pm near Gurudwara Nanak Piao in Model Town on GT Road. A police team reached the spot found that one Jaspal Singh, a resident of Burari, was out with his wife, his family friend Milap Singh, 35, and Milap’s three children in his car. “Jaspal Singh stopped at a CNG pump on GT Road to refuel his car when Milap and the three children stepped out. Soon as they were crossing the road, a speeding four-wheeler knocked them and fled the spot,” said a police officer who wished not to be named.The officer said the family then called the police control room. While Jaspal Singh and his wife took Gaurav (5) and Ishika (7) to a nearby hospital, from where they were later referred to AIIMS Trauma Centre, a PCR van rushed Milap Singh and Bhoomi (4) to the Trauma Centre at Civil Lines. They were sent to Safdarjung Hospital later.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said Ishika and Bhoomi died during treatment. Milap Singh and Gaurav are still under treatment and are critically injured.The DCP said a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered. “Initial probe has suggested the vehicle was a car. We are checking CCTV footage to identify the vehicle. A crime and forensics team was sent to the accident spot for an inspection,” she said.Jaspal works as a driver while Milap is a gas station attendant.The two girls who died had celebrated their birthday on September 23. Ravi Singh, a relative of Jaspal Singh, said both the girls had their birthday in the same week and celebrated the day together. “Their father used to work at a call centre but was currently working on and off due to health reasons for the past few months. Milap Singh is like a family friend to Jaspal and he was taking the kids along, probably for an outing. We got a call about the hospital late night,” Ravi Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisters-dead-brother-injured-in-hit-and-run-on-gt-road-in-northwest-delhi/story-JS7mLks3JFhzN3hBPGHISM.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP lock horns on health trade licences in Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) continued to issue and renew health trade licences of restaurants, despite being asked by the centre not to do so, as they are ‘deep in corruption’, a claim the BJP denied.Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in-charge of MCD affairs, on Tuesday quoted a letter, purportedly written by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), a statutory body under the Union health ministry, to the commissioners of the three MCDs, directing them to stop issuing health trade licences as that has been taken care of by the central authority.“It is a direction from the central government. But the BJP-led MCDs are so deep into corruption that they are violating central government guidelines. Health trade licence is a scam that exceeds Rs 350 crore every year. No license is issued or renewed without a bribe. Money is distributed among BJP leaders. That is why the BJP is violating the central guidelines and continues to issue and renew health trade licences to restaurant owners,” Pathak said.Last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had directed the MCDs to do away with health trade licences. Replying to the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “We fail to understand the anxiety of the Aam Aadmi Party over MCD-issued health licences for restaurants even as their own government issues half-a-dozen licences to the same restaurants, including excise, and that involves extreme corruption.” “Health licences are annually issued and for the current year, they were issued much before the September letter of FSSAI. Health licence involves many aspects of public health while the FSSAI letter takes note of just one, that is food quality. Hygiene and seating in restaurants are other aspects covered by health licence and MCDs are examining all angles. They will take a decision on the issue before next renewal due in April 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-lock-horns-on-health-trade-licences-in-delhi/story-vNFXgpXLqQLGJkqW9Te4HI.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Public park not meant for vehicle parking, says HC while ordering restoration of Sultanpuri park||The Delhi high court on Tuesday came down heavily on civic body officials for not stopping the illegal vehicle parking at a children’s park in Sultanpuri and said it was their duty to ensure that such public spaces remain free of encroachments. The high court bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan was hearing a plea seeking the removal of encroachments from a municipal park in Block P-4, Sultanpuri. Petitioner Dilshad Siddique, through his advocate Javed Ahmad, told the court that the authorities have failed to act against the illegal encroachments upon the children park’s and the adjacent public road despite repeated complaints.The bench warned officials of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation of strict action and said they cannot shy away from regular duties -- the park has to be cleaned on a regular basis and not just “once in a blue moon”.“Let a park remain a park, it cannot be made into a parking. We will take strict action against your officials,” the bench told the north civic body counsel, while directing that immediate steps be taken to remove the encroachments from the park. Siddique had contended that the fundamental rights of people, particularly of children, are being infringed upon on account of “illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional action of the respondents ( municipal corporation)”.“Helpless children have been deprived of their fundamental rights to use the public park for recreation. Even the public at large is facing difficulties and harassment as the public road leading to Nangloi remains blocked or extremely congested due to unauthorised or illegal parking of vehicles coming to the fish market (sic),” the plea read.Appearing for the north corporation, advocate Mansi Gupta, told the court that action has been taken and the encroachments had been removed once previously. However, the court said that clearing encroachments and keeping an area free of encroachments is not a single-day affair; rather, it was a continuous one.“ The officer should know what work has to be done to keep it safe. It is not a single-day affair but rather a continuous effort,” the bench said.According to Siddique, on August 21, he had sent a complaint to the station house officer of Sultanpuri and the deputy commissioner of North corporation, communicating that illegal and parking of vehicles in the park was depriving the public of conveniences.He said he again sent a representation on August 31 apprising the respondents of the situation, the plea said.When still no action was taken, Siddique moved the Delhi court with the present plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/public-park-not-meant-for-vehicle-parking-says-hc-while-ordering-restoration-of-sultanpuri-park/story-p8Ia5W6bOdAqiRerBvBOxL.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Court takes cognizance of charge sheet against Tahir Hussain, others||A Delhi court has taken cognisance of two charge sheets filed in separate FIRs against former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and others in two separate cases related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purushottam Pathak said there was sufficient material on record to take cognisance of the offences for rioting, unlawful assembly, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and common intention under various sections of the IPC against Hussain, Tanvir Malik, Gulfam, Nazim, Kasim, Shah Alam, Riyasat Ali and Liyakat Ali in a case related to riots in Dayalpur area.The judge, in its order of Monday, also took cognisance of another charge sheet against 16 accused, including Hussain, for various offences under the IPC.The charge sheet was filed in June against Hussain, Liyakat Ali, Riyasat Ali, Shah Alam, Mohd Shadab, Mohd Abid, Rashid Saifi, Gulfam, Arshad Qayyum, Irshad Ahmad, Mohammad Rihan, Tariq Moin Rizvi, Jagar Khan, HaziIshaq Malik, Mohd Illiyas and Khalid Saifi.In both the cases, the court, however, did not take cognisance of the offences for promoting enmity between groups based on religion, caste, language etc (section 153 A ), public mischief (505 ) and relevant sections of the Arms Act as the police were yet to obtain sanction from the competent authority.The investigating officer of Delhi Police informed the court that a letter has been sent to the competent authority, but it is not clear as to how much time it would take to get the sanction.The court also took cognisance of a charge sheet filed by the crime branch in connection with the murder of Rahul Solanki during the riots, saying it can be prima facie inferred from the material on record that the accused were involved in rioting, murder and other offences at the Shiv Vihar Tiraha on February 24.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purshottam Pathak said the seven accused—Salman, Sonu Saifi, Mohammad Arif, Anish Qureshi, Sirajuddin, Mohammad Furqan and Mohammad Irshad— had a common intention and conspired in the crime.The police had in its charge sheet filed on June 6 accused all seven of murder, rioting, unlawful assembly, criminal conspiracy, promoting religious enmity, etc.The judge, however, did not take cognisance for the offence of 153A (promoting religious enmity) for the lack of sanction from the department of prosecution, Delhi government.According to the police, Solanki had stepped out of his house to buy milk when he was shot dead on February 24. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-takes-cognizance-of-charge-sheet-against-tahir-hussain-others/story-JgtbWvKKgiWGS3jNQX3T5O.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Ram-Laxman talking about Covid warriors, selfies with masks: Districts resort to novel ways to keep virus at bay||With festivals round the corner, districts in Delhi have intensified their awareness campaigns by resorting to novel campaigns to ensure that people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as they step out of homes. The New Delhi district has launched a “maskfie” (taking a selfie while wearing a mask) contest, wherein the winner would be featured on LED billboards maintained by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).“More and more people have started stepping out from this week due to the Navratri, which begins from Saturday (October 17). So, this contest is a way to intrigue people and then seek their participation and cooperation. A contestant just has post a selfie wearing a mask and an awareness message on Twitter. Every week, one winner will be featured on the hoardings of the New Delhi district as ‘#YouMascot’,” said Piyush Rohankar, nodal officer for Covid-19, New Delhi district.Interested residents can post the selfie on Twitter with hashtags #MaskfieContest #MaskfieOfTheWeek #DelhiFightsCorona #WearAMask or #MaskItUp, Rohankar said.District magistrate (south-west) Rahul Singh said his office has roped in Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, who is from Baprola village in the same district, to persuade people to wear masks while stepping out.“We have also roped in renowned Punjabi singer Jasbir Jassi of the ‘Dil Le Gayee’ fame to spread awareness. Wrestler Kumar is a household name in the south-west district and people look up to him, Our aim is to tell people that unlocking activities does not mean the end of the pandemic. Wearing masks, maintaining a physical distance and hand hygiene are mandatory at all times, even during festivities,” Singh asserted. The district administration has also started a series of “Ram Lila street plays” through which the characters of Ram and Laxman narrate stories of Covid warriors and also impart messages to ensure basic awareness of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Almost all 11 districts of Delhi are also taking the help of religious leaders and organisations in their communications campaign. “School teachers are now making students take a pledge to follow Covid rules before the start of each online class. Religious and spiritual leaders from organisations such as ISKON, Radha Saomi Satsang, various temples, gurdwaras and mosques are also imparting Covid awareness before and after every prayer session,” said a senior official in north-west district, which also has the highest number of Covid-19 cases --2,989 active cases-- in the city. The south-east district, led by district magistrate Harleen Kaur, has been regularly carrying out foot marches with messages such as “Ghar se nikalte samay SMS ka dhyan rakhe - Sanitiser, Mask, Social distancing” painted on placards and banners. The intensive awareness campaign comes after the Centre, on October 1, asked the Delhi government to prepare and launch a mega Covid-19 awareness drive ahead of the festive season when a number of large gatherings take place across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ram-laxman-talking-about-covid-warriors-selfies-with-masks-districts-resort-to-novel-ways-to-keep-virus-at-bay/story-1kds90IxEw47jzSIxxe8sK.html
14-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi police to keep watch on social distancing, masks in popular markets during festive season||Ahead of the festival season, Delhi Police have identified at least 300 markets where there could be a heavy footfall in the coming weeks, and have planned to deploy special teams to ensure people follow social distancing rules and wear masks in contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Senior Delhi Police officers said their teams that are presently issuing fines to people on the road for not wearing masks or violating social distancing norms, will soon be posted in markets with high footfall such as Lajpat Nagar, Chandni Chowk, Sarojini Nagar and Karol Bagh. Loudspeakers at the markets, presently used to make security-related announcements and caution people about unidentified objects, will be used to disseminate information about masks. Many markets in Delhi have active containment zones, where it is important to ensure all shoppers wear masks. Chandni Chowk in central Delhi has at least 13 containment zones, and Karol Bagh, also a popular market, which sees large crowds during festivals, has at least 26 active containment zones. Containment zones are sealed areas where the free movement of individuals is prohibited to contain the spread of the infection. All residents are put under strict surveillance and are periodically screened.A police officer from south Delhi, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will make the announcements real-time. At many markets such as Sarojini Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, we have watchtowers from where we spotted suspicious people. This year the towers will be used to check social distancing norms and crowds outside and inside shops. Issuing fines will be the last alternative. We will speak to the shoppers after watching their movement from our control room through CCTV cameras.”A report prepared by the National Control for Disease Control (NCDC) has cautioned that there could be at least 15,000 Covid-19 cases per day in the upcoming winters and festivals. The report has been drafted by NCDC under the supervision of Dr VK Paul, Chairman of NITI Aayog Member (Health). At present, Delhi is reporting about 2,551 new Covid cases on an average every day( daily average of the last 10 days). Until Tuesday evening, Delhi had reported a total of 314,224 Covid-19 cases. 5,854 have died, 286,880 recovered and there are still 21,490 active cases. The city on Tuesday recorded 3,036 new cases, with a positivity rate of 5.52%, and 45 deaths.Delhi police officers said the strict checks on the use of masks on the streets is working well because people are now wary about the Rs 500 fine. Police have to date (until Tuesday afternoon 4 pm), fined 386,188 persons and collected a total of Rs 19,30,94,000(19.30 crore) for not wearing masks.“We have been taking several steps such as making announcements for wearing masks, follow social distancing, and washing hands regularly. These are being done through police vehicles and public address systems that are in place at crowded places such as markets. Our police staff present in such places apprise people about the three precautionary measures to fight coronavirus (Covid-19). For the violators ,we are issuing challans. For the needy, police is distributing masks,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal.Health experts have said wearing masks and washing hands, when out in public, is the main precaution against the coronavirus disease . Police said apart from penalising those who do not wear masks, their teams will fine shopkeepers who are callous about social distancing norms.“The fine for the first time is Rs 500. If the shopkeepers do not ensure social distancing, the fine is twice the amount. A case can be registered under the Indian Penal Code section if they continue to violate the norms. We will keep making announcements and request both shoppers and shopkeepers. It requires cooperation from their end mainly,” another police officer said.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the Lajpat Nagar market welfare association, said they are in touch with the local police. “We have meetings regularly. We will follow all guidelines put in place by the government. We are working with police and will give them recordings that have to be played through the public address system. The PA system is monitored by the police. We will ensure there is no crowding in the market. Every shop has to have a thermal scanner and sanitising station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-to-keep-watch-on-social-distancing-masks-in-popular-markets-during-festive-season/story-vTEbDBT0isQr21J19KG2bM.html
14-10-2020||City||Rising dengue cases: PAU develops anti-mosquito fabric||To keep a check on the rising cases of dengue, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has developed mosquito repellent cotton fabric.After conducting extensive trials to check the effectiveness of the fabric, the department of apparel and textile science is now open to share the technology for its commercial use.Sandeep Bains, dean, College of Community Science said that the cloth material was made after three-year-long extensive research.He said that the cloth material is made of 100% cotton and no chemical has been used to make the anti-mosquito fabric.Bains said the cloth material is most effective against aedes aegypti, anopheles and culex mosquitoes causing malaria, dengue and chikungunya.“We have carried out various trials and also involved the zoology department. We had set up cameras in a chamber to release mosquitoes. The mosquitoes avoid sitting on the cloth that was mosquito repellent. Similarly, we had given bed sheets and pillow covers made of the special cloth material to students and received encouraging results,” said Bains.Later, PAU made tops and wristbands for sportspersons and thereafter, shirts were made for the security staff to check the effectiveness of cloth material in outdoor conditions.He said that initially, they began with the trials of three plants having mosquito repellent properties including rosemary, citronella and eucalyptus. However, eucalyptus was found to be the most effective plant.“We had to be cautious about the right amount of mixture of oil in the fabric to avoid it becoming poisonous,” said Bains. Sumeet Grewal, scientist, department of apparel and textile science, said that the mosquito repellent properties will remain on the fabric till 15 washes.The fabric is ready for commercial use. The university has signed a memorandum of understanding with a Haryana-based company that will use the technology for commercial purposes.Bains said besides the department of community science, Sumeet Grewal and Devinder Kochar, professor of the department of zoology were involved in developing the technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-dengue-cases-pau-develops-anti-mosquito-fabric/story-zFyKFN1mJfz83QEIpkWLNK.html
14-10-2020||City||Keep hands, feet clean to keep fungal nail infections at bay: Experts||Fungal nail infections are quite common and are mostly ignored unless a person notices that nails are getting discoloured, thick, and even getting cracked and broken. Such infections are more common in toenails than fingernails, said Dr Sunil Gupta, professor and head of the dermatology department at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). According to Dr Gupta, a fungal nail infection is not usually painful unless it becomes severe. According to Dr Sukhjot Kaur, associate professor (dermatology), a severe case of nail fungus can be painful and may cause permanent damage to the nails. It may lead to other serious infections that spread beyond one’s feet if they have a suppressed immune system due to medication, diabetes or other conditions. People with diabetes have reduced blood circulation and nerve supply, so such patients are also at greater risk of a bacterial skin infection called cellulitis. “See a doctor if you have diabetes and think you’re developing nail fungus,” said Dr Gupta. Dr Jaspriya Sandhu, assistant professor of dermatology, said precautions for keeping the infection at bay included keeping hands and feet clean and dry, and clipping fingernails and toenails short.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/keep-hands-feet-clean-to-keep-fungal-nail-infections-at-bay-experts/story-FKrjuoBXE773QksyigwTMK.html
14-10-2020||City||Unaided institutes’ body seeks another round of CET exams in the state||Pune: To cover maximum number of students in the state, the “Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural area” has demanded to conduct a second round of the state CET exams. According to the association, a second-round must be conducted for students who are now eligible according to the new norms of state government and for those who didn’t appear for the exam earlier due to the Covid-19 fear. The association has written a letter to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The association in its letters have referred to the recent order by the Supreme Court to conduct another round of NEET exam for those students who have missed it due to Covid pandemic. Last week, the state higher and technical education department reduced the cut-off percentage by 5 per cent for Class 12 scores through a government resolution. This will benefit aspirants in admission, and also students who have not applied earlier due to fewer marks can appear for the CET exams again. Along with engineering, the cut-off for admissions to undergraduate courses in Pharmacy, Hotel Management and Catering Technologies, Law, Fine Arts, and Design were also reduced by 5 per cent in the higher secondary exams. “When the Class 12 results were declared, a large number of students didn’t apply due to fewer marks. After the new notifications were issued by the state government, many students want admission but they have not appeared for the CET exams. Another important issue was about safety, as most of the CET exam centres were in cities, the students from rural areas were unable to appear for the exam. This number is also, huge which is from the rural area and want to give the CET exam for admission to various courses,” said Ramdas Zol, president of the association. “So, our demand to the state government is to conduct another round of CET exam in the state so that thousands of students can benefit from it. Also, the educational institutes where every year seats remain vacant can now get admissions for this year. Everyone has suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic and by taking the second round of CET exam can benefit all. It has already happened in NEET exams, as Supreme court has given one more chance to students to appear for the exam. Then why can’t it happen for our state CET exams.” he added. Army organises Combined Entrance Exam (CEE) The Army Recruiting Office, Pune has organised a Combined Entrance Examination (CEE) for the post of a soldier (general duty, tradesman and technical) on November 1, 2020. There are 2,262 candidates from five districts (Pune, Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Ahmednagar) who will appear for the examination. The CEE is going to be conducted on the premises of AIPT, Hadapsar, Pune. These candidates have undergone the first two stages (physical tests and medical examination) of the Army recruitment process and have been declared eligible for the CEE. After the written exam, merit will be prepared and selected candidates will be allotted regiments and corps based on their performance. This entire procedure will be completed by March 2021. All candidates appearing for the CEE are required to follow the instructions pertaining to Covid-19 protocol and exercise extreme caution with respect to abiding by the instructions of centre and state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-body-seeks-another-round-of-cet-exams-in-the-state/story-pnABfHS1Z2MB6TL1pn6HrJ.html
14-10-2020||Pune||Pune RTO revenue takes a hit as vehicle registrations dip||The Covid pandemic has badly hit the automobile sector. The count of new vehicle registration has drastically fallen during the last six months as compared to the corresponding period of previous year. The sale of new vehicles has seen a new low. According to the statistics given by the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), the registration of new vehicles has gone down by 78,128 and the tax collection has reduced to Rs 212,02,59,655 compared to last year in the months between April and September. The countrywide lockdown announced from March 23 extended till May-end. During the lockdown period auspicious days like Gudi Padwa and Akshay Tritiya when the sale of vehicles goes up couldn’t happen. Post unlock also there was not much rise in the number of sales leading to registration of vehicle in all sectors like motorcycles, cars, autorickshaws or commercial goods vehicles. “As Covid has impacted all sectors and sales of various goods, it has also hampered vehicle sale. In the last six months, there is very less number of vehicles registered at Pune RTO. We can understand it is due to Covid crisis, but we hope to see a rise in sale during the forthcoming festival season of Navratri and Diwali,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-rto-revenue-takes-a-hit-as-vehicle-registrations-dip/story-X66dm9ttwfS1BsfMg2QS6K.html
14-10-2020||Pune||BJP holds protests for reopening of temples||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday staged protests in the city demanding reopening of temples. The party carried out statewide agitations, with state unit president Chandrakant Patil joining the protest at Shirdi. BJP state unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “The government’s priority is to reopen bars and liquor shops, but not religious places. Central government has allowed the reopening of religious places, but this government is not taking any decision.” The BJP carried out an effigy of “Kumbakarna” near the Tambadi Jogeshwari temple at Budhwar peth and blamed that the Maha Vikas Agadhi government is sleeping like Kumbakarna and not respecting citizens’ emotions. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, MLA Mukta Tilak, deputy mayor Saraswati Shedge and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne participated in the agitations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-holds-protests-for-reopening-of-temples/story-99s4ZRFcWlBJZ5855YvzGK.html
14-10-2020||Pune||Cricket, kho-kho, badminton get green light to resume practice in Pune; no events allowed||Pune’s municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Tuesday, allowed all practice of more indoor and outdoor sports to resume in the city. Citing caveats on the order, Kumar clarified that no children below the age of 10, or senior citizens above the age of 65, will be allowed to participate. Also, the ability of the sport to ensure a minimum level of social distancing will be the rule of law in terms of it being permissible. Kumar said, “Outdoor games like cricket and kho-kho, and indoor games like badminton and tennis will be allowed, where social distancing can be maintained. This permission is only for practice and organisations cannot hold any sports events.” Swimming pools and gymnasiums will continue to remain closed. The PMC order states that only players deemed necessary should be allowed to play, to ensure there is no rush at any given time.Sports complex authorities are to conduct thermal scanning of players and employees, and keep a record of players for the purpose of contact tracing, if needed.Kumar said, “While practising indoors, windows and doors should kept open to avoid the use of air conditioning. The equipment used should be sanitised repeatedly.”If players have any symptoms like a cough or are running temperature, they should not be allowed to participate. Mohan Jadhav, cricket coach, Vengsarkar Cricket Academy, said, “It is good news of resuming sports activities. We have put in place our SOPs at our academy.”.Tejal Hasabnis, India A player, said, “To get the permission was very crucial for players who were doing skill practice at homes. Now they can hone their talent on the ground.”Ranjeet Natu, honorary secretary, Poona District Metropolitan Badminton Association, said, “Modern Sports Complex will be functioning from Thursday and all nine courts will be open for practice. We will have SOPs and onus is on players to follow norms.”Purva Barve, Pune shuttler, said, “I am happy with the news. While I was regular in fitness workout at home, I was missing courts. My coach Nikhil Kanetkar gave me timely pep talks and helped me whenever I was tense.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cricket-kho-kho-badminton-get-green-light-to-resume-practice-no-events-allowed/story-lvPIKy32pnbw1DsO69lDZL.html
14-10-2020||Pune||Modi cautions Maharashtra of rising Covid cases, asks people to follow norms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioned Maharashtra of Covid pandemic saying the people in the state should be extra cautious of the spread of virus given that the state has highest number of cases across the country. Modi after releasing the autobiography of late former Union minister Balasaheb Vikhe Patil via video conferencing, said the Covid-19 threat still persists and people should not show laxity towards the virus. The prime minister also urged residents to observe social distancing norms and maintain personal hygiene till a vaccine is available saying the concern is more in Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of virus cases in India. “I request people of Maharashtra that there should be no lax attitude towards wearing face masks, washing hands regularly, maintaining cleanliness and observing physical distance norms,” said Modi. “We have to always remember that there should be no laxity till there is a vaccine. We will definitely win this battle,” he added. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis were also present during the virtual programme. As on Monday, Maharashtra has seen total 1,535,315 Covid cases across state with 40,514 deaths. As the government has unlocked most sectors, people are stepping out on roads in large numbers. Taking cognisance of laxity by people in following the Covid protocol, Thackeray in his address to people of state on Sunday said that there is a need for everyone to wear mask and adhere to norms. During his webcast, Thackeray said Covid is a “foreign guest not leaving the state despite best efforts”, and added that it is spreading from cities to rural areas. He said 70 to 80 per cent of Covid patients are asymptomatic, and termed face mask as the self-defence or the “black belt” in the fight against the viral infection till a vaccine comes up. “I don’t want to impose strict laws or penalty against violators of the Covid protocols. The war against the pandemic will be won by people’s whole-hearted participation. You have to decide whether you want to wear mask, follow physical distancing or be in lockdown. Whatever is started shouldn’t be closed down again,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-cautions-maharashtra-of-rising-covid-cases-asks-people-to-follow-norms/story-fMTchxpSgeKtEMYGckoUjN.html
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three of the 17 Hisar juvenile undertrials who fled observation homes found, efforts on to catch rest||A day after 17 juvenile undertrials, including eight booked for murder, escaped from an observation home in Hisar after attacking three guards, police rounded up three of them on Tuesday. One of the inmates was caught near Chaudhriwas village and the other from Talwandi Rana village, both in Hisar district, while the third juvenile’s arrest location was not shared by the police.“Efforts are on to catch the rest. The inmates had fled at 6.40pm on Monday after thrashing three security guards with rods. The incident took place when the inmates were brought to the compound for dinner. They thrashed the guards for 10 minutes before snatching the keys of the main gate and fleeing into the adjoining forest,” a police official said.Police forms 15 teams to catch the inmates Hisar superintendent of police Balwan Singh Rana said 15 teams have been formed to look for them. Police in other districts have been alerted. “I urge people not to give a lift to any suspicious person and alert us. Police have been deployed at all nakas and toll plazas in the district to check vehicles,” he said. Hisar observation home houses 97 inmatesA senior official of the observation home said there were 97 inmates in the home when the incident took place. “Six guards were on duty at the time. Three of them were injured and have been hospitalised in Hisar,” he said.Nine of the juveniles who escaped face charges of murder, while three are booked for attempt to murder, two under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, two face loot and robbery offence while one was booked for rioting in Jhajjar.“Eight of them belong to Jhajjar district, two each from Rohtak, Hisar and Delhi and one each from Bhiwani, Dadri and Karnal. Eight of the inmates were uncooperative and rowdy,” the official said. In January 2017, six juveniles had escaped from the home when an employee was opening barracks to provide water campers to inmates after dinner.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni visited the observation home along with other administrative and senior police officials. Soni said a three-member team, led by additional deputy commissioner Aneesh Yadav, has been formed to investigate the case.“This team will probe how the juveniles managed to flee the home amid tight security. Teams have been formed to arrest the inmates at the earliest,” the DC added.HSCPCR commission chairperson Bainda inspects home Haryana state commission for protection of child rights (HSCPCR) chairperson Jyoti Bainda on Tuesday inspected the home. She said the actual reasons behind the incident will be known after a thorough probe.“The details of each and every juvenile will be checked. We will check the roster system of the observation home. Strict action will be taken if negligence is found on the part of security,” she added.An earlier inspection was deferred due to Covid-19 as some inmates had contracted the infection. In March, the observation home had 126 inmates and some of them were given bail after they tested positive for Covid -19, a source from the home said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-of-the-17-hisar-juvenile-undertrials-who-fled-observation-homes-found-efforts-on-to-catch-rest/story-5sqraEUL8Q53wqzaj0zLcK.html
