15-10-2020||City||Brinda Karat says one extra death in Delhi riots not counted, police say not related||New DelhiCPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat on Thursday wrote to Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava about a man who she claimed had died in the Delhi riots but whose death was not put on record as a riot victim by police, the party said in a statement. The police, however, say the man’s death was not related to the riots.In her letter to the police chief, Karat said there was an inaccuracy in the police’s account of the total deaths. Police have said 53 persons died while 400 others were injured during riots between Hindus and Muslims in north-east Delhi in February.Karat said a man named Sikander, was killed on February 27. His body, according to Karat, was found below a flyover at Khajuri Chowk and that the post-mortem report showed he had sustained “serious head injuries”. The body was identified by his brother Mohammed Ishfaque on March 19, she said. Karat in her letter said while Ishfaque has not been given a copy of the FIR by police, a police personnel allegedly told him that “the compensation would be managed” and his (Sikander) name would be “adjusted” in the list later.“The family has been through terrible trauma. Ishfaque’s shop in Bhajanpura was burnt and looted. His sister’s home in Ghonda was attacked and looted. And the youngest sibling of Sikander was killed. Instead of treating the family with sympathy, the Delhi Police by not registering Sikander as a victim has worsened their plight,” Karat wrote, adding the police should immediately add Sikander’s name to the list and submit a new list of 54 names to the Delhi high court.In response to the letter, Delhi police spokesperson Eish Singhal said the man’s death was not related to the riots. The officer said, “On February 27, an unidentified body was found in a public toilet in Khajuri Khas. The body was taken to GTB hospital in a CATS ambulance. There were no fresh injuries on the body. Inquest proceedings were carried out. We are still awaiting the final autopsy report but there is so far no connection of that death to the riots.” At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in the Delhi riots. The clashes started when two groups -- one supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act and another opposing it -- clashed near the Jafrabad metro station on the evening of February 23. It snowballed into large-scale Hindu-Muslims clashes in parts of north-east Delhi between February 23 and 27. Delhi police have arrested at least 21 persons for conspiring to orchestrate the riots. The arrested persons include prominent faces of the anti-CAA protests such as former JNU student Umar Khalid, student activists Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Safoora Zargar. Police have alleged that the arrested persons planned the riots, mobilised the rioters under the garb of the sit-in anti-CAA protests. The arrested persons have denied the allegations and accused police of launching a witch-hunt against anti-government voices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brinda-karat-says-one-extra-death-in-delhi-riots-not-counted-police-say-not-related/story-MBu3S9jiERMLupgrjTtFIP.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman arrested for kidnapping and raping 16-year-old||The Oshiwara police on Thursday arrested a 23-year-old businessman for allegedly kidnapping a 16-year-old girl and then raping her in his car. The incident took place on Wednesday between 1:30pm and 5pm. According to the police, the accused and the survivor stay in the same residential area and know each other. On Wednesday, the man took the girl with him without informing her family. When she did not return for long, the family approached Oshiwara police and filed a kidnapping case against an unknown person. “Around 9pm, the girl returned home and revealed the incident to her parents. The family then approached the police, where the man was booked for rape and under the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,” said an officer. Senior inspector Dayanand Bangar from Oshiwara police station said,” We have arrested the accused and are investigating the case further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-businessman-arrested-for-kidnapping-and-raping-16-year-old/story-i8CVoUwVZmPK0lEpvDhrjP.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Concerned about unauthorised, dilapidated structures: Maharashtra government’s affidavit in Bombay high court||The Maharashtra government, while responding to the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) initiated by Bombay high court (HC) in light of the Bhiwandi building collapse that left around 41 dead, informed the court that it was concerned about unauthorised structures that were collapsing and causing loss of lives. The state government informed the court that it was in the process of identifying and highlighting such issues for the consideration of the HC, so that steps may be taken to obviate such dangerous situations, as well as to come out with an appropriate scheme for effectively dealing with the issue. The court directed the state urban development department (UDD) to examine what each municipal corporation, which is party to the case, has submitted with respect to the measures initiated by them against unauthorised structures in their jurisdiction, and file a comprehensive reply in affidavit by October 26. The court also directed the amicus curiae (a neutral lawyer appointed by the court to assist it in cases which require specific expertise) to file a report on submissions made by the respondent authorities. When the suo moto PIL came up for hearing before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that as per the directions of the court the state, through the UDD, had prepared an affidavit in which it was stated that all the local governing bodies were sufficiently empowered under the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act and the Mumbai Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act to deal with the issue of dilapidated structures. The affidavit further stated that as every year, during monsoons, old and dilapidated buildings were collapsing, it had issued a circular to all urban local bodies (ULBs) prescribing guidelines to classify the old and/or dilapidated buildings into various categories specified in it. Kumbhakoni further submitted that the state had noticed that in many cases of unauthorised constructions, it was the innocent buyers who are cheated and suffer when the structures are demolished. “Therefore, the state issued a circular on May 2018, prescribing a procedure to be followed while taking action against such unauthorised structures in terms of MRTP Act to ensure that such incidents (Bhiwandi building collapse) are not repeated,” submitted Kumbhakoni. Stressing on the fact that the state was concerned about the issue, the affidavit said, “Most of these issues and/or factors are interlined and are found, most of the times, to be interdependent. The state is in process of listing them out for their appropriate appreciation by HC.” Kumbhakoni the concluded saying, “I request HC to grant adequate further time to the state government to have a fresh look at the ground realities as also to consider the effect of all such steps that have so far been taken in this regard and thereafter to come out with an appropriate scheme for effectively dealing with the same.” The court while acceding to the request of the state, directed it to study the affidavits it had asked all party corporations to file and come up with a comprehensive reply on the measures initiated by them respectively to address the issue of dilapidated and unauthorised buildings. The court also observed that out of the eight corporations, only four had filed their affidavits, in which the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation had failed to mention about the dilapidated unauthorised structures. The court posted the next hearing to October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/concerned-about-unauthorised-dilapidated-structures-maharashtra-government-s-affidavit-in-bombay-high-court/story-y2jxYeu2Leb3b9CMGBH8mM.html
15-10-2020||City||Gupkar Declaration: 6 Kashmir parties join hands to forge People’s Alliance||Mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday held a meeting and formed an alliance for restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state as it existed before August 5 last year. The meeting was held at the residence of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and attended by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone, Peoples Movement leader Javaid Mir, CPIM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and Awami National Conference vice-president Muzaffar Shah. “We have decided that the Gupkar Declaration will be renamed as People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. Ours is a constitutional battle. We shall struggle for restoration of what was snatched from J&K and Ladakh,” Farooq told reporters after the two-hour meeting. He said the alliance also seeks a dialogue between all stakeholders for resolution of the issue pertaining to J&K. “We are going to meet again. We will also meet people from the other regions of the state for a broader discussion on the issues to be put before the people of the state as well as the Centre,” Farooq said. “All the signatories to the Gupkar Declaration have given a formal name to the grouping: People’s Alliance. The alliance will constitutionally fight for the restoration of the August 4 position of J&K,” said a PDP spokesperson in a tweet that was retweeted by Mehbooba. The meeting was called by Farooq two days after Mehbooba was released. She was the last of the prominent mainstream politicians to have been released, 14 months after the special status of the J&K was revoked. No other prominent politician of J&K is now in jail except separatists. J&K Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir could not attend the meeting “due to health reasons”. A spokesperson of the party said Mir had conveyed his inability to attend the meeting to Farooq as the Congress leader was advised by doctors to get himself medically examined.. On August 4 last year, all major political parties in Kashmir, except BJP, had met at the residence of Farooq amidst uncertainty and tension in the erstwhile state as the Centre had rushed additional paramilitary forces there while asking all tourists, including Amarnath pilgrims, to leave the Valley as soon as possible. The joint statement issued by the political parties, expressing concern over the situation, came to be known as the Gupkar Declaration. The Centre revoked the special constitutional status of the state and also bifurcated it into two union territories — Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. In a follow up, the political parties had met again in August this year and vowed to fight for restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gupkar-declaration-6-kashmir-parties-join-hands-to-forge-people-s-alliance/story-GuEIftbL3BAn0WCaVL6HZJ.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||PM Modi biopic co-producer threatened on social media, files complaint with Mumbai Police||The co-producer of the film ‘PM Narendra Modi’, Amit Wadhwani has registered a complaint with the Chembur police station claiming that a Facebook user threatened to get his wife, sister and daughter gang-raped, as people like him are responsible for Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.The police have begun an investigation in the case. Wadhwani’s film was re-released on Friday as the first film to be released post-Covid-19 lockdown period.According to the FIR (of which HT has a copy), Wadhwani on October 10 had posted on Facebook informing people about the re-release of his film. After that, he received objectionable comments from a Facebook user named Optimystix Optimystix.“The accused posted nine highly objectionable, threatening and obscene comments. The accused person used abusive language for his family members and threatened to get female members of his family gang-raped. Wadhwani submitted screenshots of these comments to the police,” states the FIR.Wadhwani first visited the cyber cell on October 12 and was further directed to Chembur police station for lodging the FIR. He told the police that he has nothing to do with Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Wadhwani said, “As co-producer of the film PM Narendra Modi, I have received threat comments on social media warning me of dire consequences. While trollers are common and insignificant, the nature of the threat and bringing in my family into this is disturbing for a law-abiding citizen like me. I wasn’t sure whether there is a wider nexus or pattern to it, given the recent developments in the film industry. I have filed an official complaint with the cyber cell who have assured me to look into this.”The police have registered a case under sections 500 (defamation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code and 67A (publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material in electronic form) of Information Technology Act. The police have started the process of writing to the service provider seeking details of the IP address from which the objectionable comments were uploaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pm-modi-biopic-co-producer-threatened-on-social-media-files-complaint-with-mumbai-police/story-qmjoYvF0VEnQpcY0mKm2GO.html
15-10-2020||City||J&K L-G launches mobile app for Vaishno Devi devotees||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the chairman of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, launched a mobile app for the cave shrine devotees at the civil secretariat in Srinagar on Thursday.This initiative has been taken by the shrine board with a view to maximise the use of available technology and digitisation for the larger facilitation of devotees.The mobile app would provide worshippers across the globe an individual experience of godliness and bliss. For now, the app has been launched on Google Play Store only and will later be available on iOS platform as well.Speaking on the occasion, Sinha said live darshan, aarti and online yatra registration will be available on the app, besides other facilities provided by the shrine board.Referring to the recently launched home delivery of pooja prasad by the board, Sinha said it has been widely appreciated by the devotees. He also stressed that during the prevailing Covid situation, the adoption of online services need to be promoted in a big way to maintain social distancing and other preventive measures to control the spread of pandemic.Shrine board CEO Ramesh Kumar apprised the L-G that this app will provide an easy and convenient platform to the devotees to avail different facilities. Initially, five links have been provided in the app including today’s darshan, live aarti, yatra registration parchi, pooja prasad (home delivery) and donations.The facility of booking of various services like battery operated vehicles, helicopter services, accommodation, online havan, etc. will also be made available on the app shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-launches-mobile-app-for-vaishno-devi-devotees/story-tjFf9fnZqlBx03zDVD7kzO.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: P Varavara Rao’s wife moves Supreme Court for his immediate release on medical grounds||The wife of 82-year-old activist and poet Dr Varavara Rao, P Hemlatha, moved a writ petition in the Supreme Court (SC) for Rao’s immediate release on medical grounds. The petition says his custody amounts to cruel and inhuman treatment, violating Article 21 of the Constitution of India and is violative of his dignity in custody.Rao was arrested by Pune police on August 28, 2018, for his alleged involvement in the violence that took place at Bhima-Koregaon on January 1, 2018, in which one person died and 30 policemen were injured. In July this year, Rao tested positive for Covid-19. Between July 16 and August 28, Rao received treatment for the infection at various hospitals. During this time, Rao’s family alleged mistreatment, saying Rao was being kept in pathetic and unhygienic conditions at St George Hospital, where he had initially been admitted. While at this hospital, Rao suffered a fall and after an intervention by the National Human Rights Commission, he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital. On August 28, Rao was discharged and sent back to Taloja Jail.According to the petition filed by Hemlatha through advocate Sunil Fernandes, Rao has been kept in inhumane conditions in jail and his health has worsened since he was discharged. A medical report dated July 30, from Nanavati Hospital, says he requires close monitoring due to comorbidities and mentions neurological problems. “It is highly likely that Covid-19 and the fall that he had in St. George Hospital has led to neurological problems,” states the petition, adding that when Rao was arrested, he had no neurological issues.Hemlatha, 71, has included a letter dated August 31, from Rao, in which he wrote that Hemlatha was dead and her body was in a morgue. “This itself shows the mental status of the Petitioner’s husband,” states the petition. It also cites a letter from academic Vernon Gonsalves, another accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case and a fellow inmate of Rao’s, which says Rao is “basically bed-ridden” and has no bowel or urine control. Rao has a catheter urine bag, which has not been changed in 40 days, according to Gonsalves, and has caused a urinary infection. Gonsalves has been caring for Rao in Taloja Jail. “The treatment meted out to Dr Varavara impairs the Right to Health recognized under Article 12 of International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), which are read with Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” says the petition, which also questions whether Taloja Jail has the necessary facilities to take care of Rao. The petition states that Rao now weighs only 50kg, which is 18kg less than his weight in November 2018, and cannot stand trial in this condition. Furthermore, with the National Investigation Agency having made fresh arrests in October this year, there is little possibility of a speedy trial. ”Thus, there is no purpose in detaining him [Rao] in prison any further,” says the petition, urging SC to release Rao temporarily on medical grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-p-varavara-rao-s-wife-moves-supreme-court-for-his-immediate-release-on-medical-grounds/story-aUcD8YsLLz8bsabx9r9qAM.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Schools in Maharashtra to train students in traffic rules and road safety||Students studying in state schools will now learn about basic traffic rules and road safety measures as part of their everyday classes in schools. The directorate of primary education issued a circular on Wednesday asking its officials to ensure that students in schools across the state learn about the basic traffic rules and road safety. As per the circular, a group of resource persons, consisting of teachers and government officials will be trained by the state education department and the officials from the regional transport offices (RTOs) this month. The resource persons would then train teachers in their respective districts who will go on to train students. Instead of limiting the awareness about road safety to a few days, the department has asked teachers to make it a part of their ‘everyday teaching’. “Teachers should include concepts while conducting their regular classes. In the current situation, since education is happening online, the training should also be done in the digital mode,” states the circular. The Pune RTO had earlier written to the education department suggesting the inclusion of traffic rules in their regular syllabus. Taking note of the suggestion, the department has now decided to implement the move across the state. Teachers said that the move would help students in the long run. “If students are aware, they will also create awareness among their parents. We see a lot of mishaps happening on roads only because traffic and road safety rules are not followed. We hope the training helps address these issues,” said Ameena Shaikh, a teacher from a civic body school in Malad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-in-maharashtra-to-train-students-in-traffic-rules-and-road-safety/story-s5siDEHp9igCdp1csfB1HI.html
15-10-2020||City||Farmer who died at pro-farm rally cremated, politics escalates||A septuagenarian farmer, Bharat Singh, who lost his life during a BJP tractor rally in support of farm bills on Wednesday here was cremated at his village in Naraingarh in the presence of BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar, Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini, senior party leaders and villagers.Singh, a party worker, was aboard a tractor that was allegedly attacked by the protesting farmers affiliated to Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), who had blocked the tractor rally near Milan Palace on NH 344, also known as Ambala-Roorkee national highway. An FIR (murder) was lodged against seven farmers including Ambala BKU chief Malkit Singh. MP Naib Singh Saini had alleged that the farmer was “murdered” by the goons of Congress, state BKU president Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Nirmal Singh.Dhankar said, “The death of Bharat Singh is a great sacrifice for the economic independence of farmers. How a peaceful demonstration was stopped for two hours, where farmers were thrashed and tractors were attacked, was highly undemocratic.”DSP Naraingarh, Anil Kumar said that the autopsy was conducted on Wednesday evening and they are awaiting the report.Family members of the deceased and villagers, (some were also part of the rally) said that no arrangements were made by the administration during the rally.“When we were heading for the rally from our village to the originating spot, BKU’s goons had tried to block our way. One of them, who was later booked for attacking Bharat, had landed in an argument with him. This incident was just a political fight between MP Naib Saini and former Congress MLA Ramkishan Gujjar,” Sarpanch Anil Kumar told HT, whose words were seconded by another villager, who claimed that Bharat was fit and was attacked by the “goons” who they can easily identify.SP Ambala Rajesh Kalia remained incommunicado despite several attempts. Meanwhile, the associates of farmers who were booked, gathered in huge numbers at the SP office in Ambala city demanding quashing of the FIRs lodged against the farmers.In a political seasoning, several leaders from various political parties joined the aggrieved farmers at the SP office, backing them. Former Union minister Vinod Sharma, INLD state spokesperson Omkar Singh, Congress state treasurer Rohit Jain, HDF leader Chitra Sarwara were among those who supported the demands of farmers.Later in the evening, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni and the BKU’s senior leaders met IG (Ambala Range) Y Puran Kumar and SP Rajesh Kalia at the SP office. However, after the meeting, Chaduni said that there was no solid assurance from the police.“We will decide what to do next. But, one thing is for sure that the family is just playing in the hands of MP Naib Saini and he (Bharat) died of a heart attack. The villagers have told us that he had suffered three attacks earlier and why such an elderly was part of a rally,” said Chaduni.IG Kumar said that the investigation is underway and appropriate action will be taken by the district police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-who-died-at-pro-farm-rally-cremated-politics-escalates/story-VHLwiLpB1qWfwj3WnQ7u2L.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali betting, drug racket: Suspects sent to judicial custody||Two men arrested on October 10 at the tony Homeland Heights society here for allegedly running a drug and Indian Premier League (IPL) betting racket were sent to judicial custody in Sangrur jail by a Mohali court on Thursday. Vipan Kumar and Rakesh Manchanda alias Rinku were inviting bets on the ongoing Indian Premier League matches when they were arrested in a police raid. Their accomplices, Tarush Dhawan and Malkit Singh, however, managed to escape.“The arrested suspects were sent to judicial custody today. Teams have been searching the possible hideouts of the absconding suspects and we are hoping to nab them soon,” said Gursher Singh, DSP (City 1).The bank accounts of the suspects through which the transactions were carried out were frozen. “We have got the details of their bank accounts. Soon, financial investigations will be done by involving the banking institutions,” Gursher Singh added.On the drug dealing racket, inspector Rajiv Kumar, station house officer, Mataur police station, said interrogations of the duo revealed that they acquired the drugs in Delhi and sold it to customers in the tricity at higher costs.The police had recovered four laptops, 14 mobile phones and 570 grams of heroin from Kumar and Manchanda.Four diaries containing betting records were also seized during the raid.A case under Sections 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act and Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against the suspects at the Mataur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-betting-drug-racket-suspects-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-RldZQYzZkcRrryFcDNqqgJ.html
15-10-2020||City||Present Delhi Medical Council president re-elected for second term||New Delhi: The incumbent president of the Delhi Medical Council, Dr Arun Gupta, has been re-elected for a second five-year term. The Delhi Medical Council is a statutory body that oversees the practice of modern medicine in the state and takes action against erring doctors in cases of medical negligence. Over 72,000 doctors are registered with the council. The president is elected by a 25-member general council – eight members elected by doctors, 10 members are nominated by 10 the medical colleges, four members are nominated by the Delhi government and one by the Delhi Medical Association. Apart from that two persons – the director general of health services and the dean of the faculty of medical sciences in DU – are ex-officio members of the council. The elections for the general assembly was held in March this year and among those elected were nephrologist and BC Roy awardee Dr Anil Kumar Bhalla, renowned cardiologist Dr Prem Agarwal, and former president of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) Dr Pankaj Solanki. Dr Gupta was elected by a majority of 16 of the 25 votes. During his previous term as the president, he digitised the entire functioning of the council. “Delhi medical council is extremely credible, with most of our judgments being upheld by the courts. There is a three-tier fool-proof system in place to ensure fair rulings. For my next term, I will work towards making Delhi quack-free. This was a plan we were working on with the Delhi government, but got delayed because of the delays in the mohalla clinic projects and other incidents like the riots and now the pandemic. But we plan to work on this aspect and make Delhi quack-free in a year,” said Dr Gupta. Congratulating him, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted, “Congratulations @dr_arunkgupta for getting Re-elected as the President Delhi Medical Council for another term of 5 years. We are proud of good work done by you and your team. Best wishes!” CM Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted, “Keep doing good work. My best wishes for new term.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/present-delhi-medical-council-president-re-elected-for-second-term/story-sDxEmZvswKtY2PBFqFLKnN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||First round of DU admissions over, colleges wary of glitches in online system||The first round online admissions to Delhi University colleges may have concluded, but the experience of a completely virtual admissions process has left colleges cautious of subsequent cutoff lists and wary of technical glitches. Unlike previous years, when students had to visit colleges to secure admissions, this year, the entire process is online. While applications under first cutoff ended on Wednesday, students can pay the fee up to Friday. Till Thursday evening, 29,746 applicants had paid their fee. Of the 59,730 applicants under the first cutoff, 10,978 applicants have secured admissions. Several students, however, were alarmed by the “server error” message that popped up, due to which they were unable to pay the fee on Thursday evening.Chitransh Srivastava, 18, a resident of Sewapuri village near Varanasi, had applied for BA Programme in Shivaji College on Monday. The option to pay the fee appeared on the dashboard on Thursday evening, but an error message popped up when he attempted payment. “I stay in a remote area and my parents do not have a debit card. We will have take the help of a neighbour or someone with a debit card to make the payment. But for that, we need to know the exact amount,” he said.Even Delhi residents have complained of server errors. Prateek Chandera, a resident of east Delhi’s Mandawali, said he had applied to Deshbandhu College on Monday afternoon. “The payment link came on Wednesday afternoon. But I still haven’t been able to pay the fee due to server error. Friday is the last day to submit the fee and I am afraid of losing my seat due to the glitch,” he said.Dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said the university has formed a team to look into the problem. “Applicants can flag any error to the payment grievance helpline mentioned on DU website and their issues will be immediately resolved. We have a help desk manned by 10 persons for this. There was a minor payment server issue yesterday (Wednesday) due to heavy rain in Hyderabad but alternative arrangements were made,” she said.While principals have welcomed the lack of rush on campuses, the three-tier admission process-- document verification by the teacher in-charge, then the college admission committee, followed by the principal’s approval -- has created a backlog of applications, leading to a delay in approving admissions.Executive council member Rajesh Jha, who teaches at Rajdhani College, said, “Carrying out admissions under the first cutoff list is relatively less complex. In the subsequent lists, students would want to cancel their admission in one college and take admission in another and doing all that within a three-day window is usually more of a challenge.”Former academic council member Pankaj Garg said, “The application forms should be processed within 24 hours by colleges. They should not be held on to for days because if applications are rejected at the last minute, the student loses out on the chance to apply to another college.” According to the rules formed by DU’s admissions branch, while students can apply to multiple colleges, they cannot do so simultaneously and will have to wait until their application is processed by the first college.”Principals said while quick processing of applications is ideal, the reality is different. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “It was only while processing the applications of many students that we learnt that they had already taken admission in another college. This points to a technical fault somewhere.” Despite the lag, his college has approved over 1,000 admissions under first cutoff, which is about 300 more than what the college did (under first cutoff) in 2019.“Cancellations under the next cutoff won’t take much time. But the technical challenges will remain and they need to be addressed. Often, students from southern boards do not have their maximum and minimum marks printed on the front of the mark sheet which they upload on the portal. We have to call such students and ask them for the mark sheet and then calculate accordingly. All these take time,” he said.Colleges are also required to fill the reason for rejecting a form, which further causes a delay. Bagai explained, “The volume of applications is far more this year as students can apply from their homes. Students with aggregates far below the required cutoffs are also applying and since colleges have to process all applicants, the whole process takes time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/first-round-of-du-admissions-over-colleges-wary-of-glitches-in-online-system/story-eI3inYpQtfhRolwloMjT2I.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Woman, kin booked for husband’s suicide on Sept 22||Nearly 23 days after a 33-year-old man working as a munshi (clerk) with an advocate died by suicide in his Dhanas home, police booked his wife, her brother and mother for abetment to suicide on Thursday.Pooja alias Reena, her mother Sunita and brother Sahil, all residents of Bhasker Colony in Sector 25, were booked for abetting the suicide of Abdul Razak on the basis of a complaint filed by his brother Abdul Hamid, who lives in Sector 52.Hamid said Razak worked as a munshi (clerk) with an advocate in the Sectro 43 district courts, and had died by suicide on September 22 allegedly because of harassment by his wife and in laws. Hamid told police that Razak and Pooja had married for love and were living apart from their families after their wedding and that Pooja had given birth to a daughter in 2013. Soon, however, Pooja’s behaviour changed and she went back to her mother and brother in Sector 25. On September 19, Hamid said, Razak had visited Pooja’s home to meet his daughter and found his wife talking to another man.Pooja had allegedly been harassing Razak and had wanted Rs2 lakh to leave him, and had lodged a false complaint at a local police station against him, threatening to have him put behind bars if he did not pay her the money.Hamid said Razak’s friend Miraj Ahmed had called his father to inform him about Razak’s death. Acting on Hamid’s complaint, police registered case under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code against Pooja, her mother and brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-kin-booked-for-husband-s-suicide-on-sept-22/story-9taxx3TEZ5sWFMwGGDzJuI.html
15-10-2020||City||Ambala BKU chief among 14 booked for blocking highway, second FIR in 24 hours||A day after farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) showed black flags to the BJP’s tractor rally in Naraingarh, 14 farmers including the union’s chief Malkit Singh, were booked for blocking the NH 344 also known as Ambala-Roorkee national highway.This is the second FIR against the agitating farmers in the last 24 hours. A fresh FIR was also lodged against 300 unidentified farmers.In his complaint to the police, Ram Singh, a resident of Lonto village in Naraingarh, and a farmer said, “On Wednesday, I was going towards Ambala City at 1 pm and when I reached near Milan Palace, the protesters (named in the FIR) armed with sticks had blocked the highway, due to which commuters had to face a lot of trouble. When I asked them to clear the way, they threatened to kill me.”Police said that the FIR was lodged against Malkit Singh, Ramdhan, Satish, Gurdev, Dhanna Singh, Naib Singh, Gaurav, Brijpal, Viru, Sarvan Singh, Charanjeet Singh, Lucky, Ajay Saini, and Manjeet under Sections 148, 149, 323, 341, 427 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the National Highways Act.BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni met Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia and Ambala Range IG Y Puran Kumar on the matter.Y Puran Kumar said that the probe is ongoing and the district police will act accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-bku-chief-among-14-booked-for-blocking-highway-second-fir-in-24-hours/story-fcJ9daDHmqTqE3Xs1l8feL.html
15-10-2020||City||1,323 more Covid recoveries in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded six deaths on Thursday, which is the lowest daily count in 56 days. Also, 648 fresh coronavirus infections took the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 86,057.Of the six fatalities, four were in Kashmir and two in Jammu division. With this, the death toll of J&K is 1,358, officials said. They added that 380 people tested positive in Kashmir and 268 in Jammu.The active cases in Jammu and Kashmir dropped to settle at 9,058 after 1,323 more patients were cured - 989 in Kashmir and 334 in Jammu. The overall recoveries have reached 75,641 which account for a recovery rate of 87.8%, the highest so far.For the past 24 days, the recovery rate has continuously improved. So far, in October, 18,717 patients have been cured as against 10,987 fresh infections. October has also witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases.The total number of tests conducted in the UT so far has crossed 19.29 lakh. Of the total deaths so far, 913 were in Kashmir and 445 in Jammu. August has witnessed 326 deaths, 478 fatalities in September and in October so far, 165 persons have lost their lives due to Covid.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 120, followed by 41 in Kishtwar. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 182 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 39.Srinagar tops the case tally with 17,246 cases and 327 deaths followed by Jammu district with 15,750 cases and 232 deaths.Till date, 6.21 lakh people have been enlisted for observation —24,518 in home quarantine, 9,058 in isolation, and 50,108 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.36 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-323-more-covid-recoveries-in-j-k/story-kzTe7ObOdekUIkCtChWIOM.html
15-10-2020||Gurugram||Financial strain a trigger, as many hop from private schools to government ones in Gurugram||Prince Panchal, a student of Class 9, was at the Model Government Senior Secondary School in sector 4/7 on Thursday, for the first time in almost two months, after switching over from a private school in Rajendra Park area. Dressed immaculately in a uniform – white shirt and blue trousers – 15-year-old Panchal was one among the many students who had come for regular classed that recommenced at government schools from Thursday. Panchal had hismother Krishna Devi, who recently lost her husband as well as her job during the lockdown phase, in tow. “It was getting difficult to pay private school fees. As we have limited sources of livelihood now, I had to shift my son to a government school so that he did not miss a year,” said Devi.Likewise, at the government senior secondary school for boys near old Civil Hospital, Lalita Sharma had come with her son Priyanshu, a newly enrolled Class 9 student, on Thursday, the first day of the classroom sessions. “Priyanshu had to be shifted from a private school in Jharsa to a government school nearby as we couldn’t afford the fees and his father is not getting his full salary these days. There are other expenditures of the family which cannot be handled if we kept paying private school fees,” said Sharma. Thursday was the first time students, who had switched over from private schools to government ones mostly due to financial constraints in their family , visited their new schools.Gurugram, like neighbouring Delhi, has been witnessing an uptick in students migrating from private to government schools. Suman Sharma, principal of Model Government Senior Secondary School in sector 4/7 said that 425 students from private schools had recently enrolled with them. Of the these, 412 have already submitted their School Leaving Certificates (SLCs). Likewise, in a government school near old Civil Hospital, 196 students had switched from private schools. “School fee payment has been the key issue that triggered the switch. The numbers are significantly high this time, compared to previous years,” said Sharma.Data released by the education department in July end showed that 43,000 students across the state had already taken admissions in government schools and over 82,000 were awaiting their School Leaving Certificates (SLCs). In Gurugram, at least 2453 students had migrated to government schools. When HT approached the district education officer Indu Boken for the revised data, she was unavailable for the comment. Teachers, however, worried that managing increased student load in a batch would be challenging as they were not allowed to call students of a class together to school. According to them, many existing and new students were not even active during virtual classes, which was a cause of concern. According to them, nearly 25% students are have not been active during online classes. “These kids either lack phones/computers. Some are in the process of submitting their SLCs. Therefore, for regular classes, our focus has been on those who are not active online and those who have recently switched from private schools,” said Geeta Arya of senior secondary school near old Civil Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/financial-strain-a-trigger-as-many-hop-from-private-schools-to-government-ones-in-gurugram/story-ALu1rRF473TDYwJx9II2aN.html
15-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Govt schools open partially for all, virus scare remains||Government schools in Gurugram reopened for regular sessions of all class 9 to 12 students on Thursday, more than seven months after being shut owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and close to a month after the government allowed partial reopening of schools for students of Class 9 and Class 12 on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from teachers. On Thursday, a few big government schools witnessed an uptick in the number of students coming to attend classes. The footfall at the smaller schools, however, remained negligible.Government Model Senior Secondary School in sector 4/7 saw more than 250 students turning up for their classes on Thursday, of the at least 1,600 who are enrolled in classes 9 to 12. “From September 21,after the guidance classes had commenced, over 150 students were visiting the school every day anyway. Today (on Thursday) from 9am, many students arrived. Some of them came had come along with their parents to just see the arrangements in the classroom,” said Suman Sharma, school principal.Before entering their respective classes, students were made to stand in a queue within circles drawn at the entrance to ensure physical distancing. Their name, section and body temperature were noted. Also, they were asked to apply sanitiser. Even inside the classrooms, the students were made to sit on alternate benches, told to maintain physical distance of two feet from each other always and wear masks. Kavita Sapra, English teacher at the sector 4/7 school said that subject-wise classes have been scheduled. “Students were informed about the classes on Whatsapp group. Some were asked to visit the school compulsorily, while many others came on their own,” said Sapra, adding that a proper roster will be prepared once regular classes start for all students. Presently, teachers are asking students to come in slots as per their roll numbers. A teacher will teach the same topic daily, for a week, till all the students have caught up, Sharma said. “These classes are not webcast, neither will they be videographed. We will first cover topics which have been specifically highlighted by students on Whatsapp groups ,” said Sharma.As reported by HT on October 13, the state education minister Kanwar Pal and senior officials had said that schools will be reopening for regular classes for students of 9 to 12 from October 15. Classes were to be held for three hours, from 9 am till noon. Pal had also said that not more than 20 students will be accommodated in a single classroom. Also, no consent letter from parents for students attending such classes will be required. Sapra, however, said that they are still taking consent letters.Likewise, government senior secondary school for boys, near old Civil Hospital, also witnessed an increased footfall of students. Geeta Arya, principal of the school said that every day nearly 50 students from class 9 to 12 used to turn up for guidance classes till now. On Thursday, the number shot up to 163.“Parents are calling teachers to enquire about the reopening of schools. Since there has been no official notification till now, we are continuing with the guidance class schedule. Our aim is to ensure that a student attends school at least twice a week,” said Arya. According to her, a student is to attend at least three guidance classes, 45 minutes each, where they come with their queries related to the subject. In Arya’s school, the student strength from class 9 to 12 is at least 1076, out of which 183 students are in class 10 and 243 in class 12. She said that since admission in government schools has increased this year, chalking out a plan for conducting classes for all subjects while ensuring physical distancing norm would be a task. “Everyone cannot be called in one go. Admissions for class 9 to 12 has spiked this year. So, to ensure every student attends school while accommodating only 20 student per classroom will be difficult,” said Arya. At least 196 students from private schools have taken admission in the all-boys school this year so far in classes 9 to 12. Others schools in Jacobpura and Islampur saw a more tepid response. In Jacobpura, government school for girls received a footfall of only 30 students, out of the 1456 students in class 9 to 12. “We did not ask students to visit as there has been no official instructions by the state government on the same. The parents are even reluctant to send their girls,” said Sunil Kumar, principal of Jacobpura school. Likewise, in Islampur school only 27 students turned up, according to the school principal Raj Kumar. District education officer Indu Boken, she was unavailable for the comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-govt-schools-open-partially-for-all-virus-scare-remains/story-6ulJy4RBeb70l5xATXaT7M.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||MLA, councillors ask Ludhiana mayor to expedite development works||: With councillors and residents raising hue and cry over pending developments works, MLA Surinder Dawar along with councillors of the central constituency conducted a meeting with mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Thursday. The leaders said that the MC should take up development works at the earliest, otherwise it will have a negative impact on the Congress party at the 2022 legislative assembly elections. The councillors raised concern over development projects including construction of roads, non-functional street lights, installation of interlocking tiles and tubewells among others. Some of the development works are hanging fire for around a year.Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said, “Some development works have not been started as the work orders have not been issued by the MC. We have asked the Mayor to conduct a meeting of the finance and contracts committee (F and CC) of MC so that the work orders are issued at the earliest. If the MC fails to start the development projects, it will put a blot on the image of Congress party in the next legislative assembly elections.” MLA Surinder Dawar said that the meeting was conducted to expedite the development works and strict action will be taken against officials and contractors who will delay them. “I have told officials to get themselves transferred if they are not willing to work efficiently. Strict action would be taken against the officials for delay in development works. Mayor has assured that the issues raised by the councillors will be resolved at the earliest,” said Dawar. ”Directions have already been issued to officials and contractors to expedite development works. If some contractor deliberately delays any work, action will be taken against him. We will also be conducting the meeting of F and CC soon for approving different developments projects,” Sandhu said.MC staff accused of charging money for manhole coversDuring the meeting, Navneet Singh Ghayal , councillor of ward number 20, accused the MC staff of charging money for installation of manhole covers outside a factory in Industrial area A.Ghayal alleged that he had approached the MC staff to install three manholes outside a factory in the industrial area. The staff replied that manholes are not available at present and will be made available soon. Also, they said that the site is private and MC cannot install the covers. “However, a few days back, I came to know that one of the staff members installed the covers and took Rs 1,500 from the factory owner. This has not only put a blot on my image in the area, but it has also blown the lid of corrupt practices of MC staff. I have demanded strict action against the staff concerned and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has marked an inquiry into the matter,” said Ghayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mla-councillors-ask-ludhiana-mayor-to-expedite-development-works/story-qy5QkSUu5GMMMb0gemhzyM.html
15-10-2020||Gurugram||No action against gensets on Day 1 in Gurugram, civic agencies deploy teams||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Thursday did not take any action to shut diesel generator sets in condominiums or industrial units, officials in the HSPCB confirmed on Thursday evening.Kuldeep Singh, one of the HSPCB’s two regional officers for the district, said, “No action to shutter or fine any diesel genset was taken in Gurugram today.”He did not comment further in the matter.On Thursday, the HSPCB teams mainly checked biomass burning, road dust resuspension, and to violations at construction sites, larger than 20,000 square metres.Singh said that builders and industry owners were asked for undertakings, pledging their compliance with Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) restrictions. “Starting tonight (Thursday), we will also be deploying night patrols to maintain vigilance of open fires and dumping of solid waste and construction debris,” Singh said.Shakti Singh, the other regional officer for Gurugram, was unable to share data regarding the specific number of site inspections, violations or action taken. “We have fined multiple violators for engaging in polluting activities today, but compiling the reports from various departments will take time. We shall be able to share the data in a day or two,” he said.Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday deployed 40 water sprinklers on stretches with high dust accumulation — Udyog Vihar, Sohna Road, Vatika Chowk, Huda City Centre, Vikas Sadan, the entirety of the Dwarka Expressway, Leisure Valley Ground in Sector 29, Rajeev Chowk, Basai Chowk and sector roads.MCG on Saturday also set up an ‘air lab’ in Sector 29, where officials involved in the Grap implementation will compile and analyse data related to the enforcement measures. MCG officials also said that the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Sameer app, which accumulates social media complaints on waste dumping, garbage burning and other offences, will be monitored from the lab.“MCG is committed to ensuring compliance of Grap measures. Under this, officers have been assigned the responsibility area-wise. To prevent dust from blowing on the roads, 40 water sprinklers have been installed, which will continuously spray treated water from the sewerage treatment plants on roads and trees every day. An air lab has also been established to monitor and resolve complaints received through various channels in a timely manner,” said Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG.The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) constituted five teams and appointed a nodal officer to implement the Grap measures. The DTCP, under the directions issued by deputy commissioner of Gurugram, will ensure the National Green Tribunal (NGT) norms are implemented at construction sites, as part of the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority’s (Epca) action plan to curb pollution.It will also check the use of diesel gensets in commercial and residential projects having an area of more than 2,000 square metres. Also, the use of smog guns and disposal of C&D {construction and demolition} waste at construction sites and plots will be monitored by DTCP.RS Bhath, the district town planner, said, “These teams will visit construction sites and ensure the work is done as per norms and steps are taken to curb dust pollution at these sites. Directions have also been conveyed to private developers to stop construction during the night. Water sprayers will also be deployed by them wherever required. In case of violations, the teams will take action.”Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Thursday appointed two nodal officers, for areas under estate offices I and II, to ensure mechanical cleaning of roads, sprinkling of water, especially at Leisure Valley Ground, check the usage of coal and wood at eateries in markets and stop garbage burning. The authority has also been asked to check violations at construction sites and ensure waste is not dumped on vacant plots.Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP, said, “We have appointed SDE survey in estate offices one and two to act as nodal officers for curbing pollution and implementing these measures. Owners of vacant plots have been asked to close access and ensure no garbage and C&D waste is dumped there. In areas under our jurisdiction, burning of garbage, coal and wood would be curbed strictly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-action-against-gensets-on-day-1-in-gurugram-civic-agencies-deploy-teams/story-UFufGRpYbDqRpyDCBrQLzI.html
15-10-2020||Gurugram||HSVP plans mega auction of plots, aims to rake in Rs 2,000 crore||Buoyed by the success of four auctions in the past three months in which it managed to rake in more than Rs 250 crore, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has planned a mega auction of plots on October 23, targeting more than Rs 2,000 crore. Prime properties, including sites for malls, office towers and nursing homes located in prime areas such as sector 29, sector 52, 47, have been listed for sale, officials said. The rates of some of the plots has been listed above Rs 300 crore and officials expect that buyers, who have depth and ability to develop such properties, will bid for these sites spread across the city. According to details shared by HSVP, two large commercial sites, one site for a mall and two sites for office towers in sector 29, will be put on the block in this auction. The reserved price of these properties alone is around Rs 1,200 crore as sector 29 adjoining the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway is a prime commercial area where top corporates and government institutions have set up their headquarters. A South Korean auto major had bought a plot here for over Rs 200 crore two years ago to set up its headquarters, officials said. Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP Gurugram, said the authority has planned the mega auction as it had got a strong response in earlier auctions. “We have listed premium sites for auction after identifying them and the authority is expecting that these would be sold at a higher than the reserved price as the locations are very good and will generate good business and presence for businesses that invest in these properties,” said Kalia. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran has been driven to monetise its properties across the state, particularly in Gurugram, because it is facing a severe financial crunch. HSVP has a loan burden of around Rs 12,000 crore, an RTI filed by city based activist Aseem Takyar revealed recently. Officials said that assets are being monetised to reduce this debt and finance other projects as well. Among those listed by the authority include two commercial complex sites in sector 41; a site for a clinic in sector 9; plots for clinics and nursing homes in sector 9A, a clinic site in sector 10 A; two clinic sites and a nursing home site in sector 38; two nursing home sites in sector 46; two sites for nursing home in sector 47; two nursing home sites and a clinic site in Rewari; a nursing school in sector 5; two school sites in sector 9; two school sites sector 9A; a school site in sector 10A; and three nursery school sites in Rewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-plans-mega-auction-of-plots-aims-to-rake-in-rs-2-000-crore/story-qYweg6SZ3QBchrkxfZuL4H.html
15-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Second round of sero survey on Oct 19, 20||The second round of the statewide Covid-19 serological survey will be conducted on October 19 and 20, Haryana health minister Anil Vij announced on Thursday, after virtually launching the survey from Chandigarh. A sero survey helps in gauging the extent of spread of and the actual burden of Covid-19 infection in the society. Gurugram has gone through one round of serological survey so far. The survey covered 450 and 850 residents, in two sessions. The latest survey showed a sero-positivity rate of 10.8% in the district. The positivity rate of the state was 8%.For the upcoming survey, Gurugram health department has identified four urban and 12 rural areas, where more than 750 people will be tested for antibodies. Their blood samples will be taken to check if antibodies against the coronavirus disease are present. Areas of Fazilpur, Khandsa, Naharpur and Rajendra Park that are located in the urban zone and Gurugram village, Dundahera, Chauma, Garhi Harsaru , Chandu, Budhera, Bhondsi, Rithoj, Dhani Rithoj, Kasan, Manesar and Nainwal, in the rural areas of the district have been shortlisted.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “We are prepared for the survey as lab technicians who will be conducting the survey have been trained this week.”To facilitate smooth functioning of the survey, Vij launched the ‘COVID-19 Sero Survey Mobile App’, as per the statement issued by the state government. He said that this mobile app will be user-friendly with the help of online data entry, geo-tagging, offline data entry and self-generated SMS. The campaign is planned to be completed by the end of this month in collaboration with the community medical department of PGIMS Rohtak.Gurugram Covid-19 Update: The district on Thursday reported 255 new cases, taking the total count to 24,575. Of these 2,380 are active, 22,006 have recovered and 189 have succumbed to the illness, with one death confirmed on Thursday. At the state level, the total tally has reached 146,706, of which 10,364 are active cases. The Covid-19 statewide toll stands at 1,623.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-second-round-of-sero-survey-on-oct-19-20/story-QvkT0LfJIumWptPwe9SqGK.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh grain market traders go on indefinite strike||The market welfare association of the Sector 26 Grain Market will go on an indefinite strike on Friday against high parking fees being levied on traders.Speaking on the issue, president of the association Ram Karan Gupta said, “The two-hour window for a single entry of vehicles is unjust. For parking commercial vehicles, contractors charge up to ₹250 per day. Moreover, as a part of their contract they can increase the parking fee yearly for the next four years.”The association had earlier organised a strike in September but the authorities took no action against the parking contractor due to which the traders called for an indefinite strike. On Saturday, members of the Fruits and Vegetables Market Association of Sector 26 will join the strike. Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman Charanjeev Singh has also extended his support to the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-grain-market-traders-go-on-indefinite-strike/story-Jv4Fp8bWBFXfKYF1FA5WVM.html
15-10-2020||City||Class 10 and 12 compartment exam results push pass rate of Delhi govt schools||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) compartment exam results declared last week pushed up the pass percentage of class 10 and 12 students in Delhi government schools, the government said on Thursday.“The CBSE compartment results for 2020 show an improvement for class 12 students, which went up from a pass percentage of 98% to 99%. Similarly, for class 10 students, the pass percentage showed a drastic increase from 83% to 93% in the before and after compartment examinations respectively,” the government said in a statement on Thursday.When the CBSE class 10 exams results were declared in July, at 82.61%, Delhi government schools showed a marked improvement of around 11 percentage points from last year. Government schools had recorded a pass percentage of 68.9% in 2017-18 and 71.6% in 2018-19.Of the 25,400 students who appeared in the class 10 compartment exam, 15,574 passed, the government said on Thursday. This increased the total number of students who cleared the class 10 exams to 144,502. More than 1,000 Delhi government schools are affiliated to CBSE and 155,665 students had registered for the class 10 board exams in the 2019-20 academic session. Of the 1,734 students who appeared in the class 12 compartment exams, 1,290 passed – taking the pass percentage to 99%, the government said.Despite the pandemic that disrupted the preparations, Sisodia said the students had produced exceptional results. “This result makes a huge difference to the lives of 16,864 students who move to the next grade this year itself. It was made possible because of our concern and commitment towards every child,” said Sisodia. He said it was a moment of pride for “the Delhi government to see teachers deliver such excellent academic results in these difficult times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-10-and-12-compartment-exam-results-push-pass-rate-of-delhi-govt-schools/story-y6PEjEEhGTgG2kBtkUZb2J.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Organising ‘Ravana Dehan’ an uphill task for committees in Ludhiana||: With the district administration allowing Ramleela and Ravana Dehan to be held on the occasion of Dussehra (October 25), organising the events will be an uphill task this year. Ensuring social distancing at the Ravana Dehan sites and broadcasting the event are among the major challenges being faced by the organisers this year. They will also have to arrange masks, hand sanitisers and hand wash facilities for attendees. While some Dussehra committee in the city have announced they will organise Ravana Dehan on October 25, others have decided to abstain from organising any event citing the risk involved. Shri Ram Lila Committee (Daresi) and president of Upkar Nagar Dussehra Committee have already announced that they will not organise Ramleela, but Ravana Dehan will be held with limited gathering. Covid monitors (guards) will be deployed at the spot to ensure adherence to safety norms. Dinesh Marwaha, a member of Shri Ram Lila Committee, said, “Daresi fair and the Ravana Dehan is famous across North India and we do not want to break the tradition of celebrations which is ongoing for decades. We will not establish a 90-feet Ravana this year and the height will be reduced to around 30 feet, but Ravana Dehan will be held. The effigy artists from Agra will reach the city in a day or so to ensure it is set-up in time. The event will be held with limited gathering and security would be deployed to restrict movement of residents. It is a major challenge for us, but we will seek help from police department for the same. No Ramleela will be staged but Ramayana Paath will be held at Sita Mata Mandir starting from October 17.”“As the gathering will be restricted, we will broadcast Ravana Dehan live through social media platforms and with the help of local cable operators. We are making arrangements for the same”, said Marwaha. Similarly, president of Upkar Nagar Dussehra committee, Channi Gill, said they will be organising Ravana Dehan in with limited gathering. He said it will be a low-key event and no public gathering will be allowed. The height of the effigy will also be reduced. Gill added they are also in touch with Shri Ram Lila Committee for making arrangements to broadcast Ravana Dehan live. Meanwhile, a section of Dussehra committees have also decided to stay away from organising Ravan Dehan this year citing the risk involved.KP Gosain, general secretary of Krishna Mandir Trust, Model Town Extension, said that the administration has allowed committees to organise the event with limited gatherings and on their own responsibility. If anything goes wrong the administration will take action against the organisers only. “It is very difficult to handle the gathering, especially when an event is being organised in the open. We have made up our mind that we will not organise Ravana Dehan in Model Town Extension market this year as it is unsafe for residents,” Gosain said. President of Rajguru Nagar Dussehra Committee, BM Kalia, said,”We would not be organising an event this year. we had decided it even before the government took up the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/organising-ravana-dehan-an-uphill-task-for-committees/story-IpLRpI8JhSNyDjImpHcEiM.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA members disappointed at postponement of meeting with V-C||The newly elected members of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Thursday expressed displeasure over vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s decision to postpone a scheduled meeting at the last minute.On Wednesday, the V-C’s office had told PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar that Professor Raj Kumar will interact with the members on Thursday at 4.30 pm.PUTA president, in a letter, addressed to vice-chancellor on Thursday stated that while they were expecting to meet him, a message was received at 3.29 pm, informing them that the meeting stands postponed.In their letter, the body said that they condemn “disrespect shown by the vice-chancellor to the teachers’ representatives”.Mritunjay Kumar said, “PUTA executive wanted to meet the V-C and apprise him about the various issues faced by the teachers.”“As a protocol of the university, we were expecting that the vice-chancellor will greet the new teaching body. We understand that other commitments are also important but the meeting is also equally important,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, an official at the V-C office said that Professor Raj Kumar had to go out of station due to an emergency so he could not attend the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-members-disappointed-at-postponement-of-meeting-with-v-c/story-TC1QdqSYGVkYu1wHh2marN.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Inter-state drug racket: 3 Rajasthan men land in Ludhiana police net||Three Rajasthan men who are involved in an inter-state drug racket have been arrested, police said. The accused have been identified as Arjun Dev and Gulshan Kumar, both residents of Alwar, and Prem Ratan of Jaipur.On September 17, two of their accomplices, Ranjit Singh of Preet Nagar, Ludhiana, and Damanpreet Singh of Sahenwal were arrested by Dehlon police after 9,000 tablets, 13,000 capsules and 40 syrups were recovered from their car.Police said that the drugs seized have a combined market value of Rs 4 crore.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that the accused used to procure the intoxicants from manufacturers and sold it to addicts. He added that more arrests are expected in the case.Agarwal said that during questioning, Ranjit and Damanpreet had told police that they used to procure the intoxicants from the Rajasthan residents. Following this, Arjun Deb and Gulshan Kumar were arrested from Rajasthan on October 7. They were produced a court and remanded to seven days in police custody.On October 9, police arrested Prem Ratan based on the information provided by Arjun Dev and Gulshan Kumar.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that during questioning, Ratan told police that he had hid around one lakh bottles of syrup at a godown in Jaipur. With assistance from Rajasthan Police and the state’s health department, a raid was conducted at the godown and 99,600 bottles of syrup were recovered.The ADCP added that more important information has been expected from the accused during questioning. Ranjit and Damanpreet are already facing trial in two separate cases of drug peddling lodged against them in Bathinda and Nabha, respectively.He added that police will arrest the manufacturer who used to supply drugs to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inter-state-drug-racket-3-rajasthan-men-land-in-ludhiana-police-net/story-umGQjQkDkQomI2CpWxMxlI.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Two Afghan men held with 4.7 kilos of heroin worth ₹12 crore at Delhi airport||Two Afghani men, who had landed at the Delhi airport on Tuesday, were intercepted by a team of customs officials and 4.7 kilos heroin was recovered from them. The officials said the contraband, worth about ₹12 crore, was found concealed in secret pouches stitched into the bomber jackets that the two men were wearing. The men were identified as Mohammad Haleem Hashimi, 35, and his associate Nabiullah Habib Zada, 30. Both landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport from Kabul, Afghanistan, late Tuesday night and just as they crossed the green channel, they were intercepted by the customs officials.“Both of them were wearing bomber jackets. On the basis of passenger profiling and intelligence inputs, the two men were asked to cooperate for a detailed frisking and baggage check. During frisking, some plastic bags were found concealed in their jackets. When these were cut open, 12 pouches of a white powder were recovered from one jacket while 13 pouches were found concealed in the second jacket,” said a senior officer from Delhi customs, who wished not to be named.The officer said the powder was later tested and identified as heroin. A total of 4.79 kilos of heroin, worth ₹11.92 crore, was recovered, the officer said. Both passengers have been arrested and sent to Tihar jail, he said.“During questioning, the two men revealed that they have smuggled drugs into India in the past as well, using a similar modus operandi. Efforts are on to identify the person to whom they were supposed to deliver the consignment. We are also trying to ascertain if the two men are part of a major drugs cartel,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-afghan-men-held-with-4-7-kilos-of-heroin-worth-12-crore-at-delhi-airport/story-gZBvFYIHxmBr1AJe9QBMxJ.html
15-10-2020||Noida||11 rescued as storage space in Sector 10 catches fire in Noida||Eleven people were rescued from a burning building in sector 10 on Thursday morning.The fire was reported around 10.30am at the third floor of a four-storey building in A block.“A fire tender was immediately rushed to the spot, but because it was a storage space, it was extremely congested and the smoke was very dense. There were people trapped on the floor above and there was only one staircase. But we managed to help them get down eventually,” said Sanjeev Kumar Singh, fire station officer, Phase 1. The trapped people were rescued via the terrace and it took more than an hour to completely control the fire. Officials of the fire departments said that a short circuit may have caused the fire and because the storage space was cluttered, it spread quickly but was contained to only one floor.In a separate incident, the house of a Ghaziabad based man in sector 37 caught fire on Wednesday night.“The incident was reported around 8 pm. The owner, Vibhore, has a house in Ghaziabad also where his wife lives. The fire was contained in less than an hour and the only damage was to his flat,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, sector 39 police station.He said that prima facie it seems that the man himself lit the fire under the influence of alcohol.“When we reached the spot, the stench of kerosene oil and alcohol was strong suggesting that he himself lit the fire. He did not suffer any injuries in the incident,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/11-rescued-as-storage-space-in-sector-10-catches-fire-in-noida/story-wZfW014YvANT6GwCNXfVpJ.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Three arrested for unauthorised sand mining||Police on Thursday arrested Sonu Momnathal, who was on their wanted list, and his two accomplices from the Yamuna river bank in Gulawali village. Police also seized two trucks loaded with sand, a Hyundai Verna car, a country made pistol, five live cartridges and four mobile phones allegedly from their possession.Varun Pawar, station house officer, Knowledge Park police station, said that police team had received information about unauthorised sand mining in the area in the morning. “A police team reached the spot to stop the sand mining and found some people at the spot. The police arrested Sonu Momnathal, son of sand mining mafia Sanjay Momnathal, and his two accomplices – Raj Kumar and Sanjay Kumar – from the spot,” he said.Pawar said that the three suspects had allegedly engaged some workers and were loading the sand in trucks. “The suspects used to arrive early. They used to load the trucks and then flee the spot. The police received information about their presence on Thursday morning near Yamuna bank in Gulawali village. The team secretly recorded videos of unauthorised sand mining before the suspects were arrested,” he said.Pawar added that Momnathal is a listed criminal with six cases under the Gangster Act, the Goonda Act and several sections of the IPC. Police have registered a case against the three under Section 379 (theft), Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) along with Section 4/21 of the Mines and Minerals (development and regulation) Act, 1957. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-three-arrested-for-unauthorised-sand-mining/story-qMuunEtCTAShsaOeI1mAnL.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Man flees with ₹70 lakh from Mumbai, arrested in Greater Noida||The GB Nagar police on Wednesday evening arrested from Greater Noida a man who had allegedly fled with ₹70 lakh belonging to a businessman in Mumbai. Police identified the suspect as Gulnawaz, 30, alias Arif and said he and his brother were involved in the alleged theft. Gulnawaz had then booked a taxi with two drivers, from Mumbai to his home town in Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. But when the Bisrakh police stopped the car for checking in Greater Noida West, they found the stolen cash and arrested him, a senior officer said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said Gulnawaz had taken a flight from Delhi to Mumbai on October 11, on his brother Shahnawaz’s directions. For a few days, he stayed with 34-year-old Shahnawaz, who works with an exports company in Mumbai. Shahnawaz allegedly stole a cash bag from his employer Hasan, and handed it over to Gulnawaz, who fled with it from Mumbai on Monday, police said. Chander said Bisrakh police was conducting a routine checking near Char Murti roundabout on Wednesday 4pm when they spotted a Tata Zest car, with a Maharashtra registration number. “The police stopped the car for checking and found a bag full of cash inside,” he said. The police brought all three occupants of the car -- Gulnawaz and drivers Giriraj Sharma, a resident of Hathras, and Ravi Nair, a resident of Mumbai – to Bisrakh police station for further interrogation. The police also procured a currency counting machine from a nearby bank and ascertained that the bag contained ₹69,18,900 in denominations of ₹2,000, 500, 200 and 100.Bisrakh police registered a case against the suspects Gulnawaz and Shahnawaz under Section 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code and also under Section 41 (notice of appearance before police officer) and Section 102 (power of police officer to seize certain property) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Complainant Munish Chauhan, SHO, Bisrakh police station, in the FIR stated that during interrogation, Gulnawaz revealed that his brother had given him the cash bag. “Shahnawaz works in an exports company and he is close to the firm owner, Hasan. Hasan had recently changed the lock of his house and had allegedly given a key to Shahnawaz. Shahnawaz later came to know that Hasan kept huge amounts of cash in his flat. When Hasan went out of city on business, Shahnawaz allegedly stole the cash and called his brother Gulnawaz to Mumbai to collect it,” he said. Chander said the two drivers were not involved in the crime. “We have seized the money and the car used in the crime. Shahnawaz has gone incommunicado and his mobile number is not reachable. We are also trying to contact Hasan to know why he kept huge amounts of cash in his flat. We will contact the Mumbai police to investigate the matter further,” Chander said. Gulnawaz was produced in court and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-flees-with-70-lakh-from-mumbai-arrested-in-greater-noida/story-0LhP0li3zQVKLGSzlwsFaL.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Proposed 111km Upper Ganga Canal road project gets finance committee approval||In a major development which will pave the way for development of an additional canal road from Ghaziabad to Haridwar over a distance of about 111km, the Uttar Pradesh government’s expenditure and finance committee has given approval to the project, which is pegged at ₹628 crore. The officials of the public works department (PWD) said the proposal will be taken to the Uttar Pradesh cabinet for final approval.The two-lane canal road is proposed from Haridwar to Ghaziabad on the right-side bank of the Upper Ganga Canal which originates from Haridwar. At present, the left flank is developed over two-lanes. The project was announced two years ago by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who wanted a bypass road for commuters as well as for Kanwariyas, who pass through during the annual Kanwar Yatra pilgrimage and use the main Delhi-Meerut-Road for movement. “The project is now approved by the expenditure and finance committee and will be taken up by the UP cabinet. Once approved, the project will get developed in two years as we already have the land available. This will be a major boost for commuters as it will act as a bypass for those travelling up to Haridwar and will also serve those travelling to Meerut, Muzaffarnagar etc,” said Sandeep Kumar, chief engineer (Meerut), UP PWD. The existing canal road on the right side, upstream of the UGC, starts from Muradnagar and is two-laned at present. It caters to light traffic but is not used by Kanwariyas. “Once the other side of the 111km project is developed, it can be conveniently used for movement of Kanwariyas who take up the foot journey from Haridwar during the Kanwar Yatra. During times other than the Kanwar Yatra, the road will be used by light vehicles,” Kumar, added.In December last year, the UP PWD had initiated a proposal for the 111km road project which will be taken up between Muradnagar in Ghaziabad and up to Purkaji near the UP-Uttarakhand border. The project also includes the cost of compensatory afforestation and utility shifting, besides construction of flyovers, rail over bridges and bridges midway. During the months of July/August when the Kanwar Yatra takes place, lakhs of devotees use the main Delhi-Meerut Road from Haridwar and the situation every year leads to closure of the road which largely affects commuters, commercial vehicles and even schools and colleges which are forced to close down. The Ghaziabad officials of the UP PWD said that the newly proposed road involves a 12km stretch in Ghaziabad, besides about 42km in Meerut district and the rest in Muzaffarnagar district. Right now, a commuter has to travel about 180km from Ghaziabad to reach Haridwar through the Delhi Meerut Road. PWD officials said that the proposed project will also become viable and within reach of a greater number of commuters as two major projects of Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) and regional rapid transit system (RRTS) are also getting developed nearby. “So, more commuters from Delhi, etc., will have easy access to the canal road in order to reach Haridwar and further to tourist places in Uttarakhand. The road will also lessen the burden on the Delhi Meerut Road which is shut for at least 10-15 days during Kanwar season,” said Akash Vashishtha, a resident of Raj Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/proposed-111km-upper-ganga-canal-road-project-gets-finance-committee-approval/story-3kdITdp6C2RdUt7hIZJx3N.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Seven men arrested for switching ATM cards, 107 stolen cards recovered||Noida police on Thursday afternoon nabbed seven persons over their alleged involvement in fraud via swapping ATM cards of unsuspecting users. Police said they recovered 107 ATM cards.According to officers, they were arrested from near Sector 62 following a tip-off from an informant.“It is an inter-state gang that has been active in Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, etc. They would defraud people on the pretext of helping them with their transactions and then swap the victim’s card with one of their own after taking a note of the PIN number. Once the victim would leave, they would withdraw money and flee,” said joint commissioner of police Luv Kumar.He said the gang would specifically target elderly persons or those who were not tech savvy, in order to dupe them.“Their modus operandi also involved targeting ATM kiosks where no security guard was posted or booths that are not frequently used by the public. Sometimes they would also target ‘out of order’ ATMs. They knew that transactions at such a place won’t happen. So they would simply remove the warning board and then wait for users before swapping the cards,” said Kumar.Police said one of the suspects, Manish, would allegedly steal cards from wallets and then sell those to two other members of the gang, Saurabh and Harendra. These cards would then be used as duplicates while swapping at ATM kiosks. All the suspects are in their late twenties and early thirties, said the police, adding that the gang has been active for the past six to seven years and that all suspects have an extensive criminal history.Police also recovered ₹4.02 lakh from the suspects, four stolen wallets and a Swift car. Other cases in which they may be involved are being looked into.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/seven-men-arrested-for-switching-atm-cards-107-stolen-cards-recovered/story-HCUEwmskB6MjCSnxIHHyeL.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Surface parking scrapped in Noida’s Sector 18 market, Noida authority to operate multilevel parking facility||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Thursday said it has scrapped surface parking,or on-the-road parking, in Sector 18 – the city’s biggest commercial hub. The authority has also decided to make this commercial area a ‘no vehicle zone’ by the end of next month.The area was to become a vehicle-free zone from March 23 this year, in order to contain pollution caused due to traffic caused by haphazard parking on the internal roads of the market, which narrows space for vehicular and pedestrian movement. The authority had taken this decision on March 19, 2020 after the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) chairman Bhure Lal, in December last year, had suggested that the commercial hub be made a vehicle free zone to check pollution.However, the plan could not be implemented due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. In July, the authority announced it will be done from October 2, when air pollution starts increasing in the region.The plan was again delayed though, with parking continuing on the roads unabated. Officials said the authority has also realised that the multi-level parking (MLP) facility, which was built for this commercial hub, has failed to make any revenue as commuters prefer parking on the roads rather than using the six-floor facility. Facing severe revenue losses, real estate firm DLF, which was operating both surface and MLP facilities, surrendered the work order.Officials said the authority hopes that scrapping road parking will help direct motorists to the MLP and hence bring in revenue. The DLF had on February 1, 2018, started managing the MLP in Sector 18, which has a capacity of 4,000 vehicles. It was also looking after parking operations at surface (roadside) with a capacity of 1,000 vehicles. DLF, as per agreement, was to pay a minimum Rs75 lakh per month for parking to the authority.When contacted, spokespersons of the DLF group refused to comment on the issue.“We have started operating the multi-level car parking on our own after DLF surrendered the same. We have decided to ban parking on the surface area (roadside) of this market. We will also make this market a ‘no vehicle zone’ to make it pedestrian friendly,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority. The deadline for the implementation of this initiative has been set for November-end.Roadside parking on the internal roads in this area aids congestion. During peak hours, pedestrian movement in the market becomes a nightmare with vehicles occupying every available space, with some trying to wade their way through to the entries or exits of the commercial hub. In order to make this initiative a success, the authority has decided to discuss the issue with all stakeholders, including traders. Back in 1996, when Sector 18 was rolled out as a commercial hub, it was touted as Noida’s most upcoming destination for shopping and other commerce. Today, it houses a five star hotel, two shopping malls, offices and commercial towers as well as several eateries and restaurants, and retail outlets.Two years before this, the authority had come up with a ‘first-come-first-serve’ plot scheme to lure investors who can set-up shops and dwellings in this 80 acres commercial area carved out of agricultural patch, located along the Dadri road, which was the only connect between East Delhi and Dadri town.Traders, however, said they are not happy with the authority’s move.“The authority started making the Sector 18 market a no-vehicle-zone from October 2 forcefully. But nobody would agree to this plan as it is impractical. No shop owner would park his vehicle in the MLP and walk a kilometre to his shop. The same goes with visitors. This plan of a no-vehicle-zone would kill business in the area. We will protest against this plan as it is not feasible. The authority said that it is being implemented in light of the graded response action plan (Grap) to reduce air pollution by reducing the number of vehicles in the market. Why is this plan not being implemented in markets of the entire city then,” said SK Jain, president of the Sector 18 market welfare association.Shoppers, though, welcomed the move.“Traffic in this market is a complete mess. At times we prefer not to visit this market due to the congestion on all internal roads. A no-vehicle-zone idea is good as it will free up space for pedestrian movement in the market,” said Deepak Mittal, a resident of Sector 30.Since parking is located at quite a distance from the market, visitors said they want carts to ferry them.“The authority should run carts to ferry visitors from the MLP to the market as walking such a long distance will not be easy for everyone, especially during the summer season. Also, the management of the parking should be experienced and professional, so that visitors do not face any inconvenience,” said Bhumika Singh, a resident of Sector 61. According to the authority’s rules, visitors will have to pay R30 for the first two hours for a four wheeler and for each additional hour, one needs to pay R10. For a two wheeler one will have to pay R5 per hour. The parking will remain open from 9am to 11pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/surface-parking-scrapped-in-noida-s-sector-18-market-noida-authority-to-operate-multilevel-parking-facility/story-W6qu7Hy4K8Yal2nrWqXQPN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||10 lakh construction workers will soon be registered by Labour Welfare Board: Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday took charge of the Labour department of Delhi government and set an ambitious target of registration of 10 lakh construction workers with the Labour Welfare Board in the coming months.He asserted that every single construction worker in Delhi will be registered with the Board and the government will ease the registration process. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal effected change in his cabinet, relieving Sisodia’s predecessor Gopal Rai of the charge of the Labour department to enable him to focus on the Environment department amid rising air pollution levels in Delhi.After taking over the additional charge, Sisodia held his first meeting with the Labour Board and officials of the department and directed them to remove bottlenecks that prevented construction workers from getting registered and verified.“Construction workers are the city builders of our nation and it is our responsibility to serve them. In Delhi, not a single worker should be left unregistered,” he said.Sisodia thanked the Chief Minister for entrusting him with responsibility of the important portfolio, and took stock of the ongoing works.The Delhi Government will run a large-scale campaign to ensure 10 lakh construction workers are registered in the coming months. This will ensure that they can avail benefits in an orderly and timely fashion, he said.He also said his priority was to ensure immediate verification of the pending 66,000 workers and put an efficient system in place for new registrations and verifications in the coming months.Delhi Government provides various schemes and benefits under the Building and Other Constructions Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act. To avail these benefits, the workers have to get registered with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.  Currently, there are 52,000 members of the Board who are registered and verified. Another 66,000 are registered but their verification is pending, said an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-lakh-construction-workers-will-soon-be-registered-by-labour-welfare-board-manish-sisodia/story-zyHZ71FKSnh0bq4RUIuKlO.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Noida schools to open from Monday, attendance not compulsory as online classes to continue||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Thursday asked the schools in the city, to continue with the online classes for students whose parents were not willing to send them to schools. They were also asked to hold physical classes for the rest, irrespective of the strength.The Uttar Pradesh government, following the central government guidelines, had allowed schools to open for classes 9 to 12, albeit following certain rules, from October 19.District magistrate Suhas LY said, “Students will not be compelled to attend classes physically. The online classes for them will continue. Students need their parents’ written consent to attend school.” The DM further said that the physical classes will be held in two shifts. “In the first shift, classes of 9 and 10 will be held while in the second shift, the schools will take classes of 11 and 12. Only 50% of the total students will be called in a single shift, the rest will be called the next day,” Suhas said. He also said that it was mandatory for the schools to have thermal scanner and other essential medical facilities. “The schools must ensure sanitization of the campus, classes, washrooms and playgrounds daily and after each shift as well. Proper social distancing must be maintained even while doing all these arrangements,” the DM added. Kamini Bhasin, the principal of DPS Noida said that the administration is taking all precautionary measures to ensure proper safety of children and teachers. “We are ready to follow all safety protocols. Even if less than 5% parents have given consent to send their children to our school, we’ll organise proper classes for them,” she said. Renu Singh, the principal of Amity school (Noida), who also attended this meeting, said that schools have been asked to arrange classes for the students, irrespective of their numbers. “Apart from classroom classes, we’ll continue with the online classes. We have been asked to follow all standard protocols in the campus,” she said. Gaurav Kumar Seth, a parent and resident of Sector 137, said that there is no reason to take risk, if the online classes are continuing. “I am waiting for the cases to come down. If my children are enjoying their online classes, why should me or the school compel them to attend offline classes.” Another parent Dinesh Kumar, who lives in sector 77, said that sending children to classes in this pandemic time is like playing with their lives. “I’ll not my send my children to their schools for at least another six months. They are very comfortable with their online classes, so I don’t find any reason to disturb them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-schools-to-open-from-monday-attendance-not-compulsory-as-online-classes-to-continue/story-IZJusaHvsxJERza7D6AcgO.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Noida to buy land to develop a new Sector 145||Noida authority on Thursday decided to buy farm land to develop sector 145, located along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, as a residential sector. The land was marked to be developed as a residential sector in 2013-’14. Farmers who gave their land for development would be compensated with residential plots. The authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari had, in November 2019, directed the land department and other staff to develop this sector. However, the development did not go forward as around 40% farmers had filed cases in the Allahabad high court. They sought higher compensation for their land. As a result the authority delayed the development of basic civic amenities such as roads, drains, parks, markets and green belt etc. The cases are still pending in the court.Moreover, while the authority did allot plots to the farmers who sold their land to it, it failed to provide possession.These plots are of size 80 square metres to 500 square metres and those, who got allotted plots in sector 145, are worried lot because their investment is stuck.“The authority should not have allotted plots to farmers and others, who invested in buying the plots, if it had not land for the same. We are not sure if the authority will develop it now,” said Amit Chaudhary, a plot owner.“We have directed the land department to buy the land directly from farmers and carry out the work,” said Maheshwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-buy-land-to-develop-a-new-sector-145/story-G43LpUk7tnfSbumC3gXpXO.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Winter setting in, Ghaziabad yet to repair potholed roads||Although the Ghaziabad district administration, with a hope to reduce pollution before winter, ordered agencies to take adequate measures in September, potholed roads remain unfixed. According to the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB), there are 78 stretches -- of which 41 are in the trans-Hindon area --in the city that are in a state of disrepair. Such roads can often result in increased particulate matter and spike pollution. The list of 41 potholed stretches in trans-Hindon include the ones at Atal Chowk, Budh Chowk in Vasundhara while others are spotted near Pinnacle Tower, Shipra Sun City, DPS Indirapuram, CISF Road, Ahimsa Khand I and II and Shakti Khand III among others in Indirapuram. The locality of Vausndhara has further list of spots in sector-6, sector-5, sector-2b and sector-9 among others. In Vaishali, the spots affected are in sector-5, near Design Arch highrise among others while in Kaushambi the spots are located near Yashoda Hospital, near Pacific Mall among others. The residents said that the condition of roads have gone bad to worse after the monsoon season. “We have been writing to the authority to get the repairs done but no one acted. Even the pipeline laying work on the CISF road has been prolonged and giving nightmares to daily commuters. The other side of the CISF road which is is use is also in bas shape,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners. “Due to bad roads, commuters face issues besides there is pollution on account of fuel during traffic snarls and such roads also contribute to dust emission which finally affects air quality,” he added. VN Singh, the chief engineer of Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) said that tenders for Indirapuram and Swarnjayantipuram localities under GDA jurisdiction have been floated. “We expect that the road repair works will be taken up in another one week. For the CISF Road we plan to get it repaired only when the work for the pipeline laying gets complete. Otherwise, the repairs will further get deteriorated due to ongoing work,” he added. In a their recently concluded study, ‘Monitoring of total road dust and dust particles up to 75 microns (aerodynamic particle) on selected main roads of Ghaziabad City,’ the UPPCB found dust concentrations in the range between 14.43 to 579.54 grams per square metres (g/m²) at 18 different road stretches in Ghaziabad. The study also found that dust particles up to 75 microns in size were found to be concentrated between 2.22 to 154.37 g/m² at the 18 stretches. The study gave officials an insight into the dust emission issues which need to be taken up for different roads. Meanwhile, the other areas suffering potholes and bad road patches were identified in cis-Hindon areas like Raj Nagar Extension, Shastri Nagar, Hindon Vihar, Pratap Vihar, Meerut Road industrial area, Bulandhshar Road industrial area, South Side GT Road industrial area among others. “There will be many more areas which might be having potholes and need to be identified. Since the corporation is a maintenance agency it should have a separate head for annual maintenance contract for road repairs and it will be better if they have road repair machines available with them for immediate repairs,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation. “The road repair works if taken during the winter season will take time for the bitumen to settle down. And, it will be difficult to restrict commuters to pass through it. Ideally, all the repair works should have been completed well before the graded response action plan comes into effect,” he added. Municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said that the corporation has already floated tenders for about 30-35 roads under phase 1. “The works are likely to get complete by end of October. Meanwhile, tenders for other roads will be taken up in phase 2 and these can be taken up in November. We are ensuring that the works are taken up at the earliest and repairs taken up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/winter-setting-in-ghaziabad-yet-to-repair-potholed-roads/story-ywiS2r70foErxwg8puj9EJ.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR pollution report absolves Punjab of the blame: Amarinder Singh||With the Centre saying stubble burning contributed only four per cent to pollution in Delhi, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday stressed the latest data has vindicated his government’s stance. Flaying his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, the Punjab chief minister asked him to “stop lying” to divert attention from his “failure” to protect the national capital’s environment. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar in Delhi said stubble burning contributed only four per cent to the Delhi-NCR pollution with the rest caused by local factors. The Punjab CM slammed Kejriwal for refusing to accept results of comprehensive studies on the issue. In fact, it is Kejriwal who was in denial, said Amarinder Singh in a statement. If Kejriwal is serious about addressing Delhi’s crisis, he should stop being in denial immediately and get down to the task of finding solutions, the chief minister said. Kejriwal, said the CM, had been spreading “misinformation” on the issue with the sole agenda of keeping people of Delhi in the dark about the actual situation, which his government had “failed miserably” to handle over the years. The fact is that there is absolutely no data to support the claims of the Delhi chief minister, he said, adding that in contrast, studies showed that stubble burning was only a minuscule part of the national capital’s problem. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in a research paper based on data for 2018 and 2019 has found that Delhi’s pollution is localised and not attributable to farm fires in Punjab or the NCR. It pointed out that the air quality index of Punjab is much better than Delhi. Amarinder Singh said this is something Punjab has been maintaining for the past several years. The chief minister said Kejriwal had been taking refuge in “brazen falsehoods” to divert public attention from the AAP government’s “total failure”. “Even today, the skies in Punjab are clear and the AQI levels much better than those in Delhi,” Amarinder Singh said. The Punjab CM said the main cause of Delhi’s pollution was construction and demolition activities. The Punjab CM claimed that his government is doing its best to reduce stubble burning to cleanse the air. Unfortunately, farmers are facing a massive problem in managing paddy straw in the absence of fiscal aid from the Centre despite repeated pleas, he stressed. He reiterated his demand for Rs 100 a quintal as financial support from the Centre to eliminate the problem in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-pollution-report-absolves-punjab-of-the-blame-amarinder-singh/story-2O8C1ai5hDifBUfZ89Bw4I.html
15-10-2020||City||25-year-old Rajpura man killed in car-truck collision on Airport Road||A 25-year-old man was killed and his three friends were injured after a truck collided with their car at an intersection on the Patiala-Zirakpur highway on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Ravinder Singh, a resident of Bhatedi village near Rajpura. Police said Ravinder and his friends were commuting from Mohali to Bhatedi village. As they reached the traffic lights near Aerocity, their car collided with a truck coming from Zirakpur. Ravinder, who was sitting in the back seat, suffered serious injuries and was declared brought dead at the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali.“The truck driver fled the spot, leaving his vehicle behind. He has been booked,” said investigating officer Buta Singh. “The four friends are into transport business and had come to Mohali for work. Ravinder was unmarried. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-rajpura-man-killed-in-car-truck-collision-on-airport-road/story-wLsGFUaym4DvUyI3pSCHyL.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad Police launches ‘Operation Awara’; 238 ‘vagabonds’ held||To put a curb on crimes like chain-snatching and mobile phone theft, the Ghaziabad Police has launched “Operation Awara”, under which suspicious “vagabonds” are being arrested, an official said on Thursday.Police have nabbed 238 suspects so far under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognisable offences) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and other relevant sections of the law, he said. A special checking drive has also been launched near banks, jewellery shops, and liquor vends under “Operation Awara”.Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani told PTI that anti-social elements consuming liquor on roads or near the liquor shops would also be arrested.The senior superintendent of police further said tenant verification has been started in the colonies, and legal action will be taken if any house owner is found renting a place without knowing the background of the tenants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-police-launches-operation-awara-238-vagabonds-held/story-ZvMLYBJ6UBUKNfGVfW5RHO.html
15-10-2020||City||Centre started to speed up delivery of parcels in Ludhiana||A postal nodal delivery centre (NDC) has been started at the speed post centre near Ludhiana Railway Station from Thursday to centralise the delivery of parcels and ensure customers receive them in a timely manner.Senior superintendent of the head post office, Hari Mohan, inaugurated the centre.The head post office receives more than 600 parcels daily. Earlier, ordinary mails, registered post, speed post and parcels had the same delivery system and took up to two to three days to deliver.With an increase in volume of parcels, it was required to separate the systems so that customers can get their deliveries timely.To ensure this, postmen will go to customers’ doorsteps on two-wheelers and for heavy parcels, special pick-up vans will be deputed. The postal department has sufficient employees and will ensure the parcel is delivered the same day it is received at the NDC. “There was a need to provide quick service to customers, so, we decided to open a nodal centre to centralise the delivery of parcels. This was also necessary to boost e-commerce,” said Hari Mohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-started-to-speed-up-delivery-of-parcels-in-ludhiana/story-wr4AzoEWxb7yOTbROKtlAK.html
15-10-2020||City||Ludhiana man, wife and relative booked for duping nephew of Rs 5 crore||A Gurdev Nagar resident, along with his wife and relative, has been booked for a fraud of Rs 5 crore on the complaint of his nephew. The FIR has been lodged after a 10-month long investigation by the police. The accused have been identified as Kailash Agarwal and Rajni Agarwal of Gurdev Nagar, and Manmohan Agarwal. Complainant Rohit Gupta, 42, of Khanna alleged that Kailash, who is his maternal uncle, owns a realty firm, in which he was offered partnership in 2013. Gupta said he bought 58% shares in the firm following which the accused made him the director. Two years later, the accused offered him more powers on the condition that he buys 23 more shares. The accused, meanwhile, had transferred Rs 5 crore from the firm’s account to their personal accounts without Gupta’s knowledge. Gupta said that as soon as he found out about this, he raised an objection but the accused started threatening him instead. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurdev Lal, the investigating official, said a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine any document or electronic record), 477 (fraudulent cancellation, destruction), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the three accused, who are on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-wife-and-relative-booked-for-duping-nephew-of-rs-5-crore/story-g3yEXLk9KzHSZuvxIPnieO.html
15-10-2020||Noida||Noida’s latest attraction: It’s a plane, it’s a restaurant... It’s a planestaurant!||Bored of regular cafes and restaurants? Come December, the Great India Place (GIP) Mall will soon have another attraction -- aeroplane turned into a restaurant. And yes, they will issue tickets too. The mall now has the fuselage of the aeroplane on its premises and is refitting its interiors to turn it into a restaurant.Bhaskar Joshi, general manager (operations) of Entertainment City Pvt Ltd that owns the mall, said that many people have not taken to flights since the lockdown. “There are a number of people who crave for in-flight lunch and dinner. We explored this option and made a contract with an aeronautical company – Dixit Aeronautics – to run an in-flight restaurant at the GIP mall,” he said. Dixit Aeronautics placed an Boeing 737-200 between the mall and the Garden’s Galleria. Rakesh Dixit, director of Dixit Aeronautics, said, “Five years ago we had started a similar restaurant in Ludhiana, and one near Rohini metro station in Delhi. We got good a response and hence we planned this project in Noida.” Dixit said that the in-flight restaurant will offer an experience similar to the one in an aeroplane. “This is a complete aeroplane with engine and cockpit and the aisle. We will redesign the seating arrangements. We will also place some music system inside. Around 60 to 70 people can sit and dine at a time,” he said. Waiters will sport air hostess and flight steward uniforms to complete the in-flight environment. Dixit said that the project-- Aerorestro Entertainment-- is also modelled as edutainment (education + entertainment). “There are a significant number of people, and children, who have never travelled in an aeroplane. They would want to feel the experience. We have planned to issue tickets at nominal prices and offer them to have a look,” he said. If people want to have food onboard, additional charges will be applied. The officials are designing the project considering the social distancing norms after the Coronavirus outbreak. Dixit said that he bought the aeroplane from the Airport Authority of India one year ago. It was brought in parts and again reassembled in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-latest-attraction-it-s-a-plane-it-s-a-restaurant-it-s-a-planestaurant/story-4RZSM1pMAnUIiWdkcr74EL.html
15-10-2020||City||2 men snatch 32-year-old’s bike in Ludhiana||Two miscreants snatched a motorcycle from a 32-year-old man near Arya College for Boys on Wednesday night.The victim, Rinku Gill, a resident of Kaler Nagar, said he was going home on his motorcycle when two men stopped him near Arya College for Boys.He added that the accused then pushed him off the bike rode away on the vehicle. He immediately sounded the police.Inspector Jarnail Singh, station house officer at Division number 8 police station, said that police are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 379-B (snatching and use of force) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-men-snatch-32-year-old-s-bike-in-ludhiana/story-CaLOKckbH329E6FuyTt4nI.html
15-10-2020||City||Use paddy straw to generate electricity: Ludhiana DC to farmers||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday urged farmers to generate electricity from paddy straw instead of burning it. The DC, accompanied by Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh Garha, visited Ganesh Edibles Pvt Ltd, situated on Amloh Road, that follows this practice.While urging the farmers not to burn paddy straw, Sharma said that we all know that burning of paddy straw not only harms the environment but also causes several diseases.He informed that Shri Ganesh Edibles Pvt Ltd collects paddy straw from around 35,000 acres of land in Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib districts and generates electricity from it. He said that the farmers can easily earn a handsome income by selling the paddy straw instead of burning it.Hans Raj Garg, director of Shri Ganesh Edibles Pvt Ltd, informed that they pay around Rs 2,500-3,000 per acre to the farmers for paddy straw. He informed that with the help of paddy straw, their company generates around 6,000 units of electricity per day, which can be extended further.The deputy commissioner urged other corporate houses to come forward and help find a permanent solution to the problem of paddy straw burning by setting up such power plants on their premises to tackle the problem..To ensure smooth paddy procurement operations in Ludhiana mandis, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma visited the Khanna and Doraha mandis to take stock of the arrangements.He interacted with farmers, commission agents (arhtiyas), and officials to enquire about their problems related to purchasing. The DC also held a meeting with the arhtiyas at the Market Committee office in Khanna mandi. He assured the farmers that strict instructions had been issued to the officials to ensure that they do not face any problems in the mandis.Sharma also expressed satisfaction over the ongoing paddy procurement and appealed to the farmers to bring produce within specifications of moisture content laid by the Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-paddy-straw-to-generate-electricity-dc-to-farmers/story-kfJ27dE36E5ytJDGOcqeFL.html
15-10-2020||City||Ludhiana DC asks NHAI officials to speed up road projects||While reviewing the ongoing National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) road projects in the city, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma directed the officials to speed up the work related to the construction of an elevated road starting from Ferozepur Road till Samrala Chowk to ease out the traffic congestion. He also directed the officials to ensure that the work of Ladhowal Bypass is completed in time.Accompanied by ADC, Jagraon and in charge of projects Neeru Katyal Gupta, DCP (traffic) Sukhpal Singh Brar, and other senior officials, the DC visited the upcoming Ferozepur Road and Ladhowal Bypass project sites.He further asked the NHAI officials to ensure that maximum work related to their projects within the city is completed within the set time frame. He also asked the representatives to submit a progress report of all projects within the next few days, so that they can be reviewed regularly. He also directed the SDMs to visit the ongoing projects in their respective areas and submit a report on them. Similarly, the contractors have been asked to construct service roads or repair them on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-asks-nhai-officials-to-speed-up-road-projects/story-uUx0cSEGMNoOkG9RhOOPVM.html
15-10-2020||City||Article 370 will not be restored till doomsday: J&K BJP||Upholding his stand against the Gupkar Declaration, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Thursday said that no power on earth could restore Article 370 and that it would not be implemented till doomsday.Raina’s remarks came on Thursday evening after an all-party meeting, minus Congress, to chalk out the future course of action on Gupkar Declaration began at the residence of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah in Srinagar. The meeting was attended by former chief minister and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, People’s Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone and others.Raina said, “Article 370 will not be implemented till doomsday. It doesn’t matter how much the Abdullahs and Mehbooba yell at the top of their voice.”He continued, “It is history. Under the garb of Article 370, they looted the people and grossly violated their human rights. We will not allow its implementation again”.Raina said Article 370 had given birth to separatism and terrorism. “It was due to this obnoxious Article that several ills continue to plague J&K,” he added.On Wednesday, he had reacted sharply to the meeting between NC chief Farooq, his son Omar and PDP president Mehbooba.Raina had warned the trio of “serious ramifications if they tried to push their anti-India Gupkar agenda to bleed Kashmir again”.He had recalled how Article 370 murdered the human rights of communities like Gujjar-Bakarwals, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Paharis, women, Valmikis, and the west Pakistan refugees.On August 22, six regional and national parties unanimously resolved to fight for the restoration of the special status of J&K as it existed before August 5, 2019, saying the measures taken were “spitefully short-sighted” and “grossly unconstitutional”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/article-370-will-not-be-restored-till-doomsday-j-k-bjp/story-pLWbUlyZtjYdaZSPHZ73CL.html
15-10-2020||City||Himachal logs five deaths, 295 new Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 295 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 18,303. Besides this, the death toll mounted to 255 as five patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 61 each were reported in Mandi and Shimla, 26 in Kangra, 25 in Bilaspur, 22 each in Kullu and Solan, 19 in Hamirpur, 18 in Lahaul-Spiti, 16 in Sirmaur, 13 in Una and 12 in Chamba. Three people died of the contagion in Kullu and one each in Hamirpur and Kangra. There are 2,654 active cases in the state whereas 15,370 people have recovered. As many as 153 patients recovered today. In terms of the cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district with 3,398 cases and is followed by Kangra where 2,721 people have tested positive till date. Mandi has 2,238 case, Sirmaur 2,068, Shimla, 1,845, Una 1,445, Bilaspur 1,077, Hamirpur 1,065, Chamba 1,007, Kullu 958, Lahaul-Spiti 269 and Kinnaur 212. 35 INTER-STATE BUS ROUTES RESTORED After the overwhelming response on Day 1, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) on Thursday resumed inter-state bus services on 35 more routes. The HRTC had resumed inter-state bus services on Wednesday after a gap of seven months. 90 MORE INTER-STATE BUSES TO PLY FROM TODAY State transport minister Bikram Singh, on Thursday, said that 90 more HRTC buses will ply on inter-state routes from Friday for convenience of people. These include buses to Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Haridwar, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Ropar, Sanwal, Dehradun, and Ambala Cantt. Singh said that HRTC has taken all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of corona virus. Presently, HRTC is plying only non-AC buses. Adequate arrangements have been made to ensure social distancing and sanitization. The standard operating procedure is also being adhered to, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-five-deaths-295-new-covid-cases/story-6QWZktlWCeWCTtyjl8A3MJ.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones senate elections again||Almost two months after the senate polls of Panjab University were postponed for the first time, the varsity on Thursday decided to defer the elections further.The polls were scheduled to start on August 24. However, the university postponed the elections for all constituencies of the senate on August 15 for two months in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A communication in this regard was sent to syndicate members on Wednesday by PU’s officiating registrar Vikram Nayyar. It stated that the vice-chancellor in exercise of powers conferred under regulation 12.2, Chapter II-B, PU calendar volume-1, 2007, has postponed for the time-being the dates of election of all constituencies of senate till further orders.The announcement comes days after over 20 senate and syndicate members had written to vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar, urging him to conduct the senate elections at the earliest. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the Panjab University. Out of the total members, 36 are nominated by the Vice-President of India, who is also the chancellor of the university.UT’S ADVICE SOUGHTIn an official communique issued by the University on Thursday, it was announced that after taking cognizance of the Unlock 5 guidelines, the V-C has decided to seek advice from the UT administration regarding the conduct of senate elections. “Further course of action will be decided after the receipt of advice from the UT administration,” the varsity said.UNNECESSARY DELAY: SENATORSMeanwhile, several senators have expressed displeasure over the university’s decision.Senator Ashok Goyal said, “The vice-chancellor is delaying the senate polls when there is no provision for seeking opinion of the Chandigarh administration to hold the elections. When various other elections are being conducted throughout the country, what is the justification to postpone the senate elections?”“The delay is not justified. The democratic structure of the senate and university should be upheld at any cost,” said senator Rabinder Nath Sharma.On the other hand, Subhash Sharma, who is from the BJP group, said, “Conducting the polls is an administrative decision. We are ready to follow whatever the UT administration will advise,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-senate-elections-again/story-CIMDET3UUtCDpZ7zLG0AKN.html
15-10-2020||City||Navratri special trains to Katra cancelled due to farmers’ stir in Punjab||Scheduled to leave from Delhi with devotees on Thursday, two Navratri special trains to Katra — Vande Bharat and Shri Shakti Express — were cancelled at the last minute owing to the farmers’ agitation in Punjab over the controversial agrarian laws.This has come a day after the Jammu and Kashmir administration had mobilised its resources to ensure strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines ahead of the nine-day Navratri festivities at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra here.Jammu railway station director and senior divisional traffic manager Sudhir Singh said, “Vande Bharat and Shri Shakti Express trains from Delhi to Katra have been cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation in Punjab. Every day it appears that the protest will subside but it’s still lingering.”“Trains can’t be run in this situation. We are waiting to see if the trains can be moved on Friday,” he added.The official said that a passenger train usually transports 1,000 people. “However, it depends upon ticketing and how many people want to visit the cave shrine,” he added.“The J&K administration in tandem with the railways has made all arrangements for the Navratri festival. The first Vande Bharat train had to depart from New Delhi on Thursday. Now, we will see if we can run it on Friday,” he said.The UT administration has made Covid-19 testing arrangements in Katra, Udhampur and Jammu. Security is also in place in Katra and at the cave shrine.Reasi district police chief SSP Rashmi Wazir said, “We have deployed five quick reaction teams in Katra and three in the Bhawan (sanctum sanctorum). There are eight police checkposts along the tracks leading up to the shrine besides round-the-clock patrolling during the festival.”She added that armed security personnel, policemen and the CRPF will guard the pilgrimage site 24x7. “We are confident of an incident-free Navratri festival,” she said. Wazir said Udhampur-Reasi range deputy inspector general of police, Sujit Kumar, reviewed the arrangements for the festival in Katra on Tuesday.“The cap on per day pilgrims to the shrine has been increased to 7,000 from 5,000. During the festival, two special trains, apart from Vande Bharat, will also run from Varanasi and Delhi,” she added.The health department has also augmented its infrastructure by setting up more testing kiosks and staff in Katra, including the railway station. Every pilgrim arriving in Katra will have to undergo a rapid antigen test before being allowed to proceed on the pilgrimage. If anyone tests positive, they will be quarantined in Katra for 10 days. A few hotels have also been identified for paid quarantine.However, if the persons who test positive don’t want to be quarantined for 10 days, they can avail cabs to return home by road.Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib said, “There are 10 testing kiosks at the Katra railway station for the visiting pilgrims and five more will be added depending upon the bookings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navratri-special-trains-to-katra-cancelled-due-to-farmers-stir-in-punjab/story-RFZzkpHOJ4KYonovDevEeI.html
15-10-2020||City||Court awards 3-month jail to Maharashtra minister Yashomati Thakur in 2012 cop assault case||A court on Thursday sentenced Maharashtra minister Yashomati Thakur to three months rigorous imprisonment in an eight-year-old case of assault on a policeman and also imposed a fine of ₹15,500. The district and sessions court also convicted three others in the case, including a driver of the women and child development minister, and awarded them three months rigorous imprisonment. They were also fined ₹15,500 each by the court of district and sessions judge Urmila Joshi.The minister, a Congress leader, and the trio will have to undergo additional one-month jail if they fail to pay the fine, the court said.Judge Joshi held Thakur, her driver and two workers guilty of beating up an on-duty policeman who stopped her vehicle on a one-way lane.According to the prosecution, the incident took place around 4.15pm on March 24, 2012, in the Chunabhatti area under Rajapeth police station in Amravati.Thakur, who is also guardian minister of Amravati district, said she will move the Bombay High Court against the lower court’s verdict.According to the charge sheet, Thakur, her driver Sagar Suresh Khandekar, workers Sharad Kashirav Jawanjal and Raju Kisan Ingle, allegedly beat up traffic policeman Ulhas Raurale when he stopped her vehicle from entering a one-way lane. The incident took place when Thakur, then an MLA, was moving in her vehicle along with her aides. When the traffic cop noticed her vehicle entering a lane from Chunabhatti to Gandhi Chowk here, he stopped it.Raurale told the legislator her vehicle cannot use the road stretch as it was for one-way traffic and the car was entering from the wrong side, the charge sheet said. Angered by this, Thakur and her aides alighted from the car and started arguing with Raurale. They allegedly held him by the collar and beat him up, the prosecution said.Raurale lodged a complaint with the Rajapeth police station against Thakur, her driver and two others.A case was registered under IPC sections 353 (assault on or use of criminal force against a public servant in order to deter him from discharging his duty), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of his public functions and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) against the four.A charge sheet was filed in the court after investigation.Judge Joshi examined five witnesses in the case and one of them, a cop, turned hostile during trial.Accepting the deposition of the witnesses and arguments of the prosecution, the judge found all the four accused guilty.The court also directed the city police commissioner to take action against the cop who turned hostile.Reacting to the verdict, Thakur said, “I have always respected the judiciary as I am myself a lawyer. As such, it will not be proper for me to comment upon the judgement.“But we are going to move to the High Court for justice. I can only say at this moment that truth shall prevail.” On the possible demand for her resignation, Thakur said she was aware the opposition BJP would seek her ouster from the cabinet.“They only have this much work. My fight with the BJP is a battle of ideas. It (BJP) is out to end my political career, but I shall continue my fight against the BJP,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-awards-3-month-jail-to-maharashtra-minister-yashomati-thakur-in-2012-cop-assault-case/story-svrCy0pRAi7z4uqlptHP4I.html
15-10-2020||City||Zojila tunnel to add more teeth to defence ops in Ladakh: Kargil DC||As Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday launched the construction work on the Zojila tunnel, the Kargil administration has said that besides providing all-year connectivity to the Ladakh region, the 14.15-km tunnel will work to the advantage of the Indian Army.It may be stated here that China has been into a protracted stand-off with the India Army in eastern Ladakh. On June 15, India lost 20 soldiers in a bloody clash at the Galwan valley.Kargil district commissioner (DC) Baseer-ul-Haq Choudhary said the tunnel will add more teeth to the army’s defence operations in the strategic region.“It was a long pending demand of the people of Ladakh. It will be a strategic tunnel that will keep the region connected with the rest of India all year, not just physically, but emotionally too,” the DC said.The district head said that with this many employment opportunities will open up for the people of Ladakh and supply of essential commodities to the region will also be maintained round the clock.“Ladakh being a tourist destination, the tunnel will give impetus to tourism, winter sports like ice hockey, skiing and other activities,” he said.Choudhary also informed that from the defence point of view, the road link will strengthen national security. “It will be of great importance to the defence forces. This project shall bring to fruition 70 years of overwhelming public demand of Ladakh region,” he added.After IL&FS went into financial problems, the project work allotted to it in May 2018 was stopped in July 2018, and the contract was terminated in January 2019 by NHIDCL.In February 2020, Gadkari reviewed the whole project in detail and approved the project afresh on May 23. The construction period is now six years.The total integrated cost of the project including Zojila tunnel and approaches up to Z-Morh tunnel works out to ₹10,643 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zojila-tunnel-to-add-more-teeth-to-defence-ops-in-ladakh-kargil-dc/story-Rl576CC6ANcnuo8fQTbZTM.html
15-10-2020||City||HP Congress demands reinstallation of Sonia’s plaque at Atal Tunnel||Himachal Pradesh Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Thursday asked the state government when they would reinstall the foundation stone plaque of Atal Tunnel if it has been found safe with Border Roads Organisation (BRO).He also sought clarification on whose orders was the plaque remove by the BRO.“The BRO has admitted that the plaque is safe with it, so when is the government going to install it at the Atal Tunnel,” he asked while speaking to the media at the state party headquarters in Shimla.Rathore said the Congress doesn’t want to make it a political issue, but if it is not re-installed within the deadline given by the opposition party, a stir will be launched.The Congress chief also slammed the Jai Ram Thakur-led state government stating that the saffron regime was trying to distort history. “It is a fact that the foundation stone of Rohtang Tunnel was laid by Sonia Gandhi on June 28, 2010. Removing this foundation stone from its place is against democratic values and totally immoral,” he said.Rathore said the kind of politics BJP was doing over the construction of Rohtang Tunnel was condemnable.“Such politics on the foundation stone shows BJP’s character and their narrow thinking,” he alleged adding that even BJP veteran and former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal has spoken against the removal of the plaque.Rathore also slammed the state government for its “anti-people” decisions during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Instead of giving relief to the people during the Corona outbreak, the government put more burden on them,” he said.He also criticized the government for hiking the rates of various tests in government hospitals and demanded withdrawal of the decision.Rathore expressed surprise at the arbitrariness of the cement companies in the state and said it seems that the government has buckled before these firms.“The cement that is made using the state’s resources is cheaper elsewhere, but costly in Himachal. This is an injustice to the people of Himachal and shall not be tolerated,” he said condemning the cement companies for hiking the prices per bag by ₹10.Expressing concern over the growing Covid cases in the state, Rathore said the government failed to follow the protocol properly which led to a surge in the infections, leaving people to their fate. “There is no proper system to curb the infections,” he said asking the government to enforce strict rules to prevent the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-congress-demands-reinstallation-of-sonia-s-plaque-at-atal-tunnel/story-59HJC0Q9vInoldcMMad7RI.html
15-10-2020||City||Mid-day meal workers hold protests across HP over regularisation||State mid-day meal workers’ union on Thursday staged protests across Himachal demanding their regularisation as per the recommendation of the 45th Labour Conference.On the nation-wide protest call given by All India Mid-Day Meal Workers’ Federation, the state unit members carried out demonstrations in Shimla, Rampur, Rohru, Nahan, Solan, Arki, Nalagarh, Chamba, Dharamshala, Hamirpur, Mandi, Karsog, Sarkaghat, Jogindernagar, Saraj, Kullu, Banjar, Ani and Una.Apart from this, the mid-day meal workers have demanded that they should be given a monthly pay of ₹8,250 based on the state’s minimum salary, besides EPF, medical coverage, holidays, pension and gratuity on retirement, maternity leave with six months’ salary, appointment as multi-task workers on the lines of anganwadi supervisors.Due to the hilly terrain, the condition of providing mid-day meals to maximum 25 children should be removed and at least two workers should be appointed in every school and given twelve months’ salary as decided by the Himachal high court.A delegation of mid-day meal workers also handed over a memorandum to the director of education.State union president Kanta Mahant said the central and state governments were continuously exploiting the mid-day meal workers. “We are being paid a monthly salary of only ₹2,300 and are not granted any leaves.”She added that there is no EPF and medical facility for them. “Apart from cooking, we also have to work as postman, peon, cleaner and transporter. All these are multi-tasks, yet we are not being given priority in the recruitment of multi-task workers,” she said.“We are not being given regular employee status as recommended by the 45th Labor Conference of 2013. Instead of being paid twelve months’ salary as decided by the Himachal high court, we are being given only ten months’ pay. Around 6,740 workers have been laid off in the last few years in the state,” rued Mahant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mid-day-meal-workers-hold-protests-across-hp-over-regularisation/story-h5R4MsvFRwfZwVePaxhCbL.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Heavy rains claim 27 lives across western Maharashtra||The rain fury claimed at least 27 lives in separate incidents in various parts of western Maharashtra since Wednesday, officials from divisional commissionerate in Pune said on Thursday.Torrential rainfall in most parts of western Maharashtra resulted in a flood-like situation in many districts with dams and small reservoirs overflowing. According to Pratap Jadhav, deputy divisional commissioner for Pune division, Solapur, was one of the worst affected districts due to the current spell of rain.“At least 27 people have died due to rain-related incidents in Solapur, Sangli and Pune districts. Of these 27 casualties, 14 are from Solapur district, nine from Sangli and four from Pune district,” said Jadhav.According to the administration, in Solapur, six of the 14 deaths occurred due to wall collapse incidents that took place on the banks of the Chandrabhaga river in Pandharpur. The district received 138mm rainfall on Wednesday forcing authorities to release 1.4 lakh cusecs water by Thursday afternoon.“Remaining deaths in Solapur are related to rain and flood-related incidents,” said Jadhav.He said that in Pune, four people died after getting swept away in a swollen stream in Daund tehsil, while one is still missing.He added that nine deaths in Sangli district are also rain-related accidents.“As per the preliminary information, around 20,000 people have been shifted to safer places in Solapur, Sangli and Pune,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/heavy-rains-claim-27-lives-across-western-maharashtra/story-CgSe1x9sOjrAdyuvldfHuM.html
15-10-2020||Kolkata||Cancelling Durga puja revelry not an option, people should follow Covid protocols: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said cancelling Durga puja celebrations was not an option, and urged people to maintain all Covid-19 safety protocols during the five-day revelry. Asserting that her government was not in favour of scrapping festivities, the chief minister said unlike most religious occasions, Durga puja cannot be held within the confines of four walls, as “the goddess has a large family”, and arrangements for the rituals and the gala are usually made by clubs and housing societies, involving many individuals.Banerjee, who is also the TMC supremo, rued that three of her party MLAs, several police personnel and doctors and health officials have died of the viral disease, but insisted that “we have to overcome our sorrows and move forward”.“It is not possible to stop Durga Puja festivities in West Bengal entirely, like some other states. We don’t want to stop Durga Puja, it is not right; we have not stopped anything,” she said at the secretariat, after virtually inaugurating 110 pandals in 12 districts.Certain sections of the society, including a few doctors’ associations, have requested the government to call off this year’s revelries, amid the spike on coronavirus cases. Epidemiologists have warned of a surge in Covid-19 numbers, following the Durga Puja festival, which is usually marked by mass gathering at pandals.The CM, however, reasoned that adequate safety measures were being taken, and asked all puja organisers to ensure that open spaces were available for the visitors to maintain appropriate physical distance.“Ramzaan, Eid, Ganapati Puja were held within the four walls of our homes. However, it is not possible to hold Durga Puja in a small space, as Ma Durga has a large family. Also, pujas are mostly organised by clubs, associations and housing societies,” she stated.Banerjee, on the occasion, sought blessings of the goddess, and prayed for forgiveness of those who may have committed any mistake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cancelling-durga-puja-revelry-not-an-option-people-should-follow-covid-protocols-mamata/story-zcWq74FIVMYOOwGgUhuTpL.html
15-10-2020||City||BJP’s tractor rally shown black flags again, this time in Yamunanagar||The farmers associated with Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) showed black flags to Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal, Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria and former state minister Karan Dev Kamboj, who were leading a tractor rally in the villages of Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri, on Thursday.This is the second such incident in the area, as the BKU farmers had earlier reacted in a similar manner when the BJP had carried out a tractor rally in Ambala’s Naraingarh, which was also attended by MP Kataria and his counterpart from Kurukshetra Naib Singh Saini.The farmers raised anti-government slogans and waved black flags at the BJP rally in a peaceful manner when it reached Manakpur village in Jagadhri area earlier in the day. Unlike in Ambala, the farmers here were standing away from the road and were barricaded by the police, to avoid any clash or blockade.BKU’s Yamunanagar unit president said, “BJP is taking out tractor rallies to push that the Centre’s agrarian laws are in favour of the farmers. But there are only a few tractors of farmers in the rally and mostly are from the mining zone. We won’t bow to them and won’t allow them to enter our villages like they didn’t allow the farmers to conduct a rally in Pipli.”Meanwhile, minister Kanwar Pal, MP Kataria and several other senior party leaders addressed a huge crowd at Military Ground in Jagadhri, thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the three farm laws, after culminating the rally.“These laws will double the farmers’ income by 2022. There are rumours that the land will be sold to corporate, there will be no MSP, no mandi – all these are lies and everything will remain as it is. CM Manohar Lal has taken daring steps to improve the facilities in mandis,” minister Pal said in his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-s-tractor-rally-shown-black-flags-again-this-time-in-yamunanagar/story-J3YH91zTeWFII41fay9YeP.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Dussehra later, Diwali card party has come early for Delhi-NCR folks||Diwali isn’t complete without card parties, but this year the urge to meet friends and relatives amid social distancing during pandemic has compelled denizens to have card parties quite early. Those hosting these, are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that safety measures are in place including sanitisation of Poker chips, mandatory masks, minimal gathering etc. And some quirky themes are also being chosen. While Covid-19 pandemic should have denizens wary of attending these, many say that they just can’t keep away from indulging in some light-hearted fun albeit with safety measures in place. Playing cards is just an excuse to meet everyoneShekhar Sharma, who has his business across Delhi-NCR, hosted a card party in the first week of October. He says, “Card party toh bahana hai sabse milne ka (Card party is only an excuse to meet everyone). In the past years, I never hosted one before Dussehra, but this time I wanted to invite my close buddies, whom I haven’t been able to meet for long, thanks to the lockdown and the paranoia. But, we ensured that we were following safety norms. There were nine of us at our home. I asked everyone to check their temperatures before coming; and we served home-cooked food only. I had kept sanitisers as well for anyone who needs to use them, and we played cards on a roundtable to ensure we sit at a distance, and even played games such as Monopoly.”Cards/chips to be sanitised Gurugram resident Gagandeep Singh Bhalla says he is all set to host one such party at his home next weekend, October 24, as Navratri will be over by that time. “We’ll sanitise cards and chips. And we’ll be playing on a table instead of a floor sitting arrangement because then we can sit in a socially-distanced manner. This time we’ll have more tables and a maximum of six people will be on one table. It’ll definitely be nice to host it early as it would be a refreshing evening after Navratri, and the whole lockdown situation. Food would be made at home to prevent the risk of Covid-19; although all the delivery apps are taking all precautions but home-cooked is always safer.” Halloween-themed Card PartySumit Anand, who runs a sports shop in Delhi, is hosting a Halloween-themed card party. “We’re giving away Halloween themes masks for this Saturday party, which will be a way ahead of Diwali. Everybody will play cards with the mask on, and maintain social distancing. There won’t be too many people on a single table, and every table will have a sanitiser. We’ll have Diwali and Halloween themed placards. But food we’ll order from outside!”Great way to connect after the lullDelhi-based businessman Sumit Dhingra, who hosted a card party recently, says, “These past few months have isolated everyone socially, and this was a great way to connect, laugh and enjoy in a safe space. We ensured everyone left their slippers at the door, and sanitised their hands at the entrance. The gathering was limited, and we all sat on a table with quite a distance from each other. It went on till late night, and what great fun.. truly the festive season is here!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dussehra-later-diwali-card-party-has-come-early-for-delhi-ncr-folks/story-0tuZG6iquMTfNXfUkHjXeP.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray warns against attempts to ‘finish off’ Bollywood||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said attempts to malign and “finish off” the Hindi film industry or “to shift it” will not be tolerated.Thackeray’s statement came against the backdrop of probe by multiple agencies into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and its media coverage which was seen by some as a deliberate campaign to target Bollywood. “Moves to finish off the film industry or shift it elsewhere will never be tolerated,” a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office quoted Thackeray as saying at a meeting with multiplex and theatre owners.Mumbai was not only the country’s financial capital but also its entertainment capital, he said.“Bollywood enjoys a following across the globe. The film industry generates huge employment. In the last few days, attempts have been made to malign the image of the film industry by certain quarters which is painful,” he said. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh recently announced a plan to create a film city in that state to woo film-makers.Thackeray informed cinema and multiplex owners at the meeting that the state culture department has prepared a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) regarding reopening of cinema halls which have been closed for over six months due to coronavirus pandemic.The decision about reopening cinema halls will be taken at the earliest after the SOP is finalized, he said. “The government is positive about it. Entertainment industry is a means to boost the state’s economy and the government is keen to restart it,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-warns-against-attempts-to-finish-off-bollywood/story-U5q4874nf55NNzP095SizH.html
15-10-2020||City||SPPU postpones exam due to flash floods||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Thursday cancelled its final year exams scheduled for the day due to heavy rains and flash floods that hit the city on Wednesday. The varsity officials have also told the agency appointed to conduct the exams that began on October 12 to address the technical and other issues faced by students. “In view of the heavy rains in many parts of the city on October 14 and the district administration’s alert for cyclone and heavy rains on Thursday, exams scheduled for Thursday have been cancelled. Fresh exam dates will be declared soon,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU director of the board of examination and evaluation. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “It is the first time that online and offline exams are conducted by SPPU on such a large scale. We have instructed the agency that is conducting the exams to resolve the issues faced by students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-postpones-exam-due-to-flash-floods/story-1HZRF1yMvDve9QJ3gHP5NM.html
15-10-2020||City||Awake citizens, fire brigade and WFH schedule avert flood casualties as rains battered Pune||Pune: The alertness shown by residents and administration, learning from last year’s flash floods, helped avert flooding incidents when incessant rains hit the city on Wednesday. Many remained awake throughout the night. While several roads and areas in the city’s low-lying parts reported waterlogging and power outages with incidents of wall collapse, there were no casualties and large-scale damage to property. The 2019 flash floods in the city had claimed 266 lives of which seven residents of Tangewala colony in Sahakarnagar were washed away in the strong currents of water as they were asleep. As most people were at residence due to work from home guidelines in the light of Covid, incidents of vehicles washing away in waters were prevented, civic officials said. During the 2019 flash floods, over 700 vehicles were washed away as people were out. While the showers began at 2pm, their intensity increased post 6 pm, leading to overflowing nullahs and drainages. According to IMD, the city received 76 mm rainfall just within three hours starting 8:30pm. Waterlogging was reported from southern and eastern parts of Pune where Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff and fire brigade shifted people to safer places. “With memories of last year’s flash flood still fresh in our mind, residents in our society remained awake throughout the night. As rainfall intensity increased after 6 pm, we asked people residing in buildings adjacent to Ambil Odha to shift to other buildings,” said Deepak Ghadge, resident of Gururaj Housing Society, which was worst hit by last year’s floods. According to residents, three-four foot deep rainwater entered houses as citizens ran helter-skelter seeking assistance from police, social workers and administration for relief and rescue operations. The areas near Ambil Odha were put in a state of high alert and residents were shifted to nearby areas to prevent the 2019-like situation. According to fire brigade department head Prashant Ranpise, his office received 35 calls from residents of various areas with complaints of wall collapse, tree falling and water entering houses. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Several areas of the city were flooded and the PMC disaster management and fire brigade teams worked round the clock in Ambil Odha areas and localities which witnessed heavy flooding. Due to the high flow, water entered the parking lots of several housing societies adjacent to the nullah and nearby houses. The rescue work is underway and no case of loss of lives has been reported yet.” Sinhgad road was closed for vehicular traffic from Vitthalwadi due to waterlogging with waters overflowing at Vishrantinagar chowk, Santosh Hall chowk and Wadgaon bridge. In the eastern suburbs of Wanowrie and Kondhwa, residents placed barricades at the important junctions of Bhairoba nullah and urged commuters to avoid taking the nullah road. Dhankavdi-Sahakarnagar ward corporator Ashwini Kadam said, “Roughly over 3 lakh people were affected due to heavy rains and flash floods in the area. The PMC administration had failed to remove encroachments as recommended by the private assessment agency to the civic body. The civic body did not construct the retaining wall, box culverts, clean drainage lines and demolish illegal encroachments. We need financial package and immediate relief for affected residents.” Shafi Shaikh, a Camp resident said, “It was a scary situation as East Street and MG road too witnessed flooding. We thought it was a repeat of last year, but this time residents were prepared for heavy rains.” Pune Cantonment Board CEO Amit Kumar said, “The fire brigade officials carried out relief operations in low lying areas. There were no casualties and disaster management team has been deployed to help residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/awake-citizens-fire-brigade-and-wfh-schedule-avert-flood-casualties-as-rains-battered-pune/story-H8zJgZOrP3bNNhAcw1eHII.html
15-10-2020||City||Kin of Haryana woman locked inside toilet for 1.5 years don’t want police action against husband||The family and relatives of the woman, who was locked up inside a toilet and forced to live in inhuman conditions in Haryana’s Panipat district, do not want any police action against her husband.Ramrati was rescued by officials of the district woman and child welfare department on Wednesday. She was handed over to her cousin who lives in a village in the district. On Thursday, a team led by protection officer Rajni Gupta reached out to the family to record their statements but they have refused to file a police complaint against her husband Naresh Kumar. The family says they do not want to harass the woman’s three children.“Nobody has come forward to file a police complaint against her husband after we rescued her from the toilet. We will take up the matter with senior officers,” Gupta said. Gupta said her husband and family claimed that she was having some mental illness but they were unable to produce any paper or medical reports. On a complaint filed by Gupta on Wednesday, the police had arrested and booked Naresh under Sections 498 A and 342 of the Indian Penal Code. Police officials said Naresh was released on bail a few hours after the arrest. Haryana State Commission for Women member Preeti Bhardwaj said, “There is a need to invoke more stricter sections against her husband as she was being forced to live in inhuman conditions and this is a violation of her Right to Live.” Bhardwaj said her husband has got bail as no strict sections were invoked in the FIR. “However, a 10-member committee will be formed to look into the matter. Ramrati’s cousin Anil Kumar said, “The behavior of her husband and children towards her was not appropriate for the past few years after she developed mental illness. When I went to see her on Rakshabandhan she was living in the toilet and told me she wants to go with me. I took up the matter with her husband and son. They had assured me they will take care of her.” He said Naresh had not visited them since two years after they refused to sell a buffalo to him.Anil and his mother Vidya Devi said, “We are ready to keep her at our house but we do not want any police action against her husband as this may also affect their children.”Ramrati is unable to walk due to weakness and could not stretch her legs since she was locked in the 3X3ft toilet. Her cousins said they will take her to a hospital. Her relatives said Ramrati’s father had passed away before she was married and her elder brother was allegedly found dead in the fields eight years ago. Her mother Kela Devi left the village and is now living at her brother’s house in Katesra village of Rohtak district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-of-haryana-woman-locked-inside-toilet-for-1-5-years-don-t-want-police-action-against-husband/story-zEoPGo5mq9kmQ9Gu7ycZWL.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi calls it quits on Ramlila celebrations amid delayed guidelines and Covid scare||Ramlila festivities in Old Delhi have always been an elaborate, syncretic effort, but this year owing to the pandemic, no celebrations will take place. The grounds at Red Fort, which would host three Ramlilas, wear a deserted look. The streets that would come alive with processions including Ramji ki Baraat, are devoid of all cheer. Even as guidelines to hold the event have been issued, committee members rue that they have come a little too late in the day. “Preparations begin one month in advance. How is this possible in 4-5 days’ time? Not only the stage and seating area, there are hundreds of minute details that go into making a successful Ramlila. We could have even done it symbolically, without inviting the public, but there isn’t time. Even if the SOPs were given to us by September 30, we would have been able to do it,” says Prakash Barathi, secretary, Nav Shri Dharmik Lila Committee. Ashok Aggarwal, president, Lav Kush Ramlila Committee expected the authorities to give a clear decision well in time. “I understand there is a pandemic, but agar aap baat karte ho toh raasta nikalta hai. We suggested holding it without opening it for the public and stream it live. We had even spoken to some hospitals to provide medical assistance. A team of 20 doctors and nurses were to be present at the venue. Even we are worried about our health, so why would we have not taken all possible measures to ensure safety,” he says. Read: Ramlila tradition to pause due to Covid-19? Actors, organisers in despairWith the updated guidelines have come new processes to get permits. Shiv Kumar Gupta, senior joint secretary and bhandari, Ramlila Committee, says, “We were caught up in a rigmarole and no one gave us any definite answer. These guidelines have many terms and conditions. Only a few days are left to Navratri, how will we undertake all the preparations and permits in such a short span of time?” he rues. Barathi explains, “Earlier, we would only submit one application, but now we have to go to various authorities and licensing offices. A nodal officer would be appointed, who will then inspect our grounds and arrangements, submit the report to the officers concerned and then we will get the permission. No officer is willing to meet anyone due to the pandemic, and ask us to submit our applications in a box outside their office.The ground hasn’t been alloted yet; I don’t think celebrations will be possible this year.”Taking into account the losses this has brought, Aggarwal, shares, “We had got 500 new dresses made, 20 new songs were recorded, a new screenplay was written and new scenes were added. Rehearsals were on for the last three months. We had booked dance groups, and make-up artistes from Mumbai. We had to cancel their tickets. We work all year round to make Ramlila possible.” Read: DDMA allows Durga Puja, Ramlila with Covid ridersDhiraj Dhar Gupta, general secretary, Shri Dharmic Ram Lila Committee, says that all celebrations are a collaborative effort and the losses will be borne collectively by the members. Finding alternatives, he says that they will broadcast it on television for the nine days of Navratri. “The only time that we didn’t have Ramlila celebrations was during the 1965 Indo-Pak war. The then Prime Minister Shastri ji (Lal Bahadur Shastri) had made an appeal to donate money and ration to families of martyred soldiers. There is inspiration in his message which can be implemented even today by helping those in need,” he says. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-calls-it-quits-on-ramlila-celebrations-amid-delayed-guidelines-and-covid-scare/story-hTIN5xzQVBDkpm8F4Rg7qO.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Number of active Covid-19 cases fall by 47% in last 28 days in UP: Official||The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh has come down by 47% in the last 28 days, a senior official said on Thursday.“The number of active cases in the state is coming down. In past 28 days, it has come down by 47%,” Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.In the past 24 hours, 36 people died and 2,728 were detected with the virus, according to the government health bulletin. Active coronavirus cases in UP reduced by 47% in 28 days: Official“There are 36,295 active cases in the state while 4,04,545 patients have been treated and discharged. The recovery rate of the state is now 90.42 per cent. There were 6,543 deaths due to the virus in the state,” the officer said.He said UP has conducted 1.25 crore tests for Covid-19 so far.“Till September 30, one crore Covid-19 tests were done in the state. In the past 15 days, 25 lakh tests were done,” Prasad said.Of the active cases, 16,995 are in home isolation, he said.Of the fresh deaths, three each were reported from Lucknow, Varanasi and Kanpur, two each from Agra, Mahrajganj and Ghazipur, the health bulletin said.Of the fresh cases, the maximum 288 were reported from Lucknow, 167 from Ghaziabad, 156 from Prayagraj and 155 from Varanasi.The maximum 800 deaths have been reported from Lucknow, followed by 707 in Kanpur and 303 from Prayagraj, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/number-of-active-covid-19-cases-fall-by-47-in-last-28-days-in-up-official/story-0nTNOINeXNot9WZu1R9xdP.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt appoints 14 new chairpersons of various boards, corporations||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government on Thursday rehabilitated 14 political leaders, including three MLAs of the JJP, one independent MLA and a former state BJP president as chairpersons of various boards and corporations. The Haryana government went ahead with these appointments even as the financial position of the state is very pale due to the economic slowdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. An official spokesperson said former state BJP president Subhash Barala was appointed as chairman of Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises while Hodal segment BJP MLA Jagdish Nayar is chairman, Land Reclamation and Development Corporation. The independent MLA from Badshahpur, Rakesh Daulatabad will be the chairman of agro industries corporation. The JJP MLAs Jogi Ram Sihag (Barwala) is chairman, housing board; Ramkaran (Shahbad) chairman, Sugarfed; and Ram Niwas (Narwana) chairman, Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board. Former Olympian Babita Phogat of Charkhi Dadri has been appointed as chairperson of women development corporation; Kailash Bhagat of district Kaithal as chairman, HAFED; Nirmal Bairagi of district Karnal as chairperson Backward Classes Welfare Corporation; Ram Niwas Garg of district Yamunanagar as chairman, Vyapari Kalyan Board; Arvind Yadav of district Rewari as chairman, Harco Bank; Mukesh Gaur of Bhiwani as chairman, youth commission and Pawan Kharkhoda of Sonepat as chairman, scheduled castes finance and development corporation and Randhir Singh son of Ishwar Singh from Guhla is chairman, dairy development co-operative federation Ltd. Dhuman Singh Kiramach of Kurukshetra was appointed as vice-chairman of Saraswati Heritage Board, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-appoints-14-new-chairpersons-of-various-boards-corporations/story-nUVypVjvHUrsSADSDn6TDM.html
15-10-2020||City||Serious lapses by Hisar observation home management: Haryana child rights panel||The Haryana state commission for protection of child rights (HSCPCR) chairperson Jyoti Bainda on Thursday alleged ‘grave lapses’ on part of the staff and management of an observation home in Hisar from where 17 juveniles had escaped after injuring three security guards earlier this week.“Six security guards were deployed for only 47 inmates but there were 97 inmates in the observation home at the time of the incident. Why was the strength of security guards not increased. It is a very serious matter since 61 out of 97 inmates were booked for heinous crimes and eight were facing serious offences. Still, the security was not tightened. As many as 15 inmates were booked for petty offences and it is surprising that they were not given bail. Such inmates should not be kept here for long,” Bainda said.She said the management has failed to inculcate good values among inmates and there is a dire need to create a good environment if one wants them to reform. “Proper counseling of inmates was not done. The authorities failed to introduce new activities and did not inquire about their background and circumstances under which they were sent to the juvenile home. Such homes are meant to change the mindset of these juveniles, who had committed a crime at a young age, and transform them into good humans. We will start the counseling of the inmates soon,” Bainda added.While nine of the 17 inmates who ran away face murder charges, three are facing attempt to murder cases, two were booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and two others face theft and a rioting case. Eight of them belong to Jhajjar district, two each are from Rohtak, Hisar and Delhi and one each from Bhiwani, Dadri and Karnal.Hisar superintendent of police Balwan Rana had said they have arrested three out of the 17 juveniles who had fled the home and efforts are on to round up the remaining 14 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/serious-lapses-by-hisar-observation-home-management-haryana-child-rights-panel/story-rG9WtArHul6zCDO5zY01AP.html
15-10-2020||City||₹3.72 lakh, 20 card machines stolen from e-commerce firm’s office in Mohali||Thieves struck at the office of an e-commerce firm in Kumbra village here and decamped with Rs 3.72 lakh in cash, 20 card-swipe machines and a digital video recorder (DVR). Though the theft took place on October 11, the firm’s manager lodged a complaint on Wednesday night. Gurdeep Singh complained that when he reached the office on the morning of October 12, he noticed the locks of the gate lying broken and Rs 3.72 lakh in cash, along with POS (point of sale) machines missing. Besides, the DVR that recorded and stored the footages of CCTV cameras was also taken away.Investigating officer ASI Rakesh Kumar said, “The incident took place on October 11, but the company manager informed us on Wednesday night, as they were investigating the case on their own. We are looking for clues to nab the thieves.”A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-72-lakh-20-card-machines-stolen-from-e-commerce-firm-s-office-in-mohali/story-jy3vp4BJiHicvCd2zMsm3L.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dissatisfied with CBI, Kotkhai rape victim’s parents move Himachal high court for fresh probe||Dissatisfied with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the rape and murder of a teenaged schoolgirl in Kotkhai on July 4, 2017, her parents have moved the Himachal Pradesh high court, seeking the reopening of the case and a fresh investigation. The then Congress government led by Virbhadra Singh had drawn flak over the handling of the case that triggered protests across the state. An infuriated mob had resorted to road blockades and torched a police station in Kotkhai after the body of the victim, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Mahasu, was found in the woods of Bankufar near Hilaila village two days after she went missing. The victim’s family has now appealed to the court to reopen the investigation. The father expressed dissatisfaction with the CBI, which had been handed over the case a few days after the crime. The CBI probe had led to the arrest of only a woodcutter, while the forensic report pointed towards gangrape and murder. MANY LOOPHOLES, ALLEGES FATHER “I was never satisfied with the CBI probe. There are many loopholes,” the father said outside the court. “I don’t believe the crime was committed by one person. The forensic report from Gandhinagar corroborates this. But the CBI held only one person guilty of the crime,” he said. The girl’s mother said she hoped to get justice from the high court. “It’s been three years since my daughter was brutalised. I can only hope for justice and pray in silence,” she said. The parents of the victim said that they had even approached the Supreme Court but were asked to file the appeal in the high court. “Many facts have been overlooked. We have prayed that a high court judge looks into the investigation,” their counsel Deven Bhatt said. The 40-member CBI team has recorded statements of 400 people in the case so far. Shimla-based NGO Madad Sewa Trust wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), seeking a reinvestigation. The trust has been protesting for justice since the case came to light. “We have written twice to the PMO, but nothing has moved,” said Tanuja Thapta, who heads the trust. POLICE ACTION BECOMES MATTER OF PROBE The initial police investigation into the case itself became a matter for probe after the CBI found that the special investigation team (SIT) had used torture to extract confessions. After the SIT, headed by inspector general of police ZH Zaidi, arrested six persons on the basis of suspicion, one of them, Suraj Singh, died in police custody. The department claimed it was the result of a scuffle with another suspect in the lock-up. When the CBI took over the case, Zaidi and the then Shimla superintendent of police, DW Negi, were arrested. Members of the SIT were charged with murder, wrongful confinement to extort a confession and destruction of evidence. THE CASE SO FAR 2017 July 4: Kotkhai school girl goes missing. July 6: Her body is found in a forest. July 7: Protests in Shimla and Kotkhai over rape and murder. July 9: Police constitute SIT under IG (south), ZH Zaidi. July 13: Police claim breakthrough, arrest six people. July 14-15: Mob vandalises police station in Theog; massive protest in Shimla. July 19: A suspect, Suraj Singh, dies in police custody; mob sets Kotkhai police station on fire. July 22: CBI takes over investigation. August 17: CBI gets two weeks, police made party in case. September 16: CBI arrests then Shimla SP DW Negi in custodial death case. 2018 February 13: CBI files supplementary chargesheet against Negi. March 28: High court summons CBI director. April 14: CBI arrests key suspect in rape and murder case. 2019 April 5: ZH Zaidi granted bail. April 19: Former Shimla SP DW Negi granted bail. May 17: Supreme Court moves trial of the case to Chandigarh from Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dissatisfied-with-cbi-kotkhai-rape-victim-s-parents-move-himachal-high-court-for-fresh-probe/story-T2z6LBj1VVKbvK8ikocqJI.html
15-10-2020||City||Four persons swept away in overflowing stream in Daund||Pune: Four persons, including a woman, were washed away in gushing waters of a stream in Daund tehsil of Pune district due to incessant rains. Police officials, who recovered three bodies till Thursday morning, said the victims on two-wheelers were trying to cross over a small bridge erected on a stream at Khanote village in Daund tehsil when they were swept away in swollen waters. The search is on for the fourth person. The three were identified as Shahji Gangadhar Lokhande (52), and a couple identified as Appa Harichandra Dhaytonde (55) and Kalawati Appa Dhaydonte (48), according to senior inspector Sunil Mahadik of Daund police station. Their bodies were sent for post-mortem. The missing person was identified as Subhash Narayan Londhe (48), according to the police. Locals helped the police recover the bodies. The four were on a bridge, built over a stream, and part of Rajegaon-Khatona road. Daund, along with adjoining Indapur and Baramati tehsils on the eastern parts of Pune district, received heavy rains on Wednesday, resulting in flood-like situation at many places. Due to torrential rains, most reservoirs in the region are full with authorities having instructed for release of water from dams. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy showers till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-persons-swept-away-in-overflowing-stream-in-daund/story-neI57qDcFnvkQu9kj5VQsM.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||HP Varsity to reserve 10% PG seats for EWS students||Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) will be reserving 10% seats in postgraduate programmes for students from economically weaker sections (EWS) in its academic departments from the 2020-21 session. A notification issued by the university on Thursday said 10% seats will be added for EWS applicants who have already applied for admission online. The institute’s web portal will be opened so that students who had already applied for admission could reapply for the reserved seats.The notification also states that if the EWS seats remain vacant, these will not be offered to other categories or carried forward for the next session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-varsity-to-reserve-10-seats-for-ews-category/story-fqArY0W3CCGjSaEgyoNXHM.html
15-10-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC seeks justification from state for doling out Rs 50,000 to puja committees||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday sought to know from the West Bengal government its justification for doling out Rs 50,000 to community Durga pujas, amid the austerity measures being pursued by the state in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Hearing a petition challenging the government’s decision to disburse the money to community Durga pujas, a division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee also enquired if financial aid was being given for other festivals, such as Eid.It further asked the state whether any guideline has been laid down for such expenditure as it is public money that is being doled out as grant to the puja organisers.The state government, on its part, told the court that grant was meant for raising public awareness on Covid-19 control, purchase of sanitisers and masks.Asserting that accounts of expenditure have to be well maintained, the bench suggested that Advocate General Kishore Dutta, who represents the state, and senior counsel Bikash Bhattacharya, appearing for the petitioner, hold a conference on all such matters, and inform the court of its outcome on Friday, when the case would be taken up for hearing again.The court also asked whether any blueprint for crowd control during Durga Puja -- which is barely a week away -- have been prepared by the government to prevent the spread of the viral disease.The petition, challenging the grant of Rs 50,000 and other benefits -- such as discounts on application fees for permissions from Fire Brigade and electric supply boards -- to thousands of community Durga Pujas, was filed by Sourav Dutta, a Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader. Dutta claimed that the government’s decision was not in tune with the concept of secularism in India, and hurts the fundamental rights provided in the Constitution.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on September 24 announced the Rs 50000 grant, among other doles, for each of the state’s puja committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-hc-seeks-justification-from-state-for-doling-out-rs-50-000-to-puja-committees/story-CAY9hdXOCLX1SqmxFSlx0I.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Teachers, students miss physical connect during online classes, state problems of connectivity, exhaustion||From facing technical glitches and learning advanced multimedia teaching aids to not being able to give extra attention to students who require more care and suffering from physical exhaustion, teachers are tackling the new normal of imparting education with a cautious approach. Students too believe that they need more physical attention and the online way of teaching is just not enough for them. Covid-19 pandemic has changed the course of education, forcing everyone to go online. Three months of online schooling has transformed the teacher-student relationship. For this transformation, having a glitch-free internet connection and electricity at home have become important aspects to continuing online schooling. In June, the government decided not to reopen schools as more institutions joined the online teaching platform.“Nothing can beat experience of learning at physical classrooms where children come to school and interact with the teachers,” says secondary section coordinator Swapna Nair, Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Lohegaon. While another teacher, Amrapali Khunte from Angel Mickey Minie School, Manjri, said that managing less attentive students becomes quite a challenge when everything is online.For school teachers, students and parents adjusting to the new set up is turning out to be a completely a new challenge. “Challenges of online teaching double up if you are a parent cum teacher. Handling your child and conducting online classes has become difficult. One needs to make sure that the kid is occupied with work while I take a class,” explains Sayali Shinde, teacher at City International School, Aundh.“Although we are manage to share lot of information but yes there are set of specific students who needs attention physically and those things are missing in online education,” said Nair“Although all teachers in my school are tech-savvy, all of them are not used to assist students online. Getting the right platform, solving connectivity issues and ensuring that all methods used for teaching online are working, were few of the hurdles we faced in the beginning, but now we are getting used to it,” said Arti Sharma, teacher at the Army Public School, Kirkee.Online teaching has increased the workload for teachers and they are more busy than during pre-Covid times. From preparing powerpoint presentations and videos to making e-notes for students, teachers are now having to work 24x7 to get the job done better.Long breaks/extra curricular activitiesWhile schools are providing long breaks between two online sessions to break the monotony, they have also introduced various extracurricular activities to help students relax. “We conduct quiz and debate competitions online. Our students took part in the Fit India Freedom Run on August 15 as they uploaded virtual run videos,” said Sharma.Upgrade systems/ data plans“Normal mobile data connections used to work for the school sessions for the first few weeks, but now stronger bandwidth connections are required. Recently during a unit test my child started his exam via his school web portal but she was not able to submit it as the system crashed due to overload,” said a parent on the condition of anonymity.Ajay Mehta, whose son Ayan studies at DAV Public School, said, “Earlier, we had just one laptop, but now we have three- one each for two of my children, who study in Class 6 and 8.”Tiring lecturesOnline lectures not only miss the environment of a classroom, but are also physically exhausting for teachers and students.Manas Arora, a Class 8 student of St Vincent’s School, said, “Attending lectures online is not that interactive as we used to have when we went to school.”On how online schooling affects students and parents, Booshan Shukla, a child psychiatrist, said, “Some students are happy with online schooling while some who like to be with friends or need physical attention are facing some challenges. There are also cases where schools kept telling parents regarding the problems of their children, but parents denied it. Now, they are realising it when they have to spend five hours with their kids during online classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/teachers-students-miss-physical-connect-during-online-classes-state-problems-of-connectivity-exhaustion/story-R2SnDK4ZlyTpMEDzhRpb0N.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Newborn’s body exhumed from Taljai hills, parents detained||The Sinhgad road police on Wednesday exhumed the body of a 13-day-old infant who was allegedly killed by his parents, according to the police. The baby boy was born on October 2, killed and buried, police officials added.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Purnima Gaikwad, who is supervising the investigation, said that the police received the information of the crime that a new a newborn baby was killed and buried at a secluded spot in Taljai area by his parents.“Our team went to the spot and exhumed the body in the presence of a magistrate today and sent it for autopsy and details are awaited,” she said.“According to the couple, the baby was diagnosed with Down’s syndrome and they were asked by doctors to conduct several tests. They could not affford it,” she said.The husband had recently lost his job while the wife works in a garment shop in Katraj area, the DCP said.Sinhgad road police station investigators said that the couple attempted to give away the baby to a social organisation, but could not find any organisation that would accept him and committed the crime as the last resort. The police strongly suspect that the parents killed the baby before burying it inside the a ditch in the area. The husband and wife have been detained and are being interrogated at the police station. A case is likely to be filed later, added the police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/newborn-s-body-exhumed-from-taljai-hills-parents-detained/story-ZMjdKbfmEEp84i98Nsp0fO.html
15-10-2020||City||Flipkart signs MoU wit Jammu & Kashmir administration to for sale of handicraft products||Flipkart on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Jammu & Kashmir administration to allow the sale of Kashmir’s famed handloom and handicraft products on the e-commerce platform.The handicraft sector is the mainstay of Jammu & Kashmir’s economy after agriculture and horticulture. According to the handicrafts department, over 500,000 artisans and weavers are associated with the sector. As many as 230,000 of them are registered with the department. Women form a major chunk of this workforce involved in the weaving of shawls, carpets, etc.Jammu & Kashmir’s economy has faced a double whammy since August 2019 when a lockdown and communications blockade were imposed to check protests against the Centre’s move to divest the region of its special status. As the restrictions were eased, the Covid-19 pandemic hit the economy. Restrictions on mobile internet services have also impacted e-commerce in the region.Also Read: Jammu-Srinagar Highway shut for maintenance till November, J&K Traffic Police prohibits vehicular movementLieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said the partnership with Flipkart will enable local artisans, craftsmen, and weavers to reach the global market. “It will also provide an appropriate opportunity for the momentous growth and development of the respective sectors. Benefits to the artisans will percolate directly to them by payments into their accounts.”Flipkart has created a special web page Samarth for the marketing of the handloom and handicraft products.Jammu & Kashmir Handloom and Handicrafts Corporation managing director Hashmat Yatoo said the pandemic has hit the traditional system of marketing and sales. “Because of Covid-19, everything related to the traditional system has come to a standstill. To counter that, e-platforms are considered a viable option. That is why the government decided to collaborate with an e-platform to benefit the artisan community,” he said. “With this, their products can be displayed online and can reach millions and millions of customers.”Also Read: J&K political leaders meeting todayYatoo, who signed the MOU with Flipkart’s chief corporate affairs officer Rajneesh Kumar, said for the first six months, the e-commerce services will be free of charge for the artisans. “Flipkart will be sending their team. We will be photographing the products and then those will be uploaded on the website.”Yatoo said the corporation will use its network of showrooms to supply the products. “The main beneficiary of this is the artisan. He or she will get linked with this platform and there will be no middleman. We will be directly picking up products from the artisan and their reach will be huge.”The products will include rugs, shawls, and carpets.Kumar said they are excited to join hands with the corporation to bring the local heritage of Jammu & Kashmir on their platform. “This MoU will enable thousands of artisans to reap the benefits of e-commerce and scale up their business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flipkart-signs-mou-wit-jammu-kashmir-administration-to-for-sale-of-handicraft-products/story-1F8NsEhx0F9oy4dT9WrtNP.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Forest guard dead, 2 hurt as car falls into gorge in Mandi||One man was killed and two injured as their car (HP 28B 3248) plunged into a deep gorge in Mandi district early on Thursday.The deceased, Keshav Ram, and one of the injured men, Pankaj Kumar, worked as forest guards. There is no other information on the other man, Mast Ram. All three were residents of Mandi and were on their way to Badhoo village from Chail Chowk when the driver lost control of the vehicle and it plunged into the gorge at Mandi Karsog road near Pabo village.Police rescued the injured and recovered the body after being informed by locals about the mishap.The two survivors were being treated at a hospital close to the accident spot and the body has been handed over to relatives after postmortem.Mandi district administration granted Rs 20,000 as compensation to the kin of the deceased.Shalini Agnihotri, superintendent of police, Mandi, said the matter was being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/forest-guard-dead-2-hurt-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-mandi/story-FTZcJgnXBJNRJq4Aam8cLJ.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||4 robbers strike at UCO Bank branch in Punjab’s Adampur, flee with Rs 7 lakh after killing guard||Four robbers shot dead a guard and made off with Rs 7 lakh from a UCO Bank branch at Kalra village in Adampur sub division of Jalandhar district on Thursday. Police said the robbers entered the branch with faces covered and opened fire. When security guard Surinder Singh tried to foil the attempt, one of the robbers shot him dead before fleeing with Rs 7 lakh. Superintendent of police (investigation) Manpreet Singh said that efforts were on to identify the accused. The police were going through CCTV footages from the bank. He said a similar robbery was recently reported in Hoshiarpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-robbers-strike-at-uco-bank-branch-in-punjab-s-adampur-flee-with-rs-7-lakh-after-killing-guard/story-F33ws2LVt3JthnHeLqLhbN.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar asks admin to explore another site for proposed int’l airport in Pune||A lack of progress in land acquistion for the proposed international airport in Purandar has forced deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to ask officials to explore the option of another site, which according to him, will be easier for land acquisition.During the meeting held in Mumbai on Tuesday, Pawar, also a guardian minister for Pune, took a review of the progress on proposed airport at Purandar and asked officials to look for another site adjoining the current one in Purandar tehsil of Pune district. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Pawar had called the meeting at Mumbai to discuss about the Purandar international airport. While selecting an existing site for the Purandar airport, the administration identified five more sites. Before starting the land acquisition process, the guardian minister has asked to check whether any other site is better for land acquisition. Once the land acquisition process started then there would be no chance to think over other options.” The existing site was chosen in 2015 as the previously selected site in Khed tehsil of Pune district received opposition from locals. After shifting the site to Purandar, the then Devendra Fadnavis government expedited the process for all necessary approvals with the state government, the Centre, defence and environment ministry issued permissions. However, the local farmers are protesting against the land acquisition for existing sites, which covers seven villages in Purandar tehsil. Around 2, 832-hectared will be acquired for the airport which will be named after Chhatrapati Sambhaji.When asked whether Pawar’s instructions to officials means the administration is thinking to change existing sites, Rao said, “There are no chances to change the existing site but we are verifying about other options. The administration will finish this process in the next three weeks and submit the proposal in front of the guardian minister.” As there has been no progress in the land acquisition for proposed airport, the government is being criticized as the project could not pick up pace. Rao said, “For initial projects, there is an opposition for land acquisition but later projects move on. We are planning to give the best compensation options for farmers.” The proposed Purandar international airport for which land has been earmarked in seven villages of Pargaon, Ekhatpur, Munjwadi, Kumbharvalan, Udachiwadi, Vanpuri and Khanavadi is a landmark project as it will not only increase connectivity in the area but also reduce the current load on the Pune airport which shares its runway with the Indian Air Force (IAF) and has limited flights being operated. According to previous estimates by administration, land acquisition process would require a little over Rs 3,000 crores. In May 2018, the Maharashtra government gave a nod to release Rs 3,513 crore for the project, part of which will be used for land acquisition. Despite the notification related to the development plan and Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC) forming a special purpose vehicle, things have not moved ahead. To develop the project, MADC was appointed as the nodal agency for implementing the project, while the City and Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra (Cidco) will be a major stakeholder in the SPV. Cidco will hold 51 per cent stake in the SPV, while MADC’s stake will be 19 per cent. The remaining 30 per cent will be divided between the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-asks-admin-to-explore-another-site-for-proposed-int-l-airport-in-pune/story-DdQPwylihqF1NnVt5Q7NII.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Six killed as wall collapses due to rains in Pandharpur||Six people were killed on Wednesday after a wall at an under construction ghat on Bhima river collapsed in Pandharpur due to heavy rains, officials said. The 20-feet high wall came down when the temple town in Solapur district received heavy rains throughout the day. Among those died have been identified as Mangesh Abhangrao (35), Radha Abhangrao (50), Gopal Abhangrao (70) and Pillu Jagtap (13). The authorities were trying to ascertain identifies of the other two deceased, officials said. Solapur district received over 138mm rainfall in 36 hours starting Tuesday morning, leading to waterlogging and flood-like situation as several small and medium streams began overflowing. As heavy rains lashed the region, irrigation department officials started releasing water from Ujani dam, located on the Pune-Solapur border, at 1,00,000 cusecs by around 4pm into Bhima river that passes through Pandharpur. “Due to the heavy rains since the past 18 hours, the wall next to the ghat, currently being developed, collapsed. The administration has so far recovered six bodies while the search is on for one more person. There may be a possibility of pilgrims taking shelter near the wall due to heavy rain. So, we have continued our search operation,” said Sachin Dhole, sub-divisional officer, Pandharpur. Following the incident, Solapur district guardian minister Dattatray Bharane announced inquiry into the incident and possible action against those responsible for the wall collapse. Solapur superintendent of police Tejaswi Satpute said that an inquiry has been launched into the incident and once the report is submitted, further action will be taken. “We have asked the engineer to carry out a preliminary inquiry to ascertain if the construction of the ghat carried out by contractor was at fault. Once the inquiry is complete, we will decide the next course of action,” said Satpute. The ghat was essentially being used by the local people for cremation while those died in the incident were staying there in shanties, according to Satpute. Recently former corporator from Pandharpur Ramesh Kamble had sought inquiry into inferior construction material being used to build the ghat and had demanded action against the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/six-killed-as-wall-collapses-due-to-rains-in-pandharpur/story-BGwaka50oP0umkcgy7qNhP.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Astronomers from Pune use upgraded GMRT to measure mass of hydrogen in distant galaxies||A team of astronomers from the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA-TIFR) in Pune, and the Raman Research Institute (RRI), in Bangalore, used the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) to measure the atomic hydrogen content of galaxies seen as they were 8 billion years ago, when the universe was young. This is the earliest epoch in the universe for which there is a measurement of the atomic gas content of galaxies. This research was published in the October 15, 2020 issue of the journal ‘Nature’. “Galaxies in the universe are made up mostly of gas and stars, with gas being converted into stars during the life of a galaxy. Understanding galaxies thus requires us to determine how the amounts of both gas and stars change with time. Astronomers have long known that galaxies formed stars at a higher rate when the universe was young than they do today. The star formation activity in galaxies peaked about 8-10 billion years ago and has been declining steadily till today. The cause of this decline is unknown, mostly because we have had no information about the amount of atomic hydrogen gas, the primary fuel for star formation, in galaxies in these early times,” said Aditya Chowdhury, a Ph.D. student at NCRA-TIFR and the lead author of the study. “We have, for the first time, measured the atomic hydrogen gas content of star forming galaxies about 8 billion years ago, using the upgraded GMRT. Given the intense star formation in these early galaxies, their atomic gas would be consumed by star formation in just one or two billion years. And, if the galaxies could not acquire more gas, their star formation activity would decline, and finally cease the observed decline in star formation activity can thus be explained by the exhaustion of the atomic hydrogen.” he added. The measurement of the atomic hydrogen mass of distant galaxies was done by using the upgraded GMRT to search for a spectral line in atomic hydrogen. Unlike stars which emit light strongly at optical wavelengths, the atomic hydrogen signal lies in the radio wavelengths, at a wavelength of 21 cm, and can only be detected with radio telescopes. Unfortunately, this 21 cm signal is very weak, and difficult to detect from distant individual galaxies even with powerful telescopes like the upgraded GMRT. To overcome this limitation, the team used a technique called ‘stacking’ to combine the 21 cm signals of nearly 8,000 galaxies that had earlier been identified with optical telescopes. K S Dwarakanath of RRI and co-author of the study said, “We had used the GMRT in 2016, before its upgrade, to carry out a similar study. However, the narrow bandwidth before the GMRT upgrade meant that we could cover only around 850 galaxies in our analysis, and hence were not sensitive enough to detect the signal.” “The big jump in our sensitivity is due to the upgrade of the GMRT in 2017. The new wide band receivers and electronics allowed us to use 10 times more galaxies in the stacking analysis, giving sufficient sensitivity to detect the weak average 21 cm signal.” said Jayaram Chengalur, of NCRA-TIFR, a co-author of the paper. Detecting the 21 cm signal from the most distant galaxies in the universe was the main science goal of the GMRT, when it was designed and built by a team led by renowned scientist and radio astronomer Govind Swarup in the 1980s and 1990s. “Govind Swarup was very interested in this work, and was following it keenly. Sadly, he passed away shortly before it was published. This work would not have been possible without him and the wonderful team that he put together to first build and then upgraded the GMRT,” said Nissim Kanekar of NCRA-TIFR, a co-author of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/astronomers-from-pune-use-upgraded-gmrt-to-measure-mass-of-hydrogen-in-distant-galaxies/story-xKYXqIRvFbSqeeQYvY7dSL.html
15-10-2020||Pune||3 drown, 1 missing as canal floods in Pune district||Four persons including a woman were washed away in gushing waters of a stream in Daund tehsil of Pune district on Wednesday. The stream was in spate due to continuing heavy rains. Police officials, who recovered three bodies till Thursday morning, said, the victims riding two-wheelers were trying to cross a small bridge erected on a stream at Khanote village in Daund tehsil, when they were swept away in swollen waters. The search is on for the fourth person. The three deceased fished out of the water were identified as Shahji Gangadhar Lokhande (52), and a couple --Appa Harichandra Dhaytonde (55) and Kalawati Appa Dhaydonte (48) -- according to senior police inspector Sunil Mahadik of Daund police station. Their bodies were later sent for a post-mortem. One person who remained missing was identified as Subhash Narayan Londhe (48), said the police officer. Local people helped the police recover the bodies. The four were on a bridge built over a stream on Rajegaon-Khatona road. Eyewitnesses said a sudden surge in the water swept the four away. Also Read: Rains relent in Pune after wreaking havoc, creating flood like situationDaund along with adjoining Indapur and Baramati tehsils on the eastern parts of Pune district received heavy rains on Wednesday, resulting in flood like situation at many places. Due to torrential rain, most reservoirs in the region are full and authorities have started releasing water from dams. While rain has relented in most parts of the district in the morning, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy showers till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-drown-1-missing-as-canal-floods-in-pune-district/story-sT33unTmT1ihI4h6v71j7O.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In one month, active cases come down in Mumbai, western suburbs continue to record high numbers||While the number of Mumbai’s active Covid-19 cases has come down in the last one month, the western suburb of Borivali continues to record the highest number of fresh cases everyday—2,448 on average. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, Borivali has recorded the highest number of active cases since September 13, 2020. Other western suburbs such as Malad, Kandivali and Andheri too have been recording a higher number of cases and are among the top five areas with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai.Civic officials attribute the high number of cases to a significant portion of the population that lives in high-rises. A BMC official said, “Eighty per cent of the cases are coming from high-rises and the trend shows that whichever area has a high ratio of high-rise buildings, the number of active cases is on the higher side.”The official added, “Several people who live in slums may have developed antibodies, due to which there are no cases there anymore.”Also Read: Oxford scientists develop 5-minute Covid-19 antigen testThe sero-surveillance conducted by the BMC in two phases had revealed that the ratio of antibodies in those residing in slums increased significantly whereas that of people residing in non-slum areas increased marginally. This, the BMC has stated, could be one of the reason behind why non-slum areas are recording more cases.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant said, “There are chances that in the coming days too the trend of cases being reported from non-slum areas or high-rises will remain high, as the ratio of those developing antibodies in slum areas is increasing, which is evident from the results of BMC’s second sero-survey. Eventually, when the level of antibodies increaes in high-rises, the number of cases may reduce. But it depends on how helpful or effective antibodies are in the fight against Covid-19.”Further, according to the civic body’s data, 10 administrative wards in the city encompassing areas in the western suburbs like Borivali, Kandivali, Malad, Andheri, followed by Mulund, Ghatkopar in the eastern suburbs and Chowpatty, Ghatkopar and Malabar Hill have more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases.In terms of deaths, wards encompassing areas like Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar, Kurla, Malad, Andheri and Borivali have recorded more than 400. Mumbai has 24 administrative wards. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, however, said the situation in the city has improved in the last month despite there being daily case load of between 2,000 to 2,500.Chahal on Monday said, “Exactly one month ago on September 11, BMC had 26,632 active Covid-19 cases whereas on October 11, the number of active Covid-19 cases fell to 22,369. The average death rate over the last one month has been 2.1%, resulting in a decrease in the overall death rate from 4.9% (as on September 11, 2020) to 4.14% (as on October 11, 2020).”Chahal added, “The number of vacant Covid-19 beds under BMC which was 4,165 on September 11 (including 85 ICU beds only) has increased to 4,922 on October 11 (including 257 ICU beds).”Meanwhile, as of Wednesday, Mumbai had 234,602 Covid-19 cases followed by 9,555 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-one-month-active-cases-come-down-in-mumbai-western-suburbs-continue-to-record-high-numbers/story-70s8LXeYaXkeuv4g4KTvEO.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Pro Khalistan graffiti on govt buildings in Punjab village||Pro Khalistan graffiti appeared on the walls of three government properties in Dirba village of Sangrur on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.‘Referendum 2020 ‘ was found painted on the walls as well as gates of the Government Primary School, Committee Ghar and an adjoining building.Police are investigating the matter and have yet to identify the accused.“The slogans were written by miscreants last night. We reached the spot immediately after receiving the information,” said Jagbir Singh, SHO of Dirba police station. Mohit Kumar, DSP Dirba, said, “We are probing the matter and a case will be registered soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pro-khalistan-graffiti-on-govt-buildings-in-punjab-village/story-fCMniyygECzT4CGjoHbOtL.html
15-10-2020||City||Ending longest shutdown, Assam’s Kaziranga national park to open for tourists||Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) will reopen for tourists from October 21 after a gap of over seven months because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Assam. This is the longest shutdown for KNPTR in its 112-year history. KNPTR authorities said that the park famous for its one-horned rhinoceroses and tigers would be formally reopened at 11 am on October 21 by Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal at a function. All five national parks and 18 wildlife sanctuaries in Assam, including KNPTR, which usually remains shut for around five months annually due to floods, were closed in March following the Covid-19 outbreak. Also read: Two Assam men cover 400km of flooded Brahmaputra on bamboo raft“This is the longest period of closure for KNPTR. Usually, the park remains closed from the end of May because of annual floods. However, this year, it was shut for an additional two and half months due to Covid-19,” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR. “The usual precautionary measures such as wearing of masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distancing will be put to practise while allowing tourists to enter the park. We will also ensure that a limited number of jeep safaris are allowed at a time. The vehicles’ tyres will be sanitised after each trip,” he added. All tourists will have to go through a screening process and anyone detected with Covid-19-related symptoms such as high fever, cough and could will be segregated and handed over to local health authorities. The elephant safaris won’t be allowed to operate during the first few days of the park’s reopening and may resume from November. Initially, only the Kohora and Bagori ranges of the park, which is spread over 914 square (sq) kilometres (km), would be reopened for tourists, the authorities added. PHOTO: A one-horned rhino inside Kaziranga National Park. Photo: KNPTR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ending-longest-shutdown-assam-s-kaziranga-national-park-to-open-for-tourists/story-XcTRN0KBCSv36sPgX60HpN.html
15-10-2020||Admission||DU admissions: First round complete, but confusion prevails||Admissions to Delhi University (DU) have taken the digital route this year. However, the first round of cut offs and online admissions was a miss, with DU aspirants from various parts of the country claiming the process to be riddled with problems. With the introduction of new features on DU’s website, students are in a fix, as they look ahead to the second cut-off. “I wanted to apply for BA (Prog) and wanted to check out the options and combinations for it while filing for admission online, but the options were not available. This has confused me, and I’m unable to gather information on what combination of subjects can be offered to be in the course,” says Brajesh Bharadwaj, a DU aspirant from Delhi.Students are facing problems because of technical difficulties. “Due to technical glitch, it’s showing that the application is rejected! There’s a problem in suggestive percentages also on the portal. We are trying to contact the nodal officers but they aren’t helping. No one picks the phone when we keep calling,” says Pratibha Sinha, a Ghaziabad-based DU aspirant.There is confusion among students on how to take an undertaking from colleges to be able to submit complete documents after some time.“Some colleges aren’t accepting undertaking that they use to give until last year to students to give a window to submit incomplete documents. This is very unfortunate because in pandemic times, it’s even more difficult to procure complete documents if something goes missing. Those colleges that are accepting undertaking, haven’t specified how one goes about submitting the incomplete documents. We aren’t even given an option to upload anything other than mark sheets on the portal,” says Arti Kumar, a Delhi-based DU aspirant.There is little information about online admissions for students applying for sports quota, which is usually quite a sizeable number of students in the varsity. “No clarity on admissions from sports or EWS quota regarding the cut offs and forms is there. It’s a bit unnerving,” says Ashima Sharma, a Gurugram-based DU aspirant. There have been various helps desks and student initiatives to help those facing problems in online admissions. One such help desk by the Delhi University Students Union (DUSU). “All DU aspirants facing problems must reach out to DUSU help desk with their problems. We will try to assist them in whatever scope we can, as we have been doing so far,” says Shubham Chaudhary, executive councillor, DUSU.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/college-admissions/du-admissions-first-round-complete-but-confusion-prevails/story-h0pt5vuLLSNH4szxDsGg4I.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||‘Partial’ Centre acting as ‘mouthpiece’ for polluting states, says Delhi minister Gopal Rai||Delhi’s environment minister, Gopal Rai, on Thursday hit out at the central government saying that while Delhi has been undertaking strict measures to control pollution levels in the city, the Centre was going easy on neighbouring states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh by overlooking polluting activities there. He said that the Centre was acting as a “mouthpiece” for other states, which had done little to control pollution because of which Delhi was suffering.Responding to a statement by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar early Thursday, Rai said that a fortnight ago Delhi had the same local sources of pollution, but the levels spiked only after stubble burning activities started in Punjab and Haryana.Javadekar said that only 4% of pollution in Delhi is due to stubble burning, while 96% of it is due to local factors like biomass burning, garbage dumping, unpaved roads, dust, and construction and demolition activities.“The Delhi government is doing everything in our power to control pollution levels in the city, but instead of encouraging our efforts, the Centre is pulling us down and rewarding those states where their governments are in power,” he said.Calling the Centre’s attitude towards Delhi “partial”, Rai said that while Delhi was prompt in abiding by the winter segment of the Supreme Court approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) by implementing a complete ban on diesel generator sets, Haryana was asking for exemptions from the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA).“The Centre is also considering an extension of deadlines for thermal power plants to install air pollution control equipment. Why should they be given any extensions?” Rai asked.“The fire map of Nasa [National Aeronautics and Space Administration] shows the intensity of fires in the states of Punjab and Haryana. Fortunately, or unfortunately, air cannot be divided into states, and Delhi is affected by any polluting activity within a radius of 300kms.”Rai also announced a campaign ‘red light on, gadi off [as red lights turn on, turn off the ignition]’ on Thursday to control the contribution of vehicular pollution in the city.He said that while the government was working towards keeping a check on other sources such as construction sites and waste burning, vehicular pollution can be controlled by a mass movement, where every citizen of Delhi can contribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/partial-centre-acting-as-mouthpiece-for-polluting-states-says-delhi-minister-gopal-rai/story-VN4ZCWdu3TebkoHkxvQoEN.html
15-10-2020||City||Bihar: Man accused 7 men of gang-raping his daughter, killing her son, to settle a score||A 35-year-old woman’s father in Bihar’s Buxar allegedly lodged a false case accusing seven men of gang-raping his daughter and murdering her six-year-old son to settle a score, a police officer said on Thursday.The alleged rape and murder were reported on Saturday last and provoked outrage.Buxar police superintendent Niraj Kumar Singh said the son’s postmortem report suggested he had drowned in a river while the woman’s medical examination ruled out rape. He added a Special Investigation Team constituted to probe the case found she was not at the location where her father claimed she was gang-raped.“All I can tell you at this point in time is that the woman was never abducted by the seven men. Secondly, her son was not strangled to death,” he said.Singh added the woman was accompanying a man she was in a relationship with when he got into an argument with his associates. It was then that the six-year-old fell into a canal, he added. “There are still certain facts which we need to verify. But one thing is clear she has not been gang-raped or raped by named and unknown persons at all...,” said Singh.The police have arrested two of the seven accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-man-accused-7-men-of-gang-raping-his-daughter-killing-her-son-to-settle-a-score/story-UtUQggfKYrfAxnDEvo86tN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Stubble burning contributes 4% to Delhi-NCR pollution, says Javadekar; ministry clarifies||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar evoked a sharp response from the Delhi government on Thursday morning when he said that stubble burning contributes to only 4% of PM 2.5 pollution in the national capital region while 96% of the pollution was due to local factors, like biomass burning, unpaved roads, road dust, construction and demolition waste etc.Also read: Kejriwal launches ‘Red Light On Gaadi Off’ campaign to cut down on air pollutionJavadekar said so while he was flagging off 50 Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) inspection teams for field visits in Delhi-NCR to keep a watch on pollution hot spots“Only 4% pollution is due to stubble burning. Ninety-six per cent of it is due to local factors like biomass burning, garbage dumping, unpaved roads, dust, construction and demolition activities etc,” he said, adding that “Punjab government should ensure there is not much stubble burning this time,” the minister said.Responding to this, Delhi government environment minister Gopal Rai said the contribution from stubble burning is, in fact, 44% based on CPCB’s data.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted, “Staying in denial will not help. If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution, then why has pollution suddenly increased last fortnite? Air was clean before that. Same story every yr. There’s no massive jump in any local source of pollution in last few days to cause this spike?”Later, an MoEFCC spokesperson clarified that Javadekar was referring to the contribution of stubble burning only for this year, which is 4% till now. Last year, it was much higher. The ministry also tweeted, “Share of Stubble burning changes every day. Last year, between 08 Oct-09 Dec, the share of Stubble burning in #AirPollution in Delhi (as per SAFAR data), was greater than15% on six days, while on a single day it was greater than 40%.”Share of Stubble burning changes every day. Last year, between 08 Oct-09 Dec, the share of Stubble burning in #AirPollution in Delhi (as per SAFAR data), was greater than15% on six days, while on a single day it was greater than 40%.Delhi’s air quality index on Thursday morning was 325 in very poor category. There are widespread crop fires in both Punjab and Haryana as seen in satellite images.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stubble-burning-contributes-4-to-delhi-ncr-pollution-says-javadekar-ministry-clarifies/story-4NRjomvloWK1N4hkVNOTVI.html
15-10-2020||City||Five years after disappearing, Andhra man found in Goa, reunited with his family||A little over five years ago, 21-year-old M Sudheer Kumar wandered out of his home at Siripuram village in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh and remained untraceable though his family continued to look for him in all the major cities of of the state and even neighbouring Telangana. Little did the family know that Kumar had walked all the way to Goa. While it is not clear what he did for the first two years, he had been in the care of Home for the Homeless in Margao, south Goa, which is run by an NGO, Street Providence. It is here that Kumar’s father, M Nageshwar Rao, came to take him home.Sudheer was found loitering around the Holy Spirit Church by Maria Ana, a volunteer of the NGO. “Sudheer never ever spoke from the time we picked him. He only shook his head when spoken to. But he understands English, Hindi and Telugu. The only time we heard him speak was in early 2018 when he answered a few questions when spoken to in Telugu,” Donald Fernandes who runs Street Providence told HT. Also read: Once forgotten, 1918 Spanish flu memorial gains following amid Covid-19 scare in GoaWith Sudheer refusing to speak or communicate, no one knew where he hailed from or if he had a family back home. However, something changed earlier this and he began to react to those around him. “When we picked him up, he was unkempt. All he did was eat, sleep and gaze into the oblivion,” Fernandes said. “During the last seven days, he started talking, reacting and began mumbling responses. But since even the Telugu translator couldn’t understand his mumblings, he asked Sudheer to write down what he wanted to say. At that, Sudheer wrote down the name of his village and district,” Fernandes said. “Sudheer Kumar, Medikonduru Mandal, Siripuram village, Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh,” he wrote. The NGO then posted about him on social media and reached out to Telugu associations.Sudheer’s father said, “We first got a call from an election official via the panchayat that a young man had been found and we were put in touch. They also sent us a video of him to confirm whether it is the same boy... His mother back home can’t wait to get to see him.” The family says that Sudheer had a normal childhood and studied in school until his Standard XII besides also helping his father who runs a milk collection centre in his hometown. “He was just like any other child growing up but after his class 12, something went wrong,” Rao said, trying to explain his son’s illness. Meanwhile, the NGO is happy they could find Sudheer’s family for him. “It’s all the grace of God. We are just tools and we don’t claim any credit for the results. These services are tough yet achievable,” Fernandes said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-years-after-disappearing-andhra-man-found-in-goa-reunited-with-his-family/story-6Odv7odwVUKBjOuRfN34kK.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Matheran: Mumbai’s weekend spot set to be beautified||Matheran, one of Mumbaikars’ favourite weekend destinations, is all set to get a face-lift in a bid to attract more tourists.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which has undertaken the beautification project, said that it has completed 50% of the work. MMRDA has undertaken beautification of four viewpoints, improvement of the pathway between Dasturi Naka and Matheran and also parking facilities for tourists. Also Read: Mumbai Metro to start from Monday, Monorail from Sunday: All you need to knowRA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, who visited the site earlier this week, said, “We have taken care of the environmental constraints in the area. Once the beautification work is complete, tourists will be able to enjoy Matheran with greater comfort.” MMRDA said that the pathway would be made of lateritic soil owing to the environmental restrictions. At least 35% of the pathway has been renovated, officials said. MMRDA is also improving street lighting facilities, road furniture such as sign boards, benches, lamps, dustbins and railings as approved by the Matheran heritage committee, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/matheran-mumbai-s-weekend-spot-set-to-be-beautified/story-jcWe6CbPguPJh9KrOLFLRM.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal launches ‘Red Light On Gaadi Off’ campaign to cut down on air pollution||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched a new anti-pollution campaign under which people will be encouraged to switch engines of their vehicles off while waiting at traffic signals.On Thursday, the pollution levels in the city remained in the “very poor” category. “It has been seen that we often do not switch off our vehicle engines while waiting at traffic signals. That is called idling. The ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign will aim to bring a behavioural change in that regard. It will help reduce air pollution,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.He added, “Around 10 million vehicles are registered in Delhi. Even if one million of them actively follow the campaign, experts suggest that it can reduce PM10 emissions by 1.5 tonnes a year and PM2.5 emissions by 0.4 tonnes a year.”“Idling (waiting at a traffic signal with engine on) consumes more fuel than a normal drive. On average, a car is left idling for around 15 to 20 minutes a day, and that ends up exhausting at least 200ml of fuel. Experts have suggested that one can save ₹7,000 a year by avoiding idling,” the chief minister said.While appealing to all motorists to join the drive, Kejriwal said, “Covid-19 has led to distress among people, let’s ensure that pollution doesn’t make things worse for us.”“Crop stubble burning in neighbouring states leads to pollution in Delhi. That has been the case for years now. We cannot do much about other states, but we are taking all possible measures to control local sources of pollution by implementing an anti-dust strategy, a tree transplantation policy, an electric vehicle policy and decomposing crop stubble using new technology. This campaign will be another step towards reducing pollution,” he said.How the campaign will be implemented is being chalked out, environment minister Gopal Rai said later in the day. “This campaign has the potential to bring down vehicular pollution by 15-20%. We will start working on the road map of the campaign from Friday, after a meeting with all senior officials,” he said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment, said, “For this campaign to work in terms of behavioural change, it is very important to make sure traffic signals have timers and that the timers are functional. Several survey estimates have shown that reduced idling can lead to energy saving and less toxic exposure to particulate matters, hydrocarbons, and nitrogen oxide.”Mukti Advani, principal scientist at the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said, “Switching off engines will reduce fuel consumption as the wait at any traffic signal may go beyond 20 seconds. In 2018, the CRRI had conducted an awareness campaign on idling along with Petroleum Conservation and Research Association and surveyed 100 intersections in the city for a period of six months.”“It is recommended that such awareness campaigns be conducted on a regular basis. An adequate number of countdown timers should be positioned correctly for better results,” said Advani, citing the survey findings. “However, Delhi needs to find alternative ways to decongest its roads; primarily, by reducing the number of private vehicles and by providing better public transport. Road capacity has to be improved by removing encroachments such as parked vehicles, and vehicles that break down on the road, etc,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-kejriwal-launches-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-to-cut-down-on-air-pollution/story-rgAxxqxxOCM99FtarUVZuO.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers to continue with rail blockades till October 19 when special assembly session called||Farmers will continue their rail blockades in Punjab till October 19 when the assembly meets for a special session to introduce a state law and counter the Centre’s farm laws. “We will wait until October 19 to lift our protests and ‘rail rokos’ as we want to make sure that the legislation enacted by the state government actually benefits farmers,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, the general secretary of BKU (Dakounda), one of the 30 farmer organisations protesting against the Centre’s new laws that aim to liberalise agriculture. A day after their seven representatives boycotted a meeting called by the Union agriculture ministry in Delhi, members of all 30 farmer outfits are meeting in Chandigarh on Thursday to discuss the course of action. They are expected to scale up protests against the three farm laws passed in Parliament last month. NO EMERGENCY DUE TO RAIL BLOCKADES: FARMERS Patiala denied any “emergency-like situation” arising due to the rail blockades in the state since September 24. “The state government’s fears that the shortage of coal due to the disruption of supply in view of the rail blockades will impact power generation, and may lead to cuts, is unfounded. There is lots of power tied up from central sector plants,” Patiala said, adding that the state already has 70% of the total stocks of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and urea needed for rabi sowing. The farmers have also gheraoed business establishments in the state owned by corporate houses to protest the farm laws, which they believe will benefit big business houses. On Wednesday, the farmer representatives walked out of a meeting with the Union agriculture secretary, saying a minister who could decide on their demands should have been present. “We requested for a minister-level functionary having decision-making powers to hold talks but the central government acted on the contrary, due to which we took the drastic step (of walking out),” Patiala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-to-continue-with-rail-blockades-till-october-19-when-special-assembly-session-called/story-tvvNlANJIShJsLAynkhJPJ.html
15-10-2020||City||Farm bills: Maharashtra Congress to hold virtual rally; 5 million farmers from 10,000 villages set to join||The Maharashtra unit of the Congress will hold a virtual farmers’ rally on Thursday evening, as part of its ongoing protests against the recently passed farm laws.The Congress said around five million farmers from 10,000 villages in over 25 districts of the state would participate in the planned protest, where the arrangement of virtual platforms has been made. The Maharashtra unit of the Congress has been protesting against the “anti-farmer” laws over the past three weeks after they were passed by Parliament. Party leaders will address the virtual farmers’ rally from six districts in the state on Thursday evening. Congress’s Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil, Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, state public works department (PWD) minister, former chief minister Ashok Chavan, and Member of Parliament (MP) Rajiv Satav will participate from Sangamner in Ahmednagar district.Former CM Prithviraj Chavan will address the rally from Kolhapur district. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh , women and child development (WCD) minister Yashomati Thakur and energy minister Nitin Raut will take part from Aurangabad, Amravati and Nagpur districts, respectively. Party leader Muzaffar Hussain will join the protest from Palghar district.Also read: Congress-ruled states to intensify farm law stir“We have put up LED (light-emitting diode) screens, LCD (liquid-crystal display) projector screens and TVs at central places in 10,000 villages to enable farmers to participate. Community, marriage halls, grounds etc have been identified for meetings by the local members of the Maharashtra legislative assembly (MLAs), leaders and district presidents. In some of the districts such as Gadchiroli and Chandrapur, where the internet connectivity is poor, we will not be able to reach out to local farmers. We are expecting an impressive response in those districts, where the party has a strong leadership. Thursday evening’s event will be an unprecedented experience for both our leaders and workers,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity. Thorat said the party would continue to oppose the anti-farmer black laws. “The laws, which were passed without any discussion or debate, do not assure minimum support price (MSP) and will do away with the Agricultural Produce Market Committees’ (APMCs) protection that farmers have been enjoying for all these years. All three ruling parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are on the same page as far as the opposition to these laws is concerned. We will not allow their implementation in Maharashtra,” he added.Earlier, the party had launched a digital drive #SpeakUpForFarmers across various social media platforms on September 26 following which they met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari two days later and demanded the scrapping of the laws. On the occasion of the Gandhi Jayanti on October 2, the party had held protest rallies across the state. It has also begun a campaign, which is aimed at collecting the signature of one crore farmers by October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-maharashtra-congress-to-hold-virtual-rally-5-million-farmers-from-10-000-villages-set-to-join/story-f456bsWVA8Hrn6aFk2vyTI.html
15-10-2020||City||Saamana pulls up Governor, says he showed how someone in his position should not behave||Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, on Thursday launched an attack on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his letter to the state chief minister and party chief Uddhav Thackeray and alleged that it was an example of how a person occupying the gubernatorial post should not behave. The editorial pointed out that the CM responded to the letter in his signature “Thackeray style”. “Bhagat Singh Koshyari has shown how a person occupying the post of a Governor should not behave. Koshyari may have been a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) pracharak or a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)leader, but now he is the governor of a progressive state such as Maharashtra. He seems to have forgotten the post he occupies for his convenience. The BJP leaders of Maharashtra indulges in a slander campaign against the state government every morning. It is understandable. But why is the governor a part of the campaign?” the editorial alleged.Also read: Row between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and CM Uddhav Thackeray may not end soonThere has been a bitter exchange of letters between Governor Koshyari and CM Thackeray. The Governor had demanded that places of worship be reopened, despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and also asked CM Thackeray if he had suddenly “turned secular”. In a strong rebuttal, the CM questioned the Governor whether he did not believe in secularism, a key tenet of the Constitution. Thackeray also slammed Koshyari for his statement that his brand of Hindutva did not need any certificate from the latter.“The Governor’s letter to the CM reeks of foolishness. The CM has hit out against it only once and that was enough... This resonance of the tolling bells (referring to BJP’ Ghantanaad agitation to reopen the places of worship) must have reached Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister of Home Affairs Amit Shah’s ears. They must recall the Governor to save the prestige of the Raj Bhavan,” it said.The party mouthpiece lauded the CM’s response to the Governor’s letter.“The CM caught the loincloth (dhoti) of the Governor and shook the Raj Bhavan. Using this language will be unconstitutional. But it is true that the CM responded in his signature Thackeray style,” it added.The editorial slammed Governor Koshyari, who is also holding the additional charge of Goa , and asked why he had not written a letter to Goa CM Pramod Sawant demanding reopening of places of worship. It alleged that famous temples in Goa such as Mangeshi, Mahalaxmi, Mahalsa are still shut. “Why has Governor Koshyari not asked Goa CM Sawant to reopen the places of worship? Such questions are only asked in Maharashtra because the state doesn’t have a BJP CM,” the editorial further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/saamana-pulls-up-governor-says-he-showed-how-someone-in-his-position-should-not-behave/story-l92kRK8L5R6QZHIkFJ0qpO.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: In a first, BSP, SP, BJP, Congress field Brahmins for Deoria bypoll||For the first time in over four decades, all four candidates fielded by major political parties—the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)—in Uttar Pradesh for the Deoria assembly bypoll scheduled on November 3 are Brahmins.The BJP and the SP were the latest to finalise and announce their nominees on Wednesday.The BJP has settled for a political science lecturer in Satya Prakash Mani, a trusted party hand. The SP has fielded Brahma Shankar Tripathi, an influential former minister and lawmaker, replacing former MLC JP Jaiswal.The Congress, which was the first to declare Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi, a local, as its candidate, had last fielded a Brahmin candidate in 1974 when it had given a ticket to Deep Narayan Mani Tripathi. The BSP has fielded Abhay Nath Tripathi this time. The constituency has about 55,000-60,000 Brahmin voters, who constitute approximately 18-19% of the vote bank.According to political leaders and poll observers, an all-Brahmin cast of major political players would make it a ‘must watch’ election.Also Read: UP considering Centre like festival bonanza for its employees before Diwali“I never heard of all major political parties settling for Brahmins here and, yes, it would make it very interesting,” said JP Shukla, a veteran journalist. The ‘Ram vs Parshuram’ controversy that played out recently in the state could stage a comeback here, some observers said. The issue had come up in August when a foundation led by SP leader Abhishek Mishra announced plans to install a 108-foot statue of Parshuram in Lucknow and the BSP responded by vowing to install an even bigger statue. The move was seen as a way to woo Brahmins, who constitute 10% of the state’s electorate, as Parshuram, considered the sixth incarnation of Lord Vishnu in the Hindu pantheon, was also a Brahmin. He is also said to have cleansed the world of Kshatriyas on several occasions. Ram, the seventh incarnation of Lord Vishnu in the Hindu pantheon, was a Kshatriya.In a veiled message during a state assembly session in August, Adityanath said going against Ram or his values has proven to be self-destructive. “But these people don’t like the concept of Ram Rajya… they could not suppress their feelings when the construction of Ram temple began… I am surprised to hear their statements… They are the same people who ordered firing on the ‘Ram Bhakts’.”Also Read: Global Handwashing Day : UP CM Yogi Adityanath to start #HaathDhonaRokeyCoronaOnce known as the sugar bowl of eastern UP, Deoria is barely three hours’ drive from Ayodhya.“Our opponents had, in the past, attempted to sully the political environment by pitting Lord Ram against Lord Parshuram. Deoria is the perfect place to expose such people who try to divide the gods. We worked for Ram (temple) in Ayodhya and now we will also come up with a befitting abode for Lord Parshuram too,” said Sunil Bharala, the chairman of the state welfare board and a minister in the UP government. SP leader Abhishek Mishra, who will be in Deoria on Thursday for his party candidate’s nomination, said, “We will definitely raise issues related to Brahmins.”The Congress, however, has claimed it has fielded a party worker whose caste was ‘coincidental’. “We were the first to name a candidate and hence can’t be accused of playing caste politics. We will surprise the opponents,” said UP Congress committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. “Our opponents were hoping that since the seat was represented by Janmejay Singh, a Sainthawar (OBC), for the last couple of elections, the ticket would go to someone from his caste. Yet by fielding a local person, a teacher who happens to be a Brahmin, we have poured cold water on the opposition’s plans,” a BJP leader from eastern UP said.SP’s IP Singh said his party’s announcement forced the BJP to name a Brahmin. “They are copycats. We are trailblazers,” said Singh.BJP’s political opponents are also expected to use the campaign to highlight the alleged ‘excesses’ on Brahmins under the party rule. The SP and BSP workers have reportedly been asked to ready a list of so-called ‘atrocities’ on Brahmins which could be played up in the election campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-in-a-first-bsp-sp-bjp-congress-field-brahmins-for-deoria-bypoll/story-JnEnuIpRKRiUtAiPe5ZOUP.html
15-10-2020||Kolkata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address Bengal BJP on Durga Sasthi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a virtual rally of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit on October 22, which marks the Durga Sasthi, the sixth day of the Durga Puja festival. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a rally of BJP karyakartas on October 22. We have received the confirmation. The rally is being organised on the sidelines of a Durga Puja that is being organised (not by the party) in Salt Lake,” said Sayantan Basu, general secretary of the BJP’s Bengal unit. A Durga Puja is being organised at EZCC in Salt Lake, in which BJP karyakartas will only participate. The party is not organising any puja on its own. Also Read: Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate Durga Pujas in Kolkata todayA senior BJP leader said that Modi’s address on Durga Sasthi would virtually kickstart the party’s battle for the crucial assembly polls in 2021. The BJP has decided not to project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming polls. Instead the party would highlight the achievements of the Modi government to counter the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. “With elections coming, our poll battle will pick up once the festive season is over. Protests would continue meanwhile. We are waiting for the Prime Minister’s address as this might also give us some directions,” said a senior leader of the party. Early next week, just ahead of the Durga Puja, BJP president JP Nadda is expected to visit North Bengal where the party grew exponentially and had won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. After the Durga Puja, Union home minster Amit Shah is likely to visit south Bengal where the ruling TMC still holds its ground. “While Nadda is expected to visit north Bengal on October 19, Shah is yet to confirm the dates,” said a party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-address-bengal-bjp-on-durga-sasthi/story-Z5rSh5cmzL3k5K1RYwLniP.html
15-10-2020||Pune||Rains relent in Pune after wreaking havoc, creating flood like situation||After torrential rains hit Pune and adjoining areas hard on Wednesday, the rains have relented by Thursday morning bringing relief to hassled residents but not before four persons including a woman were washed away in flood waters of a stream in Daund tehsil . Police officials, who recovered three bodies till Thursday morning, said, the victims were trying to cross a small bridge erected on a stream at Khanote village in Daund tehsil when they were swept away in swollen waters. Officials said a search is on for the fourth person.By midnight, rains relented completely in most parts of the district but the weather department has predicted more rainfall till Friday due to moisture incursion from depression over the interiors of Karnataka and the system moving into Maharashtra.Savitribai Phule Pune university has cancelled its final year exam scheduled on Thursday in view of the rains. The airport authorities said the heavy rains last night forced a Chennai-Pune flight to be diverted while a Pune-Bengaluru flight was sent back to the originating airport apart from several other incidents of flight delays. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune Shivajinagar received 96 mm rainfall on Wednesday, leaving several roads, housing societies and parking areas inundated while 10 vehicles were washed away in separate incidents in rural parts of the district. As the rainfall intensified post 6 pm, water gushed into Chandan Nagar police station, flooding documents, files and furniture. In the southern parts of Pune, two incidents of wall collapse were reported from Sahakar Nagar. Last year on September 25, flash floods had killed 26 people and washed away over 1000 vehicles, with Sahakar Nagar being the worst hit. Several low-lying areas reported water logging apart from power outage seen in most parts of the city though electricity was restored by Thursday morning. The central fire brigade said that water entered houses in Hadapsar, Kondhwa, Aundh, Bhavani Peth and Nana Peth areas resulting in fire brigade being pressed into service.Also Read: Maharashtra rains: Savitribai Phule Pune University postpones online, offline exams“We received frantic call from residents around 9 pm that water entered the houses following which rescue vans and fire brigade personnel with necessary equipment were sent for the assistance of citizens. The Pune –Solapur traffic highway movement was temporarily closed due to severe water logging creating flood like situation in the area. Meanwhile, as many as 40 persons were rescued safely while 15 others were being rescued from flood affected Nimgaon Ketki village,” said Prashant Ranpise, the fire brigade chief. Rural parts of Pune district are worst hit In rural parts of the district, Indapur tehsil was the worst hit as several vehicles in the area were washed away and Pune-Hyderabad national highway had to be closed for traffic after backwater from Ujani dam inundated parts of the road. “The stretch between Indapur and Bhigwan near Dalas village got flooded. As a preemptive measure, we had halted the traffic for more than one hour though it later opened,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune Rural. Several people who were washed away in flash floods along with their vehicles were rescued by locals, said Baramati sub divisional officer (SDO). Also Read: NGT slams district bodies for failing to restore 490-year-old wetland in MaharashtraAs heavy rains lashed the region, irrigation department officials started releasing water from Ujani dam-- located on Pune-Solapur border-- into Bhima river that passes through Pandharpur. By Thursday morning, the level of discharge was brought down. The Solapur district received over 138 mm rainfall during the 36 hours starting Tuesday morning, leading to water logging and flood-like situations as several small and medium streams began overflowing. Wall collapse at Pandharpur Earlier on Wednesday, six persons were killed after a wall at an under construction ‘ghat’ on Bhima river collapsed in Pandharpur, officials said. The 20-feet high wall came down due to continuous heavy rains in the temple town of Solapur. Four among the deceased were identified as Mangesh Abhangrao (35), Radha Abhangrao (50), Gopal Abhangrao (70) and Pillu Jagtap (13). The authorities were trying to ascertain the identities of the other two deceased, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rains-relent-in-pune-after-wreaking-havoc-creating-flood-like-situation/story-EvfRN0K13VaxznUBCTX2oO.html
15-10-2020||City||J&K political leaders meeting today||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti will attend a meeting of major political parties in Srinagar on Thursday two days after she became the last of the major political leaders to be released from detention. National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah has convened the meeting.Congress leader GA Mir, Sajad Lone of the People’s Conference, Awami National Conference’s Muzaffar Shah and MY Tarigani of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) are those expected to attend the meeting.Also read: Farooq Abdullah never said Article 370 will be restored with China’s help, clarifies National Conference“It is an important meet to attend. The agenda obviously is Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, “ said Shah.Mufti, 61, was released on Tuesday 14 months after she was among hundreds of people, including two other former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah, detained to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status in August 2019.Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released in March. They met Mufti on Wednesday to invite her for the meeting with the signatories of the Gupkar Declaration and to discuss the current political situation and the future course of action.The signatories met a day before the Centre moved to change Jammu & Kashmir’s constitutional status. They vowed to defend the “identity, autonomy, and special status of Jammu & Kashmir against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever”. The statement has since been known as the Gupkar Declaration.On August 22, six political parties issued a statement backing the declaration. This was the first statement issued after the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that gave Jammu & Kashmir the special status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-political-leaders-meeting-today/story-ZxHYs5qDIAwwobR49yHI8H.html
15-10-2020||City||Trains to Katra for Navratri cancelled due to farmers’ agitation in Punjab||Even as the Jammu and Kashmir administration mobilised its resources to ensure strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines ahead of nine-day long Navratri festival in Katra, two trains—Vande Bharat and Shri Shakti Express, scheduled to run from Delhi on Thursday—were cancelled at the last minute in view of the farmers’ agitation in Punjab over the controversial agrarian laws. Director of Jammu Railway station and senior divisional traffic manager Railways Sudhir Singh, said, “Vande Bharat and Shri Shakti Express trains from Delhi to Katra have been cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation in Punjab. Every day it appears that the farmers’ agitation will subside but it’s still lingering.” “Till it ends, trains can’t be run. Now we will see on Friday if we can run them,” he added. The official said that a passenger train usually transports1,000 passengers. Also Read: Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat, Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi: List of new trains available from October 15“However, it depends upon ticketing and how many people want to visit the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine,” he added. “The Jammu and Kashmir administration, in tandem with the railways, has made all arrangements for the Navratri festival. The first Vande Bharat train had to run on Thursday. Now, we will see if we can run it on Friday,” he said. The administration has made Covid-19 testing arrangements in Katra, Udhampur and Jammu. Security is also in place at Katra and the Vaishno Devi shrine. Reasi district police chief, SSP Rashmi Wazir, said, “We have deployed five quick reaction teams in Katra and three in the Bhawan (the sanctum sanctorum). There are eight police checkposts along the tracks leading up to the cave shrine and there will be round-the-clock patrolling during the festival.” She added that armed security personnel, policemen and CRPF personnel will guard the pilgrimage site 24x7. “We are confident of an incident-free Navratri festival,” she said. Wazir said Udhampur-Reasi range deputy inspector general of police, Sujit Kumar, reviewed the arrangements for the festival in Katra on Tuesday. “The cap on per day pilgrims to the shrine has been increased to 7,000 from 5,000. During the festival, two special trains, apart from Vande Bharat, will also run from Varanasi and Delhi,” she added. The health department has also augmented its infrastructure, setting up more testing kiosks and staff in Katra, including the railway station. Every pilgrim arriving in Katra will have to undergo a rapid antigen test (RAT) before being allowed to proceed on the pilgrimage. In case anyone tests positive, they will have to be quarantined in Katra for 10 days. A few hotels have also been identified for paid quarantine. However, if persons who test positive don’t want to be quarantined for 10 days, they can avail cabs to return home by road. Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib said, “There are 10 testing kiosks at the Katra railway station for the visiting pilgrims and five more will be added depending upon the bookings.” “Covid-19 testing arrangements are in place. Our health staff has also been augmented. We are prepared for the yatra to begin this Saturday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trains-to-katra-for-navratri-cancelled-due-to-farmers-agitation-in-punjab/story-pTOVGMNNOP3E3deMxpCa4L.html
15-10-2020||City||NGT slams district bodies for failing to restore 490-year-old wetland in Maharashtra||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the restoration of a 490-year-old wetland in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district and directed the bank account of the state public works department (PWD) be seized since its previous orders were not adhered to.The NGT principal bench of Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Dr Satyawan Singh Gabryal on October 9 directed the Sindhudurg district collector to ensure that an amount of Rs 1.5 crore is seized in the bank account of the PWD till the time it does not transfer the amount to State Biodiversity Board to restore the heritage Dhamapur Lake, a notified wetland.The district administration has also been directed to take necessary steps to remove all obstructions and illegalities (in terms of construction) undertaken in violation of the Wetland 2017 rules.Also read: Nothing more damaging than feeling helpless, says NGT in warning to Goa agency against violationsThe bench was hearing a 2017 application by Sindhudurg residents Dr Harishchandra Purshottam Natu and Omkar Keni before NGT, Pune, saying encroachments and the construction of skywalks around the Dhamapur Lake by the PWD with permissions issued by the district administration was shrinking the size of the lake and causing environmental degradation.The Dhamapur Lake, an inland wetland and a permanent freshwater lake, spread over about 44.8 hectares was constructed in 1530 between villages Are and Katta. The lake is surrounded by hills and dense plantation of mango, coconut and areca palm. It is both a source of drinking water and agricultural water source. It is one of the top 100 wetlands in India identified by the Union environment ministry for rapid restoration and improvement, and also a projected Ramsar site by the Maharashtra government. There are 193 floral and 247 faunal species in this wetland.The latest order by NGT clarified that on July 2, 2018, the Pune bench had ordered that the skywalk construction was in violation of wetland rules and had encroached the water body causing water pollution and destruction of natural biodiversity. PWD was directed to pay Rs. 1.5 crore back then for restoring the wetland and submit environment compensation costs to the State Biodiversity Board. However, the order was never followed.“Since order has been passed against the PWD who was the project proponent thus responsibility to pay the amount is with the PWD department. Since the amount has not been deposited thus we direct that the account of the PWD be seized to the extent of Rs 1.5 crore till the amount is deposited to the biodiversity board,” the order said.A statement to HT by advocates representing the applicant Rahul Choudhary and Kanika Sood said, “Despite the construction being illegal and within the notice of all statutory authorities, it took the order of the NGT and the subsequent declaration of the lake as a wetland for a direction to the authorities to remove the structure. Further the fine of Rs. 1.5 crores had been imposed in 2018 but no action was ever taken to comply with the order. We hope the statutory authorities comply with the latest order and preserve the wetland.”The NGT noted the district collector. as the public representative of the state, is responsible for any activity within the district. “Accordingly, a show-cause notice be issued to the Sindhudurg collector why action should not be initiated against him/her for not taking any action with regard to the illegality committed by the officers concerned,” the order said. In 2019, the NGT has also issued a bailable warrant against the Sindhudurg collector who had failed to appear in person despite specific directions to do so.Shubhangi Anil Sathe, resident deputy collector, Sindhudurg, said, “We have already begun working on this issue and soon enough the bank account would be seized as directed by the NGT. Simultaneous work is underway to restore the wetland through the skywalk demolition, and all directions will be complied with.”Applicant Omkar Keni, also a member of the Sindhudurg Wetland Brief Documentation Committee, said applicants would be submitting suggestions for the process to demolish the skywalk. “The collector should form a civil society committee for monitoring and for expert advice during demolition and restoration measures. Demolition should be done in the period of March-May following the Pollution Control Board norms under the supervision of civil society members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-slams-district-bodies-for-failing-to-restore-490-year-old-wetland-in-maharashtra/story-36ssEh3X3lCkyTdUFEDPCK.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||UP considering Centre like festival bonanza for its employees before Diwali||The Uttar Pradesh government is considering a festival bonanza for some of its employees before Diwali as per an instruction by chief minister Yogi Adityanath to work out a scheme similar to the festival advance and cash vouchers given to government employees by the Centre.The state finance department is making an assessment of the total impact the move may have on the state exchequer before the bonanza is finalised, officials aware of the developments said.Also Read: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to start #HaathDhonaRokeyCorona Chief secretary RK Tiwari confirmed the state government was working out a proposal in this regard. “Yes, we are working on the lines of the union government’s proposal,” he said. The state government has been releasing bonuses to its category C and D staff before Diwali every year. It may do so this year as well. The largesse benefitted about 14 lakh employees and it cost nearly Rs 900 crore in 2019. A part of the bonus was paid in cash, while the rest was deposited to employees’ provident fund accounts. Those representing employees have already begun demanding that the entire bounty is paid in cash this time.Also Read: Theatres in UP all set to open today, with riders “The state government gives a 50% bonus in cash and the remaining 50% is deposited in the provident fund. As the intention behind the move is to increase the cash flow to the market, we are demanding 100% payment in cash,” said Yadvendra Mishra of the secretariat employees’ union.The state finances are currently under strain due to the debilitating economic impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-considering-centre-like-festival-bonanza-for-its-employees-before-diwali/story-YVrWMEFqAFiaiJVGijyHIK.html
15-10-2020||City||Several parties to stay away from meet on Naga political issue; Congress asks Nagaland CM to step down||The Neiphiu Rio-led government in Nagaland has convened a consultative meeting of all social organisations and stakeholders in the state capital Kohima on Thursday to discuss the ongoing peace talks between Naga nationalist groups and the Central government.However, several political parties, including the opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF), the Congress and Janata Dal (United), have decided to stay away from the meeting. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister TR Zeliang, who represents the NPF, said that the regional party would not attend the meeting. Also read: Nagaland govt issues guidelines for Durga Puja celebrationsHe pointed out chief minister Rio’s indifferent and wavering attitude as a deterrent towards finding a lasting solution to the vexed issue. Zeliang said his party hoped that CM Rio would display a positive attitude towards civil society organisations and stakeholders, and the state government would come up with a concrete decision.The Nagaland Pradesh Congress Committee (NPCC) issued a statement and condemned the consultative meeting as superfluous. It cited that the negotiating parties had made it clear that the Naga talks had successfully concluded on October 31, 2019, following which the interlocutor and Governor of Nagaland RN Ravi had held a series of consultations with various stakeholders.“Since we are at the threshold of inking a final agreement, we anticipate that the state government under CM Rio will step down in favour of solution, which has been his commitment for the past 17 years. He has never failed to remind the people of Nagaland about this while addressing every political or social gathering in the state,” the NPCC’s statement read. It urged CM Rio to uphold his commitment and avoid being an obstacle. The Nagaland unit of the JD (U), which has also announced to skip the meeting, blamed the Rio administration for its failure to handle the issue. It ,too, urged the CM to demit office following an interim arrangement between the Naga nationalist groups and the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/several-parties-to-stay-away-from-meet-on-naga-political-issue-congress-asks-nagaland-cm-to-step-down/story-9xM5FjgvdpasC1Z3520BpK.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Global Handwashing Day : UP CM Yogi Adityanath to start #HaathDhonaRokeyCorona||Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath will start a new hashtag, #HaathDhonaRokeyCorona (hand-washing will check the spread of corona) on the occasion of the Global Handwashing Day on Thursday. Thousands of people in the 75 districts of UP will wash their hands simultaneously to highlight the importance of hand hygiene. State government officials and employees will wash their hands between 10 am and 12 noon while maintaining social distancing norms and wearing masks in a bid to drive home the message how to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read: Theatres in UP all set to open today, with ridersThe drill will also be carried out in hospitals, anganwadi, panchayati raj and other state government departments. The UP government has urged the public to include the hashtag in their posts. They can also share the videos and photographs to the following email --- hwdnhmiec@gmail.com. The best videos and photographs would be rewarded, state government officials said. Covid-19 pandemic cases are on the wane in the state, yet the public should remain alert, said Navneet Kumar Sehgal, additional chief secretary (ACS), information, UP, while addressing a press conference with Amit Mohan Prasad, ACS, health and family welfare, UP.Experts have been insisting that washing hands would not only protect a person from SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, but would also help break the viral infection chain, a state government official said. “Hand washing should be made a people’s movement to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state,” he added. Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), regional centre, Lucknow, had organised an awareness programme on the eve of Global Handwashing Day at an urban slum at Mansarovar Yojna, Dubagga, on Wednesday. The importance of hand hygiene and techniques of handwashing were explained to the slum-dwellers as part of the awareness campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/global-handwashing-day-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-start-haathdhonarokeycorona/story-esBy7wXENNLq3Ut6lDaFxI.html
15-10-2020||Kolkata||PM Modi likely to deliver message for Bengal on Durga Puja||For the first time, the women’s wing of West Bengal BJP will be organising Durga puja, the biggest festival of the state, in an apparent bid to gain political mileage ahead of next year’s Assembly election, a party leader said on Wednesday.The puja will be held at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre in Salt Lake which is close to Kolkata. The EZCC is under the overall supervision of the Union Ministry of Culture and the West Bengal governor is its chairman.“The Mahila Morcha and the cultural cell of the party have been given the responsibility to organise Durga Puja at EZCC this year. This is the first time that we are organising a puja,” BJP women wing state president Agnimitra Paul said.Cultural programmes will also be held during the festival.Asked why the party is organising the puja, a senior state BJP leader alleged that the ruling Trinamool Congress had stopped various community puja committees from allowing BJP leaders to get associated with them.“What would you do when you are not allowed to be part of puja committees? You will organise a Durga puja on your own. That’s what we are doing,” the BJP leader said.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, however, said the party is not directly involved in organising the puja.“It is being organised by our cultural and women’s wings. The party is not directly involved in it,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to deliver a message on October 22 for the people of West Bengal on the occasion of Durga puja, state party vice-president Pratap Banerjee said.TMC supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that Durga puja this year will be held in the state adhering strictly to Covid-19 safety protocol.After decades of its limited presence in the politically polarised state, the BJP has emerged as the main rival to the ruling Trinamool Congress winning 18 of its 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections.With the BJP’s strength increasing manifold in the last few years in the state, where it has never been in power, party leaders have expressed confidence that it will end Banerjee’s 10-year rule in the Assembly polls likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pm-modi-likely-to-deliver-message-on-oct-22-for-bengal-on-durga-puja/story-sFopDugbY98kCEymAIYs8O.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records decade’s highest 24-hour October rain, 2nd highest monthly rain in 10 years||Intense overnight thunderstorms with gusty winds and continuous rain led to Mumbai’s highest 24-hour October rainfall in 10 years. The weather bureau has said the entire Konkan coast, including Mumbai, is expected to receive heavy to very heavy rain with the possibility of extremely heavy rain on Thursday. Due to intermittent spells of heavy rain, Mumbai recorded its second highest monthly rainfall (144.8mm) in a decade. The highest was in 2012 when 197.7mm of rainfall was recorded in October.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 86.5mm of rain between 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday, with a majority of the rainfall recorded overnight (8.30pm to 8.30am). Prior to this, the decade’s highest one-day October rainfall was recorded in 2011 (October 13) at 71mm. The all-time 24-hour record was October 4, 1988 at 140.8mm. Also Read: Extremely heavy rain warning for parts of west coast todayBetween 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday, the Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 115.8mm of rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) did not have past rain data for Colaba for October but said this was one of the highest 24-hour rainfall ever recorded during the month. “The city and suburbs both witnessed intense thunderstorm activity through the night with a dense cloud cover over Mumbai, located 10km from the ground, leading to widespread rain activity. Early morning commuters are likely to face severe difficulties due to waterlogging in low-lying areas,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said. The maximum rainfall was recorded at Worli (110.8mm) followed by Navi Mumbai (101mm), and Mazgaon (97.2mm). The rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded rainfall between 50mm and 85mm over the past 24 hours.Hosalikar added that intense cloud cover was observed off the coast of Mumbai on Thursday morning. “The well-marked low pressure area is now located over south central Maharashtra and around south Konkan. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and emerge into the Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast, and intensify into a depression over Arabian Sea over the next 48 hours,” said Hosalikar. “Intense rain is expected during the evening and late at night, similar to Wednesday,” said Hosalikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-decade-s-highest-24-hour-october-rain-2nd-highest-monthly-rain-in-10-years/story-5DGtX98zNszUW9jkdXMEWK.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Snatchers throw cash on road to trap their victims; both caught, handed over to police||Two men allegedly lured their victim by throwing currency notes on the road in north Delhi and tried to escape with his bag when he stopped to pick up the money, the Delhi Police said.Until now, it were only the Thak-Thak gangs which were known to use currency notes to lure people. But while the Thak-Thak gangs would follow up the currency trick by using guile to steal their victims’ belongings, mostly from their car, in the latest case, the snatchers used force to take away the victim’s bag.Also read: Parliament committee to discuss crime in Delhi-NCRHowever, the victim chased and caught both the suspects and recovered his bag from them, said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north).The crime took place on Monday evening while 57-year-old Padam Prakash Gautam was riding his motorcycle from his home in Harsh Vihar to Kamla Market. “When he reached the Geeta Colony Flyover, he saw five Rs 500 notes lying on the road. He stopped his motorcycle to pick them up,” said the DCP.Gautam had barely kept the notes in his bag that the two suspects, riding a motorcycle, swooped on him and snatched his bag. In addition to the currency he had just picked up, Gautam’s bag had Rs1,500 in cash, said the DCP.“He chased the snatchers and recovered his bag from them. The police were called and the two suspects, Nizamuddin and Adil, were arrested,” said the DCP, adding that a probe is on to know how many more people the duo targeted using the same modus operandi.Another investigator said that the gang resorted to this method as they anticipated no resistance, no chase and no risk in this trick. “They thought that they could even recover the cash they invested in the crime,” said the investigator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-snatchers-throw-cash-on-road-to-trap-their-victims-both-caught-handed-over-to-police/story-JXqcvHKQPnxTq3ItjGlHYJ.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Birders, fishers told to stay away from Panje as tidal water flow stopped to site||Fresh trouble is brewing at the Panje area in Navi Mumbai’s Uran, where birders and fisherfolk who have identified several environmental violations in the past, have been told to remain clear of the site and were also taken to a local police station allegedly by landowners.At the same time, an excavator machine was spotted on Wednesday with plans to commence debris dumping on the parched wetland where only a handful of birds were spotted as high tide water ingress had been blocked, said environmentalists.Apart from being a source of survival for the local fishing community, Panje is a destination for thousands of migratory birds and an ecologically sensitive area where countless ornithologists and bird enthusiasts have been gathering over the years. However, the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco) and Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) plan to build an integrated township at Panje.Local resident and birder Parag Gharat said he was told by NMSEZ representatives and security guards placed by Cidco to stay away from the site. “I was taken to the local police station at Nhava Sheva where I had to promise not to visit the wetland again or face action since construction is commencing and the area is not a wetland,” he said.Also read: NMSEZ damaged Uran mangroves, wetlands, reveals RTIPramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco said he was not aware of any such action. “We will look into the matter and speak to NMSEZ officials on any developments at the site,” he said.“We have no information on any police complaint but a large portion of Panje belongs to NMSEZ and the site is an agricultural area, not a wetland,” said an NMSEZ spokesperson.An official from the Nhava Sheva police said they had summoned three persons for taking photographs and fishing at Panje. “We have received complaints. It is private property and these acts are not allowed,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Environmentalist Aishwarya Sridhar was accosted by unidentified persons on Tuesday for taking photographs at Panje. “I feel very sad to see Panje dried up and the sight of birds sitting on the dried wetland was heartbreaking. There is absolutely no value for ecosystems like wetlands and big corporations are trading our ecology for the economy. The development has to be sustainable. If we lose Panje we lose an important flood control mechanism for Mumbai city,” she said.Environment groups have been petitioning environment minister Aaditya Thackeray to declare Panje a bird sanctuary. “It is illegal to treat the wetland as private property, and even more illegal to stop tidal water flow to dry out the land for construction,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation.HT reported last week that information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) showed that NMSEZ had illegally started landfill at Panje wetland through a local contractor while damaging the Pagote and Bhendkhal wetlands in the Uran region in Raigad district across Mumbai harbour. “Neither the NMSEZ security nor police has any business to stop any free movement of people at Panje,” said environmentalist Nandkumar Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/birders-fishers-told-to-stay-away-from-panje-as-tidal-water-flow-stopped-to-site/story-rkYWWqLDhMP00uyUwrJFNJ.html
15-10-2020||Bhopal||6 die after consuming intoxicant named ‘Potali’ in MP’s Ujjain, cops worried||As many as six persons, most of them labourers, died in Ujjain city, 190 km west of Bhopal, in a span of about 12 hours on Wednesday after allegedly consuming an intoxicant called ‘potali’, said police. Two labourers--Shankarlal, 40, a resident of Piploda Bagla village and Vijay alias Krishna, 45, a resident of Nagda town in Ujjain district-- were found dead at Chhatri Chowk Sarai under Khara Kuan police station. Two others were found serious ill some distance away and were rushed to the district hospital, said police. Those admitted to the hospital identified as Babloo Yadav, 40, a resident of Dani gate and Badrilal, 65, a resident of Chhatri Chowk Sarai in Ujjain city told the police that they had bought ‘potali’ from a man named Shankar in Kaharwadi area and that most of labourers bought the intoxicant from there. The two died in the district hospital in the evening, according to Khara Kuan police. In separate incidents, a labourer Dinesh Joshi, 45, a resident of Ankpat area in Ujjain city was found dead near Madhav Goshala in the evening. Another labourer Peer Shah, 45, a resident of Begum Bagh locality in Ujjain died in the district hospital during treatment. While Joshi used to beg when without any job, Peer Shah was a vendor.Also Read: Minor in Bhopal befriended during PUBG game, gang raped and blackmailed “There was a common link found behind most of the deaths that the deceased used to consume a ginger solution, an intoxicant made available by some people here whom we are trying to track down...,” said Rajnish Kashyap, Ujjain superintendent of police.The police officer said deaths of six persons in a day were alarming.Also Read: MP woman stabs man 25 times for repeated ‘rape’ for past 15 years“There are a good number of beggars in Ujjain due to many temples existing in the city including the famous Mahakal temple. Two to three beggars die almost daily but death of as many as six persons in a day is alarming for us, more because most of the deaths are linked with the consumption of an intoxicant called ginger liquor. It’s not alcohol per se but a solution used as an intoxicant. The dead bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination. The doctors have told us that they need some more time to arrive at a conclusion on the cause of death of all the six persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/6-die-after-consuming-intoxicant-named-potali-in-mp-s-ujjain-cops-worried/story-YHkYhGDkzNE3S2U333pi3L.html
15-10-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate Durga Pujas in Kolkata today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to virtually inaugurate several Durga Pujas in Kolkata and some south Bengal districts from the state secretariat on Thursday afternoon. A day before, she had inaugurated 69 pujas which are being organised in 10 districts of north Bengal, including Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills. Also read: Multiplexes, cinemas prep to reopen in Bengal, 12 films due for release next weekMeanwhile, a PIL has been filed in the Calcutta high court to stall the festivities around the Durga Puja which starts from next week. The PIL says that the festivities could lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases as was seen in Kerala after Onam. The matter is likely to be heard on Friday. “This is for the first time that I am inaugurating and seeing some of the pujas in the districts as everything is being done virtually because of the pandemic,” Banerjee said, while inaugurating some of the pujas on Wednesday. Earlier this week, Banerjee had announced that she would virtually inaugurate dozens of pujas this time. Some of the major pujas in Kolkata, patronised by senior Trinamool Congress leaders and ministers would be inaugurated from Thursday. “She is expected to inaugurate pujas in north Kolkata while on October 15 and those in south Kolkata the next day,” said a government official. Durga Puja would be celebrated for four days starting October 23. This year, more than 37,000 pujas would be organised across the state, including more than 2,500 in Kolkata and around 1,700 pujas which are organised by women. The list doesn’t include those organised inside housing societies and homes. While the festive season has started and puja shopping is going on in full swing, puja committees are hiving final touches to the pandals. Several restrictions, such as a ban on cultural programs near pandals and no entry in pandals without masks, have been imposed. The immersion carnival, a pet project of Banerjee’s which had become a major crowd puller, has also been cancelled this year because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-to-inaugurate-durga-pujas-in-kolkata-today/story-b2JcMWa2yFNdzPmAbO1QUP.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s cinema halls set to reopen today: All you need to know||Several cinema halls in Delhi will reopen on Thursday after being shut down for over seven months because of restrictions related to the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown in March.If you are planning to watch a movie at a theatre, here’s all you need to know1. Face masks are compulsory.2. Install the Aarogya Setu mobile application.3. There will be gaps between seats even if people arrive in the theatres in groups.4. Wait for your turn—the intermissions will be longer. So, wait for your turn if you plan to go out of the auditorium. Show the same patience before heading back to your seat.5. If you buy food inside multiplexes, eat it in the lobby. Eating inside the auditoriums during screening is prohibited.Also Read: Delhi govt to frame guidelines for all private coaching centresThe aforementioned points are part of a new safety protocols mentioned in a document submitted to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Wednesday by representatives of a collective of cinema hall owners and multiplexes in Delhi.The Multiplex Association of India told HT in a statement: “We have developed our SOPs after careful thought to ensure the safety of all moviegoers, without interfering with their moviegoing experience. All guidelines laid down by the Government will be followed in its entirety with utmost sincerity. Aspects such as chequered seating, staggered show timings, paperless ticketing, cashless payments, compulsory masks and many other such measures, will ensure a safe, secure and hygienic cinema going experience for the movie lovers. We look forward to welcoming back moviegoers to a safe and amazing brand-new experience at our cinemas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-cinema-halls-set-to-reopen-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-ljtih1XVFu2XeISFDYBiXI.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||AC local train services to resume in Mumbai today||Air-conditioned (AC) local train services for passengers will resume on the Western Railway from today. Ten AC local train services will be operated by the zonal railways between Churchgate and Virar railway stations on the fast railway line corridor, mostly during the peak office hours.“AC train services will resume from Thursday. Initially, ten services will be operated and based on the response, the services will be increased,” said a senior Western Railway official.Also read: All you need to know about schools, cinemas, religious gatherings resuming today Western Railway will also begin operating 194 new local train services from Thursday in order to avoid crowding inside local train compartments.The Central Railway will also operate 28 new local train services from Thursday. Train services will be operated on the mainline between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT)- Kalyan and on the harbour railway and the trans-harbour railway route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ac-local-train-services-to-resume-in-mumbai-today/story-fy6SmKrDmeIjLatI5nSVrJ.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro to start from Monday, Monorail from Sunday: All you need to know||The Mumbai Metro-1 (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) and Monorail (Chembur-Jacob Circle) are all to start services after being closed since March due to the to the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown. While the Central government allowed Metro services to resume in September, the Maharashtra government was sceptical of reopening services as the state has one of the highest number of Covid-19 cases. The state on Wednesday recorded 10,552 Covid-19 cases and 158 fatalities, while Mumbai recorded 2,211 cases with 48 fatalities. Here are the safety protocols being put in place before the Metro and Monorail resume servicesFor the Metro1. Commuters will be asked to occupy alternate seats and stand on designated floor markers inside the trains.2. No plastic tokens will be issued. Instead commuters will be requested to opt for digital tickets, smart cards or paper QR tickets.3. Commuters will be expected to wear masks and practise social distancing at all times.4. Entry points at every station will be limited in order to ensure effective crowd management, screening and further movement in station areas. Suitable communication and directions for the same will be displayed for commuters to guide them to the nearest entry gate.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 case doubling time has sharply increased to 70.4 days, says health ministry5. Every commuter who enters a Metro station shall be screened by non-contact thermal screening devices. 6. The temperatures inside the coaches will be maintained at 25-27 degrees Centigrade and fresh air supply will be increased by adjusting the damper opening. Train doors will remain open for 30 seconds at all stations and 180 seconds at terminal stations to let fresh air into the coaches.7. Arrangements are being made to maintain social distancing at all touch points: station entry gates, ticketing counters, frisking areas, platforms and trains.8. Metro One has also created a health committee to see to it that protocols are followed. Commuters’ concerns will also be addressed by this committee. For the Monorail1. The Mumbai Monorail will not allow passengers without masks. 2. Only passengers with an Aarogya Setu mobile app, showing safe status, will be allowed on the train.3. Commuters can only occupy alternate seats on the train.4. The Monorail will not issue any plastic tokens, paper tickets.5. Passengers will be screened at the entry gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-to-start-from-monday-monorail-from-sunday-all-you-need-to-know/story-xjcDb22JTejqLvLl7sF5bI.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Theatres in UP all set to open today, with riders||Multiplexes and single screens across Uttar Pradesh (UP), closed due to Covid-19 pandemic since March, are set to open from Thursday with just two shows and re-runs of hits. Wearing masks inside halls would be mandatory. “Initially, only two shows would be screened with the first show starting at 1.45 pm. The second show will start from 5.45pm onwards and will conclude at around 9pm. The time between the two shows would be utilised in sanitising the movie hall,” said Ashish Agarwal, president UP cinema exhibitors’ federation and managing director of Lucknow’s Umrao Mall. Also read: All you need to know about schools, cinemas, religious gatherings resuming today “UP has more than 300 single screens and 87 multiplexes with nine multiplexes and ten single screens in Lucknow,” he added. As no new releases are scheduled immediately, theatres are likely to open with hits like Ajay Devgn starrer ‘Tanahji’, Ayushman Khurana starrer ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan’ and Tapsee Pannu starrer ‘Thappad’. “These are the movies that were doing good business when the closure was initiated in March and hence we would open with them,” said Tushar Singh, duty manager, operation department, Crown mall. Singh said as per the guidelines, they would be running the shows with 50% seating capacity. Despite no new releases, cinema hall owners were still expecting a decent opening on Thursday. “We would be operating after nearly seven months and hence we expect crowds. It’s a big relief for us. We have made elaborate arrangements at the multiplexes and single screens in order to ensure safety of the people,” said Agarwal. Lucknow’s Wave multiplex assistant manager Rishi Mishra said all employees were being tested for Covid-19 and only those who test negative will be put on duty. They will have to wear masks and gloves, he added. Mishra said the hall will be sanitised after every show. Novelty Cinema manager Rajesh Tandon said all employees underwent Covid tests on Wednesday and their reports were expected on Thursday. “After this, we would begin screening films from Friday,” he said, adding that tickets will be sold online. Shubham Cinema too will reopen on Friday. In Kanpur, cinemas halls will sell tickets to only 50% of their seats, and wearing masks inside the theatres will be compulsory, district magistrate Alok Kumar Tiwari said. To ensure public safety, only members of the same family will be allowed to sit together, superintendent of police (east) Raj Kumar Agarwal said. Gorakhpur’s INOX cinema hall manager, Manish Ojha, said viewers will have to undergo thermal scanning before entering the hall. AD Cinema in the city will open from Friday, its owner Niraj Das said. Covid-19 protocols will be followed and sanitation of the hall is underway, he added. According to the advisory issued by the government, multiplexes and cinema halls can open only with an audience of 50% of their seating capacity and to ensure social distancing mandatory. It also made it mandatory for the big screens to provide provisions for sanitisers and hand washing facilities, allowing only asymptomatic people to enter. UP chief secretary R K Tiwari issued a statement saying arrangements should be made for contactless sanitiser dispenser and thermal screening of individuals before they enter the auditorium. Theatres have also decided to admit only asymptomatic people. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/theatres-in-up-all-set-to-open-today-with-riders/story-v6sdVbyx2U8GxYICoob2fJ.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana woman locked in toilet by husband for over a year, rescued: Officials||A 35 year-old woman in Haryana was forced to live in subhuman conditions for the past one and a half years, locked in a toilet by her husband, in Rishpur village of Panipat district, claimed officials. The victim, a mother of three children, was rescued from a very small and stinking toilet by a team of district women and child welfare department officials on Wednesday. The rescued woman was first taken to civil hospital and now she has been handed over to her cousin.After getting information that a woman was being held captive by her husband, the district women protection officer Rajni Gupta reached the house with police officials and found the woman locked inside the toilet. Watch | Haryana woman held captive by husband in toilet for over a year, rescuedGupta said that the team found the woman lying in the toilet in a miserable condition. During the investigation it was found that she was forced to live in subhuman conditions for the past one and a half years.“She was so weak that she could not even walk; she ate 8 chapattis, when we gave her food,” Gupta added. She was not even given proper food and drinking water in captivity.Also Read: Husband, in-laws, SAD leader booked in dowry case at Mohali villageThe woman had been married to Naresh Kumar for the last 17 years and has three children, including a 15 year-old daughter and two sons aged 11 and 13.Kumar claimed that his wife had mental health issues but the welfare department officer said that the victim was able to identify all family members and replied to all the questions asked by the team.Also Read: Order CBI probe into exchange of shamlat land in Mohali village: SAD“Even her husband could not produce the alleged document related to her treatment of mental illness,” Gupta added.A case had been registered against woman’s husband Naresh Kumar under sections 498 A and 342 of the IPC. The accused has been arrested and an investigation is underway, according to Surender Dahiya, incharge of Sanoli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-woman-locked-in-toilet-by-husband-for-over-a-year-rescued-officials/story-Exa6N8VL01HAC8OmXcUQJI.html
15-10-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta High Court quashes charges against Babul Supriyo||In a huge relief for Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, the Calcutta high court on Wednesday quashed charges of outraging the modesty of a woman that the Kolkata Police had brought against the singer-turned-politician in connection with a complaint filed in 2017 by Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mahua Moitra. Moitra had accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader of passing an “objectionable” statement during a news channel debate.Moitra, who is now a member of the Lok Sabha, was a state legislator at that time.The complaint against Supriyo was lodged at Alipore police station in Kolkata on January 4, 2017. On March 10, 2017, the Alipore chief judicial magistrate (CJM) had issued a warrant against Supriyo after the police submitted a charge sheet wherein the BJP leader was marked as ‘absconding’. Supriyo, minister of state, had approached the Calcutta HC challenging the charge sheet. Supriyo on Wednesday shared images of the operative part of the judgement., which quashed the Kolkata Police charge sheet, on his Twitter account. Moitra was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-high-court-quashes-charges-against-babul-supriyo/story-O2ewbkhg0dgKSQlsVhusxL.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt told to constitute juvenile justice board in each district||The Allahabad high court has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to take steps for constitution of Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) in each district of the state, expeditiously.The court asked the government to ensure that the board is constituted in every district of the state to take appropriate measures including those related to children accused of violating any penal laws. Besides, the court also directed the state government to ensure that in future, steps for filling vacancies in the JJB are taken at least six months prior to the date of the post getting vacant.Disposing of a writ petition, filed by one Ishwari Prasad Tiwari, justice Shashi Kant Gupta and justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “This court once again reiterates that non-function of the board is clearly against the mandate of Article 15(3) of the Constitution, which provides that state shall make special provisions for women and children.”Also Read: Hathras case: CBI questions victim’s father, two brothersIn the present case, the petitioner has alleged that despite the directions of the court and the statement given before this court, the constitution of the Juvenile Justice Board has not taken place in the state.The court further observed, “Children are the backbone of the country and Article 15(3) mandates the state to take special measures to protect the rights of the children.”Also Read: Yogi govt eases procedure of life certificate submission for senior citizensSection 4 of the Juvenile Justice Act provides for a JJB in every district. The said board comprises a metropolitan magistrate or a judicial magistrate of the first class and two social workers, at least one of whom shall be a woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-govt-told-to-constitute-juvenile-justice-board-in-each-district/story-s7zb8V2LcyFGRwYhuTB3xN.html
15-10-2020||Bhopal||Minor in Bhopal befriended during PUBG game, gang raped and blackmailed||Three teenagers were arrested Wednesday late evening in Bhopal for allegedly raping a minor repeatedly for the past one and a half months after befriending her online while playing PUBG (PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds) game, said police.All three boys, under 20 years of age, were residents of Gautam Nagar locality in Bhopal, said Alok Shrivastava, town inspector, Ashoka Garden police station.The accused were booked under sections 376 (2)N (committing rape repeatedly on same woman), 376 DA (punishment for gang rape on woman under sixteen years of age) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 5/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Wednesday evening, according to the police officer.Also Read: MP woman stabs man 25 times for repeated ‘rape’ for past 15 years“The survivor, a 14-year-old girl lodged an FIR on Wednesday evening that the three accused befriended her while playing PUBG game, which is now banned in India, two months ago. They called her to meet them at a place in Rambha Nagar area, where they live, in September first week. When she reached there, all three accused raped her. They also shot videos of their criminal act and started blackmailing her. They raped her many times during this period.”Also Read: Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh sees 37% decline in fresh cases in past three weeks“The girl’s mother noticed sudden changes in the behaviour of her daughter, who later confided in her on Wednesday. The girl with her mother then reached Ashoka Garden police station and lodged the FIR,” the officer added. Police have arrested all the three accused, who are being questioned. They would be produced before the court on Thursday, according to a police officer from Ashoka Garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/minor-in-bhopal-befriended-during-pubg-game-gang-raped-and-blackmailed/story-oDYTk5HkbPIrjmZ2tqJ36N.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Rains continue to lash Mumbai, IMD red alert for today||Rains continue to lash Mumbai and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rains in parts of Maharashtra for Thursday. It has also issued a red alert for the entire North Konkan area, including Mumbai and Thane.Heavy rainfall has triggered water logging in parts of Mumbai. In Pune, as many as 40 people were rescued in the flood-affected Nimgaon Ketki village in Pune district on Wednesday.According to SDO, Baramati, Pune, 40 people safely rescued, while rescue operations for 15 others underway in flood-affected Nimgaon Ketki village of Pune district. In another incident near Indapur, two people who washed away with their vehicle have been rescued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rains-continue-to-lash-mumbai-imd-red-alert-for-today/story-uGCYAyWdv02tQMCKyBc3xK.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Chinmayanand case: Court likely to decide on course of action today||A Lucknow court that deals with cases against members of Parliament and members of the legislative assembly will decide on the future course of action against former union minister Chinmayanand on Thursday after a law student who accused him of raping her disowned her statement before the special court.The court will also decide on action against the LLM student after the prosecution demanded action against her for alleged perjury under Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). On Tuesday, the student denied she had levelled any allegations against Chinmayanand as the prosecution had charged.Om Singh, one of the advocates representing Chinmayanand, said: “It is now clear that all the charges of sexual harassment were concocted to defame and extort money from Chinmayanand. We will plan our next step after the court’s decision on the matter.” He declined to comment on the possibility of lodging a case of criminal defamation against the woman. The woman or her lawyers could not be contacted for a comment.The case came to light in August last year when the woman, who was studying law at the Swami Shukdevanand Postgraduate College in Shahjahanpur, released videos alleging rape and sexual harassment by Chinmayanand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chinmayanand-case-court-likely-to-decide-on-course-of-action-today/story-gjeDj5470PfFRlMyRIAjKN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Beyond Humayun’s Tomb||The big one, Pilkhan, is 104 years old, and the small one, frangipani, is just 15. You too might have noticed the juxtaposed beauty of these two trees— or not. After all, it is difficult to look away from Humayun’s Tomb when one is in Humayun’s Tomb.The iconic monument complex sprawls over several acres, and every bit of it is as beautiful as the signature building. With the hot weather gone, you must spend an entire day here, from morning to evening, as this is the only way to experience the place in all its subtleties.The Mughal-era complex is studded with scores of smaller monuments. One of these—Isa Khan’s mausoleum, with its accompanying mosque—is a world of its own. It has already been celebrated in these pages. After having surveyed both the big tombs, this must be your plan of action for the rest of the day:Aimlessly stroll about the gardensCircle around the rarely frequented buildings on the peripheriesObserve the fellow visitors, and eavesdrop on their talks (as fun as any rom-com)Gaze upon the trees and flowersLounge on one of the garden benchesThen there’s another dimension to Humayun’s Tomb—heard, not seen. The air hums intermittently with the chuk-chuk sound of trains—the railway track runs behind the monument, and the engines’ horn hauntingly evokes all the far-off lands the trains are headed to. While the bird chatter is so loud that you fear the trees from which it is coming might explode any moment. Indeed, there is arguably no other place in Delhi where you can hear so many diverse avian sounds all at the same time, and without a break (Lodhi Garden’s bird orchestra performs only in the evening).Occasionally, the laughter of visitors inside the monument echoes out, briefly disrupting the aural harmony of the place.Another absorbing sight is to observe the people with a day job in the monument—the guards strolling about their assigned areas (what can be going on in their mind during these long, lonesome shifts?), the grass cutters cutting the grass with their back towards the Humayun’s Tomb, and the sweating gardeners gathering the fallen leaves into bundles.By the time the evening sets in and it is time to leave, the monument and its surroundings have been viewed through many moods and many shades of daylight. One feels one has made a long journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-beyond-humayun-s-tomb/story-6U83gMve9pqXgokhKEN1OK.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Pollution: Gensets banned, Grap rules kick in||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Wednesday announced a ban on the use of fuel-powered generators from October 15 under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), a set of anti-pollution restrictions that include pre-emptive measures to stop the air quality from deteriorating to emergency levels.On Wednesday, the overall air quality index (AQI) was 276 in the “poor” category, an improvement from the previous day’s 300. However, a layer of haze hung over the Capital, leading to concerns of an impending bad air crisis like previous years. The AQI hit “very poor” on Tuesday morning, and touched 318, the worst level since February this year.“DPCC hereby bans the operation of generator sets of all capacities, run on diesel, petrol or kerosene in Delhi with effect from October 15 till further orders, excluding those used for essential or emergency services,” an order read.Bhure Lal, chairperson of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca), a Supreme Court-appointed body tasked with overseeing the implementation of the pollution control action plan in the National Capital Region (NCR), said that Grap will be enforced “with no concessions” to any state.Also Read: Smoggy Delhi struggles to shrug off toxic pollutantsThis means that from Thursday, generator sets will not be allowed in Delhi and the neighbouring towns of Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Greater Noida and Faridabad. The only exception to this will be emergency services such as hospitals, elevators, airports, railway and Delhi Metro services.Grap lays down sets of curbs that are enforced when AQI crosses certain thresholds — the most serious of these include a ban on trucks, odd-even road restrictions, curbs on construction work, and an advisory to shut schools.Reminding the states to strictly enforce the genset ban, Lal on Wednesday wrote to the chief secretaries of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, asking them to issue directions to their respective state electricity boards to ensure 24x7 electricity supply to avoid the need for generator sets.“...As you are aware that any deterioration in ambient air quality in the region during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic would have considerable ramifications in terms of health of the residents of Delhi-NCR, sincere efforts must be made to ensure that the ban is effective and monitored rigorously in your area,” Lal wrote.While Delhi has been enforcing a ban on diesel gensets before the winter season since 2017, last year, the governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh asked for an extension till October 2020 from Epca to ensure that all power grids are installed in areas that are completely dependent on gensets.On Tuesday, Haryana’s additional chief secretary (power department), Trilok C Gupta wrote to the Epca chief, stating that as many as 14,000 residents in Gurugram and Faridabad will be affected by this ban as their residential societies are dependent on generator sets to meet power demands.“They (Haryana) have not asked for an exemption. I responded to their letter asking what they expected from Epca and I have not received any response,” Lal said on Wednesday. Lal told ANI: “Epca is not happy with the situation. We waited for one year… “Farm fires and emissions from firecrackers during Diwali result in heavy concentrations of PM2.5 ultra-fine particles in the air, which can lead to major health problems since they can enter the bloodstream after penetrating deep into the lungs.Responding to Epca directions, DPCC issued its order stating that the ban will be implemented strictly across the Capital. The regional pollution control body directed all concerned agencies to comply with the order and submit a daily action-taken report. Violators will be prosecuted under the Air (Pollution and Control of Pollution) Act, with fines depending on the size of the gensets being used. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that the “abject inaction” of the government in neighbouring Haryana was the prime cause for Delhi’s increasing pollution. “As Grap will come into force from October 15, the use of diesel gensets will be banned in the regions of Delhi-NCR. While Delhi government has dutifully followed the rules set forth by Epca, our neighbours in Haryana don’t seem to want to take any action,” he said.Also Read: Shut down thermal plants in NCR, Delhi tells CentreAnumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said there could be challenges in implementing the anti-pollution curbs this year because of restrictions brought on by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “We will be working with certain limitations this year. This means, we will have to put into use what we have learnt from the (Covid-19) lockdown and ensure that the winter emergency action plan does not get affected by it,” Roychowdhury said.“For instance, the odd-even vehicle rationing scheme might not be very easy to implement this time because we need have to ensure social distancing inside public transport systems and because of that buses and the Metro are operating with limited passengers. Unless we provide a viable public transport option for people, we cannot push private vehicles off the road.” According to Grap, which was first implemented in 2017 through Epca, if the air quality continues to be in the “severe” category for 48 hours, measures such as traffic rationing and a ban on the entry of trucks are brought into force. Industries running on coal are also asked to cease operations. In previous years, schools in NCR have been forced to be close due to dramatic rise in air pollution, with people, especially the elderly and young children, being asked not to go out.The Epca chairperson conceded that there will be challenges this year. “This does not mean we sit back and let pollution levels rise. This only means that we will have to increase monitoring and action on the ground so that the pollution levels do not rise to the levels where we have the need to take these measures,” Lal said.A senior Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) official said on condition of anonymity: “Last year, the CPCB in its list of suggestions had proposed that private firms should introduce measures such as allowing employees to work from home and introduce staggered timings; then it seemed like an unattainable task, but now we are all used to this set-up. Schools are also getting used to the online classes, so if need be, they can be asked to continue with it,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-gensets-banned-grap-rules-kick-in/story-dgIN3jMCPtPRGR6mbAwiGP.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||IMD’s new improved air quality models capture air pollution spike in Delhi||Air quality forecast models for Delhi -- and the rest of India -- have been enhanced, enabling more granular predictions this year with the identification of pollution hotspots in Delhi, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).October 15 forecasts for the country show PM 2.5 concentrations ranging from 100 to 200 micrograms per cubic metre, much above the level deemed to be safe, in many parts of northwest India and the Indo-Gangetic Plains. The 24-hour safe standard for PM 2.5, one of the main air pollutants, is 60 micrograms per cubic metres.When it comes to PM 2.5 in Delhi, the entire city seems to be enveloped by concentrations of over 250 micrograms per cubic metres, according to IMD’s ENFUSER air quality forecast model launched on Wednesday. But sulphur dioxide hotspots can be easily identified in the model as the concentrations are variable in different parts of the city.Also Read: Delhi’s AQI improves marginally but remains in ‘poor’ zone“Forecasting is a very important part of emergency action. It helps in doing proactive planning. If there is good science, it certainly helps you refine your strategy. The graded response action plan (GRAP) which is currently in force will greatly benefit from it. If there is hotspot-based data, even vulnerable populations whose health could be impacted by high air pollution can be identified,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.GRAP, is a set of curbs triggered in phases as the air quality deteriorates, which is typical of the October-November period. Farm fires in neighbouring states and cooling weather typically combine at this time of the year to blanket the region in smoke.The air quality forecast model, System for Integrated Modelling of Atmospheric Composition (SILAM), meant for the entire country, has been improved by implementing global emission inventories for coarse and fine particulate matter at 10 km resolution. “Earlier we had 50 km resolution. Plus, we have also added land cover and land use data to obtain a better forecast,” explained Vijay Soni, a scientist at the air pollution division of IMD.A very high-resolution city scale model has been operationalised for Delhi to identify the air pollution hotspots and pollution up to the street level. The model uses air quality observations, the road network, buildings, land use information, high resolution satellite maps and population data to generate forecasts. The results are being evaluated to capture pollution hotspots in Delhi, Soni said.Now the air quality warning system will also provide forecasts for Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi at 2 km resolution. “For the Delhi model, we are using real time air quality data from ground monitors, traffic congestion data, road network data etc to identify hotspots. We will be able to share this information in our bulletins also,” he added.Also Read: Choking NCR districts: Haryana gets into action after EPCA highlights violations leading to pollutionThe spike in Delhi’s current air pollution levels is being attributed to calm conditions in the morning and evening hours and variable winds during the day. Widespread stubble fires are seen on satellite images from both Punjab and Haryana. “Whenever the wind direction is changing to north-westerly, the impact of stubble fires can be felt in Delhi. Plus, there is no dispersion of pollutants due to calm conditions,” explained Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/imd-s-new-improved-air-quality-models-capture-air-pollution-spike-in-delhi/story-buh82rNNB0z9yJ3GvMy4kM.html
15-10-2020||City||MLAs, SDMs celebrate birth of girls in Jalandhar by visiting their houses with cakes||Concerned about poor sex ratio in the district, Jalandhar administration has launched a unique initiative wherein local MLAs and SDMs, along with other officials, visit the houses of newborn girls with cakes, sweets and gifts to celebrate their birth. Jalandhar district has 956 females against 1,000 males and administration is focusing to increase the ratio by next year.The initiative is a part of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ campaign spearheaded by the Jalandhar deputy commissioner considering the low sex ratio of girls. So far, over 100 houses, mostly in slum areas, have seen such visits by officials. “Each house where a girl was born has been visited after a discussion with accredited social health activists and local panchayat members. The aim is to counter the stigma among people who still feel disheartened by a girl’s birth,” said district programme officer Gurwinder Singh Randhawa.He said people feel delighted when an MLA and administration officials surprisingly visit a random house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mlas-sdms-celebrate-birth-of-girls-in-jalandhar-by-visiting-their-houses-with-cakes/story-PlClwG8f8DeDGrAS929hHN.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Lawrence Bishnoi’s extortion racket in Chandigarh: Seven booked, three land in police net||Digging deeper into the extortion racket being run in the city by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, police have booked seven men and arrested three of them. While Javed Jhinjha, 24, of Sector 37, was arrested following a tip-off on Tuesday night, Chetan Munjal and Rinku were arrested on the complaint of a hotelier on Wednesday.A country made pistol, along with one live cartridge, was recovered from Javed. Besides in two FIRs, police have booked Rinku, Javed, Rajesh Paswan, Vikramjeet Singh Kular, Jackie and Deepak Kundu, alias Billa, at the Sector 39 police station, and Chetan at the Sector 36 police station.According to police, these men were part of a well-organised extortion ring that targeted businessmen, and hotel and bar owners in the city.Chetan and Rinku were arrested on the complaint of Tinku, who operates a hotel in Kajehri on lease. Tinku had alleged that the accused had threatened to kill him if he failed to pay them protection money. However, the accused maintained that they loaned some money to Tinku, who was now refusing to clear the debt. The duo will be produced in court Thursday. Chetan, Rinku and Rajesh were among the men who had fired three rounds following an argument during a during birthday of political secretary to local MP Kirron Kher, Sahdev Salaria, at F Bar in Sector 26 on November 19, 2018. Police have already filed a chargesheet against them. Rinku was booked again on October 11 at the Sector 39 police station for assaulting a person and playing loud music. The police team had found that during the party social distancing norms and other safety protocols, including wearing of masks, were violated. Selected targets, made them talk to jailed Bishnoi As per police, the accused used to make the people, whom they targeted for extortion, talk to Bishnoi, who is lodged in a jail in Rajasthan. They all have past criminal records and have been arrested in a number of cases. How Bishnoi is managing the racket from behind the bars remains under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lawrence-bishnoi-s-extortion-racket-in-chandigarh-six-booked-three-land-in-police-net/story-vVoQgKgpnaC0GPJH0ILJCO.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farm laws: 70-year-old dies during BJP tractor rally, BKU’s Ambala chief among 7 booked||A 70-year-old farmer, who was part of the BJP’s tractor rally led by Union minister and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini in Ambala’s Naraingarh in support of the farm laws, died on the way on Wednesday. The victim’s son, Bhupinder Singh, has lodged an FIR against Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s) Ambala unit chief Malkit Singh, and other BKU members - Fakeer Chand, Amarjeet, Jai Singh, Sukhvinder Singh, Jasvinder Singh and Janti - who were among the hundreds of activists who staged a protest against the farm laws during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ‘Janjagran Tractor Yatra’.A case has been registered against them under Sections 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 148 (rioting), 149, (unlawful assembly guilty of offence) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. The victim, Bharat Singh of Badagarh village, was aboard a tractor that was part of the rally and was allegedly stopped by farmers and activists associated with the BKU. His son said, “When the rally reached Milan Palace, workers affiliated with the Congress and Gurnam Singh Chaduni group blocked the Ambala Road. The workers attacked our rally with sticks and stones after they were provoked by Malkit Singh .” “During the scuffle, my father fainted and fell. When we tried to take him to the hospital, the BKU activists obstructed our path. We were only able to reach a private hospital, which was five minutes away from the site, 30 minutes later. The doctors declared him brought dead and said we had been too late in bringing him to the hospital,” Bhupinder said. While BJP leaders have condemned the ‘murder’, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders have refuted the allegations. Malkit said, “The tractor, on which Bharat Singh was sitting, was far away from the area where the farmers had obstructed the rally. He died of a heart attack. There are several photos and videos that can prove that he died a natural death and there was no protester around him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-laws-70-year-old-dies-during-bjp-tractor-rally-bku-s-ambala-chief-among-7-booked/story-tPrFJKWn7AXsGngOz4htMM.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gang war: Chandigarh police get the rap from Guv, told to file status of all firings in past 3 years||Coming down heavily on the Chandigarh Police for the deteriorating law and order in the city in the wake of two back-to-back firing incidents over the weekend, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has sought an action-taken report in all shooting incidents over the past three years.Expressing concern over the looming threat of a gang war that had instilled fear among city residents, Badnore also ordered UT director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal to expeditiously investigate the two firing incidents – the murder of Gurlal Brar, a student leader and close associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, at Industrial Area; and the shot fired at TikTok star Saurav Gujjar at a Sector-9 bar, within 24 hours since Saturday midnight. Since January, the city has already witnessed five firing incidents, including the murder of bouncer-turned-financier Surjit Singh, who was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants in Sector 38 (West) on March 16.This is not the first time that the administrator had to intervene to check the rising crime in the city. Earlier this year, Badnore had pulled up senior UT police officials after gun shots were fired at the Sector-33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla to target his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla on May 31, and the firing outside a liquor vend in Sector 9 on June 2.The police had back then claimed that the firings took place at the behest of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. CENSURE NUDGES TRICITY POLICE INTO ACTIONMeanwhile, a tricity co-ordination meeting was called by DGP Sanjay Baniwal at the UT Police Headquarters in Sector 9.After discussions on the need to improve coordination among the tricity police, the top police officials from the three cities decided to meet every month at one level or another.“The DGP has assured that the tricity co-ordination meeting will be held every month to share intelligence inputs on crime, movement of gangsters and ways to plug escape routes. Apart from this stress was laid on immediate sharing of information to help early detection of crime in the three cities,” said a senior police official. Besides Baniwal, Ropar Range inspector general of police (IGP) Amit Parsad, Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh, UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, UT SP City Vineet Kumar and Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa were among the senior officials who attended the meeting. FIRs AGAINST DISCOS VIOLATING MIDNIGHT DEADLINECracking the whip on discotheques, clubs and bars remaining open beyond midnight, the Chandigarh Police have decided to take strict action against the deadline violators.“The owners of such premises found violating the operation timing will face an FIR and we will also recommend cancellation of their liquor licences,” said Chahal.He said special nakas will be set up on days that witnessed heavy footfall at clubs, and every vehicle will be thoroughly checked.Instructions have been passed to all station house officers about zero tolerance towards crime, especially where gangsters or weapons are involved. “If even after checking, any crime is reported, especially using firearms, no police official will be spared,” the SSP added.“SHOs will be held accountable and action will be taken against those who are found lax in maintaining law and order,” warned Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gang-war-chandigarh-police-get-the-rap-from-guv-told-to-file-status-of-all-firings-in-past-3-years/story-rXOgxVROwumt5STMCAVDnM.html
15-10-2020||City||Order CBI probe into exchange of shamlat land in Mohali village: SAD||After the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed permission granted to Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother Amarjit Singh Sidhu and his partner Paras Mahajan for exchanging shamlat land in Derri village to develop a housing society, leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation or a former high court judge investigate the matter. Youth Akali Dal’s Mohali urban president Parvinder Singh Sohana and Derri village resident Baljit Singh said Amarjit and Mahajan had exchanged around 43 kanals (5 acres) of ‘valuable shamlat land’ adjoining Airport Road. “The land near Airport Road, which is worth crores, now has boards and flags of their firm, Land Chester Infrastructure Associates. However, the land given in exchange is adjacent to a choe (seasonal stream) in the village, which has low market value,” alleged Sohana.SAD leaders have urged Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and senior officials of the panchayat department and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to handover the probe into the exchange of shamlat land to the CBI. Calling the allegations ‘baseless’, Amarjit said the matter was politically motivated. “Other builders have also exchanged land on the same road,” he said. Mahajan said, “The land was exchanged after receiving permission from the government and all procedures were followed. We are prepared to face any inquiry as everything is in black and white.” The high court had stayed the permission on October 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/order-cbi-probe-into-exchange-of-shamlat-land-in-mohali-village-sad/story-9QzNBqMDdkerVheLj77hLP.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Cut outlay for smart city plan: UT asks Centre again||Unable to meet targets, the UT administration has approached the Union ministry of urban affairs yet again asking it to revise the smart city plan.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has written to housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri asking him to revise the outlay from around ₹6,724 crore to ₹2,914 crore.With the UT featuring on the list of worst performing smart cities, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) had approached the Smart City Mission (SCM) in February this year asking it to revise the smart city plan. The SCM works under the aegis of Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. Neither the SCM nor the ministry have responded to the request.Earlier, Badnore had written a demi-official (DO) letter to the ministry of urban affairs secretary. However, with no change effected in the city’s smart city plan, the Union minister’s intervention has been sought.CSCL has failed to achieve the ₹6,724-crore investment target committed to the ministry in 2016.Why the revision? CSCL has requested that the revised smart city plan not exceed ₹2,900 crore since land required for developing the commercial hub is unavailable.Initially, the smart-city firm had planned to develop Sector 43 as a commercial hub with a ₹4,000-crore investment under its public-private partnership model. “The project was scrapped since the land identified for the project was a deemed forest and there is no provision to de-notify it,” said a UT official, requesting anonymity.Subsequently, CSCL made several attempts to procure land in other areas, including Sector 34, to initiate the project, but to no avail.With UT not inclined to give CSCL land for any smart city project, the administration decided to revise its smart-city plan so that the ministry’s assessment for Chandigarh was not based on projects it cannot achieve.“The city was put in the list of 20 worst smart cities in the ministry’s assessment mainly because it was not able to start a major commercial project,” said the official.‘Revision will not affect other projects’On being asked whether other projects will be affected, CSCL chief executive officer KK Yadav said, “The revision will not affect other projects. Our current project outlay of ₹2,900 crore crore will be sufficient for the carrying out all planned projects. The ₹4,000 crore project in Sector 43 was to developed on a public-private partnership model and the spending was an estimation. We have extended spending on other projects, which include expanding water storage capacity, and e-governance projects to ₹2,900 crore.”Under the smart city mission, the Centre and the UT will contribute ₹500 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cut-outlay-for-smart-city-plan-ut-asks-centre-again/story-b1y9o4otKaJg19AyZcgoOL.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity’s cinema halls to reopen today but without new releases||After a long wait, cinema halls are finally set to reopen in the tricity on Thursday after an almost seven-month hiatus in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. While most theatres will start screening films from Friday, Cinépolis’ Fun Republic (Manimajra) will reopen on Thursday. The cinemas will strictly adhere to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting.However, movie buffs will have to wait longer for Cinépolis-owned theatres in TDI Jagat Mall (Sector 17) and Bestech Mall (Mohali) to reopen. Officials said the Sector-17 cinema will open by the month-end. There is no word on the opening of the Bestech Mall cinema. Those waiting to watch ‘PM Narendra Modi’ starring Vivek Anand Oberoi, which was to be re-released in theatres come October 15, or Christopher Nolan’s new film ‘Tenet’ will have to be patient as cinemas will initially be screening older hits (2018 to March 2020) first.There are six shows scheduled at Fun Republic for Thursday. The movies being screened include Bloodshot, which was released in March 2020; Chal Mera Putt released that was released in July 2019; and Malang, which was released in February 2020. Officials say new releases including ‘My Spy’, starring Dave Bautista, will be screened soon.PVR Cinemas will start screening movies from Friday, as per a statement issued by CEO Gautam Dutta. As per the listing on their website, they will be screening six English and Hindi movies but none of them will be new releases. New movies will be screened next week.As per the online ticket booking website BookMyShow, bookings are only available at PVR Centra Mall (Industrial Area) and PVR City Centre (IT Park) in the tricity. Officials from VR Punjab Mall in Zirakpur said they will reopen on Friday. Stipulations1. No films will be exhibited in containment zones.2. Use of face covers and masks is mandatory at all times.3. Cinemas will function at 50% capacity with adjacent seats left unoccupied. Social distancing will also be maintained in the waiting area.4. Hand sanitiser will be provided at entry and exit points. Thermal screening will be done upon entering. 5. After a movie ends, people will be allowed to leave in a staggered manner to prevent overcrowding.6. Contact numbers of people will be taken at the time of booking to facilitate contact tracing.7. Auditoriums will be sanitised after each screening.8.Only sale of packaged food and beverages will be allowed. Food will not be delivered to the auditorium.9. Temperature will be kept between 24-30°C with relative humidity between 40-70%. Re-circulation of air should be avoided.Slow opening Though bookings opened on BookMyShow around noon on Wednesday, most seats hadn’t been booked till the evening. Only two to three seats had been booked for movies to be screened on Friday, while no bookings had been made for Thursday. Single-screen theatres will not open immediately. Manager of Neelam Cinema, Sector 17, SK Sharma, said, “We will observe people’s response before reopening. Some renovation work is also underway in front of the theatre. We plan to reopen once the work is over.”Packaged popcorn As per the SOP, only packaged food will be allowed in the theatre, but cinephiles need not fret as they will still be able to purchase popcorn and other sundry food items. A senior PVR Cinemas official said, “Food items such as popcorn will be packaged. All food items that were being sold earlier will be available. However, food will not be delivered inside the hall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-s-cinema-halls-to-reopen-today-but-without-new-releases/story-PBn15yNy5nsgMFpbsRTWJJ.html
15-10-2020||City||Adampura man kills infant, injures wife in fit of rage||A man killed his six-month-old daughter in a fit of rage and injured his wife and father-in-law in Adampura village, police said on Wednesday. Phul deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jasbir Singh said that accused Jagdish Singh has been booked under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).  As per information, after a stint in merchant navy, Jagdish had been working as a dairy farmer at his native village.Family sources said his mother was undergoing treatment in Bathinda. His father in-law Gurchet had come for a brief stay with his daughter Jaswinder. The couple had strained relations and on Tuesday, they had an argument over a domestic issue.“As per Jaswinder’s statement, her husband was short-tempered and a patient of high blood pressure. On Tuesday night, Jagdish suddenly picked up his newborn daughter and threw her into a wall. He then attacked his wife and her father with a spade. The child died instantly and Jagdish fled the scene,” the DSP added. Police sources said Jaswinder suffered a fracture in her arm while her father sustained multiple injuries. Both are admitted to the civil hospital in Rampura town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/adampura-man-kills-infant-injures-wife-in-fit-of-rage/story-JQFdFUXGVDw955tm9HOezK.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||NIA conducts searches at 6 places in Khalistan flag case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has conducted searches at six places in Ferozepur, Moga and Ludhiana in connection with the hoisting of Khalistani flag by cadres of the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) on the eve of Independence Day. The agency seized various electronic devices such as pen drives, laptops, hard discs and other incriminating documents during the searches, said the NIA spokesperson. The searched premises belonged to Akashdeep Singh, Jogwinder Singh, Inderjeet Singh, Jaspal Singh and Ram Terath. A cyber cafe was also searched. The Khalistani flag was hoisted by two miscreants on the terrace of the four-storey building of deputy commissioner’s office complex in Moga on August 14. The miscreants had also removed the tricolour and desecrated it. The crime was committed at the behest of SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, who had offered them cash rewards, the spokesperson said. The case was re-registered by NIA under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Insults to National Honours Act. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nia-conducts-searches-at-6-places-in-khalistan-flag-case/story-D5VAwGr9LpRxRG05Del26H.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER, Chandigarh establishes 50 Covid molecular labs||Fulfilling its responsibility as a ‘centre of excellence’ to mentor all government and private medical colleges in the catchment areas to create state-of-art molecular virology setups, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has established 50 Covid-19 molecular labs in north India. Commending the initiative, professor Jagat Ram said, “The pandemic posed a big challenge to north India as during the initial phase very few labs were trained in molecular virology testing. It was a big challenge but, PGIMER accepted this as an opportunity to upgrade the labs of surrounding and far-flung areas.”“The department of virology established around 50 Covid-19 testing real-time PCR labs. The developed infrastructure will be instrumental in the near future for providing molecular diagnostic facilities for routine patient care,” he added.Professor Mini P Singh said that hands-on-training was given to around 170 faculty members and technical staff from various states and union territories.Earlier seeking to expeditiously expand Covid-19 testing facilities, the Indian Council of Medical Research, government of India, had identified PGIMER, Chandigarh as one of the 14 centres of excellence to mentor all government and private medical colleges in its catchment areas to create state-of-art molecular virology setups. Various labs and medical colleges of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu&Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Leh Ladakh were covered under this programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-chandigarh-establishes-50-covid-molecular-labs/story-vq6STSKJB0TLIWRJ9if6gP.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||10-ft python captured near Chandigarh’s Lake Club||UT forest department officials captured a 10-feet-long python near the Lake Club on Wednesday evening and released it in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary.UT deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Abdul Qayum said, “A python was spotted near the Lake Club near around 4pm. A team of forest officials rushed to the spot and rescued it. The python approximately weighed 40-50kg and it took three people to lift the reptile.” The python was native to the region and was non-poisonous. Local area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “Snakes are a common sight in this area. During the lockdown itself, two snakes around 8-9 feet long have been rescued. Now, locals remain vigilant, especially during the night.”Qayum said, “Snakes are venturing out of their burrows these days in search of water. They will go into hibernation in winter. A joint task force of forest officials has been formed to rescue snakes as fast as possible so that they are not harmed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-ft-python-captured-near-lake-club/story-he1PdYb1VPypRK2z6FSjzL.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||No Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdis for now due to farmer agitation||The morning and evening New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express trains, which were set to resume on Thursday, have been cancelled for now due to the ongoing farmer protests in the region. Station superintendent Anil Aggarwal said daily trains were getting affected due to the agitation. “Services will resume once the protests are stopped and the trains will run at full capacity as per the SOPs in place,” he added.Once the trains resume, these will depart from Chandigarh at 6.53am and 6.20pm, and stop at Ambala, Kurukshetra and Panipat before reaching the final destination of New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-chandigarh-delhi-shatabdis-for-now-due-to-farmer-agitation/story-jnAcljSxIdttbJmQzYZshM.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Centre tells Chandigarh administration to improve daily Covid death rate||The central government reiterated the need to bring down the daily Covid death rate and step up monitoring of those in home quarantine even as it appreciated the UT administration for doing well on parameters such as recovery rate and active case rate over the fortnight during a review meeting chaired by the Union home secretary on Wednesday.The meeting was attended by UT adviser Manoj Parida and senior UT officers. “The Union health ministry representatives stressed on reducing the daily death rate in the city, which at 2.5% is on the higher side,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.Parida said the UT’s recovery rate was 90% and every twelfth citizen had been tested. “Around 90,000 people have been tested against a population of around 11 lakh. Earlier, the average positivity rate was around 300-400, now its 70-80,” Parida said.On the death rate, Parida said, “Unlike other states and Union territories where people in home quarantine have succumbed to the disease, no such cases have been reported in Chandigarh. Also, most deaths in the city took place after the 70-hour period of hospitalization. All of which indicates access to healthcare facilities was made available to patients on time, and all critical patients were identified.”The home ministry representative also stressed on bolstering awareness campaigns with the festival and winter seasons approaching.“The administration has launched the Janandolan Covid-19 appropriate behaviour campaign’, which underlines the need to follow safety precautions diligently amid the pandemic,” Parida said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-tells-chandigarh-administration-to-improve-daily-covid-death-rate/story-rhhHZnctHaVUuVsTVguPLI.html
15-10-2020||City||Delayed by lockdown, work on Kharar-Mullanpur road finally begins in Mohali||Delayed by around four months, the construction of the new eight-kilometre road connecting Mullanpur in New Chandigarh to Kharar on the National Highway 21 has finally kicked off.Earlier, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had set April 15 as the date to start the work, but due to the nationwide lockdown, it was delayed. Punjab cabinet minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria will likely lay the foundation stone of the project on October 20.The new road will help commuters avoid journeying through Chandigarh or Kurali while travelling between Kharar and Mullanpur.The road is also aimed at reducing traffic in Chandigarh and Mohali by serving as a ring road to connect Kharar with Zirakpur. It will also connect to the Kurali road that leads to Rupnagar and Morinda.GMADA has already acquired around 120 acre land for the project in Sunny Enclave, Daun village and Mundi Kharar. The ₹130-crore 200-foot wide road, which will run from New Sunny Enclave (near KFC) to Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, near the cricket stadium, is scheduled to be completed in 18 months by March 2022.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “The project was delayed due to the lockdown. The agency, Rajinder Infrastructures Private Limited, which has been allotted the project, has already begun work. Though the project will be completed in 18 months, the agency has assured to complete it by December 2021.”Meanwhile, the 18-km long stretch connecting Kharar to Zirakpur was completed four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delayed-by-lockdown-work-on-kharar-mullanpur-road-finally-begins-in-mohali/story-b5EFGjqrWZ6h5eyCsufdbL.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives the go-ahead for 33% reservation for women in government jobs||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday gave the nod to 33% reservation for women in direct recruitment for jobs in all government departments, boards and corporations, in a decision being seen as a major step towards achieving gender equality in the public sector. In a meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the cabinet approved the Punjab Civil Service (Reservation of Posts for Women) Rules, 2020, to provide the quota in group A, B, C and D posts. Later, terming the decision as historic, state social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary said the CM always accorded priority to the well-being and empowerment of women. The cabinet also approved amendment to the Punjab Civil Secretariat (State Services Class-III) Rules, 1976, for the creation of clerk (legal) cadre for recruitment of legal clerks in the state secretariat, said an official spokesperson. In another decision, the cabinet approved placement of all officers working in the PCS (executive branch) cadre in the 37400-67000+8700 (grade pay) scale on completion of 13 years of service instead of 14 years, in compliance with the instructions issued by the personnel department on April 4, 2000, and as per the conditions laid down in the subsequent amendments issued from time to time. New scholarship scheme for SC students The cabinet also cleared the decks for the state government to launch its own scheduled caste (SC) post-matric scholarship scheme in place of the Centre’s “defunct” scheme, to facilitate the Dalit students pursue higher education in government and private institutions. CM Amarinder also announced an increase in the family income criteria from the earlier Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 4 lakh to accommodate more students. The scheme is estimated to cost about Rs 600 crore. To re-verify smart ration card scheme The cabinet said the state government will re-verify all the recently deleted and left-out beneficiaries under the smart ration card scheme to ensure that all genuinely eligible people get the benefit, the official spokesperson said. Once the re-verification process is completed, the Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution ministry will be approached to allow Punjab to enroll all beneficiaries found eligible under the National food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, it was decided. De-silting of major rivers to be doneThe government decided to make regular de-silting of major rivers such as the Sutlej, Beas and the Ravi, besides seasonal rivulets Ghaggar and Chakki part of the contracts allotted for mining blocks. The spokesperson said the de-silting will enhance the carrying capacity of rivers. The cabinet also gave the nod to the drainage wing of water resources department to allot 78 sites in seven blocks to mining contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-okays-33-quota-for-women-in-govt-depts-boards-and-corporations/story-DzSEsdMgs6wUcKdIEpi9nO.html
15-10-2020||City||Husband, in-laws, SAD leader booked in dowry case at Mohali village||The Sohana police on Wednesday booked the husband and in-laws of a Maulli Baidwan woman on charges of harassment and violence over dowry.The police have also booked former sarpanch and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Avtar Singh, who is currently the block samiti member of Mauli Baidwan village, for allegedly threatening the victim with his pistol.The victim, Kulwinder Kaur, told the police that she had married one Gurmeet Singh in 2011 and her parents had given ”appropriate” dowry. But her in-laws had started demanding more money after marriage and she was often beaten up, she said in her complaint.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354 (using assault or criminal force to outrage a woman’s modesty), 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Gurmeet, mother-in-law Baljinder Kaur, father-in-law Labh Singh, Ajaib Singh and Kamaljit Singh.The SAD leader, who was booked under the Arms Act, alleged that the police had registered a case against him at the behest of a Congress leader of the area.Singh cried foul on his allegation and said he had lodged a written complaint with the district police chief seeking justice in the matter. If the case against him was not dismissed, he would approach the Punjab and Haryana high court, he added.ASI Sanjay Kumar said action, if at all, will be taken on the basis of evidence. “We have been conducting raids, but the suspects are at large. We will arrest them soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/husband-in-laws-sad-leader-booked-in-dowry-case-at-mohali-village/story-J4kRlD188gVjzu5dhCf9qM.html
15-10-2020||City||On Behbal Kalan firing anniversary, Sikh hardliners, others raise concern over sacrilege incidents||On the fifth anniversary of the Behbal Kalan police firing episode, Sikh hardliners and other leaders on Wednesday expressed concern over “continued” incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in Punjab in the last five years. They also asked the state government to push for the arrest of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who was recently named as an accused in the police firing cases and bring Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, an accused in the Bargari sacrilege case, on production warrants for interrogation. A ‘shaheedi samagam’ was held at Tibbi Sahib Gurdwara at Behbal Kalan village to mark the anniversary in response to a call made by families of the victims of the police firing on October 14, 2015 that left two Sikh protesters dead during a protest against the Bargari sacrilege incident. Sikh hardliners such as president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) Baljit Singh Daduwal and Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh, besides Punjab Ekta Party president Sukhpal Singh Khaira, were among those who participated in the event. They asked that state government to expedite the probe into both the sacrilege and police firing incidents so that the accused could be punished. The differences among the Bargari Insaaf Morcha leaders surfaced again as parallel Akal Takht jathedar Dhian Singh Mand paid obeisance at gurdwara early morning and left before the event started. All the leaders at the event criticised Mand’s decision to lift the Bargari morcha in 2018, claiming it could have achieved a lot more had it continued. Daduwal said, “Due to the Bargari morcha, the unidentified policemen were identified. Saini should be arrested and the police should ask him who ordered him to open fire on the protesters.” “While the Dera Sacha Sauda committee members are absconding, the sect head is lodged at the Sunaria jail in Haryana. He should be brought on production warrant for interrogation to make him confess to his crime,” he added. Khaira said all the Sikh organizations should come together as the fight is not over yet. “It has been five years but as the Badals as well as Amarinder Singh failed to provide justice to the police firing victims,” he added. Kanwar Pal Singh said had the conspirators and culprits of 2015 sacrilege been punished there would have been a full stop on all such incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-behbal-kalan-5th-anniversary-sikh-hardliners-others-express-concern-over-continued-sacrilege-incidents/story-RyuE0pZzNv7uWDY6WOpOjL.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Occupancy in Chandigarh’s Covid care centres drops to 13% after active cases dip||With the decline in Covid-19 cases being reported in the city, and the recovery rate surpassing 90%, the occupancy in Covid care centres has gone down from 70% in September to 13% now.The Covid care centre established at Panjab University has been closed for now and the staff provided by the UT health department has been withdrawn. However, considering that cases can surge again, the authorities have retained possession of the centre, said a senior health department official.Out of 1,100 active cases in the city, 800 are in home isolation, 150 are in hospitals, and the remaining 150 are in Covid care centres at Sood Dharamshala and Ayurvedic College in Sector 46.The civil hospitals in Sector 22 and Manimajra have no patients at present; the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has only 30 patients from Chandigarh; the remaining are at Government Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/occupancy-in-chandigarh-s-covid-care-centres-drops-to-13-after-active-cases-dip/story-12cHbpxfeEEhw4ZllCJsBN.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC ward committee elections: Mumbai mayor joins protest after rift with civic chief; Chahal apologises||City mayor and Shiv Sena corporator Kishori Pednekar along with other party corporators took part in a protest at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters on Wednesday, after a war of words broke out between Pednekar and the civic administration, including municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. The argument took place ahead of the commencement of the elections for ward committees owing to concerned officials not being present during the start of the elections. However, Chahal later apologised.According to Pednekar and Shiv Sena corporators, only one BMC staff was present at 10am, when elections were scheduled to begin. While the remaining officials, including the assistant municipal commissioner and deputy municipal commissioner, were not present at that time.Owing to this, Sena corporators tried calling the concerned officials but did not receive an answer. Later, when Sena corporator Vishakha Raut called Chahal, an argument took place between the two.Pednekar and other Sena corporators sat on dharna at the BMC headquarters in Fort, alleging rude behaviour by Chahal and the BMC administration. Sena is the ruling party in the BMC and is also the single largest party.“Every year ward officers are present during the ward committee elections, but this time it didn’t happen. Hence, we protested. Later, the BMC commissioner and our group leader Vishakha Raut argued. However, the matter is closed now after the commissioner apologised to our group leader,” said Pednekar.Chahal said he would not like to comment on the same. Further, along with 17 types of committees in the BMC, there are ward committees where micro-decisions regarding 24 administrative wards are undertaken. The chairman of the ward committee is elected from among the corporators of the 24 wards.After Wednesday’s incident, both, the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said that the BMC ruling party holding a protest reflects badly and shows Sena in poor light.Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of opposition, said, “Someone like the mayor, who has to sit on dharna against the administration, shows that there is no control of the administration by the ruling party. It definitely does not give out a good message.”Prabhakar Shinde, BJP corporator and group leader of the BJP in BMC, said, “Any type of insult to the mayor is an insult of citizens, and we condemn it. But what picture we got to see today is that the Shiv Sena, which is ruling in the BMC, has become weak and does not have any control over the administration. We have got information that the municipal secretary department did not inform the concerned officials to be present for the elections, and this should be investigated.”Despite repeated attempts by HT, municipal secretary Sangeeta Sharma, whose department looks after the ward committee elections, was unavailable for comment.The Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) voted for the Sena’s candidates for electing ward committee chairman in A, B and E wards, which cover areas like Colaba, Churchgate, Byculla and Mazagaon. The two parties said they voted for the Sena candidate to keep the BJP at bay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-ward-committee-elections-mumbai-mayor-joins-protest-after-rift-with-civic-chief-chahal-apologises/story-zci2FQExmpaWv6FQmMs6rJ.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Central Electricity Authority starts probe into Mumbai power outage incident||A committee appointed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) to probe the Mumbai power outage incident on October 12 started its investigation on Tuesday afternoon. The committee is investigating if there were lapses in the response to technical faults. It will also investigate why the islanding system that separates Mumbai in case of a state grid failure did not work owing to the sudden load. While state energy minister Nitin Raut had said that the state would form a panel to probe the lapse, committee members were not named until Wednesday evening. Dinesh Waghmare, managing director of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), said, “The CEA committee is probing if the response to the technical fault was prompt or if there was any laxity observed.” Sources said that the committee is looking at suggesting measures to augment Mumbai’s transmission system. Raut on Wednesday reiterated that the state cannot rule out the possibility of sabotage that resulted in the massive outage in Mumbai and neighbouring areas.“Mumbai being in the dark is not a simple matter. We will have a high-level inquiry on this and all the officials who are responsible will be taken to task,” Raut said on Wednesday. The state government had appointed an expert committee headed by Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) professor SA Khaparde to study a similar outage in Mumbai in November 2010 and offer solutions. The committee submitted its report in June 2011.Raut said that he has also asked officials to submit a report on how many of the recommendations mentioned in the study were implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-electricity-authority-starts-probe-into-mumbai-power-outage-incident/story-782Xu9qEpLAtTTy7TX3LxO.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Will Governor Koshyari’s 12 Maharashtra legislative Council seat nominations trigger next tussle with CM Uddhav Thackeray?||Governor BS Koshyari’s nomination of 12 members of legislative council (MLC) could become the next topic of friction between him and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. To avoid any fresh confrontation, MVA has sought opinion from the state’s advocate general to avoid any legal hiccups after recommending the names. MVA is treading cautiously after an open letter-war erupted between CM Thackeray and Koshyari on Tuesday. While demanding that places of worship be reopened, Koshyari, in his letter, asked Thackeray if he had suddenly “turned secular”. In an equally strong reply, the CM questioned the governor if he does not believe in secularism – an important tenet of the Constitution. Thackeray, in his reply, also slammed him, stating that his Hindutva does not any certificate from the governor. The term of 12 legislators nominated to the Upper house from the governor’s quota has expired in June. As per Article 171 (5) of the Constitution, those nominated to the Upper house “shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely — literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.” However, over the years, it has been used to accommodate political nominees, which can be challenged by Raj Bhavan, if the nominated person does not fit the Constitutional requirement. MVA leaders think Koshyari may raise objection to some names and put the process on hold. The list of 12 names has been finalised by the three parties and was expected to be put before the state Cabinet on Wednesday, a Sena minister said. However, it was decided not to do so in light of the exchange of letters between Thackeray and Koshyari. “The government is seeking legal opinion on it before the Cabinet approves it and sends the names to the governor. We do not want any legality to delay the filling of 12 vacant seats,” said a Sena minister, on condition of anonymity. State revenue minister and Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat told TV channels: “The proposal will come [before the Cabinet] at the right time. There is no dispute on seats between the three parties. We have got four seats each.”Among the likely names from the Nationalist Congress Party quota are Eknath Khadse, farmer leader Raju Shetti, singer Anand Shinde and Uttamrao Jankar. While from the Shiv Sena’s quota former MP Chandrakant Khaire could be nominated. The Congress, meanwhile, could nominate party spokesperson Sachin Sawant, former MLA Arif Nasim Khan and its Pune leader Mohan Joshi. An option being considered is not sending all 12 names together. According to insiders, the three parties have received around 500 names to be considered for the 12 seats. Besides the recent letter war, the tussle between Raj Bhavan and the Thackeray government has been going on for past seven months. The friction started after Koshyari did not accept the state Cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the state legislative Council. Later, Koshyari took a contrarian stand on the state government’s decision to not hold final-year exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-governor-koshyari-s-12-maharashtra-legislative-council-seat-nominations-trigger-next-tussle-with-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-FJSXYVWdieZrGL7eUVz2wI.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Grandmother’s murder: Mumbai man in cop custody for three days||The metropolitan magistrate court, Bandra, on Wednesday remanded 24-year-old Christopher Pereira, who has been arrested for beheading his grandmother, Rosy Ganesh Rao, 80, at her home in Cosma Colony on Monday night, in police custody for three days. Bandra police arrested Pereira after his cousin sister found him sitting next to the body and alerted the police. According to the police, the accused killed his grandmother, then beheaded her using a kitchen knife, and mutilated the body. According to Abigail Dias, accused’s cousin, Pereira started consuming drugs and liquor when he was 14. Dias said, “He had recovered. The manager of the rehabilitation centre told us that his behaviour had changed. I brought him home with me and he seemed happy. He told us he wanted to have chicken and Chinese cuisine as he missed those while living in the rehab for more than one-and-a-half years.”“On Monday evening, he had a video call with his mother, who is in Israel, in the presence of all the family members. Her mother asked him to sell his old bike and buy a new one, but he said he wanted to save money to buy a car, which made us all laugh. Later his mother told him that his father would visit him the next day,” Dias added.“On that night, his grandmother arranged a bed for him so that he could sleep properly. I asked him not to lock the door from inside as water comes in the night at around 12. However, when I knocked the door they didn’t open. In the morning when his father arrived from Goa, I went there to wake them up. I found him sitting in the dark and when I turned on the lights I saw there was blood everywhere. He smiled at me and said he killed her. I immediately locked the door from outside and called the police,” she said.Celine D’sa, 68, a neighbour, said, “We still can’t believe that he did this. He crossed my house and smiled that day. Since the incident, we have been upset.”An officer said, “We are checking all his medical records before questioning him. We will also question his doctors who were treating him at the rehabilitation centre to figure out his mental status.” Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone-9, said, “The court has remanded him in police custody till October 17. We are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grandmother-s-murder-mumbai-man-in-cop-custody-for-three-days/story-HtOYaVTlnWW3TSLqcZvbIN.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro to start ops from Monday; Monorail on Sunday||While the Maharashtra government has allowed Metro rail operations in the state from Thursday in a graded manner, the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Metro between Ghatkopar and Versova, said it will begin operations from 8.30am on Monday. The Mumbai monorail services will start from Sunday, in a graded manner, officials from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) confirmed. In a statement released on Wednesday evening, MMOPL said, “Mumbai Metro is thankful to the Government of Maharashtra for allowing Metro operations. We have already initiated safety inspections and trial runs and are set to restart passenger operations from Monday, 19th October 2020, 8:30am.” Alternate seats in both Metro and monorail that have to be left unoccupied will be marked so as to maintain social distancing. Thermal scanners and sanitisers will also be placed at the entry to the stations. An official from MMRDA said, “We are working on the schedules, but we will start operations on the entire route from Sunday.” Mumbai Monorail tweeted on Wednesday: “No Mask No Travel policy by Monorail. Passengers will be permitted to travel only while wearing proper masks...Passengers are requested to co-operate with the Monorail staff by maintaining social distancing and following necessary safety instructions.“The services on Mumbai Metro and monorail have been shut since March when the nationwide lockdown was imposed owing to the pandemic. While Delhi Metro resumed services in September, the Maharashtra government was still sceptical about opening up services in the state. Sources from MMOPL had said the Reliance-infra led consortium was facing losses to the tune of ₹80 lakh to a crore a day owing to the complete shutdown. Metro-1 has done away with the plastic token system that can be used multiple times. Instead, commuters will be encouraged to use the mobile application to book tickets. The Mumbai monorail will be providing paper tickets to commuters and do away with its plastic token.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-to-start-ops-from-monday-monorail-on-sunday/story-raZ3yn1049B8JFUH6VsuYJ.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Congress begins deliberations over selecting new unit chief||With barely 15 months remaining for the crucial Mumbai civic polls, deliberations have begun within the Mumbai Congress to select a new leader for party’s city unit. HK Patil, the party’s newly-appointed Maharashtra in-charge in the All India Congress Committee met senior leaders from the city to take stock of the current situation and get a sense of the names in the ring. Mumbai leaders have pressed for an immediate change in leadership and the need to go solo in the civic polls. The party’s current Mumbai president is Eknath Gaikwad, a veteran leader and former Member of Parliament (MP). Patil, who was recently appointed as the state in-charge, replacing Mallikarjun Kharge, met sitting and former legislators, former ministers, incumbent and former city unit chiefs personally at the party’s Dadar office on Wednesday. Party leaders who met Patil included former MPs Priya Dutt, Hussain Dalwai, Bhalchandra Mungekar, city unit chief Eknath Gaikwad, former state ministers Suresh Shetty and Arif Naseem Khan, among others. Former MPs and Mumbai unit chief Milind Deora and Sanjay Nirupam could not attend the session as they were in Delhi. “He tried to understand the party’s political standing in the city, where it was formed 135 years ago, and the measures to be taken for better performance in the 2022 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections. Most of the leaders he met have expressed the immediate need to change the leadership. The Mumbai unit has always been affected by factionalism or weak leadership. It now needs dynamic leadership and should be given at the earliest,” said a leader, on condition of anonymity.Aspirants for the Mumbai Congress chief post are Bhai Jagtap, Arif Naseem Khan, Amarjeet Singh Manhas and Suresh Shetty. According to a former office-bearer of the Mumbai Congress, the aspirants and their supporters met Patil, who is now expected to submit his report to the party leadership in Delhi.Another leader said that almost all the leaders pressed for the need to go solo in the BMC election, despite the Congress being part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance along with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). “We demanded to go solo for two reasons – firstly, we would not get the expected number of seats to contest if we fought the elections with two other parties. Joining hands with Sena in the local polls will also result in hurting our vote bank of minorities and Dalits and to some extent north Indians. It will also help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if the three parties fought together,” he said. Congress was reduced to 32 seats in the 2017 elections from the 52 seats it won in 2012. The civic polls in Mumbai are expected to be held in February 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-begins-deliberations-over-selecting-new-unit-chief/story-729i5TNe3rwsTOVxOUmqGJ.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants protection from arrest to veteran actor Vikram Gokhale||In an interim relief to veteran actor Vikram Gokhale who was booked for allegedly duping investors who had invested in a 25-year-old land development project at Mulshi in Pune, the Bombay high court restrained the Pune Police from taking any coercive action for two weeks until it hears Gokhale’s anticipatory bail plea on October 28. Gokhale approached the HC after his anticipatory bail plea was rejected by a sessions court in Pune on September 25.A single bench of justice Bharati Dangre while hearing the plea of the actor was informed by senior counsel Sirish Gupte and Karansingh Rajput that a criminal offence was registered against the 79-year-old actor and two others in March. The two others were Jayant Mhalgi, the son of former Member of Parliament Rambhau Mhalgi and Jayant’s wife Sujata. The case was related to a project by a company floated by Jayant and Sujata. The complaint had alleged that the company had duped and cheated them by giving them possession of land parcels that were much smaller and different from what they had purchased previously through sale deeds. The complaint had also claimed that they had invested around ₹96 lakhs 25 years ago and the estimated cost of the land would now run into crores. Gupte who represented Gokhale submitted that the actor had no concern with the company which had allegedly cheated the investors, and his client was only a brand ambassador of the project. Hence, the charges against him were unfounded and arbitrary. Gupte further submitted that while Gokhale was shown as chairman of the accused company there was nothing on record to prove the same. In light of these submissions, Gupte sought protection from arrest till the hearing of his plea was completed. However, additional public prosecutor SV Gavand opposed the plea and referred to a resignation letter of Gokhale from the group of industries of which the accused company was a part and another charitable trust. Gavand submitted that Gokhale was the chairman of the company, but had resigned in January 2020.As there was a dispute on the nature and role of the actor in the company both the counsels sought time to ascertain the same, which the bench allowed. The court noted that ‘no coercive action be taken against applicant till next hearing’ and posted the matter for hearing on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-veteran-actor-vikram-gokhale/story-ts7Unwnpehy6zdvEnbvBZI.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park opens for morning walkers amid strict guidelines||The Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) will reopen for morning walkers on Thursday after it was closed since March 18 in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.Morning walkers will be able to visit the park between 5.30am and 7.30am, daily. The park will remain closed on Mondays.SGNP officials have put in place a mechanism wherein morning walkers have been divided into three groups – A, B and C – based on the first letter of their names mentioned on the morning pass. “This means, names starting from A to L will be part of group A and will be allowed to enter the park on Thursday. On Friday, names starting from J to Q under group B will be allowed to walk, and finally, names starting from R to Z under group C will be allowed entry on Saturday. This pattern will be repeated over three days for the first one week,” said G Mallikarjuna, director and conservator of forest, SGNP, adding that the schedule for each group would be displayed on the park notice board and SGNP website.Mallikarjuna said there were around 9,000 registered morning walkers across four locations in SGNP – Borivli, Yeoor, Manpada and Mulund (Tara Singh Park). At Borivli, there are two main walking paths. The first is from the main gate to Trimurti Road Tumnipada gate and back, covering 5km. The second is from the main gate to the police chowki, forest division office, rest house 3, to the animal hospital, then the boating ticket counter, next to the path along Dahisar river (over the bridge), and finally exiting from the main gate (covering 4km).“We will be monitoring the number of people entering the park across all these areas, with dedicated staff at all four locations. We will be using the alphabetical technique at Borivli to experiment with its efficiency and then replicate it at other sites. However, if it is becoming too crowded, we will take the necessary steps within a week,” said Mallikarjuna.Meanwhile, among other 17 listed guidelines, entry to pregnant women, children below 10 years of age and senior citizens over 65 have been prohibited from entering the park. Walkers have to bring their face masks and sanitisers. Social distancing needs to be maintained. Spitting is prohibited. Gathering of groups for yoga, laughing exercise, meditation etc, is prohibited, the guidelines said.“Those without masks will not be allowed to enter. Any person having symptoms associated with Covid-19 is requested to avoid entering the park and if they do, their details will be shared with the nearest Covid-19 centre,” said Mallikarjuna, adding, “At the end of the day, it is up to citizens to take care of their health. We are only facilitating a safe environment during this pandemic.” Those with old walkers’ passes will be allowed till November 15 but would need to renew their passes.A newly-developed parking area (with free parking at the moment) will house visitor’s vehicles. “We aim to see how feasible this plan is. If it is positive, we will steadily open the park for tourists but at the same time, stop the entry of any private vehicles within SGNP when the final decision is taken,” said Mallikarjuna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-opens-for-morning-walkers-amid-strict-guidelines/story-ZJNhBNrORfwzuJoRRoqDHM.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Six arrested for murder in Mumbai||Mulund police arrested six accused, including two brothers, in a murder case on Tuesday. The brothers, Deepak More, 38 and Vinod More, 30, had allegedly given contract to four accused to kill three people from their community to ensure their father’s ‘peaceful journey to afterlife’. The four other arrester accused killed a senior citizen following the contract.The incident took place after there was a low turnout at the funeral prayer of More’s father last month. “Both the brothers were superstitious and believed that only after killing three persons from their community, their father’s soul will get peace. They had planned to kill two more people but quick detection saved their lives,” said deputy commissioner of police Prashant Kadam of zone 7. The other accused have been identified as Asif Nasir Shaikh, 28; Moinuddin Allauddin Ansari alias Sahil, 27; Arif Abdul Sattar Khan, 30; and Shahanawaj alias Sonu Akhtar Shaikh, 30 — all residents of Deonar in Govandi. Deepak, who has four assault cases registered against him in Mulund police station, met Asif while lodged in Arthur road jail. After his father’s death, he gave Asif a contract of ₹70,000 to kill three people from their vicinity.The case came to light when Maruti Gawali, 70, who lived in a chawl near Mulund railway station, was found dead. Gawali was sleeping outside a shop when the four accused stabbed him in the abdomen and crushed his face with a stone in the intervening night of October 1 and 2. Following this, a murder case was registered against unidentified people and police formed teams to probe the case. During investigation, they checked CCTV footage from nearby areas and found a lead. The accused were traced to Ajmer Dargah in Rajasthan. However, the accused returned to the city soon after and were nabbed by the police. During inquiry, they confessed to the crime and named the More brothers. Police are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-arrested-for-murder-in-mumbai/story-RaOM95z2oH31WtMIzceZyN.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Teacher gets 5 years in jail for molesting minor students in Mumbai||A special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Tuesday sentenced a Madrasa teacher to rigorous imprisonment for five years for sexually abusing minor students. The court has also imposed a fine of ₹8,000 on the accused. The 30-year-old teacher, a resident of Kurla, was accused of molesting the minor and two other girls who attended his classes at the Madrasa to learn Arabic and spiritual training. The incident came to light after the mother of one of the students lodged a complaint with Chunabhatti police. As the girl made excuses to not attend classes, the mother confronted her and learnt that the teacher allegedly touched her inappropriately. The mother then enquired with her neighbour about this and found out that the minor of that family, too, faced the same things. Following this, she approached the police and the accused was subsequently arrested on April 2. The minor, in her deposition, had claimed that the accused molested her on several occasions. The court noted, “It has further come in the evidence that, the accused used to commit same thing with prosecutrix no. 2 (the neighbour’s daughter) and one another girl who used to visit Madrasa with her. She further deposed that, she personally noticed the accused making inappropriate touch to them.” After recording the deposition of the two girls, the court found the teacher guilty for sexually abusing minor girls and observed, “The accused was entrusted with the noble work of teaching Quran. Therefore, the people had faith in the accused. The accused took the disadvantage of the same and committed heinous offence against the victim girls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teacher-gets-5-years-in-jail-for-molesting-minor-students-in-mumbai/story-bFPtmFfC29DVqsQkadv8AL.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government constitutes sub-committee for OBC community||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday announced the constitution of a cabinet sub-committee to look into the demands of the OBC community. This comes as prominent leaders of Other Backward Classes (OBC) held a meeting with state ministers to safeguard the interests of their community, in the backdrop of protests by the Maratha community following the Supreme Court’s stay on Maratha reservation. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is part of the committee, said it was created to fast-track the benefits to be given to OBC community. “There are a lot of pending issues concerning the community. The sub-committee will decide on various issues to give justice to the community,” Bhujbal said.Other members of the sub-committee include Vijay Wadettiwar, Jitendra Awhad, Dhananjay Munde, Sanjay Rathod and Gulabrao Patil.The issue of the community came to the fore after the state government was unable to implement the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act that provides reservation to Maratha community, following a stay by the Supreme Court. The OBC community is worried that if Marathas are made part of their community, it will reduce their quota. Though the state government has been assuring the community that their quota will not be disturbed, this has done little to reduce their fears.OBC leaders have been critical, saying Marathas were being favoured while the OBCs were given step-motherly treatment. The OBC community currently gets 27% reservation in government jobs and education.OBC leader Prakash Shendge said the Maharshtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should clarify whether they are serious about giving benefits to the OBC community. “The Maratha community is being favoured while we are saddled with sub-committees. If the government does not want to give us benefits, then they should clarify,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-constitutes-sub-committee-for-obc-community/story-fv9e47K1GxMh82ITKx1hqI.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for killing wife in Bhiwandi near Mumbai||A 40-year-old man has been arrested by Shanti Nagar police for allegedly killing his 35-year-old wife by beating her up with an iron rod in Bhiwandi. The accused, Ramratan Bharat, is a resident of Gayatri Nagar. He allegedly suspected that his wife Laxmi was having an affair, which led to frequent fights. During a fight on Sunday, he beat her with an iron rod, leading to heavy injuries. Laxmi succumbed to the injuries while undergoing treatment at Indira Gandhi Hospital in Bhiwandi, on Tuesday.A police officer said, “The accused used to work as a labourer but has been out of job for the last few months. Hence, his wife started working as a housemaid. However, whenever she returned late, Bharat would start arguing with her. On Sunday, the victim’s friend Afsana Shaikh, 24, had dropped Laxmi at her house.” Bharat got angry and assaulted Laxmi with an iron rod. The neighbours tried to intervene, but Laxmi had already sustained severe injuries. Shaikh took her to the hospital, where she died. Following her death, Shanti Nagar police officers arrested Bharat and booked him for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-in-bhiwandi-near-mumbai/story-3ReFYaBlHS2k5i3OGzkHLM.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Photographers from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai win prestigious UK awards||Two photographers from Navi Mumbai and Mumbai won awards at the 56th Wildlife Photographer of the Year Awards held in London, in the United Kingdom (UK), on Tuesday. Environmentalist and photographer Aishwarya Sridhar and wildlife photographer Nayan Khanolkar won awards at the Wildlife Photographer Year Awards. Sridhar is the first woman from India and the youngest adult to have won this prestigious award in her category.Held since 1964, UK’s Wildlife Photographer of the Year is the British Natural History Museum’s annual competition and exhibition organised with the British Broadcasting Company (BBC). It highlights the unique and beautiful relationship between photography, science and art. The awards are considered the most prestigious wildlife photography awards. This year, there were over 50,000 entries came from more than 80 countries. Of these, 100 images won.Sridhar, who has been fighting to save Panje from environmental destruction, won the ‘Highly Commended Award’ in the behaviour-invertebrate category. Sridhar’s photograph of fireflies against star trails, taken at Bhandara in Maharashtra, will also be part of an exhibition at the Natural History Museum and be part of a touring exhibition. “Fireflies get active during a short pre-monsoon period and that was the time I clicked this image. After trekking for an hour, I came across this tree which was lit with fireflies under the starlit sky; it felt like a magical world,” she said.Khanolkar also won the ‘Highly Commended Award’ in the urban category for his photo of a leopard walking through a Warli tribal settlement inside Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). This is the second time he’s won an award at the Wildlife Photographer of the Year in the past four years. “I am thankful to the jury for this prestigious award,” Khanolkar said adding that he had been documenting leopards in and around SGNP over the past eight years. “I have attempted to capture the uniqueness of this landscape where the density of big cats in an urban environment is the highest in the world. What is peculiar about SGNP is that while leopards were always there, gazette records from the British era also documented the presence of tigers in Mumbai. But, while leopards adapted well, the tiger population could not.”City-based naturalist and conservationist Sunjoy Monga, who received the main award in 1991 and special category awards in other years, said, “This is a well-deserved award, encouraging and inspiring for budding photographers and environmentalists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/photographers-from-mumbai-navi-mumbai-win-prestigious-uk-awards/story-RasDRxHAqH5f7RWbbFcYeK.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Sufficient regulations exist for media, no need for more, Centre tells Bombay HC||The Union government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that while it did not justify media trials, there were sufficient statutory and regulatory framework in place to ensure that electronic media does not overstep, and hence it did not see any reason to put in place any additional guidelines as prayed for by petitioners in various public interest litigations (PIL). A number of PILs were filed against the media trial conducted by various news channels in the ongoing investigations on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The petitioners stated that as the electronic media was resorting to bashing the police, disclosure of confidential data pertaining to investigations, exposing important witnesses and parties who are part of the investigations, and taking judgemental stands aimed at influencing the opinion of the public, the HC should direct the media to refrain from such reporting. The PILs also sought directions to the Central government to frame guidelines for controlling the way in which in media, especially the electronic media, functioned. The petitioners submitted that while the Press Council of India regulated the operations of print media, there was no such authority for the electronic media. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni continued hearing the petitioners on Wednesday wherein it was informed by advocates Neela Gokhale, Asim Sarode and Sunny Punamiya, for various petitioners, that various channels had overstepped their limits and compromised the investigation and also asked family members of parties involved to express their opinions on the investigation and name suspects. The advocates submitted that this was against various Supreme Court judgements that had restrained people from divulging details of ongoing investigations and directed the media to show restraint while reporting sensitive criminal cases. One of the advocates also submitted that the reporting by some news channels, while reporting on the investigations, had violated consumer rights and infringed the provisions of the Mental Health Act. In light of these submissions, the petitioners sought directions to frame additional guidelines for news channels. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, representing the Union of India, while responding to a query made by the bench on Monday on whether there was any mechanism to regulate news channels on the lines of Press Council of India, submitted that the Cable TV Regulation Act has guidelines under the Programme Code which sufficed to regulate the electronic media. He further submitted that time and again the Apex court had observed that there was already reasonable restraint on the media, and hence there was no need for any additional mechanism to control the media. “We do not justify media trials, however there exists statutory and regulatory framework which covers the electronic media,” said Singh. Due to paucity of time, the bench asked Singh and the respondent associations and channels to make their submissions on Friday and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-sufficient-regulations-exist-for-media-no-need-for-more-centre-tells-bombay-hc/story-5C0II14b3FTnAMMISjXfIK.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Glitch leaves Mulund jumbo Covid facility in Mumbai without power for 12 hours||Following an oxygen leakage at the jumbo Covid facility in Mulund, the centre did not have electricity for around 12 hours as the staff had to shut the power supply fearing short-circuit. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials maintained that none of the medical equipment, which ran on electricity, were interrupted and added only the air-conditioning system of the centre had to be compromised as part of safety measures.The oxygen leak was reported around 3.30am on Wednesday at the 1,600-bed dedicated Covid hospital at Richardson and Cruddas campus on LBS Marg which was inaugurated in July. Fire brigade was called in. The centre was treating around 700 patients at the time. Dr Abhay Naik, dean of the jumbo Covid facility, said, “The oxygen leakage took place near electric cables and could have led to fire or short-circuit. As a precautionary measure, we had to disrupt the power supply. However, we made sure all medical equipment such as ventilators and oxygen beds continued to work. Only the air-conditioning was affected for some time, but we made sure that portable oxygen cylinders are arranged immediately.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have slammed BMC and criticised it for mismanagement in jumbo Covid centres where hundreds of Covid patients are being treated. Mulund MLA and BJP leader Mihir Kotecha said, “This Covid centre is just about 90 days old. It is ridiculous that such defects are being reported within such a short time. Electricity was shut for nearly 12 hours. Also, only 10% of the required staff was available throughout the day. Such mismanagement led to inconvenience to hundreds of patients. I will demand an inquiry into the construction of the plant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/glitch-leaves-mulund-jumbo-covid-facility-in-mumbai-without-power-for-12-hours/story-Hx0MzTcZlYdACUshXN8wiL.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government panel rejected moving Metro car depot from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg, says BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of Bharatiya Janata Party and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Wednesday that a report submitted by a committee appointed by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had rejected proposals to shift the Metro-3 (Colaba-Seepz) car depot from Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjurmarg because it would result in delays and a huge escalation in cost. On October 11, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the Metro-3 car shed would be shifted from Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjurmarg. He said the land for the car shed would be made available at zero rate. The plan is to integrate the line for Metro-3 with line for Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) before the proposed Saki Vihar station, after which it will be a common elevated corridor till the Kanjurmarg depot. On Wednesday, Fadnavis criticised this decision on social media. “Our earlier Government in 2015 considered the Kanjurmarg option but due to delays & multiple litigations, it was finally decided to give up,” he tweeted, adding, “CM Hon Uddhav Thackeray ji says this is a ‘NO-COST’ proposition, but I would say this is a NO-METRO proposition.” He also shared a series of snapshots from a report submitted by a committee appointed in December 2019, which was tasked with suggesting alternate sites for the Metro-3 car shed. In the report submitted in January, the committee concluded that integrating the lines for Metro-3 and Metro-6 would result in a huge escalation in cost; delay Metro works, and require substantial changes in design and system of both lines. The committee had also pointed out that shifting the depot to Kanjurmarg could lead to “operational complexities” on Metro-6 and “hamper the frequency of operations of both line 3 and line 6”. The report also stated that work on line 6 will have to be suspended immediately to revise the design. State minister for tourism and environment Aaditya Thackeray had said at the time that the committee’s recommendations are not binding on the state. Senior officials from Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), said only the platform size of six stations would need to be tweaked as the common line will also have to cater to Metro-3’s eight-coach trains as opposed to six-coach trains designed for line 6. Metro authorities estimate the construction of the proposed car depot would require a minimum of two years.RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “We have studied the plans and system integration is possible.” The per day cost of delay in executing Metro-3 is calculated at around Rs 5.87 crore. Delay in operation by 2.5 years would work out to Rs 5,356 crore, while a delay of four years would mean another Rs 8,570 crore. As per the agreement between the government of India, state government and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), cost escalation in Metro-3 works must be borne by the Maharashtra government.State officials said the land allotted in Kanjurmarg to MMRDA is litigation-free and has been inspected by the environment minister and officials from MMRDA and the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-government-panel-rejected-moving-metro-car-depot-from-aarey-colony-to-kanjurmarg-says-bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis/story-FoPiX2hIxLyvhb6swfh1dK.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||FIR registered against man for not wearing mask in Mumbai||Govandi police on Wednesday booked a 28-year-old man for not wearing a mask. This is the first time that officials of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) lodged a first information report (FIR) against a citizen for not wearing a mask. According to the police, at around 1.30pm the team of civic officials from M West ward caught a man at Savli Naka in Khardev Nagar, Chembur without a mask. “We spotted Rahul Madhukar Wankhede roaming without wearing a mask. On asking he did not give satisfactory answers and argued with the officials. He was then taken to the Govandi police station,” said a police officer.On the complaint of BMC employee Prathmesh Jadhav, the police have booked Wankhede under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant in the discharge of his public functions) of Indian Penal Code. Both the sections are bailable.Balasaheb Kedare, senior inspector of Govandi police station confirmed the development and said that the police would soon file a charge sheet against the offender. “We have been booking those citizens who are not obeying government orders related to the lockdown,” Kedare said. Fine of ₹200 is being imposed on those who are caught without a mask. Recently the civic body, to intensify the drive and to make it more effective, roped in police personnel and have now started registering FIRs against the offenders. The BMC’s latest drive aims to penalise at least 20,000 such citizens daily. As part of this drive, on Tuesday, over 4,369 citizens were penalised and a fine of ₹8.73 lakh was collected, according to BMC data. BMC has so far collected over ₹1.05 crore from 38,866 violators since April.(With inputs from Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fir-registered-against-man-for-not-wearing-mask-in-mumbai/story-9U1fI9uF1dTSv9mXBv9GOK.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Aarey reserved forest land: Maharashtra government publishes official notification||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday published the official notification for the 328.9 hectare (ha) or 808.53-acre land allocated as a reserved forest at Aarey.The notification was issued by the Maharashtra forest department chief conservator of forest Arvind Apte by order in the name of the Maharashtra governor that demarcated and declared 40.46ha (forest department land originally proposed for a zoo) as reserved forest under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927 followed by 288.43ha (under the dairy department spread across Aarey, Goregaon and Marol-Maroshi villages) under Andheri and Borivli talukas in Mumbai suburbs.The notification was examined and approved by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday.Aaditya Thackeray, state environment and tourism minister said, “Today marks a historic day for Mumbai with the CM giving assent for the final declaration of Aarey reserved forest. No other megacity with Mumbai’s size and commercial importance has such a massive expanse converted into a protected green zone with permanent protection for its rich biodiversity.”A forest settlement officer (FSO), Konkan was appointed as per the notification to assess rights of residents, nature and scope of the land, and under section 17 of the IFA, the Mumbai suburban collector was appointed by the state to hear appeals based on orders passed by the FSO following his observations. “We intend to ensure all tribal (adivasi) people’s rights within Aarey are protected. Over the next nine months, the administrative procedure to assess suggestions and objections from residents will be undertaken, and final notification under section 20 of the IFA will be done,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aarey-reserved-forest-land-maharashtra-government-publishes-official-notification/story-vF7ulnmGCylwOwSy3MAVRI.html
15-10-2020||City||It’s showtime, says Punjab government; theatre owners show reluctance||While the Union government has allowed multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres to reopen from Thursday within the framework of a set of standard operating procedures, cinema hall owners in most major cities of Punjab said they were not ready for showtime. Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said, “The administration is permitting the reopening of cinema halls from October 15. In closed spaces, only 50% occupancy is allowed, with a ceiling of 200 people. Wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser is mandatory.”No cinema hall owner has so far approached the administration for permission yet, said additional DC Himanshu Aggarwal. Meanwhile, Amritsar’s PVR manager said, “Cinema halls have incurred huge losses during the pandemic. We do wish to open the halls as soon as possible, but haven’t received any guidelines from the district administration. If allowed, we will open in next two to three days.”An employee of Mall of Amritsar said, “We have received a circular from the administration, but haven’t decided the opening date. Since no new movie is being released currently, we will have to rerun the old films.”No immediate plans of resumption in BathindaMultiplexes in Bathinda are not ready yet to screen films. Fun Cinemas at Mittal Mega Mall did not release any film schedule on Wednesday. Neither any list of films to be screened from Thursday was displayed nor ticket sale schedule was updated either at the mall or the website. Ajit Singh, manager at the mall, said the multiplex was gearing up for operations and sanitisation was underway. “The management is yet to make a decision on film screening,” he added. General manager of City Centre Mall in Civil Lines area, Gaurav Chopra, said they had no immediate plans to resume any activity. “Carnival Cinemas at the mall will continue to stay closed indefinitely,” he added. A representative of Peninsula Mall, Rupinder Singh, said the management has decided to keep all commercial activities suspended for next few more weeks.Bathinda DC B Srinivasan said the administration has granted permission to open cinemas Thursday onwards as per the decision of the state government. Only Phul Cinema to reopen in PatialaIn Patiala, only Phul Cinema, a single screen theatre, will be reopening, that too from Friday. Meanwhile SRS Cinemas, a multiplex, will remain closed.Vikramjeet Singh, incharge (operations) at Phul Cinema, said, “We have planned to resume screening from Friday with Punjabi movie Ardas Karan.”Shri Kant, supervisor of SRS Cinemas, said, “We are not starting any screening. I don’t know about the reasons, but our cinemas will remain shutdown throughout the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-showtime-says-punjab-government-theatre-owners-show-reluctance/story-12jEtTYpkAFkIBnZFqcmpI.html
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Juveniles chalked out an ingenious plan to escape Hisar observation home||It was around 6.30pm on Monday inside the dimly lit dining area of Hisar observation home and the 97 juvenile inmates were unusually quiet during the evening meal. The dinner deadline was over and the sentry was about to unlock the mini iron gate for inmates to go back to the barracks in a single file. Everything was business as usual, except the missing giggles and clamour of the inmates, who are in their teens. Much before the gate was to be opened, over two dozen inmates armed with blunt weapons such as sticks and sharp edged utensils had taken positions near the gate, according to officials, who spoke to the injured guards and inmates after the daring Monday night escape. In an audacious act, 17 juvenile undertrials had escaped from the Hisar observation home after overpowering three guards on duty. While nine of the 17 inmates who ran away face murder charges, three are facing attempt to murder cases, two were booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and two others face theft and a rioting case. Eight of them belong to Jhajjar district, two each are from Rohtak, Hisar and Delhi and one each from Bhiwani, Dadri and Karnal. Sources say when the unsuspecting sentry opened the mini gate and stepped inside the dining area, the inmates were already hiding themselves along the imposing walls and hit the guard in the head with a blunt weapon. The sentry fell unconscious and suffered head injuries.“The first guard has got nine stitches in the head,” the sources say. The inmates knew the first guard on duty carried the key to the main gate. The juveniles took out the key from the pocket of this guard, who was lying on the ground and bleeding.Noticing the melee, the second sentry rushed towards the spot. However, the emboldened inmates silenced him with sticks and some other blunt weapons. The second guard too suffered head injuries and is recovering in a hospital with eight stitches in the head.By the time last and the third guard realised what was happening, the inmates on the run had already opened the lock on the front gate of the observation home, officials say.The superintendent of the observation home, who stays in the adjoining area, was entering his house when the inmates were fleeing. “The superintendent has said that he drove his car back in high speed and chased the inmates. Some of the juveniles went back fearing being run over by the speeding car. To stop the others, he blocked the main gate by parking his car in front of it,” the sources say. They say that the number of escapees could have been more if the head of observation home failed to come back. Sources say as per the initial investigation, it was a well planned escape by the inmates, who had collected blunt objects like wipers, wooden planks from windows and utensils. The plot was hatched by inmates facing murder charges and who are in the age bracket of 17-18 years. “During inspection on Tuesday, some juveniles above 18 years were shifted to other places. How can three guards deal with 97 inmates?,” the official said, adding “We need good psychologists to counsel and reform these juveniles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/juveniles-chalked-out-an-ingenious-plan-to-escape-hisar-observation-home/story-NMvkKp1tubNHq3Cci2FKzK.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government announces probe into Fadnavis pet project Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Wednesday announced an open inquiry into the Devendra Fadnavis-led government’s flagship water conservation programme Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan (JSA), a project on which ₹9,634 crore was spent in the past five years. The move came days after the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) issued strictures on JSA in its report and the state has received complaints of corruption and faulty work in the scheme. While the decision to initiate an open inquiry was taken in the state cabinet, the modalities and terms of reference are yet to be finalised. Water conservation minister Shankarrao Gadakh said the probe will also look into irregularities in other irrigation projects and cost escalations in their budget. “We have received more than 700 complaints related to corruption, irregularities in JSA and other irrigation projects. Besides the stricture in the CAG report, the probe will be into 6.37 lakh works allotted under JSA, their implementation and the budget allotted to it. It was a contractor-driven scheme and irregularities by the contractors have cropped in many districts. We will also inquire into the revised administrative approvals given to the irrigation projects in the past five years, as these approvals, too, are suspicious,” said Gadakh. “It is yet to be decided whether it would be probe by a special investigation team (SIT) or anti-corruption bureau (ACB) or by a separate committee,” said Gadakh.However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said they were ready to face the probe, but it should not be politically motivated.Water supply and sanitation minister Gulabrao Patil said irregularities in the scheme began right from the tendering process. He said the inquriy will be conducted into the water tankers deployed after the implementation of the scheme, ground-water level and other flaws involved. The decision to probe JSA was taken after a few cabinet ministers raised the issue during the discussion on centrally sponsored Atal Bhujal Yojana in the drought-prone 14 districts. “It was not on cabinet agenda, but came up for discussion abruptly when rural development minister pointed at the CAG strictures. We then unanimously decided to probe the irregularities,” said a minister, who did not wish to be named. The CAG report tabled in the state legislature on September 8 slammed the Fadnavis government for its failure in implementation of JSA envisaged to make villages in Maharashtra drought-free. Besides the deficiencies in planning and lack of provision of adequate funds for maintenance of works, JSA failed to achieve water neutrality in drought-prone villages and increase the ground-water level as intended, the report stated. The report stated that even after spending ₹9,634 crore, the Abhiyan had little impact in drought-prone districts, which ended deploying more tankers than in the past. While in opposition, Congress, which is now one of the three allies in MVA along with Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), had alleged irregularities in the scheme. Welcoming the probe, Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The Fadnavis government had boasted to make 25,000 villages drought-free under JSA. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in one of his speeches, had said the scheme helped making 16,000 villages drought-free, but in the very next summer more number of tankers was deployed in the same villages. The ground-water level in these villages dipped after the implementation of the scheme. The scheme benefited the contractors and we had been bringing out the flaws in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-announces-probe-into-fadnavis-pet-project-jalyukt-shivar-abhiyan/story-Lt7F3aTC7Xzrm7lwWWS5dL.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro back on track, shop curbs lifted, libraries open||Maharashtra on Wednesday allowed Metro rail services to resume, among other relaxations from Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, as it kept to its declining trend of cases at 10,552 new infections, which pushed the tally to 1,554,389. The Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the city’s lone Metro line, between Ghatkopar and Versova, said it would begin operations in a graded manner from Monday, October 19, at 8.30am. The state as part of Mission Begin Again — a staggered plan to lift curbs — has allowed restarting of Metro, reopening of all libraries, extending operational hours of shops from October 15. The government, however, has left out the reopening of places of worship in the new order, despite pressure from various quarters and an acrimonious exchange of letters between the chief minister and Maharashtra governor on Tuesday over the issue. Meanwhile, Mumbai monorail services will start from Sunday, in a graded manner, officials from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) said. The services on Mumbai Metro and monorail have been shut since March when the nationwide lockdown was imposed owing to the pandemic. According to the order issued by state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, Metro operations can resume in the state from October 15 in a graded manner. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for the operations to start will be issued by the urban development department, the order added. With the resumption of Metro services in Mumbai, traffic jams could reduce on the arterial roads. The MMOPL said it has already initiated safety inspections and trial runs. Its spokesperson said, “We are restarting Metro operation from 19th October in a graded manner with all Covid related precautions to ensure safe travel for our commuters. We urge Mumbaikars to support us by fulfilling all guidelines and precautions.” School, colleges, educational and coaching institutions, meanwhile, will continue to remain shut till October 31, the order stated. In an attempt to push economic activities the state has allowed Business to Business (B2B) exhibitions, locals markets are allowed to operate, and allowed shops and markets to remain open for two additional hours, all outside the containment zone. Opening up of cinema halls, gymnasiums, and swimming pools did not feature in the fresh list of relaxations as the state government fears that these places could become hotspots of transmission and give a push to Covid-19 figures. A senior bureaucrat said, “Cinema halls are crowd pullers in urban centres and could lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases. Therefore the government is of the view to not open them as yet. In the matter of places of worship, it is being considered and some SOPs or guidelines can be formulated to allow its reopening by early next month. Similarly, SOPs are being worked out for gymnasiums.” The order added that shops and markets are allowed to given two additional hours of operation with an aim to reduce crowding. In Mumbai, for instance, shops are now open between 9am to 7 pm. Local weekly bazaars, including that of animals, will be allowed to operate outside the containment zones from October 15. The state has also allowed reopening all government and private libraries from October 15 with all necessary Covid-19 precautions. Several delegations met political parties, including Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray, to get the state to reopen libraries. The state government has done away with stamping of passengers arriving at domestic airports and at railway stations of Maharashtra. However, they will be checked for Covid-19 symptoms and will have to adhere to all Covid-19 norms. Health check-ups of the passengers travelling to Maharashtra by outstation trains will not be done, the order stated. Meanwhile, after two straight days of clocking below 10,000 fresh cases, the state crossed the mark. However, it continued to record fatalities under 200 for the third straight day with 158 deaths on Wednesday. The death toll in the state rose to 40,859. The case fatality rate (CFR) improved to 2.63% after being constant at 2.64% for seven days. Maharashtra’s active caseload went below 200,000 on Wednesday and stood at 196,288. The state also saw 19,517 patients discharged, taking the tally of the recovered patients to 1,316,769. The recovery rate in the state improved to 84.71%. Mumbai on Wednesday saw 2,211 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s tally of confirmed cases to 234,602. Mumbai reported 48 fatalities pushing its death toll to 9,555. Mumbai’s active caseload stood at 23,828. Pune city reported 540 new cases and nine deaths, while its rural areas reported 523 fresh infections and three deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 282 fresh cases. Nagpur city reported 404 new cases and five deaths, while the rural areas saw 261 new cases and seven deaths. So far, the state has tested 7,838,318 samples, and in the last 24 hours, 76,313 samples were tested. The state’s overall positivity rate (percentage of tests converting to positive) stood at 19.83%. Currently, 2,380,957 people are in home quarantine and 23,176 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-back-on-track-shop-curbs-lifted-libraries-open/story-zZAo5uskURD5OJBZU3rPkL.html
15-10-2020||Mumbai||Aarey saved! We owe a debt to the planet we live on, writes Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray||Mumbaikars received their news of joy amid the pandemic on Sunday afternoon, as they heard chief minister Uddhav Thackeray speak to them, through his video address to Maharashtra. As everyone expected him to brief them about the state’s fight against Covid-19, the background seemed different. The usual sober tones were replaced by an illustration of wildlife and Mumbai, coexisting, as one.That was the three-point message he gave the people, and it was about Aarey:1) All cases filed against satyagrahis of Aarey to be withdrawn with immediate effect.2) Almost 808 acres of Aarey land to be declared a reserve forest.3) The car depot of Mumbai Metro-3 to be moved out of Aarey to Kanjurmarg.All three decisions are historic in their own way and hopefully will set a golden precedent in environment decisions of our country, especially while going through a pandemic, supposedly caused by a zoonotic disease that has threatened humanity like never before.The first decision, to withdraw the cases, must be held as a highest example of environmental justice. Not justice for us, Homo sapiens, but for nature at large.A criminal charge on peaceful protestors, mostly students, can’t be justified when they stand up for a cause like protecting a forest from mindless destruction in the middle of the night.The second decision, to declare almost 808 acres of Aarey as a reserve forest, was long overdue. The reason for the protests in Aarey against the car depot of Metro-3 is simply not just about trees. Everyone realises that on a daily basis, multiple trees are trimmed/transplanted/cut to make way for infrastructure projects in urban sprawls. Aarey is much more than just trees. It is an ecosystem in itself. From leopards to spiders, birds to scorpions, and the rusty spotted cat and geckos, it is home to a lot more flora and fauna than what meets the human eye. We also tend to forget the adivasis, who have made Aarey their home for more than a century and live in co-existence with nature.According the reserve forest status to prime piece of land in a city like Mumbai is not easy, and calling the decision a bold one is not exaggeration.However, the decision by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has redefined “development”, making it a word that is truly prefixed by “sustainable”, making it a global example for decision-makers.The third and most crucial decision was to move the Metro-3 car depot from Aarey to Kanjurmarg. While declaring the rest of Aarey as forest, it is crucial to note that sensitivities were tinkered with, primarily, owing to the allocation of the car depot in the Aarey forest.All along, every voice that shouted against the car depot, including mine, was only because of the fact that Aarey car depot plot was much more than just 2,700 trees. This is also the flood plains of the Mithi River, which would flood certain areas when it overflows during the monsoon.All along, the Metro-6 was coming up without land being given by the government for a car depot in either Kanjurmarg or Pahadi, Goregaon. Typically, had things carried on as they did earlier, it may have been a finished line, but delayed for the lack of a car depot, which was possibly denied, to avoid the shift and merge request for Metro-3 and Metro-6.The Urban Development Department and the MMRDA made their case to the CM. A couple of points made the merger feasible – same technical (electrical and civil work) specifications.Once this was seen as possible, a 102-acre plot in Kanjurmarg was handed over to the MMRDA by the district collectorate.The work on the new depot has begun and it does not add to the financial burden, as it is free of cost and free of encroachments. It was anyway needed for Metro-6 and is now given without any charge. It further adds to the footfall of Metro-3 as it connects the eastern suburbs of Mumbai to central and south Mumbai. More so, the proposed Metro-14, connecting the rest of MMR, ends at Kanjurmarg. This would make Kanjurmarg a nodal hub for three Metro lines and connect a population of around 22 lakhs.The headway of the metro trains, at peak volume projected much later, remains the same. Neither does it waste the tunnel ramp already made nor does it waste a single penny spent on Metro-3. It only adds further value to its planning and to the city.Over the past five years, I have met multiple activists fighting for Aarey, from experts of planning and transport to wildlife enthusiasts and researchers, kids and the elderly who stood in the rain forming a human chain to protect the forest. All of them were Mumbaikars, who grew up in the city and those who want a better city for the future. They want the Metro and they want the forest. They want sustainable development.People from all political parties, social and economic backgrounds had raised their voice.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s bold move led by the three decisions of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray are a historic step towards making climate change mitigation and adaptation a part of our daily decision-making process. No other city has probably done this yet, but I hope we will not hold this “no other city” position alone and soon many more will join us. We must realise that these three decisions weren’t to do with politics or ideology, they are to do with the need for a better planet, cleaner environment and the survival of the human race.We owe a debt to the planet we live on.(Aaditya Thackeray is the Maharashtra environment minister)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aarey-saved-we-owe-a-debt-to-the-planet-we-live-on-writes-maharashtra-minister-aaditya-thackeray/story-bBKmmpTTmqDJw769iN1EEN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Smoggy Delhi struggles to shrug off toxic pollutants||Delhi’s air quality improved a notch on Wednesday compared to the previous day but the harmful particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10) levels remained well above the safe limits as the city witnessed yet another hazy day. Though the air quality index (AQI) value on the Central Pollution Control Board’s index slightly improved to 276 on Wednesday from 300 on Tuesday, the average PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) measurement in Delhi was 115ug/m3 and PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) levels were at 207ug/m3. The standard safety limit for the two are 60 ug/m3 and 100 ug/mg3, respectively. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed the slight improvement in the air quality to better wind speed in the evening which kept the air quality from deteriorating further.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said winds were calm during the day, which caused an accumulation of pollutants. By evening, wind speed picked up. Also Read: Diesel generators banned in Delhi from Thursday; essential services like hospitals, railways exempted“Till 11am (on Wednesday), we recorded calm winds but by 2pm wind speeds reached almost 8kmph,” he said. “Delhi also received easterly winds in the evening, which means the impact of stubble burning from Delhi’s north-western side, in Punjab and Haryana, remained minimal,” Srivastava said. Srivastava, however, said the wind speed will be negligible again through Wednesday night, which means that the air quality is likely to remain in the same range on Thursday. The ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) recordings showed that on Tuesday, 357 farm fires were seen over Punjab and Haryana. “Stubble burning fires observed yesterday (Tuesday) around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions with Safar synergised fire count estimated as 357, but the transport wind direction is not favourable and hence only minimal stubble contribution in PM2.5 is expected in Delhi,” the Safar air quality summary read on Wednesday. AAP blames Haryana The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Haryana government of not complying with the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority’s (Epca) ban on the use of diesel generator sets in the national capital region (NCR) from October 15.The ban will be enforced under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), the winter phase of which will come into force from Wednesday. “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana is hell-bent on polluting the air that residents of Delhi breathe. The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order regarding retrofitting gensets is being openly disregarded by the Haryana government. Year after year, the Haryana government is making excuses to disregard Epca’s directions and refuses to ban gensets,” AAP’s national spokesperson of Raghav Chadha said at a press meet.Also Read: Sisodia says Centre, EPCA doing very little to control pollution in north IndiaHe said, “The Haryana government’s contempt for the health of Delhi residents and the Epca should be dealt with an iron fist and strong action should be taken against them. Why should Delhi pay for the Haryana government’s negligence? This can’t be excused.”On October 8, Epca had told the Haryana government that the graded action response plan, which prohibits the use of diesel generator sets, will be applicable from October 15.  The Haryana government had on Monday written to Epca, saying Gurgaon and Faridabad would face a power crisis if diesel generator sets are banned. The Epca so far has refused to step back on the issue and asserted that the action plan – aimed at preventing winter pollution in Delhi-NCR – will come into force. Vipul Goel, former cabinet minister in the Haryana government, who held the environment portfolio from 2014 to 2019, responded, “Firstly, all heavy-duty gensets above 1000KvA are already fitted with emission-control equipment at the time of manufacture. If you want to blame smaller gensets, then Delhi should fix the issue within its boundaries instead of blaming us. Gurugram and Faridabad don’t use half the number of small generators that Delhi does in its markets and residential colonies.” The Delhi Pollution Control Committee banned the use of diesel gensets in the Capital on Wednesday. CPCB teams to maintain vigilThe Union ministry of environment on Wednesday said 50 teams of Central Pollution Control Board will be deployed from Thursday to maintain a strict vigil against pollution in Delhi-NCR. The ministry said the teams will focus on hot spots in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and other NCR districts in Haryana and Rajasthan. “Strict vigil will be maintained against polluting activities in the upcoming winter season. On-spot reporting of major air polluting sources such as major construction activities without proper control measures, dumping of garbage and construction waste alongside the roads and on open plots, unpaved roads, open burning of garbage/industrial waste, etc. will be done using SAMEER App,” the ministry said. Also Read: Delhi records worst air quality since February; wind direction shift may bring reliefIt said that a central control room at the CPCB headquarters has been made functional for keeping track of pollution levels on an hourly basis and ensuring coordination with state pollution control agencies.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said strict action is being taken against those flouting dust control norms, be it the Delhi government’s Public Works Department or municipal corporations. The minister said the issue of pollution is related to people’s health and all agencies are equally responsible for its prevention and control. “It doesn’t matter which agency it is ... be it PWD or MCDs, all have to take measures to prevent dust pollution. Strict action is being taken against those not following the government’s directions,” he told reporters during an inspection of the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Project site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smoggy-delhi-struggles-to-shrug-off-toxic-pollutants/story-TRAC7kOwtWDgURkTUIml7L.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to frame guidelines for all private coaching centres||The Delhi government will soon come up with a policy to regularise private coaching centres functioning in the national capital and will formulate guidelines for them in terms of infrastructure, land area, fees, and safety measures to be adopted.According to officials at the Directorate of Education (DoE), private coaching centres are running as a parallel education system in Delhi, but they were out of the ambit of any regularisation and often operated without any statutory compliances leading to serious safety hazards. The DoE has asked all coaching institutes, having an enrolment of 20 and above students, to register themselves with the directorate by November 14 this year.Yogesh Pal Singh,assistant director of DoE’s private school branch, said that the fire incident at a coaching centre in Gujarat’s Surat last year had prompted the Delhi government to formulate guidelines for the coaching centres with respect to basic facilities, fees, and safety measures. “The incident was a lesson and wake up call for us all. In Delhi, we have thousands of coaching institutes and centres, imparting pre-admission coaching to medical, engineering and students from other professional courses. They are a parallel education system that is out of the ambit of any regulations.”“It had also come to the notice of the government about some incidents of cheating and fraud on the part of some coaching centres, which remain unresolved due to the lack of regulation. Therefore, an urgent need was felt to come up with a policy to regularise these coaching centres in Delhi,” he said.As the first step to frame policy for regularisation, the DoE has decided to collect data from the private coaching centres in Delhi. “Due to the absence of any regulating policy, there is no data available on the number of coaching centres operating in Delhi. The DoE will now collect the data of such institutes and details of their infrastructure, land area, basic facilities, fee structure, safety standards,” Singh said.Coaching centres, having an enrolment of more than 20 students, will have to register themselves with the DoE and fill up a performa that will be available on its official website from Thursday. “Once the data has been collected, we will formulate rules and regulations on how these coaching centres will be provided licences, what will their infrastructure be like, how much fees they can charge and how they can hire the teachers,” Singh said, adding that the centres providing coaching to the school students for board classes will also fall under the new rules that are to be framed..Several coaching centres expressed reservations over the Delhi government’s decision. Arjun Ravindran, director, Vajiram & Ravi, one of Delhi’s oldest and much sought-after IAS coaching institutes, said, “The government should draw general statutes and tell that hereby coaching centres can apply and register themselves rather than randomly asking us to register with the DoE.”Officials at some coaching centres disapproved of the idea of the government deciding fees for them. “Different coaching centres work differently and provide very different sets of facilities. We do not know how the government will formulate a policy on fees charged by the coaching centres,” said an official at a coaching centre in Lakshmi Nagar, who wished not to be named. A senior Delhi government official, requesting anonymity, said, “The plan for regularising private coaching centres in Delhi was in the pipeline for the last few years. It’s very important to have a policy for the functioning of these coaching centres for the safety and security of students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-frame-guidelines-for-all-private-coaching-centres/story-RGxXubzeBFJaDg72Wn8LFN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Shut down thermal plants in NCR, Delhi tells Centre||Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday wrote to Union power minister RK Singh, requesting him to shut all the 11 thermal power plants located within a radius of 300 kilometres from the national Capital. Addressing a press conference, Jain said the thermal power plants around Delhi are one of the biggest contributors to pollution. He said despite orders from the Supreme Court, these stations have not been shut yet.“Instead, the Central government now intends to renew these power stations and allow them to operate for two more years. This is happening even as the Central government had told the Supreme Court in 2015 that they will lower pollution emission from these plants by 2019,” he said. The power ministry did not respond to HT’s requests for a comment. Rai stated that on May 8 this year, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had sent penalty notices to 35 non-compliant electricity generators in 15 coal-fired thermal power stations.  “Surprisingly, these generating stations were found to be non-compliant even with the new emissions norms introduced by the Central government way back in 2015… The CPCB notices are proof that the plants are environmentally hazardous and Delhi pays a huge cost due to these pollution-heavy plants that are stealthily and adversely affecting the lives of Delhi citizens,” read the letter sent by Jain. He said the Delhi government had already shut down the IP power plant in 2009, the Rajghat power plant in 2015 and the Badarpur power plant in 2018 due to increased environmental concerns, adding Delhi is the only state where there is no thermal power station now. Also Read: ‘Poor’ air raises concerns of another construction ban, agencies say can’t afford more delaysThe Delhi minister said it is expected that the upcoming winters might further aggravate the Covid-19 pandemic if the pollution levels are not kept under control. “Accordingly, it is requested that necessary directions may be issued to shut down the power generation from the plants non-compliant with the guidelines of the ministry of environment and forest dated 7.12.2015 and issue necessary directions to NTPC for decommissioning of Dadri-1 thermal station for containing the expected raise of pollution in Delhi,” Jain stated in his letter. Asked about the issue of non-payment of salaries to the staff at Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals, he reiterated that North MCD should hand over these hospitals to the Delhi Government. “A formal written proposal has been sent to the Centre to transfer these hospitals to the Delhi Government. MCD had earlier tried transferring the hospitals, but the Centre did not take them. We give funds to the MCD, but we are unaware of the expenditure since they do not get an audit done,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shut-down-thermal-plants-in-ncr-delhi-tells-centre/story-XpE68n8fcimlYVcYj0bpwM.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Cinemas to roll out the red carpet with hit reruns||Seven months after being completely shut down owing to the raging Covid-19 pandemic, cinema halls — both big screens and multiplexes — are ready to glow back to life in Delhi, starting Thursday.With safety of their patrons, while ensuring compliance of all SoPs , still remaining their prime concern, the management of various cinemas across the state have another, probably bigger, headache — what content to run on their big screens, as no fresh titles had been released ever since the pandemic started. Most filmmakers have been testing waters and gauging audience reaction by pushing their content exclusively online since.The quick fix solution that most halls have hence come up with — reruns of old hits.HT spoke to the management of some cinemas and figured that films that fared well last year and in the beginning of this year before the shutdown, like Ajay Devgn’s Tanhaji: The Unsung Warrior, Taapsee Pannu’s Thappad, Ayushmann Khurrana’s Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan, will make a return to the big screens. In addition to this, Oscar-winning movie Parasite, and Bloodshot, too were a common choice among many. PVR cinemas will also be screening Malang, Section 375, Dream Girl, John Wick, Joker and 1917, while INOX has opted to go for Malang, Chhichhore, Dream Girl, Mission Mangal, Lion King and Ford v Ferrari.Also Read| Lights, Camera, Action: Safety is key as cinema screens flicker back to life in DelhiCarnival Cinemas, on the other hand, is doing a mix and match according to their target audience in the given area. Kunal Sawhney, senior vice president (operations) Carnival Cinemas, said, “We’ve picked some old blockbusters, like Simmba, Chhichhore, Malang, Section 375, and would run them depending upon which movie fits best in which pocket. So, cinemas in Delhi would be screening a different movie, when compared to a cinema in Gurugram or Kanpur. We just want customers to come and see that the cinema experience was safe again. We’re only want to win back their confidence this particular week.”Devang Sampat, India CEO, Cinepolis, said that for the opening week, they’d be playing regional titles and library content from Bollywood. “Besides, we’re also planning a 3D film festival.”Single screen theatre Delite will reopen with Akshay Kumar’s Housefull 4, Varun Dhawan’s Street Dancer and Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan. Raj Kumar Mehrotra, CEO, Delite Cinemas said, “We’re hoping at least 10% to 20% occupancy this week. Usually pre-Diwali weekends are dull, but on October 23 or October 30, we have a couple of English titles lined up —including The New Mutants, a Disney film. Also, two other English titles — Tenet and Mulan — that have already released overseas, are in the pipeline and will be released on or after Diwali. Other than these, several regional language films have been finalised but that’ll be concentrated area-wise.”As for new releases, theatres are counting on four titles for Diwali weekend, out of which Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari has already been announced. Then there’s Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Tuesdays And Fridays, Indoo Ki Jawani and YRF’s Bunty Aur Babli 2 that are likely to hit the big screens.Kamal Gianchandani, CEO, PVR Pictures said, “We are reopening and releasing Hollywood film My Spy, which is a brand new title.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cinemas-to-roll-out-the-red-carpet-with-hit-reruns/story-VkgDz0NFPh4evVqgXj1KfN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Lights, Camera, Action: Safety is key as cinema screens flicker back to life in Delhi||As the big screens in the city flicker back to life from Thursday — after a hiatus of more than seven months because of the Covid-19 pandemic — cinema hall owners across the Capital say their patrons will be in for a completely new experience in which safety is the keyword.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met representatives of cinema hall owners in Delhi. “We cannot stay in lockdown forever, but I hope cinema halls strictly adhere to guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the government. It is extremely necessary to follow social distancing norms and sanitisation protocols during these testing times,” he said.The representatives of cinema halls — which include PVR, M2K Cinemas and INOX — told the chief minister that in order to ensure adherence to guidelines, they will sanitise food counters, prohibit patrons from consuming food inside auditoriums, leave a gap of one between two viewers, even if they arrive as a group, and ask cinema-goers to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application. “Apart from this, the auditoriums will be sanitised after every screening, all halls will have sanitiser dispensers and wearing of masks will be mandatory,” said a senior official in the chief minister’s office.Also Read: It’s showtime, says Punjab government; theatre owners show reluctanceIn Delhi, cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres have been shut since March 12, much before the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 to arrest the spread of Covid-19. On September 30, the Union home ministry released guidelines, allowing states cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes to open from October 15. The relaxations were finally notified by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on October 7.The standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening of cinemas, issued by the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry, make it mandatory for alternate seats to be left vacant for social distancing and marked with fluorescent markers. Gatherings in lobbies, common areas, and lifts are barred. The guidelines also suggest longer intermissions to allow audiences seated in different rows to move in or out in a staggered manner.“We have put into place the very best safety protocols for our patrons. These comply with the guidelines set by the ministry. We firmly believe that once patrons come and experience the ‘new normal’ in cinemas, they will be completely assured with respect to their safety and enjoy a world-class movie experience once again,” a spokesperson of Cinepolis India, a movie chain, said. Very few cinemas across the capital, however, will physically open up for patrons on Thursday, with most saying they will start screening films from Friday.Several hall owners say that even though safety protocols are the new priority, it is the longing for the theatre experience that will help them win the trust of their patrons.Raj Mehrotra, CEO of Delite Cinema, said: “At Delite Cinema, customer delight comes first and in these unprecedented times, their safety and hygiene will be of paramount importance for us. As North India’s first single-screen cinema, Delite has always been at the forefront of ensuring our customers receive the best cinematic experiences. We look forward to entertaining Delhi’s population once again.”Ambani Shanker, director of Amba Cinema, also a popular single-screen cinema hall in north Delhi, said: “Amba Cinema, with one of the largest single screens in the city, bears a unique book-shaped architecture and is a hub for all Delhi University students to catch up with their favourite titles… We will be adhering to all the SOPs and safety guidelines as prescribed by the MHA as well as recommendations and suggestions we have received from local authorities.”Also Read: Delhi CM Kejriwal hopes theatres will strictly follow Covid-19 guidelinesThe Multiplex Association of India in a statement on Wednesday said: “We have developed our SOPs after careful considerations to ensure the safety of all movie goers, without interfering with their movie-going experience. All guidelines laid down by the government will be followed in its entirety. Aspects such as chequered seating, staggered show timings, paperless ticketing, cashless payments, compulsory masks and many other such measures, will ensure a safe, secure and hygienic cinema going experience for the movie lovers.”“More than watching a movie, it’s curiosity,” said Abhiroop Sen, a 32-year-old corporate executive who plans to visit a multiplex this Saturday with two friends. He says, “As far as safety is concerned, it seems like the government guidelines are adequate if they are strictly adhered to. Most of us are anyway going to offices occasionally and resumed workout at gyms. So, why not cinemas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lights-camera-action-safety-is-key-as-cinema-screens-flicker-back-to-life-in-delhi-from-thursday/story-PXW7Lg2TKIq0cqyblRsEQP.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Parliament committee to discuss crime in Delhi-NCR||The Parliament’s standing committee on home affairs has accorded top priority to discuss “Atrocities and Crime Against Women” in this current year, days after the brutal rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras shook the conscience of the nation, The committee will also discuss the issue of “Rising Crime in Delhi and NCR” among the nine subjects it has shortlisted for detailed discussion in this year. Both issues assume significance as the Hathras rape saw major outrage against the UP government while a recent report showed high crime levels in the national capital. Crimes in Delhi increased by over 20% from 2018 to 2019, a period when the national crime figures saw a rise of just three percent in cases registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). As per data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), thefts accounted for most of these crimes in Delhi. Over 82% of the 290,000 crimes in Delhi were thefts which saw an increase of 25.7% from 2018 to 2019. Also Read| ‘Will ensure security of Hathras family, witnesses’: UP to Supreme CourtIn sharp contrast, thefts accounted for just a little over 20% of the 3.2 million crimes across India and the overall thefts increased by 8%. The 19-year-old woman from Hathras died in a Delhi hospital after the assault and her family members claimed she was cremated against their wish. They had earlier alleged that they couldn’t even see her face before the police “burnt the body with petrol.” The CBI has registered a case against the prime accused Sandip Singh. He along with three other accused, all from upper caste - are in jail. They were named by the victim before she died on September 29. The panel on home ministry, led by Congress leader Anand Sharma, will also take up, national security, intelligence coordination and counter terrorism, police- training, modernisation and reforms, prison- conditions and its infrastructure and reforms, development activities in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and management of Covid-19 pandemic and related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parliament-committee-to-discuss-crime-in-delhi-ncr/story-hKxEGiyM5sMWtsJ5hM5WaK.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Minor on late-night drive in uncle’s car fatally ran over two sisters in Model Town||The unidentified car that fatally ran over two minor sisters and left two others injured in north Delhi’s Model Town in a hit-and-run on Monday night was allegedly driven by a 17-year-old boy, police said on Wednesday after picking up broken pieces of the vehicle’s registration number plate that helped them identify and nab the suspect -- an incident that highlights the problem of underage driving in India. The boy, a class 12 student at a private school in Model Town, was out on a casual late-night drive in his uncle’s Honda City when he allegedly hit the four people crossing the road, Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) said. “The boy’s father will also be held culpable under the new Motor Vehicles Act,” the DCP said. She said legal action under the Act would be pursued even against the owner of the car. According to the new Act, the guardian of an underage driver is liable to be jailed for up to three years and fined Rs 25,000 if convicted. The legal age to get a car driving licence in India is 18 years.The DCP said that for now, the most stringent Indian Penal Code sections that would be pressed in this case is 304A (causing death by negligence). Asked if it would be converted to IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), she said it would depend on the outcome of the probe. While a person convicted under section 304A can be jailed for up to three years, or even be let off with a fine, a conviction under section 304 could land a convict in jail for up to 10 years. In the present case, it will all depend on whether the boy is tried as a minor or as an adult, she said. In a similar accident in 2016, not very far from the latest spot, a boy four days short of turning 18, had fatally mowed down a marketing professional in north Delhi’s Civil Lines. The boy was apprehended and his father arrested. The Supreme Court, however, earlier this year, refused to allow the driver to be tried as an adult as it found that he had not committed a “heinous” crime. The two sisters killed in the accident were aged seven and four years. Along with their five-year-old brother and a family friend, they were crossing GT Road at about 11.45 pm on Monday night when the vehicle, which was unidentified at that time, hit them. The sisters died in hospital while the other two are undergoing treatment. The children’s parents were getting their car refuelled at a CNG station while they were crossing the road with their father’s friend, Milap Singh, to have fruit juice at a nearby stall when the car hit them. The DCP said while the car sped away, investigators found broken pieces of the registration plate at the spot. “We found it was a Honda City car registered in Haryana. We checked with the transport department to identify the owner. It turned out that the boy’s uncle was the third owner of this car,” the DCP said. The police visited their house in Model Town to learn that it was the boy who had allegedly driven out the car that night. “He was out alone on a casual late-night drive,” the DCP said. The officer said after the accident, the boy returned home and told his family about the incident. The boy’s father runs a hardware business in north Delhi. “They had given away the car to a mechanic for repair work. We seized the car,” the DCP said.The police are yet to receive the boy’s blood report to determine if or not he was drunk at the time of the accident. Underage driving is a common problem in Delhi. In 2018, Delhi Traffic Police had prosecuted 1,228 such minor driver. That was a 589% jump from just 178 prosecutions in 2013. No data was readily available after 2018.According to a 2018 report by Nissan India and road safety NGO SaveLIFE Foundation, 96.4% underage drivers who were prosecuted said their parents knew they were driving the vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/minor-on-late-night-drive-in-uncle-s-car-fatally-ran-over-two-sisters-in-model-town/story-teIex3uB6SsQcmzQhsqXsJ.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Need mass movement to popularise solar power in capital, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said solar energy should be transformed into a “mass movement” in the national capital for more households to embrace the green form of electricity. Kejriwal was speaking at the inauguration of a 218 kWp solar power plant at Lady Irwin College, the biggest such plant at any college under Delhi University. The chief minister said the Delhi government has formulated two major policies for solar energy usage in the city. These include the Mukhya Mantri Solar Power Yojana, under which installation of solar power plant in residential and commercial properties is incentivised; and the Mukya Mantri Kisan Aay Badhotri Solar Yojana, which involves increasing the income of farmers by three to four times by installing elevated solar plants on their farms.“Under our scheme, residents, resident associations, or any entity which is installing solar power panels, does not have to spend any capital cost; in fact, they will save money on power bills as well. They will be able to save lakhs by just giving their rooftops and completing/signing some documentation. But, this still needs a push and scaling up further would be possible only if we turn solar energy into a mass movement in Delhi,” Kejriwal said. Oakridge Energy, a leading rooftop developer in India, which has fully financed, developed and commissioned the solar project at Lady Irwin College, said the 218 kWp solar power plant will generate 3.05 lakh units of power each year resulting in a reduction in carbon emissions of approximately 274 tonnes a year -- equivalent to the effect of planting of 13,500 trees.According to the government, in the last four years, around 206 Delhi government schools have been solarised. Rooftop solar power plants have been set up on more than 15 DU colleges and at all major technical institutions, medical colleges, polytechnics, government engineering colleges and other educational institutions. Some prominent institutions that set up solar plants are Delhi Technological University, Netaji Subhas University of Technology, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, and Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Even the jails of Tihar, Rohini, and Mandoli have been solarised, a senior power official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/need-mass-movement-to-popularise-solar-power-in-capital-says-kejriwal/story-3fvgpJPy8WlQU9w4eJvhbO.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Woman dies after water tanker hits scooter she was riding with father in Chirag Dilli||An 18-year-old woman died after a speeding private water tanker hit the scooter she was riding pillion with her father near Chirag Dilli in south Delhi on Tuesday evening, police said. The driver, who had fled from the spot leaving the tanker behind, was arrested on Wednesday. He has been identified by his first name Kapil. Kapil,40, a resident of Faizabad in Uttar Pradesh, has been booked for rash and negligent driving causing death. A case has been registered under section 304A of Indian Penal Code at the Ambedkar Nagar police station, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. “It is a private water tanker but is on contract with the Delhi Jal Board,” DCP Thakur said. The dead woman, identified as Nabila, had completed her Class 12 and was preparing for further studies. The family lives in Hauz Rani in south Delhi. Nabila’s father Abdul Sattar is a carpenter, her uncle Abdul Gaffar said. According to Gaffar, Nabila was returning home with her father after meeting someone in Okhla. “Around 5 pm, a speeding water tanker hit their scooter. Both of them fell on the road and suffered injuries. They were rushed to a private hospital in Saket, where Nabila died during treatment. The driver fled,” Gaffar said, claiming the father-daughter duo was wearing helmets. DCP Thakur said the police were informed about the injured woman by the hospital authorities. The police recorded her father’s statement and registered a case. The errant driver was arrested on Wednesday and the tanker has been impounded, he added. Nabila is survived by her parents and three siblings, including two sisters, her uncle said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-dies-after-water-tanker-hits-scooter-she-was-riding-with-father-in-chirag-dilli/story-pcUG4EF3o4BGhoCPg3EryN.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||2,000 North civic body doctors threaten indefinite strike from Monday to protest non-payment of salaries||At least 2,000 senior doctors working in the five hospitals, dispensaries and clinics run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from Monday to protest over non-payment of salaries for over three months.Since many of these health centres conduct testing and contact tracing activities for Covid-19, the doctors in their letter have requested the north corporation commissioner to make alternative arrangements.“Our families have been continuously subjected to brutal financial hardship... doctors are feeling immensely demoralised, mentally stressed and depressed because of non-payment of salaries for months. The responsibility for this strike shall lie with the government which forced us to take this bitter avoidable step. We feel sorry for our public and apologise to them beforehand,” read the letter by the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association, which on Monday had urged Delhi lieutenant governor to file an FIR against “authorities”. The association said it has received no response from authorities on their letter.“My mother has suffered a stroke and is extremely unwell. My daughter is studying abroad. How am I supposed to pay for anything if I do not get my salary? With no salary for over three months, even getting groceries is difficult. I know lots of people who are borrowing money from their relatives to run their households,” said Dr RR Gautam, president of the association.Dr Soobrata Ray from Maharshi Valmiki Infectious Disease hospital said, “My son joined Delhi Technological University this year, we had to pay around Rs 2 lakh fees. My younger son goes to Delhi Public School, I had to pay the fees. Now, we are left with nothing even for groceries. We cannot plan anything.”North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said they will pay the pending salaries in the next 10-15 days. “The doctors and nursing union members from Rajan Babu hospital met me in the morning. I assured them that their salaries will be paid in the next ten to fifteen days. I explained that a strike just draws our energy away from the task of generating funds. The doctors are all well-educated and should take the responsibility of treating the patients while we work on getting the money. We need about R15 -20 crore for paying the salaries of all hospital employees. We need to pay the nurses, senior doctors, junior doctors, administrative staff and everyone otherwise the hospitals cannot run smoothly. We just need some time,” the mayor said. Around 250 doctors from Hindu Rao Hospital -- the biggest facility run by North DMC -- have been on strike for the last four days. All Covid-19 patients being managed by the hospital were moved to Delhi government-run centres and the hospital was removed from the list of designated Covid-19 treatment centre on Tuesday.The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has been saying that the MCD should hand over the hospitals to the state government. “They are unable to run the hospitals properly; we have offered to take it over. For a few years now, the MCD has been trying to hand over the hospitals to the central government, which has refused to take over. So, we have offered,” said Jain.The doctors have also urged the MCD to hand over the hospitals to other authorities for a long-term solution. “On one hand, North MCD is unable to arrange funds to pay salaries to its employees, and on the other hand, they are not exploring options like handing over the entire health services except public health to any other government organisations like the central government,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-000-north-civic-body-doctors-threaten-indefinite-strike-from-monday-to-protest-non-payment-of-salaries/story-hktDne6QqqnVZpZiIz9MHO.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Traffic constable dragged on car’s bonnet for 400 metres in Delhi Cantt; accused arrested||A Delhi traffic police constable was dragged on the bonnet of a car for nearly 400 metres after he attempted to stop the vehicle as the driver was driving it rashly, zigzagging across lanes, in Delhi Cantonment area in south-west Delhi on Monday evening. The constable, Mahipal Singh Yadav, suffered injuries after he fell off the bonnet, the police said on Wednesday. The errant driver tried to flee, but was caught by public and other traffic police personnel who had to chase him for nearly a kilometre. He was identified by his first name, Shubham, a resident of Uttam Nagar. Shubham was in the car with his friend Rahul when the incident took place around 5pm on Monday on the carriageway going towards Tilak Nagar from Dhaula Kuan, the police said. Also read: Snatchers throw cash on road to trap their victims; both caught, handed over to police“The errant driver was arrested and booked for assault/criminal force to deter a public servant from performing duty and rash driving. A case under sections 186,353, 279, and 337 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against him at the Delhi Cantt police station,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Devender Arya, adding that the case was registered on the complaint given by Yadav. In his complaint, Yadav said he was on vehicle checking duty along with three other personnel on Station Road in Delhi Cantt on Monday evening. Around 5pm, Yadav saw a white car with a fancy number plate being driven rashly and he signalled the driver to stop. “The driver slowed down and then suddenly accelerated away. I fell on the car bonnet in a bid to escape being run over and grabbed on to the windshield wiper. Instead of stopping the vehicle, despite me repeatedly asking him to, he continued to drive rashly and dragged me for 300-400 metres. He sped away after I fell off the bonnet. However, the public and the other traffic police constables chased and caught him,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-constable-dragged-on-car-s-bonnet-for-400-metres-in-delhi-cantt/story-Rw2zQRgwbtuakd3HwvRRRI.html
15-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Poor air raises concerns of another construction ban, agencies say can’t afford more delays||Since November last year, when the Supreme Court had banned construction activities in the capital in view of the rising air pollution, work on most infrastructure projects in the national capital has been moving at a snail’s pace, what with the Covid-19 pandemic that followed and the nationwide lockdown it entailed.The exodus of migrant workers back to their villages and home towns too deeply impacted the construction activity as mobilising labourers, once the lockdown had lifted, had been a huge challenge.With air pollution levels hovering around the “poor” category -- the air quality index , as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had docked at 276 on Wednesday -- the Delhi government is stepping up measures to check dust pollution and the possibility of a ban on construction activity is looming large once again.Although construction activities have been banned during peak pollution season for the past three years, a ban this year, various government agencies say, will derail most infrastructure projects, including those aimed at decongesting the city. Most agencies HT spoke to said that work has picked up pace only by September.Also Read: Smoggy Delhi struggles to shrug off toxic pollutantsAs per the Supreme Court-approved graded response action plan (Grap), construction activities need to be stopped if the air quality index -- on a scale of 0 to 500 -- touches ‘‘severe plus (500+)’ or emergency category. This would mean that the PM 2.5 levels have crossed 300ug/m3 or PM10 levels have crossed 500ug/m3 continuously for 48 hours or more. The permissible limit for PM2.5 in India is 60ug/m3 and PM10 is 100ug/m3.The decision regarding Grap measures is taken by the Environment Pollution Control Authroity (Epca) on the recommendation of the CPCB.A CPCB official said in view of the pandemic, several factors will be considered while implementing Grap measures this year “as and when the need arises”. “We are taking suggestions from agencies to find the best way forward. This is a peculiar situation and none of us has dealt with such a situation before. A decision will be taken in the best interest of the city’s environment,” the official said, on the condition of anonymity.If pollution levels in the capital deteriorate further, government agencies say instead of a blanket ban, construction activity should be regulated based on the nature of work involved. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which started construction work last December, has requested the CPCB to allow its work to continue.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “A blanket ban leads to discontinuation of all kinds of activities, which delays the overall completion targets. The workforce remains idle, machinery is left unused and project incurs time and cost overruns. In any case, the pandemic has also caused a loss of working days.”He added, “We have requested the CPCB to allow us to continue with those works that do not cause pollution such as underground work, installation of shuttering etc. Moreover, we have stringently implemented a number of dust management measures at our sites.”Road infra projects will be worst affectedRoad infrastructure projects such as the widening of National Highway-1, Dwarka Expressway, Dhaula Kuan underpass etc, being undertaken by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and the Barapullah Phase-III and Ashram underpass work being done the public works department (PWD) are long-term measures aimed at decongesting Delhi.A 2018 study conducted by The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri), a Delhi-based research institute, showed that vehicle emissions account for 24%-28% of the city’s pollution. Dust, on the other hand, contributed only 18%-38% to the city’s overall pollution.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment, said, “Under Grap, all big construction sites have to give an undertaking that they will adhere to norms. Currently, there is no ban on construction activities and a situation that would necessitate such a ban would not arise, if there is strict enforcement by agencies and the government. The state governments have to ensure that there is zero tolerance towards burning of waste etc.”According to officials of the NHAI, which is working on four main projects to decongest Delhi, a further ban on construction will delay these projects by several months.Also Read: Delhi’s AQI improves marginally but remains in ‘poor’ zone“Until July, the work was severely affected. It is only in August that work started getting back on track. So far, just 80% of the work has resumed. These projects are important to curb pollution in the long run. Further, a ban on construction activity will adversely impact these projects which are important for addressing the pollution problem in the long term,” said the official, requesting anonymity.The NHAI has given Extension of Time (EoT) of up to six months to its contractors due to the ban on construction activity earlier this year, said the official.PWD officials too said construction work is yet to pick up pace. “If construction activity is banned, then it will delay our projects further. We are yet to rework the deadlines,” said a senior official, on condition of anonymity.Pragati Maidan redevelopment can’t afford more delaysSome of the projects such as the Centre’s Pragati Maidan redevelopment project have to be finished by next year. LC Goyal, chairman and managing director of India Trade Promotion Organisation, said, “We are on a very strict deadline and have to deliver the entire project by October 2021, as the new complex is the venue for the G20 Summit, scheduled for 2022. Until now, 68% of the work is complete whereas our target was to finish 80-85% of the work by now.”He added, “The blanket construction ban and lockdown have severely impacted the redevelopment of Pragati Maidan. The key problem is labour -- most workers have moved back to their villages. The remobilisation of labour is a mammoth task which takes time and thereby having a domino effect on work.”Workers fearful of losing jobsThis year, the agencies had to mobilise the workforce twice—first in February after the construction ban was lifted and then after the lockdown was lifted.Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said while most workers have returned, there is uncertainty among them about losing their livelihood all over again.“The way action is being taken against construction sites, there is fear among workers that work might be stopped again like last year. The workers have been the worst affected, as they have been practically out of work since November last year. If there is a ban yet again, then the Delhi government must step in to safeguard the interests of these people and ensure that they are paid.”While urban development experts say these infra projects are essential to address the problem of pollution in the long run, they say there is a need to keep a strict check on contractors as there are several violations.Sarvagya Srivastava, former Delhi PWD chief engineer, said, “There is no doubt a further ban will be a setback for all the development projects, but it is a fact that dust control norms have to be strictly adhered to. The need for a ban won’t arise if norms are followed. But there shouldn’t be a blanket ban on construction activities. Only earth and concreting work, which results in dust pollution, should be banned, if need be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/poor-air-raises-concerns-of-another-construction-ban-agencies-say-can-t-afford-more-delays/story-168kkkcuWKjcBY699gvLAI.html
15-10-2020||City||Public libraries in Pune reopens on reading motivation day on Oct 15||Pune: After seven months, the public libraries and reading rooms will see the light of the day on October 15 2020. Incidentally, 15 October is also celebrated as “Vachan Prerna Divas” or Reading Day to pay homage to former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam who loved reading and writing, and also to encourage children to understand the importance of reading and develop it as a hobby. There are 1,000 libraries in Pune district, of which 90 libraries and reading rooms in the city are registered with the Pune District library. Following a circular Mission Begin Again released on 14 October, 2020, by the department of revenue and forest, disaster management, relief and rehabilitation, the libraries are getting ready to welcome their members again. Pune Marathi Granthalaya, the public library with 6,000 members and eight centres across the city, held a meeting at their premises after the state’s circular was passed. “Though it is on short notice, we welcome the decision taken by the authorities. We have planned a small prayer meet at the morning to celebrate Vachan Prerna Divas and have invited a few of our life members. The library will open its doors to its members at 9 am, with the security staff equipped with hand sanitisers and oxymeters to check members. We will allow only one member at a time to exchange book at the counter,” said Sharad Ghanekar, vice-chairman of the 107-year-old library. Though Ghanekar said that he is unsure about opening the reading hall, seating arrangements to maintain social distancing will be made if there is a demand from readers. Arun Kamalapurkar, (66), resident of Ganesh Mala, and retired bank employee is member of the Pune Marathi Granthalaya, said, “I missed the library a lot. I have reread all the books in my house. I was eagerly waiting for the library to reopen for time killing is an important factor for a senior citizen. There are limitations to buy new books, with finance and space to keep books. I prefer public libraries as compared to private libraries because membership is cheaper.” Hemant Kulkarni, a life member of the library, was excited and hoped to be the first one to visit the library when it reopens. “There is a vast difference when you read a book at home and when you are in the library. There are several of my friends and book lovers alike who all like to discuss books and exchange ideas at the library,” said Kulkarni, who has read all the 500 books kept at his home during the months of lockdown. Some libraries are unsure if their members will risk a visit. “We have been getting calls ever since the unlock circular was announced and are preparing to reopen the library. Our only concern is that 60 per cent of our members are senior citizens, and hence worried, although, we will follow all the protocols of social distancing, sanitizers and mask compulsory for visitors. We also have a skeletal staff attending in two shifts of the library’s working hours,” said VD Pingale, director, Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad Granthalaya. Shreya Gokhale of the district granthalaya said, “We have intimated all the libraries with us and specifically larger libraries with reading halls to maintain social distancing and constantly sanitize the premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-libraries-to-reopen-on-the-reading-motivation-day-on-oct-15-in-pune/story-fhg5PPtXu72mbkQmbrow6I.html
15-10-2020||City||Mask a vaccine to check second wave of Covid cases in Pune: Saurabh Rao||PUNE: Our mask is our vaccine. If we want to avoid the second surge predicted by central government team, we need to wear face masks and follow other guidelines, said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar. Addressing the media, Rao said, “The Central team recently visited Pune and warned of a possible second surge in the city during December and January. The surge is mainly because of unlocking, economic activity and winter-related reasons.” The senior official Rao said, “We can avoid the second surge. Our vaccine is our mask right now. The possibility of a second spike in Covid-19 cases mainly depends on how we are going to lead our lives in terms of hygiene in the next few weeks. With the upcoming festival season and the winter season, if residents use mask when they venture out, followed social distancing and hand sanitisation, then Pune would be in a better position to tackle the virus.” According to Rao, experts say that the second wave would not be as strong as the first spike. “However, the administration is prepared and has enough oxygen and ventilator beds available,” he said. Talking about the positivity rate, the divisional commissioner said that though the figure is coming down in the division, experts claim that the pandemic would be stated as in control only when the figure touches below 10 per cent. Naidu Hospital patients may be shifted Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “PMC plans to set up the new Atal Bihari Vajpayee medical college at the premises of Naidu Hospital. If that work gets started, the administration may require to shift Covid-19 patients from the civic-run Hospital. The civic body has got the go-ahead to start the medical college. Recently, PMC handed over Kamla Nehru hospital for the proposed medical college project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mask-is-a-vaccine-to-check-second-wave-in-covid-cases-in-pune-saurabh-rao/story-5OgxDFgbTJ2glkXm2mhQsL.html
15-10-2020||Pune||PMC plans Covid insurance cover for lower-income group||In a unique initiative by a civic body in the country, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to cover residents from lower income group under a Rs 2 lakh Covid insurance. PMC published the expression of interest and has sought premium offer from private and government insurance companies till October 22. PMC health chief Dr Ashish Bharti said, “The scheme is presently restricted to citizens who fall under the PMC’s Urban Poor Scheme for lower income group. Only income is the criterion for this scheme and it’s open for all.” Bharti said, “Around 1 lakh people are registered for the scheme. With the possibility of second surge of Covid-19 cases in the city, the civic administration has decided to provide insurance up to Rs 2 lakh. Residents can undergo Covid treatment at private hospitals and will need to only pay for bill excess of Rs2 lakh.” The health chief said that a meeting with interested insurance companies will be held on October 16 to answer their queries and understand the financial coverage plans. Congress party’s leader in PMC Aba Bagul said, “The insurance scheme for Covid-19 would be helpful for PMC and it would save money. Till today, PMC had spent Rs45 crore on 5,000 residents registered under the urban poor scheme. I am sure that if PMC procures the insurance plan, it would save money spent on medical bills paid to private hospitals under the scheme.” The PMC health office said that the scheme would be applicable for government and PMC-owned hospitals. Beneficiaries undergoing treatment at PMC hospitals would be charged as per government rates and civic administration will claim the bill from the insurance company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-plans-covid-insurance-cover-for-lower-income-group/story-1AyHmi76TjRrqFBPSfr5XM.html
15-10-2020||Lucknow||Women workers, MGNREGS to be connected with Mission Shakti in UP||The rural development and panchayati raj departments in Uttar Pradesh will connect the women workers and the Mahatma Gandhi rural employment guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) with Mission Shakti programme and form women labour groups. Mission Shakti is a roughly six-month programme to sensitise all to respect and provide security to women in the state--beginning with the Shardiya Navratri (from October 17) to Vasantik Navratri (April next year). The state government has issued instructions to run Mission Shakti at district, development block and village level for the safety and honour of women and girls.“We have chalked out various programmes to be conducted at the gram panchayat level under MGNREGS,” said Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, rural development and panchayati raj. Also Read: Ahead of Kumbh 2021, Upper Ganga Canal to close for repairs in Haridwar“Good productive assets created by women workers under the MGNREGS will be disseminated. Special meetings of women workers will be organised at gram panchayat, village and hamlet levels to inform them about their rights provided under the scheme. For instance, equal wages are provided to women and men, but the amount of work for women workers is determined less than men in the schedule of rate (SOR),” said Manoj Kumar Singh. Also Read: UP CM to attend Ayodhya’s star-studded Ramleela this yearSingh said that information would be provided about special provisions and facilities women were entitled to at workplaces, such as crèches, drinking water and electricity at the MGNREGS work sites. At special meetings of women workers, they would also be informed about various steps taken by the state government for the safety of women including available help lines and women’s power lines ‘1090’, ‘181’, ‘102’, and ‘112’. Singh said the meetings of women-headed families and single-women families would also be organised to give information about permissible works, assets under MGNREGA scheme and increase in women safety and livelihood resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/women-workers-mgnregs-to-be-connected-with-mission-shakti-in-up/story-RKBYv99VVg4AMtY9XkncnM.html
