17-10-2020||Mumbai||Highway Safety Patrol fines 18,125 vehicles in Sept along the Mumbai-Pune Expressway||In merely one month, the Palaspa unit of Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) has imposed fine on more than 18,125 vehicles along the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. Of these vehicles, at least 10,115 were fined for speeding on the highway.The action was taken in 30 days of September, while HSP police officials claimed that this was highest number of cases done in a month. The over-speeding vehicles were identified by the interceptor van assigned for the expressway.Assistant police inspector Subhash Pujari, Palaspa unit, said, “In order to bring down the accidents on the expressway, we have been identifying the speeding vehicles with the help of interceptor van. Apart from the 10,115 vehicles fined for speeding, 8,010 people were fined separately for lane cutting, using mobile phone while driving, having black tinted windows, for not having reflector in the vehicles – making a total of 18,125 vehicles that were issued fines in one month.”The interceptor has been in use on the expressway since November 2019.Superintendent of Highway Police, Pradhan Digambhar, said, “The interceptor van sends a message to the mobile number linked with the vehicle registration number about the fine. We also have around 10 CCTV cameras on the expressway that is linked to the server of e-challan to capture violations. These cameras also capture the violation of the motorists.”He said that the HSP staff were initially instructed not to conduct any checking by physically stopping a vehicle due to the pandemic but now the same is being done at the expressway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highway-safety-patrol-fines-18-125-vehicles-in-sept-along-the-mumbai-pune-expressway/story-PCUvhWNIaoD6XVtfztEy0L.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Crime in Navi Mumbai on the rise during lockdown, up by 220 cases in 4 months||After a brief lull in theft cases at the start of lockdown, a surge in number of cases is again being witnessed in Navi Mumbai as Mission Unlock began. From merely 94 cases registered across the city in April, they rose to 314 in August across the city. Police have attributed the recent surge in increased criminal activities to history-sheeters being released to ease overcrowding in prisons. On an average, in the pre-Covid times, at least 450 criminal offences were registered in the city every month, according to the 2019 data of Navi Mumbai police. Recently, the Panvel police arrested Rajesh Kaikade alias Raja, 39, who had a long list of crimes against him ranging from murder to gang-rape. Kaikade was released from Taloja prison a few months ago but it took no time for him to fall back into his old habits. He was rearrested for trying to extort a construction material supplier at gunpoint. Like Kaikade, police said, many habitual offenders were back to committing crimes. In March, the state home minister Anil Deshmukh had announced release of undertrials on parole from across Maharashtra prisons following the decision of Maharashtra High Powered Committee (MHPC). So far, around 10,000 undertrials have been released from the state prisons.In May, only 117 cases were registered in the city but they doubled next month with 248 reported in June. Most of the offences were thefts, motor vehicle thefts and burglaries.“It is not so that a person with no criminal record is going out and committing thefts. The criminal mentality and behaviour are important factors for recidivism,” said Sunil Tarmale, sub-inspector at Panvel police station, part of the detection cell.While 23 burglaries were reported in three months between April and June, 21 cases were registered just in July and 35 in August. While detection is marginally affected due to limited workforce, police are still putting on a brave front.Similar modus operandi “In cases like burglaries and thefts, the modus operandi in many cases is similar to the one adopted by previous criminals. In several cases, those criminals recently released from jails were found to be committing the same crimes for which they were imprisoned earlier,” said Dinkar Mohite, senior inspector at CBD Belapur police station. Some of them were drug addicts and carry out theft to fund their addiction after being released from jail.While a senior crime branch officer said no data was maintained to quantify the number of recently-released persons committing crimes, he said it was a noticeable trend witnessed across police stations. Officials said they were taking steps to curb this menace. Police stay vigilantSuresh Mengade, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said, “The trend of recently released undertrials committing street crimes has been noticed. Hence, we are more vigilant than ever. We are conducting nakabandis, gathering intelligence and also conducting raids based on the information we receive.”Mengade added the crucial part of the process is keeping tab on those released recently and that was being done by police officials maintaining and verifying updated records of the history-sheeters.The process involves gathering intelligence from informants about the suspects’ latest activities and whether they were staying at their place of residence. “Challenge arises when the accused is traced to outside the city limits. This increases the risk factor for the police officials during the raging pandemic. We have to be extra cautious and at the same time be quick because the accused does not wait for us at the same location and may soon be on the move,” added Tarmale. Like everything, the ways of interrogation have also changed due to Covid-19. Today, policemen are seen maintaining physical distance from the accused out of fear of infection.“Once the test for the accused is conducted and report comes negative can the interrogation proceed properly. Most of us cannot even go close to the accused to interrogate properly,” said another officer. Expert Speak*** Vijay Raghavan, criminologist, is sceptical of the police’s version that most offenders are sliding into recidivism. He says socio-economic conditions are one of the reasons for those committing crimes again. “It is a known fact that those with a criminal record often get re-arrested on suspicion. Ultimately, it has to be proved in the court of law if they are guilty. The other side is that the offenders face social stigma and, at times, even their own families reject them. They find it difficult to find local jobs as they earn a bad name in society. Many come from poor socio-economic background and find themselves with limited job options,” says Raghavan, adding that the prison rehabilitation programme is very limited for under-trials and hence they may get pushed into taking support of earlier contacts and negative peer groups.*** Vaibhavkumar Ronge, sub-inspector at Khandeshwar police, counters Raghavan’s allegation that the accused are picked up on merely suspicion as proving their involvement is still crucial during the first remand at the magistrate. “With the arrest, we also have to prove to the court that there is an involvement of the accused. This means finding evidence such as CCTV footage, call records and also recovery of stolen property,” Ronge says. RECENT CASE STUDIESOctober 9: Panvel police arrested Rajesh Kaikade, 38 for threatening a building material supplier at gunpoint to extort small-time civil contracts in Karanjade village. The accused is currently out on bail in a 2012 murder case where he, with his co-accused, allegedly murdered the village’s former sarpanch.September 4: Three men, recently released from Thane prisons, were rearrested for duping scores of persons under a fake bank loan scheme. Police found the accused cheated a few Navi Mumbai residents of at least ₹14 lakh.August 11: Rabale police arrested two men and recovered four pick-up trucks worth ₹11 lakh from them. The duo committed the crime with two wanted accused while two persons from the gang – one arrested and another wanted – were released during the Covid-19 lockdown from Nashik jail and another prison in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crime-in-navi-mumbai-on-the-rise-during-lockdown-up-by-220-cases-in-4-months/story-1bhKYGZ21YSPHKEwbEeJrL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||From 17 to 130 days, doubling time of Covid-19 cases slows down in Chandigarh||The health department has said that the doubling time of the new Covid-19 cases in the city has improved to 130 days from 17 days in mid-August.The doubling time is the number of days required for the number of cases in an epidemic to double, based on the rate of the cumulative increase in the number of cases, giving doctors an estimate of the current rate of virus spread.On September 16, when active cases peaked at 3,141, the doubling time was 19 days. At the national level, India’s doubling time has increased sharply to 70.4 days from 25.5 days in mid-August. Higher doubling time suggests slowdown in spread of infection .Steeper decline“The doubling rate has increased manifold in comparison to last month. This is the trend in the whole country, though it’s more pronounced in Chandigarh as the decline is steeper,” said Arun Gupta, health secretary.However, news on the fatalities was grim with 45 deaths reported in October, totalling 22% of the deaths (207) reported so far, pushing up the rate from 1.36 % to 1.52% as calculated between October 1 and October 16. September, however, had the worst record with 106 (51%) of total deaths, 67 reported in the last two weeks as against 39 in the first two weeks of September.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health department, said all the health facilities had recorded fatalities and that patients were given the best possible medical care.Fatalities among September cases “Patients undergoing treatment from the last 10 to 20 days could not survive so that is increasing the numbers, but not that significantly. It is not that the patients were diagnosed yesterday and could not survive. Majority of deaths are being reported among the patients who were admitted in late September or so,” Dr Nagpal said.Staff from local dispensaries had been roped in to keep an eye on patients under home isolation.The health staff which works in the dispensaries and the hospital staff in Manimajra, Sector 22 and Sector 45 is looking after the patients in home isolation. A particular health worker has been assigned a designated area to check on positive patients through phone and also make personal visits to check the vitals, Dr Nagpal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-17-to-130-days-doubling-time-of-covid-19-cases-slows-down-in-chandigarh/story-8z3z3HXZzrDWG0sN040vmM.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Duo arrested for stealing TVs from Navi Mumbai hotel||The Navi Mumbai crime branch has arrested two men, a month after they stole ten Smart TVs from a Nerul hotel that was shut due to lockdown. The hotel was undergoing renovation in September when the duo raided 15 rooms and stole TVs along with other items from the bathrooms.The duo, identified as Salman Khan, 45, a Mankhurd resident, and Satyam Harijan, 22, from Nallasopara, showed up at Hill View Residency in the intervening night of September 9 and 10.Since the hotel was shut, the owner decided to undertake renovation work. On September 9, the painter finished painting work and locked the premises in the evening. When he returned the next morning, he found the items stolen.“Both the accused have previous criminal records. They broke the window of the rooms to gain access into the hotel. They stole the items in a few hours and then loaded them into an auto, which they used as a getaway vehicle. We are on the lookout for the auto driver, who has gone to his native place,” said NB Kolhatkar, senior inspector, central unit crime branch.The duo stole 10 TV sets, a computer desktop and bathroom fittings including towel racks and jet sprays. The CBD Belapur police had registered the case of house break-in following the incident.The crime branch conducted a parallel probe based on the CCTV footage at the hotel and with the help of informants, traced the accused duo.Police said the accused chose the hotel as they were aware that they will not be caught in the middle of the theft as the area was isolated at night with a quick entry and exit possible for them.“They had planned to sell the TV sets but waited as they learnt police were looking for them. One of them stored the TVs at his Nallasopara house and they fled to Lonavala. There, they took up odd jobs and were keeping a low profile,” said Rajesh Gajjal, assistant inspector, crime branch, central unit.Following their arrest, police recovered nine of the stolen TVs from Harijan’s Nallasopara house. It was also revealed that Harijan was allegedly involved in another theft case under the jurisdiction of NRI police for stealing from a temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/duo-arrested-for-stealing-tvs-from-navi-mumbai-hotel/story-7eZSM1yOjrM7zx6YkhtzeL.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||3 injured in 2 separate hit-and-run accidents in Navi Mumbai||Three men were injured in two separate accidents in hit-and-run cases in Turbhe and Nerul in the last two days. In both incidents, the accused drivers fled.On Friday, at around 7.45 pm, Ejaz Idrisi, 28, a barber, was leaving for his Mumbra residence along with his acquaintance Harish, who works in a neighbouring real estate office in Navi Mumbai. Idrisi was riding his bike while Harish was riding pillion.As the duo reached Mahape, a speeding pick-up truck hit their bike from the rear. Due to the impact, Idrisi suffered a fractured leg while Harish sustained minor injuries on his leg. Soon after hitting the bike, the truck driver sped up and fled the spot.“A police vehicle was patrolling in the area when the constables spotted the accused driver escaping. The police van then chased the truck but he left the vehicle mid-way and fled on foot,” said an officer from Turbhe police station.In another incident, 25-year-old Vivek Pavde, a Chembur resident, was travelling on a scooty in Nerul when an unidentified car hit his bike from the rear and he fell on the ground. Pavde, a media research executive, sustained minor injuries on his leg. The car fled towards Karave village.Police have registered cases of speeding and rash driving and causing hurt against the unknown persons in both incidents at Turbhe and Nerul police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-injured-in-2-separate-hit-and-run-accidents-in-navi-mumbai/story-t9YinuA8s7ruugtga41LzN.html
17-10-2020||Gurugram||Construction of road via Aravalli Biodiversity Park retained in draft mobility plan||Despite facing backlash from citizens on the proposed construction of a road via Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Saturday confirmed that the plan for the road has been retained in the final draft of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP). The draft of the CMP, developed for improving road junctions, construction of roads, bridges, pedestrian footpaths, cycling tracks, among others, is awaiting approval from by the GMDA’s Resident Advisory Council (RAC) and later by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said officials. The CMP has been compiled by the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), New Delhi, to improve public transport and pedestrian infrastructure in Gurugram. A six-month-long extensive study of traffic infrastructure, road network, parking facilities among others was conducted to prepare the CMP. It identified the current problems related to mobility and recommended solutions based on the projected population and expansion plans for the city till 2041. In 2019, the draft CMP was put up in the public domain for feedback to which residents raised objections on the proposal to construct a road between Ambience Mall and MG Road via Aravalli Biodiversity Park. VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA said, “The final draft of the CMP has been prepared that still has the proposed road passing through biodiversity park. The road has a key role as per the mobility projections done in the draft. Whether it will be implemented or not will depend on the approval by RAC and CM. The alignment of the road can be decided as the situation arises.” According to him, the road is important as it is a part of the radial plan with two concentric ring roads, as proposed in the CMP. “The road passing through the Aravallis is a part of the second ring. According to engineers, there will be a missing link in the radial plan if the road is removed from the overall layout,” said Kundu. In 2018, a similar proposal was submitted by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for two roads passing through the biodiversity park connecting MG Road to Delhi-Gurugram Expressway and Vasant Kunj.Sairam Dasari, assistant professor, SPA, who has worked on the CMP project said that road stretch is a part of an outer ring road plan that will act as bypass. “Survey on traffic patterns in Gurugram shows that there are 11 points to enter Gurugram where road linkages are required. Nearly 22% of the traffic entering Gurugram is external as they are using NH48 to cross the city. We are trying to divert the external traffic from the internal traffic by designing an outer ring road similar to Delhi. A part of this ring road passes from Ambience Mall to MG Road and further connects with Gurugram-Faridabad Road.”According to him, options for the alignment of the road that passes through the park has been given in the detailed project report. Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning, SPA said, “It is a misconception that the road stretch will destroy the park. There is no consensus on the alignment of the road, whether it will be elevated or take minimum area of the park or completely avoid it. The decision has to be taken based on the detailed project report. This outer ring road is required as NH 48 has saturated to its capacity. Since Gurugram lacks its urban network plan, it is important to develop one where internal and external traffic is bifurcated.” “Gurugram cannot afford to lose the biodiversity park. Any road passing through the park will spoil the park completely. Gurugram is a smart city and local biodiversity is an important indicator to retain its status as a smart city. The park is a biodiversity hotspot and it would be a shame if it is destroyed,” said Vijay Dhasmana, curator of Aravalli Biodiversity Park.“Gurugram cannot afford to lose the biodiversity park. Any road passing through the park will spoil the park completely. Gurugram is a smart city with a biodiversity park in it. Therefore it should be retained without doing any damage,” said Vijay Dhasmana, curator of Aravalli Biodiversity Park.Experts say the road passing through the park comes with a high environmental cost. Chetan Agarwal, a city-based environment analyst said, “Three factors have to be considered: First what is the utility of the road for Gurugram, how it benefits the real estate market and what is the environmental cost of the project. It has to be looked upon carefully as to why the road is needed. If traffic and easy connectivity are issues, then the authorities should factor in Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor which is designed to ease the traffic burden from Delhi to Manesar.” Sarika Panda, who works extensively on the mobility related issues of the city, said, “Gurugram does not need more roads as it will not solve the traffic problems. The focus should be on shifting from private vehicular infrastructure to public.”GMDA planned to take the project back to drawing board earlier this year due to Covid-19 pandemic which highlighted at the use of personal vehicles rather than public transport due to safety issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/construction-of-road-via-aravalli-biodiversity-park-retained-in-draft-mobility-plan/story-0rdhmWsQso6f1jX3fNcEpI.html
17-10-2020||City||Gurugram: 5,000 visit Sheetla Mata Mandir on first day of Navratri festival||Gurugram: Amid the ongoing coronavirus outbreak, the Navratri festival commenced at the Sheetla Mata Mandir -- the most famous temple in the city -- on Saturday with nearly 5,000 devotees turning up on the first day. Temple authorities said that the rush was nearly one-third of the usual strength on the opening day and that largely devotees followed social distancing and other safety protocols.“Around 15,000 people usually turn up on the opening day. We distributed around 35 masks free of cost to devotees who had come to the temple without mask today. Almost all of them belonged to the economically weaker section and hence, we did not levy any fine on them. Regardless, we ensured all other measures such as thermal scanning at entry, hand sanitising, and six-foot distance in queues,” said Yugdutt Sharma, temple officer, Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board.With the district administration mentioning that any kind of offerings and prasad distribution is prohibited during the festival in its standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Friday evening, the shrine board members have installed a counter outside the temple premises where devotees carrying idols and offerings could leave their items behind before proceeding inside.The temple and health department officials are estimating around 4 lakh devotees are expected to visit the festival. Sharma said that nearly 70% of the total number of devotees usually turn out on the last two days of the nine-day festival.To keep constant surveillance on devotees, the temple has installed 58 CCTV cameras. Also, as part of security measures and keeping a vigil on coronavirus-related safety guidelines, around 250 Gurugram police officials, 200 temple staff, and around 50 workers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have also been deployed at the temple.DK Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram police, said that due to the lower than the usual rush, there was no congestion on the stretches leading to the temple and added that until there is a change in the situation, no route blockages or diversions would be enforced.“The rush on the stretches leading to the temple was not high and was easily managed. There were no instances of congestion or any traffic build-up as such. Nevertheless, we had deployed a high number of traffic police marshals on the stretch as a precautionary measure. Until the rush increases manifold, our traffic management plan will remain the same,” said Bhardwaj.Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner and chief administrator of the shrine board, said, “All safety measures regarding coronavirus have been taken in the temple by both the MCG as well as the shrine board. While we understand the relevance of the festival, we want to ensure both devotees and the staff inside the temple stay healthy and safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-5-000-visit-sheetla-mata-mandir-on-first-day-of-navratri-festival/story-IxhSVijCzDpENEMQQnNq9I.html
17-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gets new district town planner||The Haryana government carried out a large-scale reshuffle in the department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Saturday. Several district town planners (DTPs) were shifted across the state, while Gurugram got a new town planner. As per the government order, Sanjay Kumar, presently the DTP (headquarters), has been appointed as DTP (planning), Gurugram. RS Bhath, the current DTP of Gurugram has been made the DTP of Nuh and given the charge of the enforcement wing in Gurugram.Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, MCG, has been made the senior town planner in DTCP, against a vacant post. Renuka Singh has been appointed as the DTP, Faridabad, while incumbent Rajender T Sharma had been appointed as DTP (enforcement) in Faridabad itself. Devender Pal has been appointed as DTP, Rewari, while Munish Yadav, DTP, Palwal has been appointed as DTP, GMDA. Mohan Singh has been appointed as DTP, Jhajjar, while Ved Prakash, DTP (enforcement), Gurugram, has been appointed as DTP, Sirsa. Bhath, when asked about the transfer, said that he had a fairly long stint as DTP (planning), Gurugram, and tried hard to serve the people in the city. “In the enforcement wing, I will try to stop the development of unauthorised colonies for which I have been working for the last one year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gets-new-district-town-planner/story-Sw2AyV6utjVXUvJ6aTQZeO.html
17-10-2020||City||Two of three held for kidnapping and extortion in Mohali’s Zirakpur||The police on Saturday booked two men on charges of kidnapping and extortion in Zirakpur while their accomplice, also a co-accused, managed to flee. Those arrested were identified as Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepi, and Gurpreet Singh, both hailing from Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib. Their accomplice Sanjiv is from Barwala.On October 16, one Vipul Jalek of Shimla complained that he and his two friends were allegedly kidnapped in Zirakpur by the three accused, who also extorted ₹30,000 from them.Vipul in his complaint told the police that the accused had intercepted their vehicle and made them forcibly sit in theirs, forcing them to pay money before releasing them.Police said that the complainant and the accused had a financial dispute.A case under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. The accused were produced before the court and remanded to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-of-three-held-for-kidnapping-and-extortion-in-mohali-s-zirakpur/story-kDn22kMypH4Xb46LpTyKNO.html
17-10-2020||City||Gurugram’s air quality worsens, but still in ‘poor’ category||Gurugram: The city recorded ‘poor’ air quality on Saturday with the air quality index (AQI) standing at 280, according to the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). However, the air quality has worsened as compared to Friday’s AQI which was 216.In the past six days (October 12-17), Gurugram’s AQI remained in the ‘poor’ category, except on October 15 when it witnessed ‘very poor’ air quality with an AQI value of 311. As per the data from official air quality monitors operating in the city, Sector 51 and TERI Gram (on Gurugram-Faridabad road) had an AQI of 345 (‘very poor’) and 288 (‘poor’), respectively on Saturday, while a monitor at Vikas Sadan within the Mini Secretariat complex had an AQI of 284. The fourth monitor at National Institute of Solar Energy (NISE) set up by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed an AQI of 248. Experts have warned that the city’s air quality is likely to get worse in the coming days. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said that meteorologically north-westerly winds have started moving towards Delhi, while creating a passage in Gurugram. “For a day or two, the air quality in the city will remain moderate. There will be a temporary relief as again from Monday night or Tuesday, there will be an increase in the pollutants due to moderate dip in temperature and stubble burning in parts of Haryana. Owing to this, dust particles will accumulate in the lower periphery of the atmosphere. Air quality is likely to get worse with AQI reaching very poor or severe in the coming days.”Fall in temperature and winds bringing pollutants from farm fires in Haryana and Punjab leads to deteriorating air quality during winters every year. For the next few days, according to the IMD forecast, minimum temperature will dip to 14-15 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature will vary from 32-34 degrees Celsius. Though there will be clear sky till afternoon, experts said nights will see an increase in the pollutant accumulation in the air. As per the CPCB’s categorization of air pollution, an AQI between 0 and 50 is considered good; from 51-100 is satisfactory; 101-200 is moderate; 201-300 is poor; 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is severe. Prolonged exposure to poor and very poor air quality may lead to breathing discomfort and respiratory illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-s-air-quality-worsens-but-still-in-poor-category/story-8twNLx8vn3PQ3HF8NtkBZJ.html
17-10-2020||Gurugram||Realtors offer cash discounts, porting of stuck properties to attract customers during festival season||With the festival season fast approaching, real estate developers in Gurugram are hoping that the last quarter of 2020 would be more fruitful than the rest of the year. The Covid-19-induced national lockdown, which began in March, hit the sector hard with almost no sales. From July to September, with the country relaxing restrictions in phases, there was a noticeable rebound and sales improved, reaching 60% of the pre-lockdown scenario, according to reports by private consultants.But the coming months are a testing time. With Dussehra, on October 25, and Diwali, on November 14, the question that real estate experts are asking is that will the customer spend? Or will they rather save keeping in mind the coronavirus disease pandemic is not yet showing any signs of abatement?Developers across the national capital region (NCR) have pre-empted this with innovative moves — allowing people to buy their property in exchange for their undelivered ones (a scheme called “porting”), attractive discount schemes, and flexible payment plans.Earlier, developers would offer free tickets to exotic destinations abroad such as Europe, free parking space, modular kitchens and finished bathrooms, wooden flooring and similar freebies that would attract customers. However, in the current scenario, buyers are preferring healthy cash discounts and flexible payment plans.Market watchers say this could potentially give the sector the boost it has been seeking.“The pickup in sales in the July-September quarter is driven by affordable and mid-segment housing and by end-users in tiers two and three cities. Around 50,000 home loans under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) were distributed by a large private bank in the last six month. The festive season will see a further jump in sales by about 30%,” said Vinod Behl, a real estate expert based in the city.Under the PMAY, buyers get an interest subsidy of 3% for loans up to ₹45 lakh while for EWS housing it is around 6%, say officials.Earlier, whereas consumers looked for future value appreciation, they are now looking for more short-term tangible options.PortingM3M, a city-based developer has offered customers a ready-to-move in property in exchange for theirs that may be undelivered due to construction delays or other reasons. Called the ‘Port your Property’ plan, this is available to customers of commercial and residential projects, said the developer. These “disputed” properties can be anywhere in the country.“Customers can upgrade their property by opting for a new property from our portfolio. Whatever the amount is paid to the earlier developer would be adjusted in the new project. This will lower the cost of acquisition and a chance for buyers to get out of a stuck property,” said Pankaj Bansal, director, M3M Group, which, however, is not offering any other kind of discount.Cashback, discounts and fee cutsThe Signature Group, which develops affordable housing, has decided to offer an immediate cashback of ₹51,000 on the occasion of Dhanteras for all properties that are booked during festival season.“The enquiries and sales have increased in the third quarter of the year and we have been able to allot 4,000 properties in the last few months. Cash discounts, easy payment plans would be made available to serious buyers during festival season,” said Pradeep Aggarwal, chairman and managing director, Signature Developers.Another developer, who did not wish to come on record, said that he has decided to forego parking fees and maintenance fees for three years, and has decided not to charge preferential location cost. These costs earlier formed almost 5% to 7% of the property price tag.“If the customer wants more, we will even offer to reduce the club charges so that sale happens. Everyone is doing this but won’t accept in public,” he said.Other developers are even offering discount of 1% to 2% discount on stamp duty charges, which otherwise ranged from 5 to 7% of the entire deal, says Behl. “With no GST to pay on ready-to-move-in houses, the discount on stamp duty makes the deal even more sweet for prospective buyers,” he adds.According to Pawan Sharma, a broker in Sector 85, said that such offers were attracting buyers. “The festival season is likely to get better with these offers that were not available earlier,” he said.Advantages of these optionsThe discounts and flexible payment plans will play a crucial role in converting those who are waiting to enter the market into buyers, said Behl.“Developers have large inventories of ‘ready-to-move-in’ properties and they want to monetise the same to ensure positive cash flows. It will help them to launch new projects and ensure its completion,” said Behl.Gaurav Kumar, who is looking to buy a home, when asked whether the current offers made by developers carry weight, said that the present times were the best for an end user to buy a home as interest rate was low, the developers were offering discounts and were desperate to make sales. “ There can’t be better times to buy a home in this city,” he said.Challenge graver than demonetisationThe present crisis, the experts say is more serious than demonetisation, which too had a profound negative effect on the sector. But the loss of jobs and salary cuts, were not a factor then. “That was manageable but the problems caused by Covid-19 seems to be unending,” said a developer, who did not want to be named.Developers are confident that they will be able to sell this year, albeit slowly.“We are not holding large events due to Covid-19 and instead reaching out to buyers with upfront discounts. In a number of cases we are letting them take possession of property even as they arrange payments flexibly in six to nine months. Also, part-payment now and paying the rest of the amount in four to five years is also gaining traction,” said Kamaljeet Singh, vice president, Bestech Developers.“Both premium and affordable properties will be made available at attractive terms so that interested buyers can take the right decision. We will also launch new properties in affordable and premium categories during festival season,” said Prashant Solomon, managing director, Chintels.Ashish Sarin, CEO, AlphaCorp said that combination of demand and supply side enablers such as low interest rate, attractive payment plans, government-aided recovery programmes will help the industry do better.The Central government had created a ₹20,000 crore fund in June for real estate projects that was expected help complete around 350,000 flats and houses stuck in various stages of construction.Solomon, also the spokesperson for CREDAI Haryana, said these measures had a positive impact on stressed projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/realtors-offer-cash-discounts-porting-of-stuck-properties-to-attract-customers-during-festival-season/story-UFAQ0SfiLrcqfBEMz8IPqJ.html
17-10-2020||City||Illegal sex test centre busted in Ambala, 2 held||The district health department has unearthed an illegal sex-determination centre in Vishnu Vihar here and arrested two men on Friday evening.The accused used to fool customers by using oxygen machines to determine the sex of the foetus, officials said.As per details, a team lead by deputy civil surgeon-cum-nodal-officer PC-PNDT Dr Balwinder, after being tipped off by an informer, roped in a volunteer pregnant woman to give ₹25,000 to the tout, identified as Sohan Lal alias Sonu of Zaffarpur village in Ambala’s Barara, for arranging the foetal sex determination. The quack, Surender Singh of Vishnu Vihar, performed the woman’s sonography.“Sonu called the decoy near Manav Chowk for the advance amount and then she was taken to the quack’s residence on a bike, where the test was performed and the sex of the foetus was declared as male. The team that was following them raided the centre and recovered ₹20,000, the machine and handed over both the accused to the police for further investigation,” said Dr Balwinder.The nodal officer added, “The quack used to fool his customers by using a smart reader device along with the oxygen monitoring machine and declare the gender randomly.”Ambala Sadar police station in-charge Suresh said, “The FIR was lodged under sections 120-B and 420 of the IPC and relevant sections of the PNDT Act. They were presented in a court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-sex-test-centre-busted-in-ambala-2-held/story-kJcp1gtVBkrRjSfIWmVVhO.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Festive season gradually driving Chandigarh markets out of pandemic gloom||Even as the Covid pandemic and subsequent lockdown forced near shutting of businesses and kept people indoors, the approaching festival season and significant drop in the number of virus cases has heightened the hopes for all quarters.The onset of nine-day Navratri festivities has already started multiplying customer footfall and sales in the city’s markets, to even pre-lockdown levels for some, say traders.President of Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, Neeraj Bajaj said, “The corridors of Sector 17 which wore a deserted look earlier have started filling up again. People are coming out to eat at restaurants and to buy gifts for their families, and sales have increased greatly. On the weekends, the market looks nearly as busy as it used to be during pre-Covid times.”The old buzz is almost back at Sector 46 market too, shares its association head Balwinder Singh Uttam. “The number of Covid cases has gone down so people aren’t as scared as before and are now used to wearing masks and maintaining social distance. We are highly encouraged by the buyers’ response and hope that sales during the festivals go as high as the previous years.”Stalls to come up before Dussehra Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) chairman Charanjeev Singh, who owns a shop in Sector 22, said the shopkeepers had been asking the UT administration for permission to set up stalls and they have got the same only recently. “Shop owners will start setting up stalls around 3 days before Dussehra. Stalls bring a festive look to the market and the extra space can be utilised for more sales,” he said adding that sweets and clothes were becoming the most sold items in the markets.Plan to use schools, colleges for parking Even though the rush in markets is expected to be lesser than previous years, the traffic police will take the same precautions to monitor the traffic. Officiating senior superintendent of police for traffic, Manoj Kumar Meena said, “We have converted schools and colleges around the 16 busiest markets of the city into makeshift parking. Traffic police personnel will also be posted here to ensure that the rules are followed. Challans will be issued for wrong parking.”However, the CBM chairman said some of the major markets including those in sectors 22, 27, 46 and 46 haven’t been covered under this plan and they will approach SSP Traffic regarding the same.Sales go up at Elante Mall Meanwhile, sales have also gone up in the city’s malls, with Elante looking livelier now after the lockdown. Nexus Malls executive director for corporate affairs Anil Malhotra said, “Elante is now almost 100% operational. We have special offers for customers who shop here and Navratri special food at our restaurants.”Smaller markets recovering slowly The smaller and congested markets in the city, where odd-even rule had been established earlier, are still on the road to slow recovery. President of Shastri Market in Sector 22, Jaswinder Nagpal said, “Due to the Covid-induced lockdown, our sales had dropped down to only 10% of what it used to be earlier. Now, it is at 35%, but the signs are encouraging. People have starting to come out more now and during festivals like Dusshera and Diwali, we expect more customers here.”Rules to follow Get thermally scanned and sanitised outside shopsWear masks, those without them will be fined ₹500Keep physical distance of 6 feet in and around shopsPrefer contactless payment, use e-banking or UPI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/festive-season-gradually-driving-chandigarh-markets-out-of-pandemic-gloom/story-IjgNRPLib52OyPvCdbqcyM.html
17-10-2020||Lucknow||Testing of foundation pillars for Ram temple continues, overshoots Navratri deadline||The testing of the foundation pillars for the Ram temple continued at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on Saturday as the work could not be completed before the start of Navratri when the construction of the temple was supposed to begin.“The testing work of the foundation pillars of Ram temple continues. It is expected to be over by the end of this month,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the successor-designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust.“Navratri is considered auspicious and saints wanted to start the construction work of the Ram temple on this occasion,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das added.The trust had planned to start the construction work from this Navratri. The nine-day festival began on Saturday. About 12 foundation pillars have already been laid at Ram Janmabhoomi. Larsen and Toubro, the company carrying out the construction work, is conducting the testing under the guidance of experts from IIT-Madras.Also read: From PM Modi’s clarion call on vaccine to Sputnik V trial: 10 developmentsOn September 11, the trust had started the piling work for testing the foundation pillars. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid about 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling.To begin with, one pillar, a metre in diameter, was laid 100 feet below the ground. These pillars are being subjected to various tests to check their strength and durability. The testing was expected to be completed by October 15 but could not be done.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had presided over the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. On November 9, the Supreme Court had paved way for the construction of the Ram temple by announcing the landmark verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/testing-of-foundation-pillars-for-ram-temple-continues-overshoots-navratri-deadline/story-sH3ms31202627PhdL40mNI.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress to launch social media campaign ‘Speak up for Chandigarh’||The Chandigarh Congress on Saturday said it will start an online social media campaign under which the party leaders will regularly raise various issues, including the recent steep hike in water tariffs, in the city.Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee president Pradeep Chhabra said the party will also gherao the municipal corporation office on October 20 to protest the “three-fold increase in water tariffs”. The hike is between 50 per cent and 200 per cent, depending upon the category of user and consumption level, and has burdened the city residents who are already affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he said.During the campaign, ‘Speak up Chandigarh’, the Congress will also highlight exorbitant parking rates, the issue of dumping ground and potholes, Chhabra said. In a virtual meeting organised by the party, it was decided to hold meetings, protests and dharnas to raise important issues of the city.“We have decided to start an online social media campaign under which the party leaders will regularly raise issues plaguing Chandigarh like three-fold increase in water tariffs and a huge number of various taxes being imposed on city residents,” Chhabra said. He appealed to the residents to raise their voice against the “inept administration” under the BJP rule through their Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp profile and groups “so that the unjust, insensitive BJP leadership starts listening to the voice of the voters”. Chhabra also informed that the party will soon hold meetings on other issues like BJP government’s “anti-farmer laws, atrocities and crimes against women and Dalits and various issues facing colonies and villages”.  “The BJP ruled Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has burdened the citizens with a huge increase in various taxes and now the water tariffs have been increased recently by three times which will be an additional burden on the residents. These unjust and ill-timed decisions are causing huge resentment among the city residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-to-launch-social-media-campaign-speak-up-for-chandigarh/story-hJDjlLj0uKE7JsLtT3HoML.html
17-10-2020||City||Murder charge on farmers: BKU’s Haryana chief announces mass gathering to press for FIR withdrawal||Three days after an FIR amounting to murder was lodged against seven men, including Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Ambala chief, after a 72-year-old farmer died during BJP’s tractor rally in Naraingarh, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Saturday warned the government to quash the FIR or face flak.Chaduni, after a state-level meeting at Kamboj Dharamshala in Kurukshetra, announced that the farmers will gather at Mohra grain market here in huge numbers for a ‘mahapanchayat’ on October 29.“If the government fails to cancel the FIRs on our farmers, strategy for a long fight will be announced at the mass gathering,” he said.Chaduni along with senior union leaders had met Ambala Range IG Y Puran Kumar and SP Rajesh Kalia on Thursday, but failed to get any assurance. Earlier that day, farmers and political leaders had gathered in huge numbers at the SP’s office with the same demand.Meanwhile, no arrest was made in the case till Saturday evening. Sources said that since the final medical report is pending as some samples were sent for testing on Wednesday evening to get more clarity on the cause of death, no one has been arrested yet.However, SP Kalia has confirmed about a “blunt injury mark” on the farmer’s body, but refused to give more details till the final report comes in.A condolence meeting was held also for the deceased farmer in Naraingarh. It was attended by Kurukshetra MP Naib Saini and other leaders on Saturday.Highway blockade: Six accused get bail Six men, who had been arrested for blocking the national highway during BJP’s tractor rally in Naraingarh, were granted bail by a court on Saturday.The accused — Gurdev, Manjit, Dhanraj Singh, Deepender, Dharamvir Singh alias Sonu and Prince — were on one-day remand and were presented in a court through video conferencing and the police asked for judicial remand. However, during the remand, the police failed to recover the sticks that were allegedly used at the protest site.Congress leaders from Ambala who had offered to appear for the accused in the court free of cost, advocated for their case on Saturday. Appearing at the hearing, Haryana Congress treasurer and Ambala Bar association president Rohit Jain and his fellow advocates argued that the arrested men were not criminals, but just farmers.“Also, section 8 (B) of the National Highways Act doesn’t match with the facts mentioned in the FIR. The section calls for any damage to the highway, but there was no such allegation. The accused were granted bail after 10 minutes over surety bonds worth ₹60,000 each,” Jain held.Station in-charge Gurmail Singh said, “The sticks that were used by them are yet to be recovered from Shahabad, Raipur Rani, Dera Bassi and Shahazadpur. We are investigating the case and our teams are out in various districts to arrest the remaining accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-charge-on-farmers-bku-s-haryana-chief-announces-mass-gathering-to-press-for-fir-withdrawal/story-mq8juqfULo8eTHrm8vpHTI.html
17-10-2020||City||Covid claims four more lives in Mohali; 1 each dies in neighbouring Chandigarh , Panchkula||Four people succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali district on Saturday, while Chandigarh and Panchkula reported one casualty each. The tricity also recorded 134 fresh cases, with maximum 54 in Chandigarh.The Union Territory’s tally has reached 13,582, with 915 patients still to recover. As many as 12,460 (91.7%) have been discharged, including 108 on Saturday. With a 63-year-old man from Dadumajra dying, the toll rose further to 207.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration removed containment restrictions from parts of Sector 47 that were imposed on October 1. No case has been reported in the area since October 3. Besides four fatalities, Mohali district reported 43 fresh cases and 81 recoveries. As many as 38 cases surfaced in Mohali city alone, while the total reached 11,713. Details of those who died have not been shared yet. The toll has climbed to 218, while 10,685 (91.2%) patients have recovered, leaving 810 cases active. In Panchkula, 37 people, including a health worker, tested positive. Sector 9 reported six cases, followed by four each in Sector 21 and Pinjore.A 77-year-old man also succumbed in Pinjore, taking the toll to 106. While 6,809 people have tested positive so far, 6,352 (93.3%) have been cured and 351 are still to be discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-claims-four-more-lives-in-mohali-1-each-dies-in-neighbouring-chandigarh-panchkula/story-07nwLEXma5L6IUcpKvodoO.html
17-10-2020||City||Phase 2 of Punjab’s smart village campaign kicks off in Mohali district||After the virtual inauguration of the second phase of Smart Village Campaign by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday, the Punjab government has formally kick-started its ambitious rural transformation programme in the district.As part of phase 2, an amount of ₹102.85 crore has been laid out for the holistic development of all the 341 villages in Mohali district, which would subsequently lead to improvement in the quality of life of the people.The campaign seeks to transform the villages on the lines of smart cities that will help them become self-reliant, clean and hygienic.Development works to be undertaken in this leg include construction of community centres, dharamshalas, drinking water supply, rainwater harvesting, solid waste management, renovation of ponds, disposal of sullage water, construction of streets, drains, playgrounds, stadiums, gymnasiums, installation of solar street lights, construction of bus shelters, development of cremation grounds/ graveyards, community library, schools and anganwadis among others.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal delivered his address to the panchayats from the district administrative complex. He exhorted the gram panchyats to spend the hard-earned money of the people of Punjab judiciously.Reportedly, an amount of ₹16.96 crore was s||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phase-2-of-punjab-s-smart-village-campaign-kicks-off-in-mohali-district/story-GkNZcjWB31jbcmxTu3IqxM.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Connecting with our heritage in the kingdom of the Gods||An invitation from a friend posted as a commanding officer in the Territorial Army at Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu for a holiday was hard to resist. I couldn’t say no to the generous offer of my large-hearted friend because I had never been to the southern state. “History, heritage and culture of Tamil Nadu is awe-inspiring and the temples in and around Tiruchirapalli may surpass your imagination and expectations by miles,’’ the friend had said.For us, vacations almost always meant going to overcrowded and jam-packed hill stations in the neighbouring states. Travelling to a remote, exotic destination of historical significance, seeing heritage temples in the company of a childhood friend was something new. My wife and children lost no time in packing their bags and after changing three planes in a day, we reached Tiruchirapalli by the evening. My colonel friend, smartly dressed in his highly decorated uniform was there to welcome us with open arms and a bear hug. While on our way to the Army guest House, we noticed a number of things that made us want to pinch ourselves to see if we were dreaming. Almost unlike any other place in India, people were following traffic rules, not honking their car horns and traffic was smooth and slow. The city had a laidback ambience. My friend had planned our itinerary meticulously, ensuring we pack in as many visits to heritage sites in and around Tiruchirapalli as possible during our brief stay. Meenakshi Temple in the city of Madurai close by is a heritage marvel built in the twelfth century. Magnificent sculptures and statues of maidens, elephants and gods and goddesses looking as if they could spring to life any moment adorn the vast corridors of the temple amid the intricately carved pillars.The gigantic structure and beautiful architecture enthralled the mind and soul and one was transported back in time to marvel at the knowledge, intelligence, patience and skill of the artisans and craftsmen of ancient times.The Brihadeeswara Temple dedicated to Lord Shiva in Thanjavur built by Chola dynasty kings in the eleventh century was another ancient wonder that left us awestruck, as did the size and splendour of the Rockfort temple in Tiruchirapalli, built on an 83-metre high rock by the Pallavas and Cholas between the 5th and 11th century.Three days spent in the Kingdom of the Gods was an eye-opening experience. Spirituality, divinity, history and heritage of the monuments made us travel back in time and feel proud of our rich and kaleidoscopic heritage. For our children, the short trip to Tamil Nadu was a great learning experience. They were moved by the scale and magnitude of the vision of our ancestors. Last but not least, we were impressed by the immaculate tidiness of the cities we visited. Tiruchirapalli, positioned 39 in the Swachh Bharat rankings, is striving hard to be amongst the top 10. We saw numerous signboards at public places, that read: “Keep your house clean God is coming, keep your city clean, PM is coming”. The entire city was filth free and after dustbins are emptied into the garbage truck, DDT was sprayed around the trash bins to keep insects and flies at bay. The city was encroachment free and from vegetable shops to fruit juice vendors, all the people worked within the four walls of their own units.All in all, it was a great experience.The writer is a doctor based in Amritsar, Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/connecting-with-our-heritage-in-the-kingdom-of-the-gods/story-GuC5qUg0HDDFEHEygGrbfK.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Woman jumps off 7th floor at GMCH in Chandigarh, dies||A 19-year-old woman from Kaithal in Haryana died after falling from the seventh floor at C-Block of Government Medical College and Hospital, (GMCH), Sector 32, on Saturday morning. Police are terming it suicide.The victim fell on the second floor, injuring two attendants sitting there. While one was left with a fractured leg, the other too sustained leg injuries. The incident comes two-and-a-half months after a 62-year-old man who was diagnosed with Covid-19 and admitted to the hospital ended his life by jumping from the fifth floor of the isolation unit on August 2.The victim in the present case was accompanying a friend, who died on October 15 due to brain haemorrhage. Police said she was apparently depressed because of this, which led her to take the extreme step.Ruling out foul play, inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-jumps-off-7th-floor-at-gmch-in-chandigarh-dies/story-8BIywEYE6C5Rh7luYtUjDL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Insurance agent booked for duping customers in Chandigarh||An insurance executive working at Modern Automobiles in Industrial Area Phase 1 has been booked for cheating at least 11 customers on their policy renewal payments.As per the police, the manager of Modern Automobiles said the accused, Kiran Choudhary of Shiva Enclave in Zirakpur, was working with the firm as an insurance executive. She had been collecting money from customers for car insurance renewals, but the money was not deposited with the organisation. A complaint in this regard was made in June, and as per the manager, 11 people had been cheated of around ₹1.7 lakh.Police said the complaint had been made at the SSP window in June 2020, the case was registered on October 16 after verification. Kiran, who is yet to be arrested, has been booked under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/insurance-agent-booked-for-duping-customers-in-chandigarh/story-MpcedAPZ7BlI4BZxQ9fwOL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Ad came. Ad Trolled. Ad left||In the movie The Godfather, based on Mario Puzo’s novel, Don Corleone, when meeting the heads of five mafia bosses had said “I hoped that we would come here and reason together. And as a reasonable man, I’m willing to do whatever’s necessary to find a peaceful solution to these problems.”Most reasonable Indians, who are a tad bit informed about the economy are aware that India’s demographic dividend started in 2018, when its working age population aged between 15 and 64, outnumbered the dependent population. What’s the big deal, you ask?In the 18 years since China entered this stage in 1994 — this came 16 years after Deng Xiaoping launched his economic reforms that led to eight years of double-digit growth — there have been only two years when it didn’t cross the 8% growth mark. Japan had this period from 1964-2004. In five of these years, Japan grew in double digits; the growth rate was above 8% in two years, and a little less than 6% in one. Growth slid below 5% in only two of these 10 years.It’s not just these two countries, you may look at Italy, Republic of Korea, Spain, Thailand, Brazil, or even our younger cousin Bangladesh, all have seen an upward trajectory of growth in the first few years.In our case, two years after 2018, we are recording the highest unemployment in 45 years. But the prime time on TV, and trending hashtags on social media are so preoccupied with Bollywood or religion that there is little mention of this anomaly.A study by Dr Kota Neelima, a researcher, recently placed on record before the Supreme Court which shows how the way TV debates are conducted constitute hate speech. Another report by Rate the Debate, an independent research platform, analysed 32 weekdays of news content, 55 hours of programming, and 76 debate topics of a popular news anchor and found that 65% of his debates focused only on a Bollywood suicide case in a tone it called ‘toxic, polarised, and filled with innuendos, salacious gossip, wild allegations, and character assassination”. So what does all this have to do with the ad?Well, religion, after Bollywood is an emotive issue. To borrow a line from a popular Vietnamese T-shirt slogan, Hindus and Muslims are “same, same but different”. Yet they have co-existed happily in this generous melting pot called Bharat. But of late, it’s the differences that have come into sharp focus. And both the sides have considerable numbers who are prone to blame the other. Jonathan Haidt, a highly regarded American social psychologist at New York University Stern School of Business, in his book, The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion, explains that people who share sacred objects and fraternise on the basis of their faith, trust each other completely but consider the other group their arch enemy.In this climate, with a significant population young, unemployed, and constantly triggered by a provocative narrative peddled by various media, it’s no surprise that they are reacting unreasonably to an otherwise very reasonable situation, aka the Tanishq ad. While the solution to India’s problems will not come from religion, but jobs, it might be a good time to also reflect on what John Stuart Mill wrote in 1859, “He who knows only his own side of the case knows little of that.” So cultivating a few cross-religion friendships will not only make us smarter, but calmer as well, no matter how polarised the general climate.Being aware of how our emotions are being manipulated by politicians and TV channels would be another useful tool to use from the toolbox. And finally, in times like these, the sanest counsel that comes to mind is from, well, Don Corleone. Let’s be reasonable men (& women), and be willing to do whatever’s necessary to find a peaceful solution to these problems.The author, a former COO of a Philippines-based group of companies, is now an independent business consultant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-ad-came-ad-trolled-ad-left/story-or8VNHrYXFkZDRVUwNMmUN.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Starting Monday, transport dept to restrict services for vehicles without HSRP||In connection with the implementation of high security registration plates (HSRP), the regional transport department officials said that they have stopped taking up fitness tests of vehicles which are not fitted with HSRP, and that more such services will be stopped from October 19 if the vehicles are not fitted with the required HSRP. Officials said that they have received directions from the Uttar Pradesh transport department under which the fitness of vehicles, not fitted with HSRP, have been stopped from October 15. They added that the directions have also listed that more services which are to be stopped from October 19. “The services which will be stopped from October 19 are related to transfer of vehicle’ ownership, change of address, cancellation of hypothecation, new permits, temporary permits, special permits and national permits, among others, for vehicles which do not have HSRP fitted,” said Vishwajeet Pratap Singh, additional regional transport officer. The directions have been issued in order to get more and more vehicles take up the HSRP. “As of now, the vehicles getting registered from April 1, 2019 and thereafter are getting fitted with HSRP through their dealers. In case other vehicle owners wish to get the HSRP, they can book time slots and make payments online through websites - www.bookmyhsrp.com and www.makemyhsrp.com. The websites will show nearest dealers where the vehicle owners can go on the time-slot specified and get the HSRP fitted to their vehicles,” Singh added. In furtherance of the directions of the Supreme Court on September 30, 2019, the state officials had issued an order on October 5 in which they stated that all vehicles in the state registered under in the National Capital Region should get fitted the HSRP in three months.“If such vehicles do not register within the timeframe, they will face enforcement and action,” Singh added. The October 5 government order also said that those vehicles which are not registered in NCR and registered before April 1, 2019, should get the plates fixed within a specific time ranging from four months to ten months for different vehicles registered before April 1, 2005, up to those registered till March 31, 2019. According to official records, the Ghaziabad district, till end of September, had 9,84,891 registered vehicles while 1,03,643 were fitted with HSRP. In neighbouring Noida, the official statistics stated that it has about 7.21 lakh registered vehicles and nearly 6.5 lakh vehicles registered before April 1, 2019 need to get the HSRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/starting-monday-transport-dept-to-restrict-services-for-vehicles-without-hsrp/story-CQyQMYZ9ZtSJaZmDulTf1J.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police announce ₹50,000 reward for info on gangster Bishnoi’s aide Monty Shah||Chandigarh Police on Saturday announced ₹50,000 reward on Monty Shah, 31, an aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. He was most recently booked on October 12 for trying to kill two men, who are witnesses against Bishnoi in last year’s property dealer Sonu Shah murder case. “Any person giving information leading to Monty Shah’s arrest will be get ₹50,000 reward in cash,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police. Monty, alias Ozans, who studied till Class 12, has seven cases of attempt to murder, extortion and rioting registered against him in police stations of Sector 26 and 34. He had been convicted and sentenced to three-year jail for shooting at a cop who had gone to arrest him in 2015.He allegedly runs at extortion racket on behalf of Bishnoi, who is presently lodged in jail. While Bishnoi makes calls to businessman from behind bars, Monty collects money from the targets, said police.Got bail amid Covid pandemicTill a few months back, Monty was lodged in Chandigarh Model Jail (Burail jail) after being arrested by the crime branch in December 2019. Police had seized countrymade arms — a.32 pistol and double-barrel gun — besides magazine and live cartridges from him.Covid-19 pandemic came as a blessing for him, as he was granted bail along with other prisoners in order to decongest jails. On the night of October 11, he was caught on camera brandishing two pistols while approaching the office of his cousin Praveen Shah and bouncer Tirath, a former aide, in Burail. The two are witnesses in the Sonu Shah murder case that dates back to September 28, 2019. Praveen is Sonu’s brother. According to the chargesheet, Bishnoi was behind the murder. Though Praveen and Tirath saved themselves by hiding inside the office, police had registered a case of attempt to murder against Monty. Earlier on September 30, he was booked for harassing a woman and posting her daughter’s pictures on social media platforms. Fired at cop in 2015 Monty Shah had shot at and injured inspector Baldev Kumar, who is presently posted as the Sector-34 station house officer, when a police team had gone to arrest him in July 2015. He was arrested after the shootout.Monty had been booked along with Tirath after allegedly demanding extortion at gunpoint at a hotel in Burail. They had even taken away ₹10,000 and two LCD televisions from the hotel. Police had gone to arrest him in that case.After Bishnoi issued a threat of bloodshed to avenge his aide Gurlal Brar’s murder outside a mall in Chandigarh last Saturday, police have registered three fresh FIRs against his gang members running extortion racket in the city.Police have also arrested Bishnoi’s aide Praveen Kumar, alias Bhima, who is a shooter, for extortion and mobilising gang members, besides Raju Basondi and Abhishek in connection with Sonu Shah murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-announce-50-000-reward-for-info-on-gangster-bishnoi-s-aide-monty-shah/story-4pH3MYBqGifTJDsSB9765M.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Our Take: There should be no place for gangsters in Chandigarh||From October 11, violent incidents involving criminal gangs have shattered the calm of this city, once renowned for its beauty and tranquillity.Gurlal Brar, 26, an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and a former state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was shot dead outside a mall in Industrial Area Phase 1, early on Sunday. Another gang owing allegiance slain criminal Davinder Bambiha took responsibility for the act, saying it was done to avenge the death of their member. After a few hours, TikTok star Saurav Gujjar was shot at and injured outside a nightclub in Sector 9. On the same day, as threats were posted on a Facebook page dedicated to Bishnoi, saying there would be “ bloodshed on the streets,” another of Bishnoi’s aides, Monty Shah, was booked for making a murder bid on a rival in Burail. Then, news surfaced that another gangster, Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, earlier accused of shooting and injuring Punjabi singer Parmish Verma in Mohali in April 2018 and arrested after a police encounter in Chandigarh, had organised for shooters and weapons from prison to have Brar killed. On Friday, police arrested Praveen Kumar, a shooter of Bishnoi’s gang, from Sector 45. He was in the city to avenge the death of their member Ankit Bhadu in an encounter with the Punjab Police at Zirakpur in 2019. The rising incidents of gang warfare, including open challenges being issued from one gang to another on social media have unnerved residents, a majority of them retired citizens, and prompted Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator VPS Badnore to come down heavily on Chandigarh police for the deteriorating law and order in the city and ask for investigations into Brar and Gujjar’s cases. Since January, before this period of lawless activities, there have been five firing incidents. Questions need to be asked: How are gangsters entering the city? How are Dhahan and Bishnoi operating from behind bars and what are the prison officials doing about it?End violenceWhat should be done to stop the gang culture Chandigarh?What should be done to stop the gang culture in Chandigarh? Who should be penalised and held accountable for increase in criminal activities, how and by when? Send your responses with photographs to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/our-take-there-should-be-no-place-for-gangsters-in-chandigarh/story-2M1vtGwaKOhv7aaIm61dSI.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Air quality dips again, ‘very poor’ in parts of Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad||The air quality at various places in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad remained “very poor” on Saturday, according to a government agency. There was a heavy concentration of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants in the air of the four immediate neighbouring districts of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Greater Noida city had the worst AQI of 364 as recorded by the station in Knowledge Park V, while it was 299 in Knowledge Park III, according to the CPCB data at 7 pm. In Noida, the AQI was measured at 325 by the station in Sector 62, 312 at Sector 116 and 287 at Sector 1. No data was available for the station at Sector 125, it showed. In adjoining Ghaziabad, the AQI was 306 at Indirapuram, 311 at Loni, 261 each at Sanjay Nagar and Vasundhara. Gurugram had an AQI of 345 as recorded by the station in Sector 151 followed by 288 at the Teri Gram, 284 at Vikas Sadan and 191 at NISE Gwal Pahari, the CPCB showed. The AQI in Faridabad also largely remained in the very poor category. It was recorded at 320 at the station in Sector 11 followed by 311 at New Industrial Town and 295 at Sector 16A. The data from the sector 30 station was “insufficient” for the last 24 hours, the agency stated. The worsening of the air quality comes even as the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) has been implemented in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) from Friday. Among the GRAP’s measures for checking air pollution are increasing bus and metro services, hiking parking fees, stopping use of diesel generator sets, checking dust on roads and at construction sites when the air quality turns poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-dips-again-very-poor-in-parts-of-noida-ghaziabad-gurugram-and-faridabad/story-h93Al77xNXUiYYaXH2sXSL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: The present is a gift, use it well||Today, nearly one among four people is down with mental health problems such as depression. Half of us do not even realise it and most of us feel ashamed to report it or seek treatment. That is why the World Health Organisation (WHO) says depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide, a major contributor to the overall global burden of disease.Mental health issues often plague us because either we are overambitious or we worry too much about the past and future. Many of us don’t think twice about joining the rat race, working overtime, taking on stress and getting burnt out even before crossing the age of 40 or 50.Young boys and girls, with the carrot of higher salaries or perks dangling before them, work from 9 am to 9 pm (maybe from home these days because of Covid–19) in corporate sectors, with little time for exercise, recreation, or family life. When they are left out, or fail to reach the targets as set by their bosses, depression sets in. They suffer quietly, still running after the elusive carrot.The past is over and the future is yet to arrive, but like a monkey, our mind keeps vacillating between unhappiness we have experienced and worries over what’s going to happen to us if we lose our jobs or fall ill. In the process, we do not only waste 90% of our energies, we also miss out on enjoying the present: Living in our comfortable homes; forgetting to remember our children’s birthdays, and yes, not spending quality time with them.Though our desires multiply manifold, we get upset if these remain unfulfilled. This kind of life seems artificial, when we distance ourselves from nature and don’t enjoy the small pleasures of daily life.We have become selfish, and materialistic, to say the least – our own enemies.Hence, mental health today is a top priority, something one has to take care of, like brushing one’s teeth or shampooing one’s hair. How can that be done? First and foremost, we have to change our lifestyles and understand that negative experiences have been left behind – in the past. Living in the present is what matters, so one has to live life to the fullest. Second, there is no need to compete with anyone, except with our own self. Competition leads to stresses and tensions, and also negativity. Why not enjoy challenging ourselves and doing our best?Third, we have to constantly observe ourselves and keep our minds calm and focused. This can be achieved by spending a few minutes daily on yoga and pranayama with self introspection. Let us learn to let go and relax. We are one particle of this universe, let’s not think we are saviours of this world, as if things will not move without us. Our society needs to accept and empathise with people who have mental health issues. Rather than being impatient with them or refusing to understand them, we should build them up, and help them as much as we can to come out of the dark phase. Families must watch out for members who are feeling low or showing signs of depression and get them treated.Let’s not hide the problem but face it.It’s high time we slowed down, regained balance, and focused on our inner hygiene. A happy family life, with good physical and mental health, is the key to peace and happiness.The author is an Ambala Cantonment based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-the-present-is-a-gift-use-it-well/story-o9T8ZrQEpQTS3ajdr8bHTL.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Fatality rate surges in GB Nagar district||The number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases, seen in the first 17 days of October, makes up at least 17.43% of the overall tally of 15,803 cases seen in the Gautam Budh Nagar district so far, as per official records. Meanwhile, 11 Covid-related deaths have so far been recorded in the district up to October 17, with a CFR of 0.4%.As many as 2,756 new cases have been detected in the district up to October 17, with a daily average rate of over 162 cases per day. District magistrate Suhas LY said that as nearly all commercial activities have opened up, the main aim of the administration now is to reduce the CFR to the minimum possible, and ensure maximum testing. “The ‘track, test and treat’ method for checking the spread of Covid-19 has so far yielded expected results. Due to this method, the district’s CFR has gone down to 0.4%, which is much better than the national figure of 1.58% and the state’s 1.46%,” he said.The DM also said that the district’s testing rate is the best among all districts of north India. “Our testing rate per million per day is over 1,750, which is much better than other districts in north India. We have also issued instructions for industrial establishments to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. Our teams are regularly monitoring factories and other business establishments to ensure that safety protocols are being followed there,” he said.According to official data given by the district health department, while in April, as many as 3,290 tests were conducted, total tests done in May and June were 40,100 and 44,016 respectively. In July, the district health department tested 65,418 persons. In August and September, the tests done in the district were recorded 58,029 and 75,442 respectively. In October so far, over 32,000 tests have been conducted at different hospitals and Covid-19 check-up centres. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that to check the spread of Covid-19 in the district, daily testing has been increased and regular rapid antigen testing camps are being organised at different places. “Besides ramping up testing and starting effective monitoring of patients under home isolation, the health department’s surveillance staff have also started implementing stringent containment measures. Timely hospitalisation for patients needing medical support and efficient infection control in healthcare facilities are in our top priorities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-fatality-rate-surges-in-gb-nagar-district/story-NdC1aJQClN4lGpCT3OZWuI.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Man put on payroll of Greater Noida firm twice, drew two salaries for a year; arrested||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly defrauding a company in Greater Noida by getting himself enrolled on the payroll twice through forged identities and thus drawing two salaries, the police said.According to the police, the suspect, Ram Kumar Das, had joined Minda Corporations Limited in Greater Noida through a contractor two years ago. In June last year, however, he allegedly got himself secretly enrolled in the same company again via another contractor, thus ending up on the payroll twice. Police said Das allegedly managed to pull this off till mid-October this year, before the firm got on to his act and approached the police.The complainant, Nirankar Singh, assistant manager (HR-Minda Corporations Limited), in the FIR has alleged that the suspect used to mark his biometric attendance for his two different work profiles through two different fingers. Das was allegedly getting the double salary for over a year, the complaint added. “In March 2020, the company replaced the biometric attendance with the card system due to health safety protocols due to Covid-19. The suspect, meanwhile, got two cards made through two contractors, and started marking his attendance using them on two different machines,” he stated in the FIR. To improve safety, the company had recently introduced a face detector at the entrance.Bhuvnesh Kumar, station house officer, Ecotech III police station, said to avoid detection in the face detector, the suspect allegedly went to the first contractor and got his photo approved in the machine. “The suspect then went to the second contractor for the same process, and the system detected his photo, which had already been fed into the database. Suspecting fraud, the contractor alerted the company’s management,” Kumar said, adding that the suspect was interrogated where he allegedly admitted to have marked attendance through a double identity. The management conducted an audit and found that the suspect has allegedly cheated the firm of about ₹81,715 besides his salary from the company in one year. Singh on Thursday filed a complaint at the Sector Ecotech III police station. When contacted, Singh admitted that the incident took place, but refused to share a comment.The station house officer said that around 800 people work in the company and hence the suspect allegedly managed to use the crowd to disguise his identity and get a double salary for some months. “A case has been registered against the suspect under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The suspect was arrested from the company premises the same day. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-put-on-payroll-of-greater-noida-firm-twice-drew-two-salaries-for-a-year-arrested/story-C0CHC6np40k4AjgFT3n2mJ.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Raj Nagar District Centre made vehicle-free zone to decongest area||The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) on Saturday inaugurated the city’s first vehicle-free zone project at Raj Nagar District Centre (RDC) to decongest the area spread over one lakh square metres. According to officials, nearly 6,000 square metres area of the district centre, has been made vehicle-free zone. RDC is a major commercial hub in the city with malls, multiplexes, eating joints, pubs and other facilities.Besides, the authority also opened a park for the specially-abled at Indirapuram and a cattle shed at Nandi Park near Raj Nagar Extension. The officials said that a total of ₹10.89 crore was spent on the three projects. The authority had conceived the plan for the vehicle-free zone at RDC last year. The GDA officials said that as part of the plan, they have also developed three parks at the district centre for children, senior citizens and general public. “Under the project, no vehicles will be allowed to enter the vehicle-free area in RDC. Instead, there is a separate parking for visitors and they will walk to the vehicle-free area for about 100 metres. The parking lot can be able to accommodate about 150 cars. Several fountains, kiosks, and lighting, among others, have also come up at the project site, and it will be a place to visit for families, especially during the evening time,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, GDA’s chief architect and town planner. The officials said that under the plan they wish to decongest part of roads in RDC as the entire area witnesses about 10,000 vehicles every day. For development of parks and the parking at the backside of the vehicle-free zone project, GDA in December last year had exchanged the two plots of land for respective development. The authority on Saturday also inaugurated another project of a park for differently abled persons in Indirapuram. “In Indirapuram, we have developed Avantibai Park in Niti Khand I which houses various facilities for specially-abled persons. The park is spread over an area of about 10,000 square metres and even houses directions written in Braille besides facilities like open gym, Braille reading area, playing area and library, among others,” Shivpuri said. He said that the concept is unique as there was no such exclusive park available for specially-abled persons. “All the facilities developed at the park have been designed keeping in mind the needs of such people,” he said. Apart from the two projects, the authority has also started with a gaushala for cattle near the Nandi Park area on the master plan road leading to Raj Nagar Extension. The facility has come up over an area of about 14,000 square metres which will have the capacity to house about 1,300 stray cattle, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/raj-nagar-district-centre-made-vehicle-free-zone-to-decongest-area/story-aWhp8EDajf3EuUSXqYvmnI.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Noida district launches woman empowerment campaign ‘Mission Shakti’||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Saturday launched ‘Mission Shakti’, a programme for women empowerment, on the directions of the state government. Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari and district magistrate Suhas LY jointly flagged off an LED van from the magistrate’s camp office in Noida Sector 27. The DM said that the Mission Shakti programme is being held from October 17-25. “This campaign will run for one week in Noida and Greater Noida. The sub-divisional magistrates have also flagged off such vans in their respective areas. Police teams are also conducting parallel awareness programmes,” he said.The DM said that the teams will collaborate with different schools and colleges and organise virtual programmes for awareness. The officials will also approach different companies, corporate houses, and industries and organise programmes for women safety at work place. The officials’ will inform women about help lines such as 1090, 112, UP Cop App, and laws such as the POCSO Act, etc. They also raise awareness about the Union ministry of women and child development’s ‘She-Box’ initiative (sexual harassment electronic box), a single window access system to stop harassment at work place. People can log in to the ministry’s website and file a complaint. Police officers will also inform women about the ill effects of child marriage, dowry, etc, in the initiative. Maheshwari, the nodal officer for this project in the district, said this is a state-level programme. “The government’s aim is that women should know their rights as well as laws for their safety, through this campaign. We will also sensitise men towards women equality. We have made a coordinated action plan to be rolled out in one week,” she said. She added that she will also inspect some police stations on Sunday. An awareness programme was held at Sharda University under this initiative which over 150 students and faculty members attended. A similar programme was held at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida. Vrinda Shukla, DCP, women safety, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the LED van, equipped with audio and visuals, will halt for 15 minutes at different locations and relay information. “It will visit different villages, colonies, societies, parks, markets, shopping malls, etc. The police department also issued a mobile number – 9870395200 – where women can contact and share details to join virtual chaupals, which will be organised in a few days,” she said. The police department has also planned to organise a webinar on cyber security where students from 74 government and private schools will join. The programme will be relayed live on different social networks. The police department will develop a women help-desk at all the 22 police stations in Gautam Budh Nagar. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said the police team has also intensified patrolling near markets and shopping malls areas during Navratri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-launches-woman-empowerment-campaign-mission-shakti/story-CCv8VlEVegv16K6pVksJYO.html
17-10-2020||Noida||Three major roads in Noida have high dust content, says pollution control board study||A A study conducted by the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) to find out the total mass of dust, as well as dust particles up to 75 microns, through samples taken from 10 different roads in Noida has found three major road stretches in the city have heavy dust pollution.The UPPCB had recently conducted a similar study for 18 different road stretches in Ghaziabad, samples of which were tested at UPPCB’s laboratory at Vasundhara. The samples from Noida roads were also tested at this facility.The study revealed that three roads – Near Parthala Chowk-Sector 121-Vikas Marg, Sector-129 to Sector-155, and the road in front of Spectrum Metro Mall near Sector 50 metro station – have the highest dust mass of all samples.These three stretches, were found to have total dust mass of 552 grams per square metres (g/m2), 536.5 g/m2 and 513 g/m2, respectively, while the mass of dust having dust particles up to 75 microns was 159.43 g/m2, 108.03 g/m2 and 84.89 g/m2, respectively, the study shows.Officials said the board conducted the study after discussions with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur, during which they got to know that dust particles up to 75 microns have lesser tendency of settling down, and thus move about with movement of wind as well as vehicles, which also leads to air pollution.“The report will now be sent to the Noida authority and for them to take up appropriate steps to bring down these levels and control dust. In future, we will get a similar study conducted for roads in Greater Noida as well,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida. The study revealed that the total dust mass in samples collected from Noida ranged between 552 g/m2 and 59.84 g/m2, while the range of mass of dust contents up to 75 microns in size stood between 159.43 g/m2 and 9.77 g/m2.It said that in all the Noida samples, highest dust mass was found near Parthala Chowk-Sector-121-Vikas Marg stretch, while the least was in front of NSEZ Phase-II-Surajpur Road, Noida. These two stretches also figure as highest and lowest in terms of mass of dust contents up to 75 microns.Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty (OSD) from Noida authority, said the authority is yet to receive the UPPCB study report.“At Parthala Chowk, there is no construction work going on as of now. We will go through the UPPCB road study report and take necessary measures. We will do more of water sprinkling, washing roads at night etc., and will fix any technical issues found. Sometimes, potholes also lead to dust pollution. We will visit the roads and take necessary actions,” he said, adding that dust particles on the roads may be due to vehicular movement. While detailing the measures taken up by the authority under the graded response action plan (Grao), Tripathi added, “We have engaged 47 tankers for sprinkling water on a total of 107 km of roads per day. The authority is also taking up washing a total of 80 km of roads every night whereas mechanical sweeping of over 250km roads is taken up at night.” The authority has also made a total of 235 km road stretches dust free zones, covered by grass and shrubs on the footpath in order to check pollution, officials added. On Saturday, the authority had fined a mechanical-sweeping agency ₹1 lakh as it had left the dust collected in the open in Sector 67, officials added.“We found some dustbins overflowing in Noida Sector 65 and 66 on Saturday and fined a door-to-door garbage collection agency Rs 1 lakh for the lapse,” Tripathi said, adding that all such measures will surely reduce pollution. A comparison of the UPPCB’s road dust study of the two cities of Ghaziabad and Noida found that the total mass of road dust in samples was higher in Ghaziabad, where it stood between 579.54 g/m2 and 14.43 g/m2. On other hand, the particles of dust up to 75 microns were on the higher side on roads in Noida, where it stood between 159.43 g/m2 and 9.77 g/m2, as compared to between 154.37 g/m2 and 2.22 g/m2 in Ghaziabad. Dr S Velmurugan, chief scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), Delhi, said that due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and social distancing protocols, many people now use their private vehicles, which aids dust pollution.“Most people use private vehicles instead of metro trains etc., for commuting, which adds to pollution in the National Capital Region. Dust particles are also caused due to stubble burning in northern areas. Proper water sprinkling on the roads may yield some good results but there is a need for strict enforcement of rules to check pollution,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-major-roads-in-noida-have-high-dust-content-says-pollution-control-board-study/story-Ilb86pI5rNxJvpZye0V5AL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: An isle of hope at Sukhna||For most waterbirds, deep sheets of water at the Sukhna lake are no more a habitat than a barren desert. The agony of birds is reflected in the fact that devoid of mud banks, even a common, resident species such as Red-wattled lapwings have gone missing from stretches of the lake’s northern shores where they were breeding comfortably. But a small isle of hope has come up at the rowing canal at the lake’s regulator-end, which affords birds a safe spot to rest, snooze, bask and most importantly preen and dry their feathers.The isle is an innovative experiment of the Chandigarh forests and wildlife department, which brought together two bamboo floats, anchored them with heavy stones in the 10 feet deep water and layered the platform with soil and vegetation to create an extended mound above the water. A variety of resident birds have availed the opportunity afforded by the artificial isle and include Cattle and Large egrets, Black-winged stilts, Black bittern, Snake bird (Oriental Darter), Red-wattled lapwings, Lesser Whistling teal, Spotbill ducks and recently, as the migratory season got underway, a pair of Gadwall ducks. The importance of the isle lies in the fact that deep water has wiped out mudflats and extended shores of the lake, leaving birds no room for resting and allied activities. It is a fallacy to presume water birds prefer to perpetually swim about in deep lakes. Shallow ”chhapars’’ or wetlands with exposed vegetation and harbouring small aquatic creatures are eminently preferred by water birds.The last good winter for migratory waterfowl at the Sukhna was 2016-2017 due to shallow waters and exposed aquatic vegetation but ever since an abundance of seasonal and unseasonal rainfall has ensured the lake is drawing lesser birds, with the colonising lotus weed compounding the predicament. The November bird census by the Chandigarh Bird Club will reflect the abandoned waters.WHAT BUTTERFLIES LOVE Householders are left puzzled when their beautiful, exotic flowers fail to attract butterflies. A lack of nectar coupled with the leaves not suitable for the butterfly larvae to feed upon are the main reasons. In this context, research has established that when a floral species is suitable for butterflies, it attracts them in droves. Those wanting to attract butterflies to their gardens and butterfly parks can take heed of the clear vote delivered in favour of the native species, Derris scandens (commonly known as Jewel Vine, Hog Creeper). As many as 22 species of butterflies were observed on this plant in the Kazhuveli wetlands, Tamil Nadu, by Dr M Bubesh Guptha, director, Universal Eco Foundation.“Being dependent on vegetation as adults and larvae, butterflies enter into a complex feeding relationship with green plants. As adults, they require nectar resources to provide energy for flight, which is vital to find mates. As larvae, butterflies are typically specific to a host plant and often show a ‘botanical instinct’, ie, closely-related butterfly species choose closely-related plants. Butterflies provide the best rapid indicators of habitat quality and are sensitive indicators of climate change. Our findings prove that the Derris species are good for butterfly parks, protected and non-protected areas for conservation of multiple species of butterflies and other insects,” Dr Guptha told this writer.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-an-isle-of-hope-at-sukhna/story-E986g3aO1vainIadvaMErI.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Robbery bid at Muthoot Finance office in Ludhiana: Landlord did not get accused’s police verification done, probe reveals||A day after six armed men tried to rob the Muthoot Finance branch office on Dugri Road, police on Saturday searched the rented accommodation of the accused in Chandigarh, where they were staying for the last one and a half month. Ludhiana police also questioned the landlord, who failed to produce any documents related to police verification of the accused, following which they asked Chandigarh Police to take action against him. Police said that the accused were procuring items needed for the robbery for the last one and a half months. They had arranged pistols from Bihar and travelled in passenger buses from Bihar to Chandigarh with weapons, but never got nabbed, police said.Also, checking has been intensified at bus stands to ensure that the accused do not try to escape the city. During the melee on Friday, police had three of the robbers. They told police that Saurav Kumar was the kingpin of the gang and had hatched the conspiracy. The police are also trying to trace the local link of the accused who provided information to them and helped in the robbery.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that eight teams have been formed for the arrest of the rest of the accused.The six men had attempted to rob 35-kg gold jewellery at gunpoint. Before they could escape, the employees foiled the bid. In the melee, five persons, including four employees of Muthoot Finance, suffered injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/robbery-bid-at-muthoot-finance-office-in-ludhiana-landlord-did-not-get-accused-s-police-verification-done-probe-reveals/story-HiebL5wBn5vS02H1yr9ThI.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Punjab edu dept to hold practice tests for Classes 6 to 10||To assess and improve learning outcomes of government school students from Classes 6 to 10, the state education department has decided to organise online practice tests every Sunday. This step has been taken after the department found students’ performance unsatisfactory in the Punjab Achievement Survey held last month. As per sources, over 70% students from government schools in Ludhiana district participated in the survey. Government school principals said that participation was relatively low as many students who failed in Classes 9 and 11 have dropped out but their name still appears in the school’s online database. As per information, from the 48 aided schools in the district, only 35% students participated in the survey held in September. Recently, an online meeting was held between the district education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, and principals of aided schools. Kaur has directed them to ensure all students of Classes 6 to 10 participate in the practice test. Kaur said, “We must ensure that students participate in these practice tests. We have held many online meetings with school principals and asked them for the reason behind low participation. We have motivated them to ensure 100% participation and asked teachers to contact students so that every child can improve their learning outcome.”The heads of these institutions told the DEO that only students of grant-in-aid classes participated in the test and the others skipped it.The practice test will be held via Google form and comprise of 5 questions each from six subjects- English, Hindi, Punjabi, social studies, science and mathematics. The online link for the practice sheet will be activated at 11 am on every Sunday. The tests will be conducted on October 18, October 25, November 1 and November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-edu-dept-to-hold-practice-tests-for-classes-6-to-10/story-rqVNx5PGsm0xCjvmkurz2L.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of Dussehra, pandemic shadows effigy business in Ludhiana||Even as the government has allowed Ravana Dehan to be held this year and some Dussehra committees have stepped forward to organise them, the ongoing pandemic has taken a toll on the business of effigy makers.Due to dip in orders and reduced size of effigies, it is difficult to even meet costs, said Asgar Ali, 48, a resident of Agra, who has been making effigies at the Daresi ground for over three decades now.Ali said that they have received 15 orders from Ludhiana last year, but this time, only three Dussehra committees have come forward. Ali and his team reached the city late on Thursday evening and are currently working at Daresi ground. The effigy makers said that they are working just to retain customers and are making no profit.Ali added that organisers are not getting effigies of other mythological figures including Megnadh and Kumbhakaran built this year, as Ravana Dehan will be a low-key event.Ali’s son, Sohail Khan, 19, said the number of labourers deployed in the process has also been reduced from 30 to eight this year. Earlier, they only used to supervise the labourers, but now, they are preparing the effigies themselves to reduce costs.“We used to bring along a team of around 30 labourers and different teams used to work at separate locations in the city. We used to get around 15 orders from Ludhiana and also from Chandigarh. But this year, we have received no order from Chandigarh while only three committees have placed orders in Ludhiana - Daresi, Upkar Nagar and Dhandra Road,” said Khan.A student, Khan said that his two elder brothers also used to assist them in the previous years. But this time, they have opted to stay back in Agra as the demand is so low. “Earlier, we used to get orders from Haryana and Rajasthan as well, but this year, we have only received few orders from Haryana,” said Sohail. “This year, we are only working to retain the customers, as they will replace us with local artistes and prefer them in the coming years also,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-effigy-makers-rue-lack-of-business/story-0PtYAZC9XNUvcX6Du5H0iO.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 3 deaths, 275 new virus cases||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 275 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 18,797. Of the new cases, 84 were reported in Mandi, 49 in Shimla, 29 in Solan, 24 in Kangra, 20 in Kullu, 16 each in Sirmaur and Lahaul-Spiti, 14 in Bilaspur, 13 in Una, 5 in Chamba, 4 in Hamirpur and one in Kinnaur. The death toll climbed to 260 as three more people died due to the virus. Of the fatalities, two were reported in Mandi and one in Shimla. There are 2,678 active cases in the state while the tally of cured has reached 15,823 after 234 more patients have been cured. As many as 3,43,186 tests have been conducted in the state till date. With 3,434 cases Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 2,763 infections were recorded till date. Mandi has 2,365 cases, Sirmaur 2,093, Shimla 1,936, Una 1,461, Bilaspur 1,115, Hamirpur 1,077, Chamba 1,026, Kullu 1,004, Lahaul-Spiti 286 and Kinnaur 237.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-3-deaths-275-new-virus-cases/story-7SNh3URcKZ5DIbBJumoY6M.html
17-10-2020||City||Only Ravana effigy to be burnt at Ludhiana’s Daresi ground this year||As Ravana Dahan will be a low-key event this year, no effigy of Meghnath, Khardushan and Kumbhakaran, the mythical symbols of evil, will be burned at Daresi Dussehra ground on Dussehra. Organisers said that for decades, they used to burn the effigies of Khardushan, Meghnath and Kumbhkaran on separate days as per the chronology depicted in Ramayana. “But this year, we have received permission to organise Ravana Dahan for just one day due to the ongoing pandemic,” they said. No Ramlila and Dussehra fair will be organised and Ravana Dahan will take place with limited gathering. Member of Shri Ram Lila Committee (Daresi), Dinesh Marwaha said, “Many committees burn all the three effigies on Dussehra, but we burn four effigies on separate days as per the chronology of events (their deaths) as depicted in Ramayana. We cannot change our tradition and burn the effigies on a single day. We will only organise Ravana Dahan this year.”Another member, Kamal Bassi said that Ramlila would not be held this year and instead Ramayana Paath would be organised at Sita Mata Mandir with a limited gathering. Size of Ravana effigy reducedMarwaha said that the size of Ravana effigy has also been reduced. Their committee has reduced the height of its effigy from 90 feet to 30 feet.Effigy maker, Asgar Ali, who is making effigies at Daresi ground for over three decades, said that earlier only the head of Ravana used to be of 30 feet, but this year the entire effigy will be 30 feet tall. The size of Ravana effigy to be burned in Upkar Nagar has also been reduced from 65 feet to 15 feet. Organisers to broadcast Ravan Dahan liveMarwaha said that they are making arrangements to broadcast the event live through social media and local cable operators so that the public can become a part of the celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-ravana-effigy-to-be-burnt-at-ludhiana-s-daresi-ground-this-year/story-agoo9PY7tSM9EpT9q6EQNP.html
17-10-2020||Pune||CM Thackeray, Pawar, Fadnavis to visit rain-affected areas||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Devendra Fadnavis, leader of the opposition and former chief minister, will visit the rain-affected areas in western Maharashtra. CM Thackeray, who announced his plans on Saturday evening after coming under heavy criticism from the opposition parties, will tour rain-affected areas of Solapur on Monday and Osmanabad on Tuesday, an official said. Pawar will be on a two-day visit to rain-affected areas in Osmanabad to assess the damage to crops due to rains. Pawar will begin his two-day visit on Sunday (October 18) and will visit Tulajapur, Ausa and Paranda Tehsil during his tour, that will conclude on Monday after which Pawar will return to Baramati, according to details shared by NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade in Pune. Devendra Fadnavis, leader of the opposition and former chief minister, meanwhile, will also undertake a tour of rain-affected western Maharashtra and Marathwada. According to his office, Fadnavis will begin his three-day visit on October 19 from Baramati, a constituency represented for decades by Pawar and currently by his daughter Supriya Sule. Fadnavis will tour the rain-affected parts of Pune, Solapur, Osmanabad and Beed districts. At least 29 people lost their lives in four districts of Western Maharashtra and crop over five lakh hectares has been damaged in the state due to heavy rains in the region. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and promised Centre’s support to Maharashtra. “Spoke to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray Ji regarding the situation arising due to flooding and heavy rain in parts of the state. My thoughts and prayers are with those sisters and brothers affected. Reiterated Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work,” (sic) Modi tweeted on Friday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Saturday morning, visited Baramati and adjoining areas affected by rains while in the afternoon he visited flood-affected areas of Pandharpur. While Thackeray has taken review of possible loss to crops, livestock and property through video conferencing, the opposition leaders had asked the chief minister to step out and visit affected areas. “Farmers from across Maharashtra have been badly affected due to heavy rains. Chief Minister, please step out of your house now. The farmers are waiting to see you,” said BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil. Thackeray had come under criticism from various quarters for not stepping out of his home to review Covid-19 situation as well as rain- affected areas. Earlier this month, Congress MLA from Vidarbha Ashish Deshmukh questioned Thackeray for ignoring the region, affected by heavy rain which damaged crops. Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi founder president Prakash Ambedkar too has asked Thackeray to visit the rain-affected parts of Maharashtra. “The farmers are worst-affected by the rains and they need relief in this time of adversity. The chief minister should tour the affected areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cm-thackeray-pawar-fadnavis-to-visit-rain-affected-areas/story-wxRV8XCXczxW4d6ryF8hHL.html
17-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Rahul to join electioneering from Oct 23, may share dais with Tejashwi||Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi is likely to address six election rallies as part of the party’s election campaign in Bihar. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha said that Gandhi is slated to launch his campaign for the party nominees at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur and Hisua in Nawada on October 23. “So far, Rahul Gandhi has given his consent to address six rallies, two each in the three-phased elections. More rallies may be planned if the situation arises,” said Jha. The former Congress chief’s rally is set to coincide with the programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also scheduled to start his public address for the assembly elections, the polling for which is to start on October 28. The BJP had planned as many as 12 rallies by PM Modi during the electioneering for NDA candidates in Bihar. Jha said that the schedule and the venue for next round of public address by Gandhi would be decided later. It is believed that RJD leader and chief ministerial face of the Grand Alliance (GA) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav may share the stage with the Congress leader. However, it is not yet clear if AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would also address election meetings in Bihar. Also read: Officials work overtime to dispatch Covid-19 kits to lakhs of polling booths in BiharThe Congress has fielded as many as 70 candidates in the fray for the three-phased elections in Bihar. This is the maximum number of seats the party managed to contest after 2005. In November 2005 polls, the Congress got 51 seats to contest in alliance with the RJD and 41 during the last assembly elections under the GA, then consisting JD(U) also. Former director of AN Sinha institute of social studies DM Diwakar said the issues taken up by the top leaders were more than the number of rallies during the elections. “PM Modi had addressed 31 rallies during 2015 assembly elections which was more than double attended by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Still, the BJP had to be contented with only 53 seats,” said Diwakar. Diwakar added that people are not taking the PM Modi’s rhetoric very seriously now. “Modi is seldom seen talking about serious issues such as the state of the economy, which is in shambles, or about shrinking jobs, auctioning of public sector undertakings, measures to tide over the social impact of the lockdown, health and education, among other pressing issues. Anti-incumbency is there against Nitish Kumar-led dispensation. The GA may capitalise on the issues people of Bihar are grappling with,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-rahul-gandhi-to-join-electioneering-from-oct-23-may-share-dais-with-tejashwi/story-QvoJoPbLoVbOC7nnZ5p8YI.html
17-10-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19, farmers, women find special spot in Congress’ manifesto for MP by-polls||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Saturday promised job and pension to a family member of those who died due to Covid-19 in its 52 points ‘Vachan Patra’ (manifesto) released for by-election to 28 assembly seats to be held on November 3. The manifesto, which focuses on Covid-19-affected people, farmers, unemployed youth, women and businessmen, was released by state Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath.Releasing a list of promises fulfilled during Congress’ 15-month-long tenure in state, Nath said, “During the tenure of 15 months, Congress fulfilled 574 promises out of 974 mentioned in the manifesto released before the 2018 assembly election.”He added, “We don’t believe in making false promises like MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.”Also read: ‘LJP not a part of alliance,’ BJP reiterates ahead of Bihar assembly pollsNath also said that Congress opposed farm bills amendment in labour laws approved in the monsoon session of Parliament and claimed that they would not be implemented in Madhya Pradesh if Congress returns to power.Congress needs to win all 28 assembly seats to get through the majority mark of 116 in the 230 member state assembly.“If Congress comes to power, it will initiate Corona Samajik Suraksha Pension Yojna for the next of kin of those who die due to Covid-19. Similarly, jobs will be provided to a family member of Covid-19 victims. The Congress-led state government will also help the family members of the victims in setting up businesses,” Nath said.The manifesto, bearing pictures of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra, also stated that businessmen affected by the pandemic will be provided Rs 50,000 loan without interest to revive their businesses. Also, no fee will be levied on unemployed youth for applying for government jobs. Nath also said the farm loan waiver scheme will be resumed. Like Congress-led Chhattisgarh government, Gaudhan Sewa Yojna will start in the state, he said.According to the manifesto, the Congress promised an annual award of Rs 1 lakh which would be given to a person working in the field of women empowerment, safety, security and welfare.Besides promising development of Gwalior-Chambal division, where by-election will be held on 16 of the 28 assembly seats, the Congress tried to woo different castes with promises to bring justice to them. The party also promised to include certain castes, like Keer, Meena and Pardhi, in the list of scheduled tribes.MP Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “Earlier in September, MP Congress committee released the sample draft on local manifestos for all 28 assembly seats and that was not a final one. The final draft on the manifesto was released on Saturday. Nobody raised any question from the party. It was BJP which is creating propaganda.”BJP-led state government home minister Narottam Mishra took a jibe on the manifesto and termed it a ‘Kapat (deception) Patra’. He said, “Congress promises are just for the draft not to fulfill. Earlier, they tricked the voters in the name of farm loan waiver scheme, now nobody is going to believe these promises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-farmers-women-find-special-spot-in-congress-manifesto-for-mp-by-polls/story-ekPT7yXcrigdFUNFndYzIK.html
17-10-2020||City||Five men on two bikes snatch Ludhiana trader’s car after beating him up||Continuing to have a free run in the city, robbers targeted a businessman on Friday night and made off with his car near Kadiyan village.The victim, Aman Aggarwal, 43, a resident of Bhamiya, trades in machines that manufacture interlocking tiles.In his complaint to the police, Aggarwal said he was going to Kadian in his Maruti Suzuki Brezza to buy a machine around 8pm on Friday.On the way, he took the wrong side of the road near Kadian village, when five men riding two motorcycles intercepted him. Without any provocation, the men started hurling abuses at him, prompting him to step out of the car and confront them. But, as he opened the car’s door, the men pulled him out and started assaulting him. In no time, two of the assailants sped off in his car towards Laddowal, while the other three followed them on their motorcycles. As the robbers left, he sounded the police.Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station, none of the CCTV cameras installed on the highway captured the robbery. Moreover, the accused had no weapon and also did not try to snatch the victim’s mobile phone or cash. “According to the complainant, the robbers drove away towards Laddowal, so we will be scanning CCTV cameras installed at the Laddowal toll plaza,” he added. Meanwhile, a case under Section 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-men-on-two-bikes-snatch-ludhiana-trader-s-car-after-beating-him-up/story-qaLl9SqqbvMNJLpWygJD2O.html
17-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Officials work overtime to dispatch Covid-19 kits to lakhs of polling booths||Bihar’s assembly polls amid Covid-19 pandemic is different in many ways. State officials are on their toes for not only transporting EVMs and coordinating deployment of election staff but much more. For the last one week, health department officials are working overtime to complete the gargantuan task of packaging and dispatch of a whopping 13 lakh Covid-19 kits containing face covers, santisers and other safety material. These kits will be distributed to around 11.59 lakh polling personnel, including 5.20 lakh security personnel, at 1.06 lakh polling stations across 243 assembly constituencies. This comes as part of the Election Commission guidelines to ensure safety of election staff in the three-phase polls. Each Covid kit contains 100 ML of santiser, face shield, hand gloves (2 pairs), three-ply mask (six pieces) with additional items. In addition, polling booths would get 500 ML santiser (six pieces), one IVR thermometer, batteries, among other items for use. Also read: ‘LJP not a part of alliance,’ BJP reiterates ahead of Bihar assembly pollsThe dispatch of kits for 16 districts going to polls in the first phase on October 28 will be completed by October 17. “We are racing against time because of the tight schedule to package the cartons and load them in trucks for dispatch within the deadline,” said an official working at Gyan Bhawan in Patna. Besides, nearly 6.56 crore hand gloves for each voter – 90 percent of the total voters of state - are also being dispatched across 38 districts. The EC, this time, will provide one pair of gloves each to voters coming to the booths for using the EVM to cast their franchise as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. The voters would also be screened by infrared thermometers before being allowed inside the booths. “We are sending around 13 lakh Covid kits by provisioning reserve of 20 percent for the election staff so that there is no shortage of any protective items like sanitisers, face masks and gloves. We are also sending hand gloves for voters to each of 1.06 lakh booths by making provision for nearly 90 percent of total voters,” said a senior official of the Bihar Medical Services And Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL). The Corporation has been assigned the task of packaging the Covid-19 kits for use during the elections. Conducting the polls, amid the pandemic, is a big challenge for the EC, state election department and other concerned departments, including the health department, given the surge in number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The distribution of Covid-19 kits has increased the election costs with added expenditure in packaging these kits purchased through tendering process by the BMSICL. The estimated expenditure of the same is pegged around Rs 200 crore, officials said. “The state election department has already been allotted additional Rs 250 crore in the first supplementary budget, of which Rs 225 crore has been provisioned for footing the bill of protective gears, essentially Covid kits, and other costs owing to increase in polling stations,” said a finance officer. The supplementary budget was passed during the last monsoon session in August. In the state budget, a provision of Rs 627 crore was made in this fiscal year. In total, the state election department has a budget allotment of Rs 877 crore for this fiscal year given the increase in costs for implementing the safety guidelines laid down by the EC to check the spread of Covid-19 during the polling process. EC officials said the election cost this time is likely to be around Rs 625 crore – a jump of almost 131 percent from 2015 assembly polls when an expenditure of Rs 270 crore was made. This one is slated to be one of the most expensive elections in recent times. Also read: Mumbai court orders FIR against Kangana Ranaut, Rangoli ChandelIncidentally, packaging centres like Gyan Bhawan auditorium in Patna, Muzaffarpur and Purnea and BMSICL warehouses are witnessing work on a war footing with few thousand workers, including women, drawn from various agencies engaged day and night to ensure to dispatch the kits as per the deadline. The Purnea and Muzaffarpur units have their deadlines to dispatch the kits through trucks for the second and third phase of polls by the one week, officials said. “The entire exercise of packaging and dispatching has been a challenging task, especially due to the humongous amount of kits and materials and logistics involved in transportation. The workforce, including women staff, are working overtime and it is worth appreciating,” said Pratay Amrit, principal secretary, health. “It is a big job and we are working to meet all deadlines,” said managing director of BMSICL, Pradeep Kumar Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-officials-work-overtime-to-dispatch-covid-19-kits-to-lakhs-of-polling-booths/story-mQzF8IjZF5xsccxk6XujCN.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Pipeline supplying water to city bursts at Janata Vasahat; nine injured||At least nine persons were injured, with two of them suffering serious wounds, after a pipeline supplying water to the city suffered a breach at Janata Vasahat near Sinhgad road in the wee hours on Saturday. The flow of water from the damaged pipeline located at lane number 29 was so strong that it infiltrated into 40 nearby houses, catching people by surprise as they were asleep. The pipeline, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), is 45 years old and has corroded at multiple places.The 18-inch radius pipeline is crucial as it brings water from Khadakwasla dam to Pune city via Parvati pumping station. The pipeline passes parallel to the canal in Janata Vasahat which houses low income slum tenements. According to the PMC water department, the pipeline repairing work was undertaken immediately and was completed by afternoon. Due to the incident, water supply to some parts of the city was affected. However, it was restored by evening after repair work was completed, said officials. As all off the sudden water started flooding from the pipeline with full pressure, it entered the Janata Vasahat slum which is located along this water pipeline.Among those injured in the incident are local residents - Mahesh More, Ravindra Kondhalkar, Sunita Bait, Piyush Jadhav, Akshay Solkar. The injured persons were immediately sent to Sassoon and Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital for treatment, said locals.According to Suraj Lokhande, a social worker from Janata Vasahat, two persons from Janata Vasahat suffered from bone fractures. Locals said many didn’t understand initially what was happening as it was dark. As water starting gushing into houses, people began running while some of them fell off due to the slippery stretch. “After receiving calls from residents, fire brigade officials reached the spot immediately and began rescuing people,” said fire brigade department head Prashant Ranpise.Earlier in April 2019, the same pipeline had burst though nobody was injured in the incident. In September 2018, around 350 houses from Janata Vasahat had been inundated with water after the Mutha rightbank canal wall suffered a breach at around 10.30 am causing minor floods in the Dandekar bridge area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pipeline-supplying-water-to-city-bursts-at-janata-vasahat-nine-injured/story-y23VPy43ggdyvE1LsxXhfK.html
17-10-2020||City||72 students enrolled in Haryana’s Super-100 programme crack NEET||Giving wings to young medical aspirants hailing from poor sections of the society, the Haryana government’s Super-100 Programme has proven to be a success as 72 out of 84 students enrolled in the initiative have cracked the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET). The results for the examination, which is mandatory to get admission in medical colleges across the country, were declared on Friday night. As many as 38 students out of 40 at Rewari centre and 34 out of 44 students at Panchkula centre have cracked the examination, a government official said.Naveen Mishra, head teacher of the programme at Rewari, who is assisted by five other Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) graduates, said 40 students appeared for the examination and 38 have cleared it.“Out of 51 students, 40 appeared in the prestigious exam of which 38 brought laurels to the state. Over 20 students will get admission in various courses like BDS, MBBS, BAMS at government colleges while the chances of other students getting admission in government institutions is less,” Mishra added.Under this programme, talented underprivileged students from government schools are selected from across the state and provided free coaching and hostel facility to help them crack competitive examinations.Deepak, 17, a resident of Jind’s Kabarchha village, who secured 2,512 All India Rank (in EWS category), said,“ My father is a small farmer. I’am very happy and the credit goes to the state government and Naveen sir. I had dreamt of becoming a doctor as health facilities are very poor at the village level. Many students have been paying huge amounts of money for coaching. But under this programme I paid nothing and passed the exam,” he said.Another student, Vinod Kumar, a resident of Bhoda Hoshnak village in Fatehabad district, said he got AIR 12,358 (EWS) rank in the NEET exam. “The Agroha Medical College in Hisar district is just two kilometres from my village. The doctors there have been doing a good job and after seeing them, I dreamt of becoming a doctor myself. I am not sure whether I would be able to get admission in the MBBS course at a government college. I urge the state government to help me by providing assistance this year too because I want to study at a good college. I want to appear in the NEET exam again next year to improve my rank,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-students-enrolled-in-haryana-s-super-100-programme-crack-neet/story-plV2P8rI46zeGVB4fXyVfK.html
17-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: Independent Kapoor Narwal refuses to withdraw nomination, support Congress nominee||Independent candidate Kapoor Singh Narwal on Saturday refused to withdraw his nomination and support Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal in the Baroda bypoll to be held on November 3, during a panchayat held at his native village Kathura.The residents of Congress nominee Indu Raj’s native village Rindhana visited Kathura to request Kapoor Singh Narwal to withdraw his nomination. However, villagers of Kathura turned down the plea and stated that they will support Kapoor.Talking to HT, Kapoor Singh Narwal, said the Congress and the BJP had back stabbed him and planned to ‘destroy his political career’ by denying him a ticket at the last moment during the 2019 assembly polls. “The BJP leaders had assured me of giving the party’s ticket in the 2019 assembly polls but they pitted newcomer Yogeshwar Dutt at the last minute,” he said.“Now, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender had called me to Delhi for the Congress ticket but failed to fulfill their commitment. The Congress leaders were promising me a ticket till October 15 but the grand old party had officially given ticket to Indu Raj on October 14 and made the announcement the next day. The letter signed by state Congress chief Kumari Selja on October 14 mentioned Indu Raj as its candidate. The Congressmen were making a fool out of me till October 15 by assuring me to consider my candidature,” Narwal said.He said he had failed to understand ‘the dirty politics’ of the Congress and the opposition party to stop him from filing the nomination papers. “The residents of my village have unanimously decided to support me. I will not withdraw my nomination. We assured Indu’s villagers to help him in future but this time we will fight,” he added.Meanwhile, the residents of Ridhana village said Kapoor Narwal’s entry in the fray will reduce the votes of Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal. “We requested Kathura villagers to convince Kapoor to step down and support Indu Raj but our plea was rejected by a few people. Our village had voted for Kapoor twice. Now, the residents of Kathura should support our candidate,” they added.BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt, former Sonepat zila parishad member Indu Raj Narwal of the Congress, Joginder Singh Malik of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and Kapoor Singh Narwal are in the fray for the Baroda bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-independent-kapoor-narwal-refuses-to-withdraw-nomination-support-congress-nominee/story-bEkwT7WDtTolZUpUkbVJYM.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Daily Maharashtra Covid-19 test numbers have dipped in October: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said the Uddhav Thackeray government must increase the number of Covid-19 determination tests in Maharashtra as the daily average was on a downward trend since September 1.In a letter to the chief minister, Fadnavis said the the average number of tests per day between October 1 and 15 was 75,296, down from 91,743 during the September 16 to 30 period and 84,675 in the September 1 to 15 period.He said the low number of tests in October might be behind the reduction in coronavirus numbers on a daily basis, which he claimed was “hiding reality”.The leader of opposition in the state Assembly said Maharashtra’s death per million figure was high and so was the case for Mumbai.The national death per million figure was 97.6 while it was as high as 333 in Maharashtra, the former CM claimed.“In Mumbai, the infection ratio in the first fortnight of September was 15.95 per cent which increased to 17.61 per cent in the second fortnight of September and remained 17.39 per cent in the first fortnight of October,” Fadnavis said, wondering why test numbers were not being ramped up despite “high prevalence of infection”.He said the rising infection numbers in the state meant all sectors of the economy cannot resume operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/daily-maharashtra-covid-19-test-numbers-have-dipped-in-october-devendra-fadnavis/story-a4G3C8y1v9r6PqZB27bsFM.html
17-10-2020||City||Deepender Hooda says he is face of Congress in Baroda bypoll||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Saturday said hundreds of Congress workers will take on BJP’s star campaigners to reach out to voters in the Baroda constituency.While addressing a press conference in Gohana, Hooda said Congress nominee Indu Raj Narwal is enough to defeat BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt in the Baroda by election. “Narwal hails from a poor farmer’s family and people of Baroda should consider me as their nominee. I am contesting this election and the people of this rural seat will teach a lesson to the arrogant BJP-JJP government. The BJP-JJP government will use its machinery in the election but we have the moral support of people. Indu’s win will shake the chief minister’s chair and bring a change in the state,” he said.Meanwhile, BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt said the people of Baroda have been giving him their blessings and he is confident of winning the seat. “I am contesting this election on developmental issues and people should avoid connecting the candidates with their caste,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deepender-hooda-says-he-is-face-of-congress-in-baroda-bypoll/story-noT8BLgITzsS7uH9UJCBTO.html
17-10-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Teachers drive home Covid message through nukkad natak Teachers of Government Model High School, Sector 29-A, Chandigarh, have turned to nukkad natak (street plays) to reach out to students and sensitise them about Covid-19 safety guidelines. “Now that students have started coming back to school, it is important that they follow the Covid protocol both inside and outside the institution. This nukkad natak urges students to remain cautious,” a teacher said. Face us, say Congress councillors as MC set to meet virtually again Scheduled for October 30, the general house meeting of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will be a virtual one again. The Congress has been pushing for a regular session with physical attendance but MC officials maintain that the Covid-19 situation necessitates a virtual meeting. “Even central government guidelines now allow a gathering of 100 people and here they can’t make arrangements for 30-odd councillors. This is only an excuse not to face the opposition and skirt important issues,” said a Congress councillor. Friday special: Ride in formals to work and keep cyclingKeeping the momentum of the cycling trend going, Chandigarh-based group Cyclegiri has started a Ride in Formals initiative. Every Friday, cyclists from the group will go to work on their cycles together, in their formal best. The route has been planned in a way that they will pass by each member’s office. Group administrator Akshit Passi says that the idea is catching on and HDFC Bank and State Bank of India are in touch to participate in the initiative.Covid rules out Ramlila at Panjab University Panjab University’s Ramlila, which started in 1935, will not be held this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The university’s Ramlila is in Urdu with a distinct Lahori flavour that it has retained even after Partition when the institution was divided between Pakistan and India. Since its inception, the Ramlila has been held every year but this time, PU will miss its date with Ramlila. Tale of an ailing ambulance at Mohali’s ESI HospitalFor four years, the ambulance at the Employees State Insurance (ESI) zonal hospital in Industrial Area, Phase 7, Mohali, hasn’t budged an inch. Ever since its driver retired in 2016, it has stood still as the authorities concerned failed to depute another driver. In these Covid-19 times when emergency patients struggle to make their own arrangements to reach hospital in the absence of the ambulance, the vehicle stands in a state of disrepair with worn-out tyres and a damaged battery. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu happens to be a Mohali resident but infrastructure at the hospital needs a relook. The ultrasound machine there has not been put to use for two years as the authorities have failed to appoint a radiologist. Slogan-writing contest at PGI Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is organising a slogan-writing competition for its employees as a part of the Vigilance Awareness Week. Employees have been asked to write a 10 to 15 word slogan on the theme ‘Satark Bharat’ and ‘Samridh Bharat’. The first prize winner will get Rs 1,000. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh, Dar Ovais and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-SwkneVFAX7fDOkucqinHPJ.html
17-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Upper caste, Dalits dominate LJP’s 2nd list, party banks on own cadre||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Friday released its second list of 53 candidates, taking the total number of candidates so far announced to 95. On November 8, the party had released its first list of 42 candidates.While some of the candidates in the second list are also those left out by the BJP and the JD-U in ticket distribution, the party has mainly banked on its cadres this time. Sticking to its plan, the candidates are mostly from seats where the JD-U is contesting and has a dominance of Brahmins, Bhumihars and Dalits as part of its social engineering.On five seats, LJP candidates will also be against the BJP, with respect to the Govindganj seat in East Champaran, and Lalganj in Vaishali district. Both the seats with sitting LJP MLAs have gone to the BJP in the NDA seat-sharing deal.The Govindganj seat is held by LJP state parliamentary board president Raju Tiwari, while from the Lalganj seat, LJP candidate Raj Kumar had won in 2015, defeating JD-U’s Vijay Kumar.The woman candidates have also benefited with 16 candidates fielded by the LJP in the two lists so far. LJP spokesman Vikas Mishra said that in keeping with the party’s focus on youth, 30 candidates out of 95 are below 40 years of age.Also read: ‘LJP not a part of alliance,’ BJP reiterates ahead of Bihar assembly polls“Winnability of the candidates and their profile are the only two factors that party chief Chirag Paswan has considered while selecting the candidates. Other factors only come later after media scrutiny. Most of the candidates feel that this is the chance of the LJP as it is the end of the road for Nitish Kumar due to huge anti-incumbency wave against him,” he added.Like in the first list, however, prominent BJP names are not there, but by fielding disgruntled BJP and JD-U candidates, the LJP has tried to put up a brave front in the face of growing attack from BJP leaders who have branded it ‘votekatwa’ (vote splitter).From Teghara, former BJP MLA Lallan Kumar, who won in 2010, has been fielded this time. In NDA, the seat went to JD-U, which has fielded RJD import Birendra Kumar. Bhagalpur municipal corporation deputy mayor Rajesh Verma, who had joined the BJP, before the Lok Sabha elections, has been fielded by the LJP this time.Chirag Paswan’s brother-in-law Mrityunjay Paswan ‘Mrenal’ has been fielded from Raja Pakar seat, while council Krishna Raj will contest from Rosera seat.Talking to media on Thursday, Chirag had once again hit out at Nitish Kumar, saying there was “no vision in his governance to take the state forward” and that he had the blessings of his father to toe the line he is toeing, though he has full faith in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-upper-caste-dalits-dominate-ljp-s-2nd-list-party-banks-on-own-cadre/story-OoFHRgC1qYg5iumDfrkaLL.html
17-10-2020||City||BKU to intensify stir in Haryana after October 29 if FIR against activists is not withdrawn||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU Charuni) on Saturday decided to intensify the protests against the farm laws after October 29 if the FIR against its activists is not withdrawn.The farmers are agitated over the registration of an FIR against seven BKU activists, who have been accused of the murder of an elderly farmer who participated in the BJP’s tractor rally to support the farm laws and died in Naraingarh of Ambala district on October 15.The BKU leaders also demanded withdrawal of FIRs under various sections of the IPC against around 300 farmers, including its state president Gurnam Singh Charuni, for clash with the police during a protest at Pipli in Kurukshetra district on September 10.While addressing a gathering of farmers, BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni said they have decided to call a state-level mahapanchayat on October 29 at Mohra grain market of Ambala district and protests will be launched in the state if the government fails to withdraw the FIRs against the activists.He said the farmers have also decided to burn the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Dussehra i.e October 25 to register their protest against the three farm laws enacted by the Union government.He said they will also block the national and state highways at several places on November 5. “The farmers will block NH 44 (Delhi-Chandigarh) in Karnal, Hisar-Chandigarh highway will be blocked at Kaithal, NH 52 will be blocked at Surewala Chowk in Hisar, Sirsa-Dabwali highway at Sirsa,” Charuni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-to-intensify-stir-in-haryana-after-october-29-if-fir-against-activists-is-not-withdrawn/story-jomDstiIK0aspumrJmbSrK.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||IPS, HPS officers to be posted as district transport officers: Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said IPS and HPS officers will also be posted as district transport officers (DTOs) to check corruption in the regional transport authorities (RTAs). The RTA is the regulatory wing of the transport department entrusted with the task to check overloading of freight carriers, issuing fitness certificate to commercial vehicles, issuing driving license, registration of vehicles among others. While addressing a press conference, Khattar said it is not necessary that the DTO should be an IAS or an HCS officer. “Any Class-I officer, including an IPS or HPS officer or any officer on deputation, can be appointed as DTO. The main objective is to curb graft in RTAs, a department known as hub of corruption,” the CM said. ‘Middlemen to be eliminated’ The CM said after ensuring the elimination of undesirable contact persons in tehsil offices, the government will also get rid of the middlemen in RTA offices. He said six more inspection and certification centres to inspect and check fitness of vehicles will be opened in Ambala, Karnal, Hisar, Gurugram, Faridabad and Rewari. Automated driving test tracks will also be set up in Kaithal, Bahadurgarh, Rohtak, Faridabad, Nuh, Bhiwani, Karnal, Rewari, Sonepat, Palwal, and Yamunanagar. Overloading of commercial vehicles to be checked Khattar said a strict vigil will be kept on overloading of commercial vehicles, which is a major reason for corrupt practices. The government has decided that portable scales will be installed on the roads and even the drivers will not get to know when the weight of their vehicles has been measured. He said 45 such portable scales have been bought by the government. He said body cameras will be worn by vehicle inspector going for checking and passing of commercial vehicles. The CM said the problem of overloading is usually found in vehicles used in mining operations. “Therefore, e-RAVANNA software prepared by the mining department will be integrated with the ‘VAHAN’ software of the transport department,” he added. He said this is the second initiative of the state government in which separate DTOs will be appointed in the RTA offices. Earlier, HCS officers were appointed as the chief executive officers of zila parishad. He said the DTOs will be appointed within the next two days and all 22 districts will have DTOs instead of regional transport authority, secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ips-hps-officers-to-be-posted-as-district-transport-officers-haryana-cm/story-F9YhFckQoDDAOZWXaSFLwL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt purchases paddy worth Rs 5,246.27 crore||Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday informed that payment of Rs 5,246.27 crore has been made for the procurement of paddy so far in the state.The Minister informed that a total of 47,53,651 metric tonnes of paddy has been procured from the procurement centres of Punjab till October 16, 2020. Out of which 35,42,122 metric tonnes has been lifted successfully, he added.The Food Minister said that 47,34,791 metric tonnes paddy has procured by the government agencies and 18,860 metric tonnes by the millers.He further said that till October 16, 2020, Merkfed procured 12,80,861 MT paddy, Punsup 9,93,825 MT, PSWC 5,16,700 MT, Pungrain 18,67,950 MT, FCI 75,395 MT and Miller’s 18,860 MT paddy.Ashu said 3,56,516 farmers have been benefited by Punjab government’s procurement process till Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-purchases-paddy-worth-rs-5-246-27-crore/story-bwoRwDg77xZWTEHSWKesCJ.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport now starts Covid-19 express test facility for departing passengers, visitors||The Mumbai airport on Saturday said it has extended the availability of its express coronavirus infection test facility also to departing passengers and non-passengers. The RT-PCR test facility is functional from October 15, the airport said in a release. Initially launched for arriving international transit passengers in line with the Civil Aviation Ministry’s directives, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has now further extended the availability of the test facility for passengers departing from the airport as well, the airport operator said in a release. The testing facility, located on the curbside of Level 4 at Terminal 2 for departing passengers, is also available for non-passengers visiting the airport to drop off or receive their loved ones, it added. The initiative addresses passenger concerns regarding the different Covid-19 regulations across domestic and international destinations, it said adding, departing passengers can undergo the test at CSMIA before travelling to their onward destination and produce their negative test report to skip institutional quarantine at their destination. The Mumbai airport had first launched the RT-PCR test facility last month for arriving international passengers transiting to a domestic destination from Mumbai as a measure to skip institutional quarantine upon arrival. This was later extended to all passengers arriving at the airport as directed by the MoCA. Since the commemoration of the test facility on September 6, the airport has witnessed a total of over 3,340 passengers opting for the test, with an average 100 test per day being conducted, said the release. Till date 38 passengers tested positive, of the total tests conducted at the airport facility so far and they were transferred by the state authorities to designated Covid-19 institutions, according to the airport operator. Departing passengers can make an online booking through the test feature available on the CSMI airport website or register themselves at the helpdesk set up at departures to enrol for the RT-PCR test before entering the terminal and receive a digital copy mailed directly or can also collect the physical copy of the test report within eight hours, it stated. Passengers departing from the airport are encouraged to arrive at the terminal 8-12 hours before their scheduled departure, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-now-starts-covid-19-express-test-facility-for-departing-passengers-visitors/story-XO6U7ezVTZHHSc6oEEjx1M.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers extend rail-roko protest till October 21||Farmers on Saturday extended the ‘rail-roko’ stir against the contentious farm laws till October 21. On the 24th day of the agitation, around 100 women extended support to the farmers’ cause by laying stoves, rolling pins and boards on the Amritsar-Delhi railway tracks and prepared chapatis. The women and children raised slogans and raised rolling pins demanding that the ‘black law’ be scrapped. General secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee (KMSC), which is spearheading the protest on the tracks in Devidaspura village, Sarwan Singh Pandher, said “We have extended the rail-roko protest till October 21. The decision was taken during a state committee meeting”. Pandher said, “The Prime Minister says the government will double the income of the farmers but refuses to address our concerns. It is a matter of record that between 1970 and 2020, the price of agricultural equipments has increased 130 times while the price of crops has increased 19 times only. Similarly, there has been a substantial increase in the income of the employees and remuneration of the MLAs. How will this gap be covered? The claims of increasing farmers’ income is not true as the prices of fertilisers, labour and agricultural equipments are still increasing.”He said, “BJP leaders in Punjab should resign from their posts and stand by the farmers if they are really concerned about the state and its farmers. These leaders are speaking against the farmers’ agitation on behalf of the Centre.” Lashing out on the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab, Pandher said, “The state government has been spreading rumours about shortage of coal in thermal plants. The state government wants to sabotage the farmers’ agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rail-roko-protest-in-punjab-extended-till-october-21-farmers-lay-siege-to-amritsar-delhi-tracks/story-e07pXYHgr73gnsbDuHHiTL.html
17-10-2020||City||Alleged vandalism: Three detained for torching six two-wheelers in Pune||The city police have detained three men for vandalism and torching six two-wheelers in Yerawada in the early hours of Friday.The total damage is estimated to be worth around Rs 68,000, according to the police.The accused have been identified as Mohammad alias Rahim Rehman Shaikh (19), Ajay Shantaram Ovhal (19), Vishal alias Pappu Arun Rajge (28), all resident of Lakshminagar, Yerawada.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Somnath Sopak Gaikwad (28) a rickshaw driver living in the area.The vehicles parked in an open lane in Lakshminagar belonged to people living in the lane. The reason for the vandalism is not yet known, said police.Shaikh has a case of attempted murder registered against him and has faced preventive police action in the past, while Rajge has a case of preparing for dacoity registered against him.“The three people had been in a fight with the complainant hours before the vandalism. The neighbours in the area told the police during preliminary investigation that the group of men used to sit, drink, and create ruckus in the area often,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.“He told them to not sit in the area . Other people in the area also had similar issues with them. So the complainant had a fight with them at 10:30-11pm. Based on the complaint, we have added the Section for attempted murder,” he said.A case was registered under Section 307 (attempted murder) and 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act.Police sub-inspector Mangesh Bhange of Yerawada police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alleged-vandalism-three-detained-for-torching-six-two-wheelers-in-pune/story-WKC8Kbzw4xoqO2EGpJJ76O.html
17-10-2020||Pune||87-year-old donates liver and cornea, marks 14th donation in Pune since lockdown||An 87-year-old donor became the oldest donor in the Pune zone to donate his organs after his liver and eyes were found fit in the apnea test. The donor became the oldest to donate organs in the entire Pune zone.This was the 14th organ donation in the zone since lockdown began. The donation took place on Friday when the entire city faced power disruption and network abruptions which proved to be a challenge for the zonal committee to coordinate for the donation purpose. Aarti Gokhale, Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) transplant coordinator for Pune division said, “It was a historic organ donation as it was the 14th organ donation since May 2020 when the first lockdown was announced. It was specifically challenging as the entire city faced power disruptions and network issues due to heavy rains and we had to coordinate for two organ donations.” The 87-year-old donor was declared dead at Jupiter hospital and the liver and cornea were allocated to Sahyadri hospital, Deccan. The second donation was that of a 20-year-old male with severe head injury admitted to Ruby Hall Clinic. The donor was an unmarried student and a resident of Wadki, Pune. After the family consented, the donor’s heart, kidney, and liver were transplanted at Ruby Hall clinic, and kidney, pancreas were allocated to Sahyadri hospital. Dr. Vaishali Solao, director of transplant ICU said, “The 87-year-old patient was admitted for unconsciousness three days ago. His MRI revealed a massive brain infarct and we realised his neurological outcome was poor. As expected, his condition deteriorated over the next 36 hours. On the 14th, we realised that the patient was brain dead and consented to donate his organs. Subsequently, we conducted the necessary apnea test to confirm brain death. Meanwhile, the patient’s vital functions were maintained in an optimal condition by the intensive care team. After the second apnea test at 6:30am on Thursday, the patient was declared brain dead. Liver and eyes were found fit to be donated while the kidneys were not found fit.” Dr Solao further added that age is not a concern for donors if the organ is found fit. “The oldest internal organ donor in the world was a 92-year-old man from Texas who donated his liver while in India an 88-year-old patient is the oldest known donor when his liver and kidneys were donated,” Dr Solao added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/87-year-old-donates-liver-and-cornea-marks-14th-donation-in-pune-since-lockdown/story-kLVlNfT8p93DhrB5qsuUnO.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Central team projects 20 lakh Covid cases in state by October end||The central government’s department of health and family welfare has estimated that Maharashtra will cross the 20-lakh mark in the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state by October end. The projection also hints at a possible shortage of ventilators in the state and shortage of oxygen supported beds and ICU beds in major cities. This estimation is based on the growth rate of infection number as of September 24 and the ministry has asked the district and the state administration to prepare for the required health infrastructure accordingly and ensure that there is no shortage of essentials, including ventilators and drugs. A letter dated September 15 written by Rajesh Bhushan, secretary of National Health Mission (NHM), sent by the ministry to the director of health services, states, “The Covid-19 pandemic continues to evolve and so a periodic assessment is required. It may be noted that the estimates are derived on the basis of mathematical modelling and do not take into account the efforts made by the state or district to manage the situation.” The letter also states that the management of cases is necessary to keep the mortality rate down. It is also important that the needs for the infrastructure necessary for the delivery of non-Covid services are also addressed especially for maternal and newborn care, cancer care, dialysis, and surgical interventions. The projection states that major cities are likely to face a shortage of critical care facilities including ICU beds and ventilators. Major cities that are likely to face a shortage of oxygen supported beds and ICU beds with and without ventilators include Pune, Nagpur, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Nashik. While smaller cities like Amravati, Beed, Dhule, Nanded, Osmanabad, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Satara, Washim and Yavatmal are also likely to face a shortage of critical care facilities. Pune district which is currently the worst affected district is likely to report over 3.78 lakh cases by month-end. Dr Pradeep Awte, state surveillance officer said, “The calculation of cases and infrastructure is based on projection of cases as of September 24 in the respective districts when the surge was comparatively higher. For the preparation of infrastructure, we have considered the highest peak for the respective district; for example for Pune, if the peak was in the month of August then we will consider that number and prepare the number of beds, oxygen supply, required drugs, and manpower accordingly.” However, the estimate also does not account for a second surge which the central team had estimated during its visit to Pune. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that the team had warned of a second wave in winter and asked citizens not to lower their guard and continue wearing masks and practice hand hygiene. Dr Satish Pawar, additional director, National Health Mission (NHM) and former state health director-general said, “These projections are based on the number of cases reported by September end. The situation then was completely different as compared to now. The number of cases is going down drastically and so the projections need to be revised. According to experts whom I have been talking to, the second wave could be less severe because of the memory cells which activate the immune system against the pathogens and the presence of antibodies. Also, this time residents would be more aware and will opt for home isolation, thereby reducing the pressure on hospitals. Residents are now more aware of basic hand hygiene and respiratory hygiene, so the panic situation will also come down significantly.” Pawar further added that currently there is no shortage of beds, oxygen or even essential drugs reported even from private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/central-team-projects-20-lakh-covid-cases-in-state-by-october-end/story-GqauMmM5JFFeqOxFYPDorJ.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Follow Covid-19 safety norms during Navratri, Diwali: Ajit Pawar to Punekars||Ahead of the upcoming festive season Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar, on Friday, appealed to people and civic administration to follow Covid-19 safety norms and not repeat mistakes made during the Ganesh festival.Pawar said, “During Ganesh festival, people flouted Covid-19 norms which resulted in an increase in Covid-19 positive cases. So people should avoid the same mistakes during the upcoming festive season.”Navratri, a nine-day festival, starts from Saturday.Pawar attended a meeting with the civic officials and elected members and alerted the administration.Pawar said, “The Central team has warned of a possible second wave in the city in December and January. On this background, the administration must prepare for the same and take the necessary steps and also create awareness among the residents.”‘Hospitals not giving Covid patients benefit from MJPJAY’Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar has instructed civic officials to look into complaints from rural parts of Pune about hospitals not passing the benefit of the Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) to Covid-19 patients.“If it is found that the hospitals are on the panel of Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana and the patients are not benefiting from the scheme, action should be taken against them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/follow-covid-19-safety-norms-during-navratri-diwali-ajit-pawar-to-punekars/story-q2vmCUZIRRSOBrQaHzVHUK.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Pune’s current recovery rate highest since March||The number of active cases undergoing treatment for the Covid-19 infection in Pune district is at 40,418, as per information released by the state health department on Friday. The highest active number of cases in the district was reported on September 16, when Pune district reported 82,172 such cases. Since then the numbers have been coming down. The current recovery rate in the district is 85.4%, the highest since the start of the pandemic in March. The recovery rate for Pune city is now at 90%.The district’s fatality rate is at 2%. The district currently has over 3.21 lakh cases of which 2.75 lakh have recovered and 6,432 is the death toll. Currently Pune district has 40,418 active cases which are the number of people still undergoing treatment for the infection or, under home isolation. According to the information from the state health department, Pune currently has the maximum number of active cases in the state, followed by Thane, which has 30,280 active cases and then Mumbai, with 22,884 active cases. With respect to Pune city, as per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), as of October 15, the city reported a total of 1.56 lakh cases of the 6.92 lakh tests that have been conducted so far. This puts the positivity rate at 22.56%. The city’s tests per million stand at 1,56,281. With 3,920 deaths, the fatality rate in the city is 2.51%. Out of the total, 1,41,688 have recovered which puts the recovery rate at 90.74%. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “The doubling rate of positive cases currently stands at 197.91 days. The recovery rate is also over 90%.The situation in Pune is improving drastically.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-current-recovery-rate-highest-since-march/story-shES04pL6D6kvs5Uuik8jK.html
17-10-2020||City||Shaurya Chakra awardee killing: Family given security; 1 member to get govt job||Tarn Taran With the Punjab government agreeing to demands of the grieving family of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, 55, of a government job to one of them and reinstated their security cover, decks were cleared for Sandhu’s cremation. SDM Rajesh Sharma, said, “A report on a family member eligible for a government job will be sent to the government on Monday. Security had been provided to the family, and a letter on this has also been handed over to them.” He added that cremation would be held as per protocol applicable for a Shaurya Chakra awardee. He had got this award for fighting against terrorism in Punjab in the 90s.He was shot dead by two bike-borne men at his residence, on the premises of the school run by the family, months after his security was withdrawn on the recommendation of Tarn Taran Police. However, his killer fled from after firing gunshots at him and could not be traced till the filing of this report. The family has been also been demanding the arrest of the accused at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shaurya-chakra-awardee-killing-family-given-security-1-member-to-get-govt-job/story-6ijXu0eFVj1fxNpImXLhSL.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s mini Bengal devoid of Durga Pujo cheer amid covid precautions||The sun has set, making way for a crisp autumn twilight that had become so rare to find in the city. The air is rich with the fragrance of shiuli, or night-blooming jasmine, the kind that prepares you for the onslaught of winters. The vibe is heightened further as temple bells drown out the traffic in the Capital city’s mini Bengal. Even though the calendars indicate the beginning of Navratri, something is amiss. Each year, people from all over the city flocked to Chittaranjan Park for pandal-hopping and to revel in the festivities, which now looks devoid of any and all cheer.A walk up the steps of the famous Kali Mandir would usually end up with sprawling views of the pandal, but this time, the barren lawns paint a desolate picture. There is an unfinished pandal, almost a fraction of what used to stand in its place. Where committee members would be in a mad rush to get things done, a lull has taken over. This lull is felt even deeply as one treads along the narrow bypass that cuts off from the main temple complex, leading to the place where idol makers give final touches to the idols. It is an unassuming set-up – tarpaulin sheets erected on bamboo structures with a few personal belongings, paints and endless rows of idols of various gods in different sizes. There are only two rows this year, and the tallest idols are no taller than five feet.Read: Delhi calls it quits on Ramlila celebrations amid delayed guidelines and Covid scare“Yeh sab ghar ki puja vale hain. Aur koi orders nahi aaye,” say the two lone artists from Vishwakarma Shilpayan, explaining how they haven’t got any orders from pandals. The restrictions on large gatherings during Navratri were only lifted some days back, leaving organising committees with no time or plan to hold events.“We will have a puja, but it will not be open for public. We will establish a small pandal and conduct the puja with five-six members only,” says Ashitava Bhowmik, president, Kali Mandir. This means no Dhunuchi Naach or Dhaakis, no food stalls and an overall blanket no to all on-ground events. “More than government directives, we are also concerned about safety. As responsible citizens, we cannot endanger ourselves and others,” he adds. A similar story is unfolding at Mela Ground where no idols or pandals will be established. “We will hold a Kalash Puja with no more than 20 members of the committee. Since there will be no idols, it negates the point of visarjan,” says Pronob Kumar Chatterjee, a member of the Pujo Committee. Talking about the plight of the idol-makers, he says that some of them had come to Delhi from Kolkata in hopes of getting work. “In addition to the artists who live here, some had come from Kolkata, but there are no orders because there are no permissions to erect pandals. Barring a few who have ordered idols for puja at their homes, there is no work for them,” he says.Read: Dussehra Dreams: Effigy makers in a fix after no-show on RamlilasPuja committees have planned small-scale rituals, in accordance with safety protocols. “We are only allowing five people at a time – two priests and three members of the organising committee. No one from the outside will be allowed. There will be no bhog distribution and no cultural programmes,” says Niloj Acharya, member of E-Block Pujo Committee.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-mini-bengal-devoid-of-durga-pujo-cheer-amid-covid-precautions/story-bF3rvFUhvcwEvdxzyEZwnJ.html
17-10-2020||Lucknow||BJP rebel among 132 candidates in fray for UP’s 7 assembly seats||The last day of filing nominations for the bypolls on seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh witnessed hectic activities with 65 candidates filing their nomination papers to take the total number of candidates in fray to 132, said chief electoral officer.The scrutiny of the nomination papers will be done on October 17, and October 19 is the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The polling on the seven seats will be held on November 3 and the counting of the votes will be done on November 10. Ajay Pratap Singh alias Pintu Singh-- son of former BJP MLA Jammejay Singh, after whose death Deoria assembly seat fell vacant---filed his nomination paper as an independent candidate from the seat after BJP decided to field Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi from Deoria overlooking his claim.SriKala Singh, wife of former MP Dhananjay Singh, filed her nomination as an independent candidate from Malhani assembly seat located in Jaunpur district. Her husband, Dhananjay, known for wielding muscle power, had also filed his nomination from the seat as an independent candidate a couple of days ago.Also Read: Udit Raj deletes then restores Kumbh tweet, told to apologise to DalitsThe bypoll will be held on Naugawan Sadat, Bulandshahar, Tundla, Bangermau, Ghatampur, Deoria and Malhani assembly seats.The highest 22 nominations have been filed on Naugawan Sadat and Malhani assembly seats, followed by Deoria- 21, Bulandshahar and Ghatampur-19, Bangarmau- 15 and Tundla -14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-rebel-among-132-candidates-in-fray-for-up-s-7-assembly-seats/story-oTMz9k67sxjPrUt8IQvqiL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder vow to force Centre to revoke farm laws||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday joined Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in pledging to force the Centre to revoke the recent farm laws, which they said will be debated in the special session of the Vidhan Sabha on Monday. Asserting that his government will take all steps to counter the three laws, Captain Amarinder said: “Whatever time I have left with me, I will fight for the farmers and every other section of the state’s people.” The chief minister also announced his government’s decision to give proprietary rights to those settled in ‘lal dora’ land for long. The ‘lal dora’ is a land in every village and city, which is used for residential purposes without any revenue record. Welcoming the chief minister’s decision to convene the special session, Rahul said the voice of the farmers was “gagged in Parliament, but it will now resonate in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha and echo in every part of the country till the central government is compelled to withdraw the farm laws”. SECOND PHASE OF SMART VILLAGE CAMPAIGN LAUNCHED Virtually launching the second phase of the Smart Village Campaign (SVC-II), along with Captain Amarinder Singh, the Congress MP assured all panchayats of his party full support, as well as the farmers and farm labour, in their fight against the new laws. Representatives of Punjab village panchayats participated in the virtual launch programme. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also took on the BJP over the farm laws, which he said were “designed to kill the farming sector”. The state government, he said, should do everything in its power to prevent that from happening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rahul-gandhi-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-vow-to-force-centre-to-revoke-farm-laws/story-VtaAzpEdRvfIVvzBXgQQqN.html
17-10-2020||Lucknow||UP government clears Rs 1,960 crore festive bonanza for state employees||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Friday approved a festival bonanza worth Rs 1,960 crore for state government employees in form of a special festival package and a special cash package in lieu of leave travel concession (LTC).Chief minister Yogi Adityanath chaired the state cabinet meeting that approved both the schemes on the pattern of central government schemes, ahead of the festive season, in a bid to boost cash-flow in the market in the remaining months of financial year 2020-2021.The state government will have to incur an expenditure of Rs 1,000 crore on the festival package while a sum of Rs 960 crore will be spent on the special cash package. Close to 10-15 lakh state government employees are likely to benefit from the two schemes.Under the special festival package scheme, an interest-free cash advance of Rs 10,000 would be made available to all state government employees. This scheme will remain in force till March 31, 2021. A pre-loaded State Bank of India card will be given to the employees on request by the respective heads of department. This amount will be recovered from the employees in not more than 10 instalments. The festival advance will be given for all the festivals listed in the state government’s list of public/restricted holidays. Also Read: UP BJP leader shot dead by bike-borne men, 3 detained: PoliceThe special package in lieu of LTC, also worked out on the pattern of a central scheme, would be available for eligible employees till March 31, 2020. Under this scheme, the deemed to and from fare for any destination at the rate of Rs 6,000 per head would be admissible for four members of the family of an employee eligible for the LTC scheme. The employee would be reimbursed the amount if he/she spends three times the admissible sum from vendors/service providers registered for GST and buys items on which 12% GST is levied. An amount equivalent to 50% of the deemed fare of LTC would be given as advance in the bank account of the employees and this amount will be adjusted on producing the purchase vouchers. Such claims for adjustment of advance will have to be submitted within the current financial year and the amount would be recovered along with penal interest if it remains unused or partially used. The income tax rules will be applicable on the special cash package amount as have been applicable on the LTC advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-government-clears-rs-1-960-crore-festive-bonanza-for-state-employees/story-OKUSzqMxIT2kEKp31a66WL.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Muted Navaratri festivities in Delhi, Kejriwal urges people to follow Covid-19 measures||Navaratri festivities, which began on Saturday, are expected to be largely muted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The national Capital still has 22,814 active cases of the disease that has killed 5,946 people in the city so far.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday tweeted the festival greetings and urged people to follow Covid-19 guidelines. “Navaratri is starting from today. I convey my best wishes to all of you on the occasion of this auspicious festival. May the blessings of Goddess Durga be upon you all. Due to the Coronavirus pandemic, I appeal to everyone to remember and follow all the rules in public places. Ensure that you always step out wearing a mask,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.Almost all major committees in Delhi, which would organise mega fairs with performances by top artists, have cancelled Ramlilas. The events include those attended by the President and the Prime Minister.With no scope for the 11-day festivities, many committees are now doing symbolic Pujas on a smaller scale.Ravi Jain, press secretary of Shri Dharmik Lila Committee, which used to hold Ramlila at the Red Fort, said they will simply do a Ganesh Puja on Saturday to mark the beginning of Navaratras .Read: PM Modi wishes on Navratri, hopes for positive change in lives of the poor“We are inviting devotees to join our Ganesh Pujan at 5:30 on Saturday at Maharaja Agrasen Park near gate no 3 of Kashmere Gate Metro Station. We are also conveying it to everyone through SMS and WhatsApp messages that masks and social distancing are to be followed compulsorily.”With hardly any fairs for them to go to, temples in the city are preparing for a surge in the number of devotees.South Delhi’s Kalkaji Mandir has sought help from the police and the district magistrate to manage crowds and ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed.“Our temples have been opened for the people from today [Saturday]. We will also be live streaming all our morning and evening aartis to decongest our temple via all our social media handles. People can be at their homes and pray while watching the live Aarti,” said a member from the Kalkaji Mandir management.Kishor Chawla, the chief executive officer of Katyayani Shaktipeeth temple in Chhattarpur, said the devotees will not get prasad at the temple and social distancing will be maintained. He added prasad will be given to the devotees in packets. The entry of devotees without masks is strictly prohibited, Chawla said.The grounds of the Red Fort, which used to host three of the biggest Ramlilas in the city, will remain empty this time.Arjun Kumar, general secretary of Lav Kush Ramlila Committee which organises an 11-day event every year at the Red Fort, said they have pulled out of the festivity this year.“This is the first time in 40 years that Lav Kush Ramlila will not happen. The Delhi government issued guidelines on the festivities only on October 11 - barely five days before the beginning of Navaratri. So, it was impossible for us to plan and prepare anything in such little time,” he said.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on October 11 issued an order allowing Navaratri and Durga Puja functions to be organised in the national Capital with limited attendees, even as it prohibited all kinds of fairs, food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and processions till October 31.Kumar said no one wants to take any risk as such events involve big congregations, exposing a large number of people to the threat of contracting the disease.“Our Ramlila plays involve 250 artists who do each other’s facial make-up which means coming close to each other. If by chance anyone gets the infection, all the effort of making the arrangements for 11 days will go in vain because the venue will be sealed for sanitisation for the rest of the days,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/muted-navaratri-festivities-in-delhi-kejriwal-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-measures/story-ZLcEUdDFicAGQ4ttIkCqJM.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh opens regular school for students of Classes 10, 12 from October 19||Though there has been no let-up in the Covid-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government will be reopening regular school for students of Classes 10 and 12 from Monday. The decision was taken in accordance with the Union home ministry’s order, which allows states to reopen schools after October 15, depending on the Covid-19 situation, said education minister Govind Singh Thakur. However, students can join classes with the written consent of the parents. It will not be mandatory to attend school as attendance will not be marked for a month. Thakur said that the decision to reopen schools for Classes 9 and 11 will be taken after consulting parents. School for Classes 1 to 8 will remain suspended, he said. During the e-PTMs, parents had suggested reopening schools for board classes as online classes were not sufficient to thoroughly cover the syllabus and students were facing difficulties in subjects such as science and mathematics. DECISION ON UNDERGRADUATE CLASSES SOON The minister said the decision to promote undergraduate students to the next class will also be taken soon. The education department has prepared a proposal to be discussed in the next cabinet meeting. Thakur hinted since college students were already attending the next class and semester exams were drawing close, promoting them would be a better option. Educational institutions in Himachal have been closed since mid-March following the Covid-19 outbreak. PARENTS QUESTION CONSENT CLAUSE Parents have objected to the consent letter they have been asked to sign before sending their wards to schools. Hem Raj, a resident of Kangra, said the consent letter says parents will be responsible if their child catches Covid-19. “This is not the right way. People will be scared to send children to school if such conditions are imposed,” he said. GATHERING LIMIT INCREASED In fresh standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued on Friday, the government has increased the limit on gatherings during social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political events from 100 to 200 in closed spaces. In open spaces, 50% of the capacity of the venue is allowed. However, people above the age of 65 years, those suffering with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below 10 years of age have been advised to avoid such gatherings. Theatre and cinema may also open with extra ticket counters and separate exit and entrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-opens-regular-school-for-students-of-classes-10-12-from-october-19/story-JzYMjz1lMFu0KMj4WfxioK.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Aarey flooded for the 1st time, walls blamed for choking floodplains||Cow sheds at Mumbai’s Aarey Colony were flooded for the first time this Monsoon due to walls built on both sides of Mithi and Oshiwara rivers, environmentalists claimed. They also filed a complaint with the state government asking for taking down the walls that were allegedly responsible for choking rivers’ floodplains.Environment group Vanashakti filed a detailed complaint on Friday with the state environment department, urban development department, and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to highlight that water this year entered the cow sheds at Aarey Colony putting animals at grave risk while damaging property. The complaint stated that the interaction of rivers Mithi and Oshiwara with Aarey forests was crucial for the survival of the entire ecosystem.“The walls are not needed on riversides inside Aarey and its only purpose is to dry up and create land for construction. This will eventually kill and degrade the forests,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti. He added that even the 32-storey Metro Bhavan was coming up on one side of the wall.“The river has already been diverted outside Aarey and land filling has been done on the river to create a bus parking. Human interference has no business in the relation between forests and rivers,” he said.While both rivers originate from the overflow of the Vihar Lake at Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Oshiwara flows westwards through Aarey towards Malad Creek while Mithi meets the Arabian Sea at Mahim creek, coursing through Kurla, Saki Naka, Kalina and Vakola.The BMC built the 20-metre wall along Oshiwara at Walbut Nullah in 2018 as part of a ‘beautification work’ that it claimed would not affect the river’s natural flow and was constructed specifically for flood control. The site was selected by the BMC after a bridge collapsed during the Monsoon in September 2017.Also Read: SC rejects plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in MaharashtraAarey chief executive officer Nathu Rathod refused to comment about the BMC wall along Oshiwara but confirmed that dairy units in close proximity to the river had been flooded this monsoon, for the first time ever.Stalin added that the forests of Aarey were closely linked with both Mithi and Oshiwara rivers and were interdependent on each other for their survival. “We have thus requested the removal of the walls immediately and also issue orders to revive the river regulation zone (RRZ) policy–to safeguard rivers-- scrapped by the previous government,” he said.Also Read: IRCTC’s Tejas trains resume services from today. Here are the safety protocolsMeanwhile, the issue of the walls along the Mithi river, built by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), is already sub judice before the Supreme Court. Vanshakti’s complaint further highlighted a 2019 report by a committee appointed by the SC that recommended the removal of the Mithir river wall from Aarey. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said, “We will go through the details of the SC panel report and the complaint. After discussion with the department, necessary action will be initiated in both cases.”“All urban rivers are facing a similar crisis where the construction of retaining walls and pressure from human habitations close to them are either choking them or affecting their natural flow and ebb. We will study the issue at Aarey,” said another state government official, requesting anonymity.The SC panel report had revealed that land filling at the 33-hectare metro car shed site at Aarey Colony (which was recently shifted to Kanjurmarg by the state government) had altered the natural course of the Mithi River. As a result there was a significant rise in the frequency of Mithi overflowing between 2015 and 2019 during major extreme weather events.“Declaring one third of Aarey as a forest was a welcome decision but the damage left behind by the car-shed construction and associated development activities by the municipal corporation has permanently affected both rivers, increasing the chances of floods every monsoon,” said Professor AD Sawant, member of the SC panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-aarey-flooded-for-the-1st-time-walls-blamed-for-choking-floodplains/story-griLD4hnXSt4WvcpTE0IZO.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Two held in Delhi shootout days after attack on police official||Delhi Police on Friday night arrested two men suspected of opening fire at a Delhi police assistant sub-inspector and his friend in outer Delhi’s Alipur earlier this month. The two were arrested following a shootout with a team of police officers from the Delhi Police special cell. One of the two men sustained gun shot wounds in the leg, police said, adding that no police official was injured in the shootout. Police identified the two men by their first names -- Niraj and Sonu. They said they had received information about the presence of the two men in Alipur area and laid a trap. However, when they were asked to surrender, they opened fire at the team, triggering a shootout. “During the cross-fire, one of the criminals got a bullet injury to his leg. We managed to arrest both of them,” deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said. He added that the two men are part of Delhi’s Jitender Gogi gang. Gogi was a wanted criminal until his arrest in March. Yadav said both Sonu and Niraj were on the run after they shot at a Delhi Police assistant sub inspector(ASI) on October 3. While the ASI had sustained a bullet injury to his leg, his friend escaped with a minor injury.The incident had taken place around 6pm when ASI Sube Singh was sitting with his friend, 54-year-old Mahendra, in Alipur area. Singh was posted at the Seelampur police station.Interrogation of the two arrested men is underway to find the reason behind the attack, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-held-in-delhi-shootout-days-after-attack-on-police-official/story-dbvkN5q9ezSVgNC67jJTaL.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality remains in ‘poor’ category||Delhi’s residents woke up to hazy skies and a cover of smog as the Capital city’s air quality remained in the ’poor’ category on Saturday morning. The air quality index (AQI) was 261 in the early hours of the day, higher than the 235 average AQI recorded on Friday. The deteriorating air quality during winter months has become an annual crisis in Delhi-NCR with the onset of cold weather conditions and increase in stubble burning in neighbouring states. This season, air Quality in the Capital entered the poor category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 207 on October 6, and very poor category (304) on October 14, according to the System of Air Quality, Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Data from the Indian weather office shows a sharp increase in farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, with 3,517 incidents till October 15 in this harvest season, compared to a third that number last year.Read: Farm fires increase in Punjab, Haryana despite assurancesAccording to the Air Quality Early Warning System under the ministry of earth sciences, the predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the east of Delhi, with wind speed likely to be up to 10 kmph with a mainly clear sky -- reflecting a possibility that pollutants could be dispersed. But the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, said winds are likely to be variable on Saturday and Sunday. “There was hardly any wind till 7.30am today. It was calm. Now winds are northswesterly and speed is only 5kmph. Minimum temperature has also fallen to 16.8 degree C compared to normal of 19.4 degree C. Sometimes wind direction may change but when its northwesterly, the impact of stubble burning in the northern states will be felt,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.According to weather scientists, light to moderate rain is likely at a few places over coastal districts of Saurashtra during the next 24 hours. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea on October 17 and over central and adjoining northwest Arabian Sea on October 18. This is likely due to the low-pressure area over east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea, which is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea during the next 12 hours. A fresh low-pressure area is also likely to form over central Bay of Bengal around October 19. It is likely to become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours and bring heavy to very heavy rainfall at several places over Odisha and coastal Andhra Pradesh. Heavy rainfall is also likely over the rest of the east peninsular coast of India on October 18 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-remains-in-poor-category/story-b8kmvy1ojoMluh43rjqw5J.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||SC rejects plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL seeking the dismissal of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra and imposition of President’s Rule in the state.The plea, citing the Sushant Singh Rajput case and the controversy over demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut’s house in Mumbai, had alleged the state was not taking actions in line with the Constitution. “As a petitioner, you are at liberty to approach the President, but do not come here,” a bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. The petitioner, one Vikram Gehlot, had filed the PIL seeking dismissal of the government alleging that the affairs of the state were not being carried out in line with constitutional and legal provisions. The plea referred to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and the demolition of Ranaut’s property as examples of poor law and order in the state. During the brief hearing, the top court took strong note of the submissions and asked as to how it can be said that the Constitution is not being followed in the state because of some incidents. Maharashtra is a big state, the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-rejects-plea-seeking-imposition-of-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra/story-60g3jPzW6nZmPZXWmjS15L.html
17-10-2020||Kolkata||Wooden bridge between buildings rescued trapped in Kolkata fire, 2 dead||More than 50 families were trapped in a blaze in an eight -storey building on Ganesh Avenue in central Kolkata late on Friday night, leading to two deaths including that of a minor boy, who jumped from the seventh floor of the building out of fear. An elderly woman, who was charred to death after getting trapped in fire, was the second casualty. At least seven persons were rushed to the hospital where two are still admitted and undergoing treatment. The building is located in a congested area, with adjoining buildings standing dangerously close to each other. The fire was spotted around 10.30 pm in the basement and it spread fast to the upper floors, said fire brigade officers.12 fire tenders and a hydraulic ladder were pressed into service to douse the fire. Fire services minister Sujit Bose rushed to the spot and stayed there till the flames were brought under control till 4 am in the morning. “Rescuing people and fire fighting are going on simultaneously. The building has only one entry and exit point which is narrow. This has made things difficult,” he said. The source of the fire was suspected to be in the basement. Also Read: BJP organises ‘hulla bol’ march in Bengal seeking CBI probe into Manish Shukla murder caseWhen the flames spread to the upper floors many residents rushed to the roof, said fire brigade officials. Residents of the adjoining building of the same height placed wooden planks between the two buildings and rescued a few people while fire brigade personnel searched the rooms of the affected building for any one trapped. By early morning most people had been rescued and the flames brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/wooden-bridge-made-between-buildings-to-rescue-trapped-in-kolkata-fire/story-8v5TavwSwmRRJ7qeztr0pO.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: An oasis of the mind||For those who like to crib about Delhi, some of the recurrent grievances against the city are that it’s not walking-friendly, that pavements are too few, and that traffic is loud and polluting and dangerous for flâneurs.Who could contradict them? True, true, and again true.Or well—partly true. Indeed, some roads have beautiful tree-lined pavements for the walkers among us, such as Lodhi Road in central Delhi.In fact, Lodhi Road has become truly fantastic since part of its pavement has been decked up with benches—it happened not long before the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. This concerns the long stretch that runs past the Dyal Singh College: the benches are built alongside the college’s boundary wall and don’t interfere with the pavement, which remains as broad as before.Truth be told, walking on Lodhi Road always brings calmness. There are trees and birds, and you are likely to stroll past a series of Lodhi Road’s regular characters, from food hawkers to pavement barbers. Until some years ago, Lodhi Road was also home to Catherine Lama, an elderly Anglo-Indian woman who wore flowers as jewellery and lived on the footpath with a family of beggars. She died four years ago. Lodhi Road is no longer the same without her, and yet it continues to have a character difficult to find in any other New Delhi avenue.The new benches give the hurry-hurry stroller a chance to slow down, take a seat and appreciate the ambiance more patiently.The traffic is sluggish on the road this afternoon, and the vantage point from the pavement bench is more panoramic than when one is simply passing through. A gentleman, sitting on one of the nearby benches, is found insulting the area’s charm by gazing exclusively at his mobile phone screen. If only he looked up at the trees! He would doubtlessly be entranced by the avian life, as leaves continue to fall upon him. Squirrels are fooling about the fallen leaves. Occasionally pedestrians walk past—some are loners and others appear to be romantic couples. And soon appears Naresh Chandra. A Lodhi road living landmark of several years, the ram laddu hawker goes about the area the whole day long with his delicious deep fried delicacy.Meanwhile, the walls behind the benches have probably lived through so many shifts of seasons that they have discoloured to a strange shade of golden yellow, scarred with rust-coloured scrawls.When you’ve had enough of sitting and looking (and perhaps reading), you can start walking again and in no time will reach Sab ki Khatir. The footpath eatery is loved for its kebabs. Time for yet another break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-oasis-of-the-mind/story-07lBAXsjlh7bgJBUBxUnoJ.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Four of family found burnt to death in Punjab’s Faridkot district, suicide note blames Covid lockdown||Four members of a brick-kiln supervisor’s family, including two children, were found burnt to death at their house at Kaler village. 7km from Faridkot, early on Saturday. Police said a three-page suicide note signed by the 40-year-old head of the family was recovered from near the bodies and it blamed the hardships faced due to the Covid-19 lockdown as the reason behind their taking the extreme step. Superintendent of police Sewa Singh Malhi said that the family belonged to neighbouring Rajasthan. The bodies of the supervisor’s 36-year-old wife, 15-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son were also recovered. It is suspected that they poured kerosene and set themselves ablaze around 4am. “The supervisor sent text messages to villagers before ending his life but everyone was sleeping at that time and found them dead later,” Malhi said. “Investigation is on. A forensic team is at the spot. We are trying to ascertain if the children were awake or if they were burnt alive while they were sleeping,” he said. The suicide note was signed by the head of the family with the time and date mentioned as October 17, 2020, at 3.15am. The note also gave financial details of the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-of-family-found-burnt-to-death-in-punjab-s-faridkot-district-suicide-note-blames-covid-lockdown/story-dvRK6temOQSH0zUWr8lsuJ.html
17-10-2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja pandals in Bengal highlight the plight of migrant workers||As West Bengal gears up for its biggest festival, the Durga Puja, which starts next week, some organising committees have decided to portray in their pandals  (temporary sheds), the travails of millions of migrant workers in the wake of the lockdown imposed on March 25 to fight the coronavirus disease -- keeping with the trend of pandals reflecting contemporary themes. At least 10 million migrant workers left cities -- many lost jobs because of the lockdown -- and returned to their homes in the hinterland. With special trains for them being launched only on May 1, many ended up walking home in April, and even later. Some hired trucks and buses. A few cycled back home. West Bengal alone is estimated to have seen the return of at least a million such workers. “Not only are we installing statues of migrant workers on the move to portray one of the biggest human migrations the country witnessed after Partition, but we are also coming up with a statue of actor Sonu Sood, who booked chartered flights, trains and buses to help migrant workers return home. A real bus will be parked in our pandal and there will be statues of migrant workers seated inside the bus,” said Ranjit Chakraborty, secretary of Keshtopur Prafulla Kanan (Pashim) Adhibasi Prinda puja committee in north Kolkata. The puja will be inaugurated by migrant workers on October 19 and residents in the area will switch off their lights at homes, light diyas and maintain a minute’s silence to mourn the passing of migrant workers who died on the way back home. Artisans at a puja pandal in Salt Lake’s AK block have made life-sized statues, and painted murals to depict scenes of the massive exodus the country witnessed during the 68-day lockdown. Bedraggled migrant workers -- men and women, young and old – carrying belongings and children on their head and shoulders, walking hundreds of miles down national and state highways to reach their homes became a common sight during the pandemic. A few died, even though the centre said in the parliament that it has no data on migrant deaths. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“More than a dozen statues, depicting people from various walks of life, are being installed in the pandal. They would represent the local press-wala, the panipuri wala, the tea stall owner who basically work as migrants workers in cities. Even the idol of Goddess Durga has been made in such a way that she resembles a simple village woman,” said Raja Banik, one of the organisers of the 33-year-old Salt Lake’s AK Block Puja. In another puja pandal  in west Kolkata, organisers have selected relief as their theme, replacing the idol of Goddess Durga with a statute of a migrant woman carrying her child. Her children, including a son with an elephant-head walk behind her. “The family represents Goddess Durga and her children, including Ganesha and Kartikeya. The woman is a migrant worker and a mother who is searching for food and water for her children,” said Rintu Das, the artisan. In West Bengal, puja pandals in and around Kolkata are built around a current theme -- from a socio-economic problem to the Indian Premier League to cyclone Amphan. “We are portraying the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan through jute work -- collapsed huts, uprooted trees and dead cattle. The suffering of the people will also be depicted through these jute artworks, which are being deisgned on the pandal walls,” said Gautam Biswas, secretary of Simla Vivekananda Sporting Club. Cyclone Amphan, which hit the West Bengal coast on May 20, killed 98 people and affected around 100 million people in 10 districts of south Bengal leaving a trail of destruction. Also Read| Cancelling Durga puja revelry not an option, people should follow Covid protocols: Mamata“In our pandal we are depicting this destruction. The moment people enter, they will be able to see the destruction the cyclone has inflicted in rural Bengal and the plight of the people,” said Timir Sarkar, joint secretary of Chakraberia Sarbajanin Durgotsab which is in its 75th year. Durga Puja will be celebrated for four days starting October 23. This year, at least 37,000 pujas are being organized across the state, including at least 2500 in Kolkata. Around 1700 pujas are organized by women across Bengal. The list doesn’t include those organized inside housing societies and houses. The festivities continue for at least a week. The big-theme pujas parade down the road to participate in a carnival during immersion where thousands gather every year. The carnival has been cancelled this year because of the restrictions on account of Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/durga-puja-pandals-in-bengal-highlight-the-plight-of-migrant-workers/story-iMQEMvuC31y2lPVbtxgvzL.html
17-10-2020||City||Goons of Congress, Chaduni responsible for death at Ambala rally: K’shetra MP Saini||BJP MP from Kurukshetra Nayab Saini on Friday said that “goons” of the Congress and BKU state chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni were behind the “attack” that claimed the life of a 72-year-old farmer during a tractor rally in Ambala’s Naraingarh on Wednesday.Saini was addressing a press conference in Chandigarh regarding the death of Bharat Singh, an Ambala farmer, during the saffron party’s tractor rally that was led by him and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria in favour of three farm laws.He was sharing the stage with BJP Ambala chief Rajesh Barauta; son of the deceased farmer Bhupender Singh; village head Anil Kumar and some locals who were also injured during the attack.“This murder by the goons of Congress and Chaduni is the murder of democracy. But those who have committed hooliganism in the name of farmers will be prosecuted according to the law and the family will get justice. I’m from that same area and I know that these people are directly associated with the local Congress leaders and a Congress rebel (Nirmal Singh),” Saini said.He also said that no lathicharge took place in Pipli in September, when farmers led by Chaduni gathered in the town for a rally against three farm laws.SARPANCH ALLEGES LAPSES IN ARRANGEMENT BY ADMNAs reported exclusively by the HT on Thursday, village head Anil Kumar mentioned about the lapse in arrangements made by the administration. “The administration failed to maintain law and order during the rally. There were protests in Yamunanagar too, but nothing happened there.”On this, Ambala SP Rajesh Kalia said the police restrained from using force, otherwise there could have been a law and order situation in Haryana.“There could have been some shortcomings, but that is not any failure or lack of police force. We knew about the probable protests, but the protesters included only 10% of farmers, rest were anti-social elements. A few of the BKU leaders had praised our preparations then. We are investigating efficiently on both the complaints (murder and highway blockade) we have received,” SP told the HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goons-of-congress-chaduni-responsible-for-death-at-ambala-rally-k-shetra-mp-saini/story-sRWpHWwXjYhbtS5BAjAbrL.html
17-10-2020||City||Karnal miller booked for not returning rice worth ₹37 crore to govt||Haryana food and civil supplies department on Friday sealed two rice mills of a Karnal-based trader for not returning custom milled rice worth ₹37 crore to the government.As per the FIR registered against the owner of Gharaunda’s Hanuman Rice Mill and SSG rice mills, he has not returned 10,696 MT of custom milled rice of 2019-20 to the government. As per the police, the case was registered on the complaint of inspector of food and supply department Rajesh Kumar against Gaurav Gupta under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC.As per the complaint submitted to the office of Karnal SP, it was alleged that the accused was allotted 25,218 MT of paddy (12,905 to Hanuman rice mills and 12,313 MT to SSG) under the Custom Milled Rice policy.Both the mills had to return 16,847 MT rice to the government, but only 6,202 MT rice came back.Kanwar Singh, incharge of Gharaunda police station, confirmed the development and said a probe was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-miller-booked-for-not-returning-rice-worth-37-crore-to-govt/story-U7LYaDiw3TZLJKLxbhA1FN.html
17-10-2020||City||JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag refuses to be housing board chairman||Raising a banner of revolt against his party, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) MLA Jogi Ram Sihag from Hisar’s Barwala on Friday refused to accept the offer to become the chairman of the housing board. The BJP-JJP coalition government had on Thursday appointed new chairpersons to 14 boards and corporations with immediate effect. JJP leaders, including MLAs Jogi Ram Sihag, Ram Karan Kala (Shahbad) and Ramniwas Surjakhera (Narwana), were chosen for five seats. Interacting with reporters in Hisar, Sihag said he will not accept any benefits till the government amended the recently enacted farm laws. “I have been raising my grievances against these bills at every stage, but the government is in deep slumber. I had joined politics to help poor people, but the government has failed to start a dialogue with the protesting farmers. As a farmer’s son, I know the consequences these farm laws will have,” he added.“If the people of my constituency will ask me to step down, immediately I will resign from my post. This MLA’s position was given by Barwala voters, not any party. I will not accept any position whether it can be a ministry or board chairman till farmers’ grievances are resolved,” Sihag said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jjp-mla-jogi-ram-sihag-refuses-to-be-housing-board-chairman/story-ctiEIv4R29a0lTtvvKOkEK.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||High court upholds Haryana RERA rules||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 as well as the Haryana Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017. Some provisions of RERA law and rules framed by the state were under challenge in a clutch of petitions mainly from developers. The HC has held that when it comes to refund of the amount, and interest on the refund amount, or directing payment of interest for delayed delivery of possession, or penalty and interest, it is the RERA authority which has the power to examine and determine the outcome of a complaint. When it comes to question of seeking the relief of compensation or interest by way of compensation, the adjudicating officer, alone has the power to determine it, the court said, adding that RERA tribunal would hear the appeal of a builder against appellate authority’s decision only if interest amount decided by the latter is deposited with the tribunal by real estate developer in question. The court also gave time till November 16 to the developers, whose cases could not be adjudicated due pre-deposit condition issue pending before the HC. The court also held that RERA law was consciously made applicable to ‘ongoing projects’. All ‘ongoing projects’ — those that commenced prior to the Act, and in respect of which no completion certificate is yet issued — are covered under the Act, it said, adding, “It is plain that the legislative intent was to make the Act applicable not only to the projects which were to commence after the Act became operational, but also to ongoing projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-upholds-haryana-rera-rules/story-gb8IjsoHRVuDVkfiOTwIRP.html
17-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: Know your candidates||Yogeshwar Dutt, 37, BJP The Olympian grappler made his electoral debut in 2019 assembly polls after securing a BJP nomination from Baroda. Dutt, though, lost the election by about 4,800 votes to Congress candidate Sri Krishan Hooda. A Brahmin, his second shot at Baroda hinges on his star value and consolidation of non-Jats in this Jat-dominated constituency. He would take heart from the fact that he is pitted against Jat candidates from two prominent political parties and a Jat Independent candidate giving rise to prospects of a three-way split of Jat votes. Also, Dutt was able to get about 30% votes in 2019 polls. Indu Raj Narwal, 40, Congress A rank newcomer who got the Congress nomination due to his proximity to former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda. Narwal, a former member of Sonepat zila parishad, was a surprise pick considering Hooda originally pushed for Kapoor Singh Narwal, a turncoat from the Indian National Lok Dal stable who till recently was in the BJP. A Jat, Indu Raj comes from Rindhana in neighbouring Gohana tehsil, a village known to produce international kabaddi players. Joginder Singh Malik, 41, INLD The INLD has put its money on Malik again, despite the fact that he badly lost the 2019 assembly elections from Baroda. Malik, a Jat candidate, finished a poor fifth securing mere 3,145 votes, less than 3% of the total votes polled. However, he could potentially dent the chances of the Congress candidate by eating into the Jat vote bank. Kapoor Singh Narwal, 62, IndependentA turncoat who was hankering for a Congress nomination, Kapoor Singh Narwal’s entry as an Independent in the by-election could prove significant. His last outing from Baroda in 2014 was on an INLD ticket when he finished runner-up, losing by about 5,100 votes, to the Congress candidate, securing about 37% votes. Narwal, who comes from Kathura, a village with about 6,000 votes, has the potential to hurt the prospects of the Congress candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-know-your-candidates/story-e2oz10UhTOoNtwCmGkpFEO.html
17-10-2020||City||BJP, Cong, INLD candidates file nominations for Baroda bypoll||Four prominent candidates — BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt, former Sonepat zila parishad member Indu Raj Narwal of the Congress, Joginder Singh Malik of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and Kapoor Singh Narwal (an independent) — filed their nominations for the November 3 Baroda assembly byelection on Friday, the last day to enter the fray. The Baroda seat had fallen vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.Congress, INLD bet on old workersLeader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda backed his old worker Indu Raj Narwal as the party’s nominee for the Baroda bypoll after party’s Haryana unit chief Kumari Selja ‘opposed the nomination of an outsider (Kapoor Singh Narwal )’. INLD candidate Joginder Singh Malik had also contested the 2019 assembly elections from Baroda on the party ticket and had polled 3,145 votes. Wrestler-turned-politician Dutt, who hails from Baroda’s Bhainswal Kalan, had joined the saffron party ahead of the last year’s elections and lost to Congress’ Sri Krishan Hooda. All the parties pitched their candidates by keeping the caste equations in minds, experts say. The INLD has won the constituency from 1977 to 2005. The saffron party’s nominee has never won from Baroda, which has 54 villages. Half the voters here belong to the Jat community. The Congress and the INLD have pitted Jat candidates, from Narwal and Malik sub-castes, which are quite influential in Baroda. The BJP backed Dutt, a humble Brahmin, whose caste has the second largest votes in this constituency. The Congress and the INLD have urged the voters to elect their candidates, who belong to the farming community, saying that their victory will boost the morale of farmers protesting against the agricultural laws, while the BJP maintains that Dutt has brought laurels to the nation and a wrestler has no caste.Former education minister and BJP state chief OP Dhankar said, “Yogeshwar is son of all farmers, who fed him ghee and milk when he won medals for the country. He has joined politics to serve people.” Selja created hurdles for me: Kapoor SinghKapoor Singh Narwal, who was confident of getting the Congress ticket till Thursday afternoon, filed his nomination as an Independent and said, “Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Deepender had called me to Delhi for the Congress’ ticket, but party’s state unit chief Kumari Selja created hurdles.”“The people of Baroda will elect an MLA, not a party. I’m contesting to highlight their plight, particularly those of farmers, labourers, and women,” he said at a meeting at his native village Kathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-cong-inld-candidates-file-nominations-for-baroda-bypoll/story-qCpeZP4Xyi8o1AipDHkkKO.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||NEET 2020: Gurkirat tops Chandigarh with AIR 15||Gurkirat Singh has topped the city with All-India Rank 15 in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), results of which were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday.A student of St Peter’s School in Sector 37, Gurkirat, 18, scored 710 out of 720 in NEET.He hails from Haryana’s Sirsa and had moved to Chandigarh after Class 10. Gurkirat topped the score of Ishan Gupta, who was the Chandigarh topper last year with AIR 93. Fond of bhangra, which helps him beat the stress of studies, Gurkirat wants to study at AIIMS, Delhi, and become a neurosurgeon. He credits his 14-hour study schedule behind his NEET score. A badminton and football player, the teenager says he gave up sports in Class 11 to focus on his studies, and scored 92.6% in his Class 12 exams. His father, Vijay Singh Monga, has a government job in Sirsa and mother Ibal kaur is a science teacher. Sister Navpreet Kaur is pursuing medicine and interning at a hospital in Amritsar currently.As many as 15,931 students had appeared for the exam in the tricity. Due to the Covid pandemic, the exam was postponed in March. Students had to wear masks and maintain social distancing, while the NTA had increased the number of exam centres to seat students at a 6-feet distance from each other.Experts had said the paper was easier this year and higher cutoffs could be expected this time at medical colleges where students will apply based on their NEET ranks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/neet-2020-gurkirat-tops-chandigarh-with-air-15/story-0HRuTDsoQUkvWZgLGM3fbO.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Eye on heritage preservation, Chandigarh admn to give private buildings at Sector-17 Plaza a uniform look||With an aim to conserve Sector-17 Plaza’s architectural glory in tune with the city’s heritage, the UT administration will be undertaking restoration of privately owned buildings here.The project includes facade restoration and uniform flooring in all public corridors to make the buildings in Sector 17C and 17D look alike. Besides, all individual advertisement boards in front of the retail shops will also be removed.While the administration is already restoring government buildings, including the deputy commissioner’s office and the Central State Library, this is the first time that it will undertake repairs of private buildings.The UT engineering department has already floated tenders for the Rs 4-crore project, which is expected to be completed within a year after starting in November.“Uniformity will be brought back in the facade construction material. Over time, private building owners have used different materials on facades, disturbing the sanctity of the Plaza’s heritage. Besides, the surface of the facades has deteriorated due to black spots and erosion,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named. “Most shop owners have also laid down their own flooring using different materials and designs. These will be replaced with a uniform red stone as per the original heritage plan,” the official added.“The administration briefed the market associations about the project in September. Though we welcomed the move, we have requested that the work be carried out block-wise instead of all at the same time,” said Neeraj Bajaj, president of the Chandigarh Business Council.SECTOR-17’S REVITALISATION AND RESTORATION PROJECTUnderway for the past few years, the project aims to make Sector 17 a hub of culture, recreation and events. IN PROGRESSMap: The construction of a 40m x 40m city map in front of Neelam Theatre is mid-construction. It is being carved out in the floor with a stainless steel frame with concrete embedded in it. All sectors and tourists destinations, like Capitol Complex, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden, Leisure Valley and Rose Garden, will be reflected on the map with colourful lights.Urban Park: The green belt is coming up near the Inter-State Bus Terminus in Sector 17. It includes expansion of the nearby football stadium. There is provision for food courts, seating within plaza, concerts and public screening of sport events on large screens.Connecting corridors: The municipal corporation is undertaking the work to reconstruct the connecting corridors, which have been in a dilapidated state.IN THE PIPELINECycle tracks and pedestrian paths connecting Sector 17 to the Capitol Complex. These will start from the Rose Garden along Jan Marg and end near the Capitol Complex.Preservation of Jan Marg on both sides.Beautification of the area in front of fountain at the Plaza.Children’s play area.WHAT’S COMPLETEDThe pedestrian underpass connecting Sector 17 to the Rose Garden in Sector 16 was inaugurated last year. It has become a major haunt of youngsters and several painting exhibitions have been organised in the space.Dedicated tracks for battery-operated golf carts and cyclists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eye-on-heritage-preservation-chandigarh-admn-to-give-private-buildings-at-sector-17-plaza-a-uniform-look/story-89QLc1eQn6ZkRMVtkX0OlL.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide among two held in Sonu Shah murder case||Gangster Raju Basodi, 35, and Abhishek, who are close associates of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and wanted for murder of a property dealer, were on Friday brought to Chandigarh on production warrants from Rohtak jail and sent to three-day police custody.The property dealer, Rajveer, alias Sonu Shah, was gunned down by four assailants inside his office at Burail village in Sector 45 on September 28, 2019.Basodi, a resident of Basodi village in Sonepat, carried a reward of ₹2.5 lakh and was arrested in January this year by Haryana Special Task Force, in a joint operation with the Thailand Police. The STF, however, got his custody in February.The police said that gangster Bishnoi during interrogation in the Sonu Shah murder case had revealed that he had asked Basodi to kill Sonu Shah and they had hired contract killers Rajan Jaat and Subham Prajapati for the same.Appeared on wanted list of 3 states, 2 UTsBasodi is named as an accused in 26 cases of murder, robbery and extortion and appears in the wanted list of Chandigarh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi and Punjab.Sources said that Abhishek had signalled the shooters about the arrival of Sonu Shah and it was on his identification that they had fired at him.The police in January this year had filed a charge-sheet against a hotelier, Dharminder Singh, Bishnoi, Shubham Prajapati and Manjit in connection to the murder. Dharminder was arrested for allegedly providing shelter to at least four assailants on his identity in a Sector 80-based hotel, and he had confessed that Sonu Shah was murdered on Bishnoi’s word.Operated extortion racket from ThailandSources in the police revealed that Basodi had operated his extortion racket from Thailand, targeting businessmen in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi, and had managed to collect more than ₹1 crore every month as protection money.Basodi and his associates used social media platforms to threaten their targets. He used internet-based calling to ensure zero traceability. He was connected to his aides in jail through WhatsApp calls and would send them updates regarding money and weapons.Deceased realtor’s cousin bookedThe police on October 12 booked Monty Shah, the deceased realtor’s cousin, for attempting to murder the deceased’s brother Praveen Shah and bouncer Tirath, who are both witnesses in the case.Monty Shah was spotted on Sunday night by Tirath approaching their office brandishing two pistols. Tirath and Praveen had hid themselves while Monty was captured on CCTV with the weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-s-aide-among-two-held-in-sonu-shah-murder-case/story-mSsXX4F5CGxBjX5US9tRlI.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh to avenge aide’s killing in encounter, Lawrence Bishnoi gang shooter arrested||Hot on the trail of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s accomplices active in Chandigarh, police on Friday arrested a shooter of the gang who was in the city to avenge the police encounter of their sharpshooter.Parveen Kumar, alias Bhima, 31, hailing from Ghilodh Kalan village in Rohtak, Haryana, was nabbed following a tip-off from near the garbage centre in Sector 45. A country made weapon bearing the name of the gang’s sharpshooter, Ankit Bhadu, who was killed in an encounter with the Punjab Police at Zirakpur in February 2019, was recovered from him.“Parveen was in Chandigarh as part of the gang’s plan to avenge the killing of Bhadu. He had also planned another murder in his village owing to an old rivalry,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. “The gang members have engraved Bhadu’s name on multiple weapons. One of these was recovered from Parveen,” the SSP added. Besides the pistol, five live cartridges and a stolen motorcycle with a fake registration plate were also found in his possession.“An active member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, Parveen had come to Chandigarh to meet Monty Shah, a close associate of Bishnoi. He is also involved in extorting money on behalf of the gangster and mobilising the gang members,” one of the investigators said. A case under Sections 384 (extortion), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 120-B (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered against Parveen and other members of the gang, including Monty Shah, Pankaj Jhakhar, Bhola and some unidentified men.LIFER WAS OUT ON BAILPolice said Parveen was facing seven heinous crimes in Haryana and two in Punjab. He had been sentenced to life imprisonment in a Dera Bassi murder case and was currently out on bail. Police hope to nab more gang members with his arrest.BISHNOI CALLING THE SHOTS FROM JAIL Presently lodged in a Rajasthan jail, Bishnoi’s name has cropped up in a number of cases of extortion and even recent shootings in Chandigarh. Police said Bishnoi and his associates, Deepu Banur and Sampat Nehra, despite being in jail, regularly passed on instructions to their gang members to target businessmen, hotel and restaurant owners and liquor contractors of the tricity for extortion.“Bishnoi calls his targets over WhatsApp and demands money as per their financial status,” the SSP said, adding that his gang members Monty Shah and Pankaj Jhakhar were involved in collecting protection money from Chandigarh and surrounding areas.FROM COUNTRY MADE PISTOLS TO AUTOMATIC GUNS, THE GANG HAS IT ALL Investigators said Bishnoi’s gang members possessed country made, semi-automatic and automatic arms and ammunition. They used these weapons to snatch vehicles, which were used for extortion and other crimes after affixing fake registration number plates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-to-avenge-aide-s-killing-in-encounter-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-shooter-arrested/story-EbbWeFeBafOr2rsCp0FDMM.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents rue erratic supply, foul smell of tertiary treated water||Summers are long gone, but the city is yet to see improvement in the supply of tertiary treated (TT) water in residential units and at some of the neighbourhood parks connected with the TT line.Tertiary treated (TT) water connection was first introduced in the city in 2017 and was made mandatory for houses with area more than 1 kanal. However, the supply still hasn’t been extended to all houses eligible for the connection even though they are paying the charges. There are around 6,870 houses eligible for TT water connection. Ideally, 14 million gallons per day (MGD) tertiary water is needed to sustain these as well as the parks and green belts, but the current supply is only 9 MGD.Highlighting the issue, president of the Sector 38 (West) HIG flats resident welfare association (RWA) Neha Arora said, “For the last two months, we have not received any TT water in our neighbourhood parks. This has spelled disaster for the plants growing here. We residents are using drinking water from our own houses to water the plants, but this is not feasible and the plants are drying up.”She added that there were around 15 neighbourhood parks in her sector affected by this and no action had been taken despite repeated complaints to the municipal corporation (MC).President of the Sector 8 RWA Ranvinder SIngh Gill said that the 1 kanal plus houses in Sector 8 were frequently complaining of problems related to TT water. “All houses haven’t been provided with the connection. The supply is erratic and starts late in the morning making it hard to use the water for lawns or washing cars. We have to use drinking water.”General secretary of the Sector 33B RWA Kuljinder Sra added, “Besides the irregular supply, another big problem is the foul smell emanating from this water. It is impossible to use it to water lawns because we can’t sit outside afterwards. The MC should work on filtering the water better so that people can use it readily.”MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “We have not been receiving many complaints regarding TT water. Some complaints of leakages do come in, which are quickly resolved. If people are facing problems, they should approach us and we will get them fixed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-rue-erratic-supply-foul-smell-of-tertiary-treated-water/story-puvBdEK0eVxufnuSv0TGMK.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||New DC office in Chandigarh to be as high as secretariat||The new building of the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office in Sector 17 will have the ground floor dedicated to public dealings and will be as high as the Secretariat in Sector 9.As per the latest plan prepared by the UT urban planning department, the building, which will come up on the vacant 2-acre land near the Shivalikview hotel, will have six floors, excluding the ground floor, and parking for around 600 cars in the basement.The plan has been submitted with the DC office for approval. “The DC office is the client in this case, and the plan has been prepared after incorporating their needs including demarcating separate areas for public dealing and internal work spaces,” said a UT official, privy to the matter.“Incorporating the latest environmental norms, the building will have a sewage treatment plant and rooftop solar power plant,” said the official.The construction is expected to begin as soon as the plan is agreed upon. Earlier, the DC Office had recommended some changes in the initial plan. “There have been several rounds of discussions on the plan and changes can still be made if required,” the official added.The old DC office, which was designed by Swiss architect Pierre Jeanneret, will be converted into the National Gallery of Modern Art, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-dc-office-in-chandigarh-to-be-as-high-as-secretariat/story-ALoMOpIAIB4wyG5R2KIHTP.html
17-10-2020||City||Mohali to miss Ramlila action this year||Even though the Mohali administration has given a go ahead to Ramlila associations to perform in the district, late permission, tight restrictions and a wary public have forced many of them to decide against doing so.On Thursday, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan permitted the staging of Ramlilas in the district. In a statement, Dayalan observed that the government had already permitted social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions and other congregations outside the containment zones with a ceiling of 100 people.However, almost all Ramlila associations have pointed out that it will be impractical to put up a show, and at such short notice, too. Another reason they have cited is the onus of ensuring social distancing among the limited crowd that will be allowed to watch the function.First time in 3 decadesThis will be the first time in three decades when Mohali will not see Ramlila. The last time it happened was during insurgency in Punjab.In Mohali, every year Ramlila is staged at eight places—Phase 2, Phase 4, Phase 5, Phase 11, Sector 68, Mataur and Sohana. The main Dussehra is held at the Dussehra ground in Phase 8.Jugal Kishore, the organiser of the Saraswati Kala Manch, which has been performing for the last two decades in Phase 11, said, “It is difficult to perform this year as we don’t have time to prepare and then there are the restrictions of 100 visitors only.”Arun Sharma, president of Nav Yuva Club in Phase 5, a group that has been performing for 12 years now, said “The state government should have given us permission at least three week prior. We don’t have time now. Our artistes need at least 20 days to prepare.”‘People want a show’On the other hand, the stage secretary of Ankush Club in Phase 1, Sanjeev Sharma, said, “People of the area are demanding a show this year, too. We have already applied for permission from the municipal corporation and will see how to go about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-to-miss-ramlila-action-this-year/story-4D0LOfDtFwUg2v4jczgfpM.html
17-10-2020||City||Panchkula DC designates 18 ‘protocol officers’ for Navratra fair at Mansa Devi||Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has appointed 18 ‘Navratra Mela protocol officers’ to ensure that all Covid protocols are followed. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Manita Malik will be the overall in-charge to maintain law and order.All 18 officials will be present at the fair in two shifts—6am to 2pm and 2pm to 10pm—from October 17 to October 25. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said 15 police nakas will screen everyone entering the Mata Mansa Devi temple.Speaking about the security preparations, DCP Handa said, “The temple has agreed to only allow people who have applied on their website https://mansadevi.org.in/ for darshan. Wearing of masks will be mandatory.”There will be separate parkings for two-wheelers and four-wheelers. A police help centre has also been established for assisting the visitors.Officials of the Sector 26 crime branch of Panchkula police and mounted police will also patrol the area. A bomb squad and an anti-sabotage team will also be deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-dc-designates-18-protocol-officers-for-navratra-fair-at-mansa-devi/story-y8UQICPeuKD9v91TqzrVmM.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||People’s Alliance is dancing to Pak, China’s tune: J&K BJP chief||Dismissing the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration as ‘an alliance of puppets dancing to the tunes of Pakistan and China’, Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina on Friday said the party had spoken with 13 representatives of social and religious bodies and had unanimously decided that they will not allow ‘Farooq and company’ to further the Pakistani and Chinese agenda under the garb of the Gupkar Declaration. Senior BJP leaders met the representatives on Thursday and slammed the Gupkar Declaration. “Attempts are being made to bleed Kashmir again. We will not allow them to succeed at any cost. There were no stone peltings and protests when these trouble-making leaders were under detention but now that they are out, they are trying to vitiate the atmosphere by raking up Article 370 again,” said Raina. He alleged that the leaders were hatching a conspiracy under the garb of the Gupkar agenda. Raina said, “When they were in power, they never implemented people friendly laws.”On Thursday Raina had said that “no power on earth can restore Article 370” and that “it will not be implemented till doomsday”. Raina said the Article 370 had given birth to separatism and terrorism. “It was due to this obnoxious Article that several ills continue to plague Jammu and Kashmir,”he said, warning the trio (Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti) of ‘serious ramifications’ if they tried to push their anti-India Gupkar agenda. On August 22, six regional and national parties unanimously resolved to fight for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed before August 5, 2019, saying the measures taken were ‘spitefully short-sighted’ and ‘grossly unconstitutional’. IkkJutt Jammu slams Gupkar league, demands statehood  Amid attempts by Kashmir centric parties to get back special status to Jammu and Kashmir, IkkJutt Jammu chairman Advocate Ankur Sharma slammed the ‘latest theatrics of members of Gupkar Gang.’Sharma dismissed Gupkar as a declaration seeking constitution of J&K as a special Muslim domain within the territory of secular India. IkkJutt Jammu also attacked the UT and Central Government for not taking necessary follow up steps post abrogation of Article 370/35-A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/people-s-alliance-is-dancing-to-pak-china-s-tune-j-k-bjp-chief/story-7Moa0OmS81OMCg1vTi8bCP.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||LeT module busted in Srinagar, six arrested||The Jammu and Kashmir Police busted a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) module, arrested six associates and recovered six vehicles - a multi-pupose vehicle, two cars and three bikes - that were used for transporting militants to attack security forces here on Friday.Inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said the police had arrested the six men after the encounter of an LeT militant from Pakistan, Saifullah, and his associate in Barzulla, near Srinagar, on October 12 . Police believe the men had been involved in four attacks on security forces over the past two months.“We did not stop with Saifullah’s death. We found that around 3-10 people were working for the module, of which six have been identified and arrested ,” Kumar said, adding, “Srinagar police have busted a major LeT module . When it comes to disturbing peace, the role of over ground workers (OGWs) is more than that of militants,” he said.Kumar said, “The accused told us that they had used a tavera, two altos and three bikes for transporting militants. The vehicles were seized. These people gave shelter to militants and would do a reconnaissance of the area to determine where security forces were deployed and could be attacked,” he said.  “Around two months ago, Saifullah a Pakistani militant associated with the LeT had come to central Kashmir, Srinagar and Budgam areas and carried out four attacks. On August 14, he attacked a check post party of forces at Gulshanangar and killed two our armed police jawans. He then attacked a ROP party of the CRPF. On September 25, an ASI of CRPF was killed in an attack. Emboldened, the module then killed two CRPF personnel and injured three during a highway attack,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/let-module-busted-in-srinagar-six-arrested/story-PgTZSQYXomsBKO11hjGVeP.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Missing SPO joins militant ranks, escapes Budgam gunfight||Special police officer (SPO) Altaf Hussain, who had gone missing with arms and ammunition from central Kashmir’s Budgam on Tuesday, has joined militant ranks. He managed to escape during an encounter with security forces in Chadoora on Friday. However, his accomplice, Jehangir Bhat, was captured. Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said the SPO had decamped with two AK-47 rifles with his friend Jehangir Bhat a ‘famous stone-pelter’. “Acting on specific inputs, police, army and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel laid a cordon and a gunfight ensued. The SPO managed to escape but his associate was captured,” Kumar said. The army’s Chinar Corps said a terrorist fired at the team conducting a search at a mobile vehicle check post in Chadoora, after which the area was cordoned. “Extensive search was carried out and a terrorist was apprehended with one AK rifle,” it said in a tweet.Kumar said the AK-47 rifle and a magazine recovered from Bhat were the same ones the policeman had escaped with. Bhat had emptied the magazine.Commending the security forces, Kumar said, “We had been convincing the duo’s parents to call them back. Now only legal action will be taken against them. If our people had not shown restraint, Jehangir would have been killed. Our forces set an example.” Kumar also requested his fugitive police colleague to return. “I also request our SPO to come back. Only legal action will be taken and his life will be saved,” he said.This is second time that a militant has been captured alive during an encounter this month.On October 10, two militants including a Lashkar-e-Taiba commander were killed in Dadoora area of Pulwama. During the search operation, a militant was captured alive. He was later identified as a resident of Doda area of Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-spo-joins-militant-ranks-escapes-budgam-gunfight/story-pjsuDv530zKOmYc4XQpMdJ.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of Navratri, quick response teams deployed for security of Vaishno Devi pilgrims||Amid intelligence inputs regarding a possible terror strike during the navratri festival, security has been tightened in Katra town, the Mata Vaishno Devi sanctum sanctorum and the twin tracks leading to the cave shrine. The nine-day navratri festival will begin at the holy cave shrine nestled in the Trikuta Hills in Katra town of Reasi district on Saturday. A senior police officer said, “The famous shrine has always remained high on the radar of terror outfits and the threat perception increases during the navratri festival. However, we will ensure foolproof security.” Reasi district police chief SSP Rashmi Wazir said, “We have deployed five quick-reaction (QR) teams in Katra and three in the bhawan (sanctum sanctorum). Eight police check posts have been setup along the tracks leading to the cave shrine and round-the-clock patrolling will be done during the festival.” She added that armed security personnel, policemen and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) men will guard the pilgrimage at all hours. “All pilgrims and service providers will be subjected to intense security checks before being allowed to proceed. Women cops have also been deployed. We are confident that we will be able to ensure an incident-free Navratri festival,” she said. Wireless CCTVs and drones have been pressed into service. “The CRPF has also deployed its commandos at Ban Ganga and at the cave shrine. Hotlines have been setup to relay information in real time,” said a CRPF spokesperson. Rapid test mandatory Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib said, “Every pilgrim arriving in Katra will have to undergo a rapid antigen test (RAT) before being allowed to proceed. Those who test positive will be quarantined in Katra for 10 days. A few hotels have also been identified for paid quarantine. However, in case, pilgrims who have tested positive do not wish to be quarantined, they can return using special cabs.” “Ten testing kiosks have been set up at the Katra railway station and five more will be added depending on the bookings. Health staff has also been augmented,” she added.Visitors capped at 7,000 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) CEO Ramesh Kumar said, “We have made all the requisite arrangements to welcome the pilgrims. In view of the pandemic, we have announced a cap of 7,000 pilgrims per day. We will reassess the situation once the pilgrims start pouring in because trains are not running due to the farmers’ stir in Punjab. Pilgrims will only be able to come via road or air.” Testing facilities have been setup at Ban Ganga and at the helipads. Cave shrine decked up “The shrine has been decorated with a variety of flowers brought in from different parts of India. This time flowers could not be brought from other countries because of the pandemic,”said Kuma, adding that renowned devotional singers will be invited during the nine-day long festival. J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, who is also chairperson of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, had launched a mobile app for devotees at the Civil Secretariat in Srinagar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ahead-of-navratri-quick-response-teams-deployed-for-security-of-vaishno-devi-pilgrims/story-D6RQ64GYIzbKPFW1aNkF6M.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood actor’s son booked by Mumbai Police for abortion without consent, rape||Oshiwara police on Thursday registered a first information report (FIR) against a Bollywood actor’s wife and son on charges of rape, cheating and causing miscarriage. The case was registered based on a complaint by an actor claiming that the man had sexually assaulted her from 2015 to 2018 on fake promises of marriage. The complainant, who has worked in Hindi and Bhojpuri films, stated that she was in a relationship with the accused. In May 2015, she alleged that he had called her to his flat where he gave her a spiked soft drink. She claimed that he then allegedly sexually assaulted her. In her complaint, the actor mentioned that the man sexually assaulted her for years on the pretext of marrying her. The complainant further alleged that she got pregnant during their relationship, but the accused asked her to get an abortion and gave her medicine for it. According to the actor, the man’s mother was aware of the situation. Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector, Oshiwara police station, said,” We have registered the offence and are investigating the case.” A first information report (FIR) was registered against the mother and son under sections 376 (2)(N) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc, with intent to commit an offence), 417 (punishment for cheating), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR was filed at Oshiwara police station after a Delhi court, which the actor had approached in 2018, had directed Delhi Police to register a case but later decided that it should be investigated by the authority where the incident had occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-ctor-s-son-booked-by-mumbai-police-for-abortion-sans-consent-rape/story-9HVOiIWFkjzfXuezu4N8pJ.html
17-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand couples elope and get married, get entry into village after police’s intervention||Two young couples were allegedly stopped from entering their village in Roorkee area of Haridwar district because of their love marriage. The couples had to reach out to the local police which warned the villagers of strict action.  The incident took place on Wednesday but came to light on Thursday evening when the police got to know about the matter and reached the village.  Senior sub-inspector (SSI) Pradeep Kumar, Roorkee police station, said, “Both the couples hail from the same village. When they informed the police, their family members were called to the police station.” “Parents of one of the girls said they will not stop their daughter from going anywhere as she had already registered her marriage in court. Similarly, the parents of the other girl also said that they won’t stop her from going with her husband,” said Kumar.  Both the couples then went to their home in the village.  One of the villagers, privy to the matter and on the condition of anonymity, said, “Both the couples hail from the same village and had eloped before their marriage.” Also read: ‘Give him water,’ Jawans applaud as terrorist in J&K surrenders“One of them registered their marriage in court while the other couple didn’t. However, all four of them are adults. After tying the knot, they were living in rented accommodations in Roorkee town for the last few months. On Wednesday evening, they returned to the village where some of the villagers and their family members stopped them,” the villager said. “They were not ready to accept that theirs is a love marriage. It was then when one of them approached the police for help. However, nobody was harmed in the episode,” he added. SSI Kumar, however, denied that the villagers had stopped the couple them from entering the village.  “Both the girls are adults and legally nobody can stop them from marrying as per their wish. When we called their parents to the police station, they didn’t raise any objection after which the couples went back. No violence was reported in the whole episode,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-couples-elope-and-get-married-get-entry-into-village-after-police-s-intervention/story-0lOdBJFw9IzPha3XWVRc1K.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Help juveniles turn right on the route to reformation||Many flaws in JJ ActA review of judgments of various high courts of the past five years reveals that the current JJ Act, 2015, is ill equipped to tackle child offenders in the age group of 16 to 18 years who knowingly commit “heinous offences” of rape, robbery, murder, drug trafficking, gun running and dacoity. Armed with the complete confidence of immunity of juvenile protection, these legal delinquents indulge in crime and then reap the reward and protection as juvenile offenders. The JJ Act, 2015 is flawed from another perspective. Any juvenile alleged to have committed an offence upon being apprehended or detained by the police, shall be released on bail, except in three exceptions i.e. when his release will bring him in association with any known criminal, or expose him to danger or his release will defeat the ends of justice. With the advancement of the age of the internet freely dispersing all possible information on every available subject on a smart phone or a computer, a 16-year-old today is an informed adult, irrespective of his education, family background or societal set up. Glamour of crime, freedom, curiosity to implement explored knowledge and ability to devise analytical methods makes any such teenager an adult. It is time therefore, that the definition of a “juvenile” particularly who is in conflict with law and who is found to have committed a “heinous offence”, should no longer be treated as a child. The age of the juvenile in the JJ Act should revert back to 16. The benefit of reform for juveniles under 16 ought not to be extended any more to those above 16 who enjoy crime and not suffer it. Anil MalhotraIdentify and help students at risk“ The earlier the better” is a promising approach in which the teachers must inform parents about the child’s behavioural misconduct, absenteeism and lack of interest witnessed during the early school years and counsel them about the child’s need for parental care, love and affection. Prevention and intervention programmes must be designed for students at risk for development of substance abuse. It is important for the teacher to understand individual differences and not set unattainable goals as it may lead to great irritability and accentuate feelings of inferiority. The schools as well as parents must not lay emphasis on grades or marks and make it a benchmark of success and failure. The curriculum should promote value education, social competence and conflict resolution. Participation in recreational programmes like sports, music and art must be encouraged to channelise their surplus energy. The police must act as a preventive force by focusing on reform rather than punishment and treat them with sympathetic care as it may determine the child’s future behaviour.Komal Singh, ChandigarhHate the sin, not the sinnerThe main motive of the juvenile justice is to reform rather than punish the child in conflict with law. The government should allocate more funds to set up Juvenile Justice Boards and correctional homes. Reformative methods should be designed to instil values that can socially uplift juveniles. Their confidence levels will improve with regular education, vocational training opportunities, therapeutic training (yoga/meditation) to improve their psychological behaviour, and finally with employment. Manjinder Kaur, ChandigarhParents should give time to childrenGive children healthy activity alternatives. Those who spend more time with their parents are less likely to take to a life of crime. Some experts believe that holding family dinners at least five times a week can help to prevent juvenile delinquency. If children surround themselves with good and educated people these things can be prevented. Children should be taught about peer pressure early in life. They should study books motivational books.Ishita NaraMinors exposed to violence on net The reason for delinquency is parental neglect, especially in the poorer and lower strata of the society. Minors are also exposed to lot of violence on the internet, media and movies which is leading to mental and psychological illnesses. A legal framework is already in place in India to care of the juveniles but its enforcement is poor. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhFocus on poor neighbourhoodsIt’s important to catch them young and mainstream them through education and proper nutrition. Childhood is the most impressionable age. There is a need to identify poor neighbourhoods and educate not only children but also their parents. Society and state will have to come forward to provide for Anganwadi (3-6 years old), Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (to provide education to children left out of schools), vocational training and adult education. It should be mandatory for every employer to set aside at least one hour for literacy and education of poor illiterate employees. The administration will have to provide for expert psychological counselling to the children who continually neglect their studies at the school and fail repeatedly. The case in point is that of schools in the poorer colonies where children serve as bar/catering bearers and members of dance troupes during marriages etc at nights. Lt Col GS Bedi (retd), MohaliFlag unusual behaviour Schools should be on alert to check the behaviour of students. Mobile phones and cars should not be allowed and counselling services should be provided to all the youngsters with anything unusual red flagged and brought to the notice of parents and teachers for treatment.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhSeek help firstParents need to keep an eye on their children and seek help from counsellors if behavioural changes such as lower grades in examinations, aloofness, loss of interest in family conversations and lethargy are noticed. Instead of fearing social stigma,the family should lose no time and seek expert counselling. The efforts of the police to mainstream juvenile delinquents by teaching them various skills under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana with assistance from the NGOs has to be appreciated. Usha Verma, ChandigarhSet up secure centresJuvenile homes need to guide youngsters to become responsible citizens through love, affection and proper direction. Emphasis should be laid on making these centres secure. Law universities should introduce courses on juvenile justice. Such a policy is being adopted in Scandinavian countries which has resulted in the least rates of juvenile crimes. Muskan Kotwal Light sentences not the solutionEducation is the key. Children from financially backward families need some incentives for attending school regularly.They can be kept busy after school hours with games or studies and senior citizens can help in this.If the children play and read, they will automatically get weaned away from crime.The message – easy come, easy go – must be instilled in juveniles in their formative years.Those gone astray should get psychiatric counselling besides training in skill development or athletic/ games. The new trend of enticing minors into contract stealing/thefts and other crimes should be stopped immediately, that too with an iron fist.Our statute book has enough provisions for reformation and rehabilitation of delinquent juveniles.Many a time provision of light sentence, even for serious crimes, is responsible for their proxy deployment.This has to be reviewed. For crimes of rape and causing death, even juveniles must suffer for life and the message has to go out loud and clear. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSet up special homes There are some contributing factors ranging from parental care, differences between temperament, family influence, impact of school friends, neighbourhood and our society as a whole. All these deeply influence the young mind that finally chooses a short-cut to everything. Now there is only one way to bring all these juveniles involved in crimes into the mainstream and that is to bring them to special juvenile homes especially set up for this purpose. All issues related to crimes, their actual rights and issues about starting new avenues should be discussed with the juveniles by a team of experts in this field. Providing children with the opportunity to develop positive behaviour should be the foundation of most efforts to prevent youth crime and violence. Now a law has been made in which all past records of a juvenile’s crime are erased to afford him to start a new life. The objective of the Juvenile Justice Act is to integrate a person who committed a crime while under the age of 18 rather than punishing him for a longer period. This is a wise move.Gurpreet S Malhotra, KansalProvide anger management trainingYoungsters in juvenile homes should be taught social skills, anger management, physical exercises, yoga and meditation to understand that a life of crime will lead them nowhere. Drug rehabilitation services should also be provided.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliGet reformed prisoners for talksYoungsters in reform homes need the right kind of education to realise their wrong deeds. It should be mandatory to teach them vocational skills to enable them to stand on their own feet. Apart from this, they must be involved in some schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act will also help. Adults who have completed their jail terms should be made to interact with the youngsters and talk to them about the consequences of a life and crime. Collaboration of NGOs, RWAs and the police can enable youngsters to become responsible members of the society.Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliKeep mobile phones awayMost parents today have no qualms about parting with their hard earned money to buy their children mobile phones and laptops to help children supplement their studies. This is not helping as most adolescents waste time and money playing video games, with Blue Whale and PUBG having a harmful effect on them. More sadly, children have easy access to prohibited sites and is such are influenced by criminal elements into taking up a life of crime. What parents can do is narrow gap between themselves, their children and their teachers to make sure checks and controls are imposed in schools as well as at home to understand the students, curb harmful behaviour and arrange for periodic counselling.Subhash Puri, PanchkulaParents’ support criticalGone are the days when children used to be afraid of the authority of a senior member of the family, usually the father. Now, with fast paced city lifestyles where parents are busy with work and socialising hardly get time to spend with their children after fulfilling their basic needs and education. Absence of much needed control during the formative years is the main reason why young boys become spoilt brats and get into bad company. Juvenile delinquents can be disciplined and brought into the mainstream to become responsible citizens provided their parents remain supportive and interact regularly with them in the reform homes, making every effort possible to help their children lead normal lives again.SC Luthra, ChandigarhKeep communication channels openLack of moral values and communication with parents forces juveniles to take the wrong path in life. It is the duty of the elders in the family to spend quality time with their children, maintain proper communication, listen to their problems and guide them accordingly.It’s important that children are taught to be down to earth, practical, determined, happy and strong to combat life’s challenges. Parents need to win their trust too so that children can speak freely with them and share their problems as and when needed.Use of mobile phones should be restricted. Teachers should understand the psychology and pay individual attention to every child. Proper coordination between parents and teachers is expected to make students better individuals. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliHelp them pursue higher educationParents should ensure their children are supervised at all times. Youngsters come under the influence of bad company easily. The government should make better policies for the welfare of juveniles. When in reform homes they should be enrolled in crafts Institutions/ centres The government should provide them training as per their aptitude/level of education. Those interested in higher education should be given every opportunity to pursue the programme of their choice and encouraged to take up gainful employment after completing their reform terms. Bank loans on easy terms and conditions should be granted to help them start businesses and every possible effort should be made to showcase their work. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-help-juveniles-turn-right-on-the-route-to-reformation/story-0fNGHIy4ALgDc5hR2Tv4TP.html
17-10-2020||City||Complete Vikhroli substation work by 2023: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to officials||To ensure uninterrupted power supply to Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked officials to complete all the pending works on the proposed 400-kilovolt (KV) Vikhroli power station by 2023. Thackeray reviewed the works of the project that were proposed in 2009 to meet the increasing power demand in Mumbai. According to a statement issued by the chief minister’s office on Friday evening, Thackeray took serious cognisance of the power outage on Monday that crippled the financial capital. The statement also said that the project will bring an additional 1,000MW power to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complete-vikhroli-substation-work-by-2023-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-to-officials/story-4R1silBUZvaTG2oQtcIUdK.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rising shooting incidents in Chandigarh: Senior police officers hold meet with night club owners||Keeping the festive season in view and increased movement of gangsters running an extortion racket in the city, senior police officers of Chandigarh Police on Friday held a meeting with the management of night clubs and discotheques in the UT.“Do not give money to gangsters or even policemen and if anyone asks for it, immediately inform the senior police officers,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP).The meeting that is seen as a confidence-building measure in wake of the extortion racket operating in the city, Chahal said, “If anyone receives any threat/extortion call then immediately inform concerned SDPO, SHO, SP/City or reach out to me directly.” “Anyone caught paying extortion money will face action too,” warned Chahal, who was accompanied by Vineet Kumar, SP (city). “Rules and regulations pertaining to timings and other orders issued by the Chandigarh administration have to be followed in letter and spirit. Anyone caught operating beyond permissible timings will be booked under relevant sections of law,” he added. While asking night club and discotheque owners to make adequate safety arrangements, he urged them to “get mandatorily antecedents and character verification of all the appointed bouncers at pubs, bars and discos.” Other instructions included that no person is allowed to carry any type of weapon inside pubs, bars and discos and checking should be conducted at the entry point. They were asked to coordinate/liaison with their concerned DSP as well as SHOs, in case of any difficulty or problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rising-shooting-incidents-in-chandigarh-senior-police-officers-hold-meet-with-night-club-owners/story-ysqZXOVSBrJ6F2uOdOqUvJ.html
17-10-2020||City||35-year-old Mumbai resident dupes woman of ₹21 lakh||Versova police on Thursday arrested a 35-year-old Andheri resident for allegedly cheating a woman of Rs21 lakh. According to the police, the accused, Shweta Iyer, met the complainant, Mina Thakur, at an Andheri bank. Thakur told the police in her statement that she wanted to take a home loan to buy a flat at Manish Nagar, Andheri (West). Iyer promised the complainant that she will help Thakur get the loan. Iyer later took Rs24 lakh from Thakur as processing fee and as several other charges. After a few months when Thakur did not get the loan amount, she again approached Iyer and asked when would she get the loan. The accused however, kept delaying the amount citing various excuses, Thakur told the police. Thakur then asked Iyer to return the money she paid to the accused. When Iyer did not return the money, Thakur threatened to file a police complaint against her. Iyer then returned Rs2.60 lakh and promised to pay back the remaining amount at the earliest and also asked her to not file any complaint, Thakur told the police. “However, despite several warnings, when Iyer did not return the money, Thakur approached the police. We have registered a first information report (FIR) against Iyer under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and have arrested the accused. She is in police custody till Saturday,” an officer from Versova police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-mumbai-resident-dupes-woman-of-21-lakh/story-e2QX77yCml3afVMdMWR86I.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress seeks probe into Vivek Oberoi, Sandip Ssingh in illegal drugs case||The Maharashtra Congress has again questioned the ongoing Bollywood drugs probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and reiterated its demand for an investigation into movie producer Sandip Ssingh’s alleged link to the drug racket. The renewed demand comes close on the heels of a search conducted by Bengaluru Police at actor Vivek Oberoi’s house in Mumbai on Thursday.A delegation led by the Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant met state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday and demanded to probe the drugs racket in Bollywood and its connection with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). They also alleged the Central investigating agencies could be deliberately shielding Oberoi and Ssingh, who had together produced a biopic on Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. “I had demanded with NCB to investigate the BJP Drug connection in Bollywood. In my questions to NCB I had specifically mentioned the name of Aditya Alva found in Sandalwood drug racket who is brother in law of Vivek Oberoi who is partner of Sandeep Ssingh. But NCB didn’t pay heed,” Sawant tweeted.“Despite having all the reports regarding BJP’s Bollywood drug connection, which were handed over by the state government to CBI, the NCB has not yet inquired into the matter. The names of the makers of Modi’s biopic had come up through media reports. BJP leader Subramanian Swamy had also demanded an inquiry into the producer’s role, but no inquiry has been done as yet. The Bengaluru Police raided Oberoi’s house, but the Central agencies have not taken any cognizance of their [Oberoi and Ssingh] possible involvement in drug dealing,” Sawant said after his meeting with Deshmukh. He also asked why actor Kangana Ranaut was not called for questioning by the Central agency. Sawant said that the home minister has assured them to remind the NCB about the investigation into the complaints submitted, and if the Central agency failed to investigate it, the Mumbai Police would take up the probe.BJP has, however, rubbished the claims and dared Sawant to produce evidence in an appropriate forum.“He is free to produce the evidence, if any, to the investigating agency or the courts. BJP never shields any wrong-doer, and the search at Oberoi’s house is an example of the same. PM Narendra Modi’s integrity or sincerity cannot be contested. The allegations by Congress leaders are malicious and born out of frustrations,” said BJP leader Madhu Chavan. Ssingh’s public relations manager said there was no truth to the allegations and he could take legal action against those who are maligning his character. “We dealt with all kind of false allegations for more than 100 days, and Ssingh’s family has gone through trauma because of it. It is now time for these people [who are levelling allegations] to face the repercussions. If Sawant is looking for more publicity by making allegations without any proof, he will have to pay for it. He is compelling us to take legal action against him,” said Deepak Sahu, public relations manager for Ssingh.“Only Sawant would be able to tell about his agenda behind this baseless and false information or if he is being paid by somebody for it. CBI had summoned Ssingh and his statement has been recorded. Ssingh is even ready for an NCB inquiry as demanded by Sawant. But before that, Sawant should know that Ssingh does not drink or smoke, and this can be verified by the Congress leader from his sources in the film industry,” Sahu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-seeks-probe-into-vivek-oberoi-sandip-ssingh-in-illegal-drugs-case/story-XiGltLpGWZBPEVVpM8aVmO.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP demands resignation of Maharashtra Congress minister Yashomati Thakur convicted in assault case||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded the resignation of Maharashtra women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur for her conviction in a 2012 assault case. Thakur is also the working president of the Maharashtra Congress and legislator from Teosa in Amravati district. Additionally, she holds the post of guardian minister of Amravati.The Amravati district and sessions court on Thursday found Thakur and three others guilty of beating up an on-duty police officer who stopped her vehicle on a one-way lane. Judge Urmila Joshi sentenced Thakur, her driver and two workers to three months’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹15,500 each.Commenting on the judgement, BJP spokesperson Shivray Kulkarni said that Thakur has lost any moral right to continue in office. “How can a minister who abuses and bashes up police personnel and does not respect the law of the land continue as the minister?” questioned Kulkarni. “Thakur should first unconditionally apologise to her voters as well as the police department, for her action, and tender her resignation,” he added.Kulkarni said the incident took place when the Congress party was in power in Maharashtra, and the BJP had no role to play in this matter. Thakur was not available for comment.The incident took place on March 24, 2012, when Thakur, then an MLA, was travelling in her vehicle along with her aides. When the traffic policeman Ulhas Raurale noticed that her vehicle was entering a one-way lane from Chunabhatti to Gandhi Chowk, he stopped it. Angry with the cop, the convicted trio assaulted Raurale, following which a first information report (FIR) was registered against them at Rajapeth police station.The Congress dismissed the BJP’s resignation demand as politically motivated and said that the BJP should first introspect. “Yashomati Thakur has not been convicted of corruption, and it was due to some personal tiff. She is going to appeal in the Bombay high court against this order,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. “Many of the BJP’s ministers in the last government were accused of corruption, but they still refused to resign,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-demands-resignation-of-maharashtra-congress-minister-yashomati-thakur-convicted-in-assault-case/story-wL8UkYTliafhnjctgjFy6K.html
17-10-2020||City||Staff salaries not paid: NOCs of three Ludhiana schools cancelled||Acting tough against three prominent private schools of Ludhiana for violating government instructions during the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla has cancelled the no-objection certificates (NOCs) given to them. The schools whose NOCs have been cancelled include Guru Nanak Public School in Sarabha Nagar, DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and Amrit Indo-Canadian Academy in Ladian Khurd. The schools are in the dock for slashing salaries of its employees or not paying them altogether, due to the pandemic, despite clear government directions against such acts. Singla said that most of the complaints against these schools had come from the staff. The minister added that that he has been personally monitoring complaints against such schools and after reviewing the cases of these three schools, he decided to cancel their NOCs for defying government directions. The school education minister had floated his personal email id, vijayindersingla@gmail.com, to receive complaints against wrongdoings of private school management. He added that after receiving the complaints against these schools, the education department had served notices to their managements. After finding their replies unsatisfactory, their NOCs were cancelled. He said that the Punjab government will not allow any school management to exploit employees or flout any instructions. Shocked, school authorities in a fixThe decision to cancel NOCs left the schools’ authorities in a fix.When contacted, principal of Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS), Sarabha Nagar, Parvinder Kaur, said, “We have not received any show-cause notice from the director public instructions (secondary) office. We are shocked to know that the minister has cancelled the NOC of our school.”Amrit Indo Canadian Academy principal Jaskiran Kaur, said, “We have received any copy of the notice from the state education department and have no idea why the authorities cancelled the no-objection certificate of our school. For over three months, we deferred the salaries of teachers as we were not receiving fees from the parents. We had taken the teachers in confidence before arriving upon the decision. Now that many parents are submitting the fee, we have started disbursing the salaries of our teachers.” Despite repeated attempts, JK Sidhu, principal of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, was not available for comments. A senior official confirmed that all schools were issued show-cause notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staff-salaries-not-paid-nocs-of-three-ludhiana-schools-cancelled/story-tnVUgb6VieINOM4QPd2SAJ.html
17-10-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain in central and western Maharashtra damages crops on 7 lakh hectares||Over the past four days, the retreating monsoon has caused damages to harvest-ready crops across over 7 lakh hectares, in more than 10 districts in central and western Maharashtra. The state has decided to approach the Centre for a relief package. Spot estimates of losses are underway. After satisfactory rainfall this monsoon, farmers were expecting bumper crops until torrential rain hit these regions this week. In areas like Solapur, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Aurangabad, rain flattened standing crops like soya bean, cotton, gram, sugarcane, pomegranate across more than 7 lakh hectares. Cash crops, like cotton, soya bean and sugarcane, have suffered extensive damage. Solapur in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad in central Maharashtra are the worst-affected.“The affected crop area in central Maharasthra is over 6 lakh hectare, while it’s more than 87,000 hectare in five districts of western Maharashtra according to preliminary estimates. The process of spot estimates of losses is underway and expected to take a few days. The state government compensates the farmers as per the National Disaster Response Fund norms, which ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per hectare. The losses sustained by the farmers are much more than the compensation offered,” said an official from agriculture department.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a review of the estimated losses to crops, livestock, structure over the past four days. District collectors and divisional commissioners of the affected districts have been directed to complete spot assessments and release compensation at the earliest. The government has assured release of required funds at the earliest. “There is forecast of similar downpour next week in parts of the state. The district machinery should pre-empt the measures to ensure there is no loss of life. The evacuation of people from the low-lying areas should be done well in advance,” Thackeray said.This week in five districts in western Maharashtra, 29 people died due to heavy rainfall and eight are still missing. Four teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Solapur, Osmanabad and Baramati; and 40,036 people been evacuated. The figures for the other districts are not available yet. Rescue aircraft from the Indian Air Force are on standby to paralift from flooded areas. “With rainfall subsiding in most districts, and a forecast of reduction in rain over the next few days, we hope air lifting will not be required,” said an official from the state disaster management unit.Previously, in June, the Konkan region sustained crop losses due to Cyclone Nisarga and in August, heavy rainfall affected crops across more than 1.80 lakh hectares in Vidarbha. The state has already raised a demand with the Centre for relief to affected farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-in-central-and-western-maharashtra-damages-crops-on-7-lakh-hectares/story-a8UNw8quBewUkDr5QTTuxN.html
17-10-2020||City||Ludhiana woman robbed of gold chain, shot at when she resisted||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed a 50-year-old woman of her gold chain and opened fire at her when she resisted, in New Moti Nagar on Thursday.The incident took place when the woman was going to a nearby shop with her daughter to purchase milk.The woman, Narinder Kaur, in her complaint, told the police that she and her daughter were going on a scooter when the accused intercepted them. They first asked her daughter, Harpreet Kaur, for directions and then suddenly brandished a gun. They threatened the complainant and her daughter and asked them to hand over any valuables they have. Narinder gave them her chain but as the robbers were about to leave, she threw a brick at them. The enraged men then opened fire but the bullet missed the target and the mother and daughter escaped unhurt.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Anil Kumar, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-robbed-of-gold-chain-shot-at-when-she-resisted/story-lN8bBUm9SLWC3Gsq5CTX0O.html
17-10-2020||Dehradun||Rishikesh’s musical instrument maker was someone Dia Mirza will ‘never forget’||Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh is globally known as the yoga hub and spiritual base camp for the sacred Himalayas. It was also home to a much-loved artist, 69-year-old Didgeridoo maker Mukesh Dhiman, whose demise has drawn tributes from all over the world. Didgeridoo is an Australian aboriginal musical wind instrument. Dhiman was known for his art of making Didgeridoo, which is considered as the oldest known musical instrument in mankind’s history with its roots in Australia. He passed away of cardiac arrest at his residence in Rishikesh on October 11. Dhiman, used to make Didgeridoos for the last forty years after being taught the art by an Australian tourist in 1980 in Rishikesh. Since then he made hundreds of the hollow log-based wind instruments and also taught the art of making it and playing it to many people with most of his pupils and followers from foreign countries. Ever since his demise, his followers have been paying tributes to him on social media platforms. Also read: ‘Give him water,’ Jawans applaud as terrorist in J&K surrendersBollywood actor and UN Environment goodwill ambassador Dia Mirza also paid him a tribute on her Twitter handle. Sharing the news of his demise she tweeted, “Mukeshji is someone I will never forget. a remarkable human being. A kind, gentle soul. He never locked the door of his home. Handcrafted and taught people how to make the Didgeridoo. A truly special interaction with him on Ganga- The Soul of India.” One of his followers, Eyal Amit from Israel who also made a documentary on him, posted on Facebook, “My dear and beloved friends, unfortunately, there is no easy way to write this. My beloved and legendary teacher separated from this world this morning (October 11) and moved on.”“I am still having trouble digesting the gospel and finding words. If you are able to light a candle, incense stick for the elevation of his illuminated soul, I would be very grateful. May he rest in Eden,” wrote Amit. Idan Hojman, his admirer and student from Spain, wrote, “Dear Mukesh, thank you for all the wonderful moments we shared together. For all the teachings, music, jungle vibes, art, adventure and so much more. ““You inspired so many people and touched so many souls. May you rest in peace dear friend and master. Your light will keep shining in our hearts,” wrote Hojman. Another follower from Argentina, Nicolas Larocca, paid him tribute by dedicating a 2-minute 57 seconds song titled ‘Gracias Mukesh (Goodbye Mukesh)’ on Facebook. HT had spoken to him in January this year during which he was working on his ‘dream’ studio up in the Himalayan foothills of Rishikesh with the help of some of his foreign friends and four sons. He had then said that his new studio in the lap of nature would be his abode for practising the ancient wind instrument away from the hustle of Rishikesh town. One of his sons, Sourabh Dhiman, said, “We will carry on our father’s legacy of making Didgeridoo and teaching others how to make it.” He said, “We would complete his dream studio which was left incomplete due to the lockdown. The studio would be his memory and a heartful tribute.” Sourabh also informed that ever since the news of his father’s demise broke, he has been receiving calls from people all across the globe to offer their condolences. “All of them are very upset. They said that they will come here as soon as the international flights are resumed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/maker-of-one-of-the-world-s-oldest-musical-instruments-dies-dia-mirza-pays-tribute/story-M1czRjrjoUvLrnrYxene0I.html
17-10-2020||City||Why one of India’s most wanted criminals Dawood Ibrahim continues to be a fugitive since 1984||In 1984, Dawood Ibrahim, one of India’s most wanted criminals for his role in several terror attacks, including the 1993 Mumbai blasts, then 29, escaped the Indian law enforcement agencies. The gangster, now aged 65, still remains a fugitive in the Indian records. For over three decades, why did the law enforcement agencies fail to dismantle the criminal syndicate and rein in the gangster’s flourishing illegal business, now spread across the globe, despite Ibrahim being designated a global terrorist by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) in 2003? Security experts blame the “toothless” UNSC and Interpol, maintaining there are difficulties on various levels. Last month, the Pakistan foreign ministry issued a Statutory Regulatory Order, taking note of the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), which directed an asset freeze, travel ban and arms embargo against certain individuals. The list included Ibrahim’s name. While India claimed this was the first time a Pakistani official document mentioned the fugitive gangster was in Pakistani territory, Islamabad responded saying the listing was “routine”. “Two factors are the most significant in ensuring the survival of the D-Company network. The first and obvious is the safe haven and state support he receives from Pakistan. However, if there was concerted action against the network on Indian soil, its defeat would be inevitable. The second factor, then, is a collusive network within India which includes significant elements in the power structure here, including influential elements within the political leadership, bureaucracy and police,” said Ajay Sahni, executive director of Institute for Conflict Management in New Delhi. Sahni’s explanation was similar to the findings of the NN Vohra Committee, set up to study the criminalisation of politics, in 1993. The only tangible action, according to experts, against Dawood Ibrahim in all these years has been confiscation and auction of five of his properties in Mumbai worth about ₹14 crore. “As long as this collusive network is not smashed, the crime network will continue to flourish. This is the essence of successful organised crime – it does not confront or directly challenge the state’s power structures, but subverts and co-opts elements within them,” said Sahni. Arvind Gupta, former deputy national security advisor, has a different viewpoint. “Pakistani help and shelter play a major role, because Dawood is running the network from there and have wide connections. As he is in the safe shelter of Pakistan, it becomes tough for the agencies to react,” said Gupta, adding, “We are talking about a syndicate, a network, whose big players are outside, so it’s difficult to cause harm to it, with its masterminds operating from outside. Dawood’s name is on the UN’s list. But the UN works on the basis of the co-operation it gets from the member countries. In Dawood’s case, he is being helped and sheltered by all top agencies of the state. So how would any agency take on the syndicate?” The scope of the syndicate, too, is part of the problem, said Gupta. “When we work with the Interpol, we work with several national security agencies, where cooperation and co-ordination are key. This becomes tough as some government agencies co-operate, while some don’t.” Another issue is the power bestowed in these agencies. “Global anti-crime agencies have no teeth. The Interpol has often been described as a post office. It takes details of particular criminals from one country and sends these as ‘red corner notices’ to the country where these criminals are purportedly hiding. It is the local enforcement agencies in the latter country who have to actually have to ‘execute’ the notice. If a collusive country chooses to protect such criminals and, as Pakistan does, officially declares that the wanted man is not present on its soil, despite evidence to the contrary, there is very little that Interpol can do,” said Gupta. Agencies such as the Financial Action Task Force have some coercive powers, such as blacklisting, which brings into play a range of crippling international sanctions. “But FATF is a politicised agency and has never been able to secure the necessary consensus to blacklist Pakistan,” said Sahni. The UNSC can designate individuals as terrorists, but has no instruments to secure their custody, or punish them, according to him. “One of the major issues with the UNSC listing is that it does not possibly list all the aliases of Dawood Ibrahim, enabling him to operate under various aliases. Also, Pakistan communicates to terrorist leaders and organisations about the impending freezing of accounts which enable them to withdraw in bulk and transfer it to other accounts under different names,” said a senior IPS officer. “Alternately, a superpower like the US can ‘take out’ targets on Pakistani soil, as it did with Osama bin Laden and scores of Taliban and al Qaeda leaders, with or without legal sanction,” said Sahni. However, Ibrahim is not that high on the US’s priorities, claimed sources. “Also, this would be quite difficult given the levels of protection he is provided. But no state with that profile of covert capabilities has attempted such an action,” said Sahni. G Parthasarthy, former High Commissioner to Pakistan, said, “Why do we have to rely on Interpol or any other international law enforcement agencies, if we are capable enough to deal with it? Their paths are limited. India will have to look at it in innovative ways and use all its assets and powers abroad to eliminate its enemies. There are weaknesses and disunity in Pakistan’s state structure which can be used by India. The US has done it, Israel does it regularly, we should learn from them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-one-of-india-s-most-wanted-criminals-dawood-ibrahim-continues-to-be-a-fugitive-from-1984/story-f838xgBmYFy5V8e2K3gatJ.html
17-10-2020||City||Congress goons, Chaduni did hooliganism in garb of farm protests: Kurukshetra MP||BJP MP from Kurukshetra, Naib Singh Saini on Friday reiterated that Congress “goons” and state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni were behind the “attack” that claimed the life of a 72-year-old farmer, during the tractor rally in Ambala’s Naraingarh.Saini was addressing a press conference in Chandigarh regarding the death of Bharat Singh, a farmer from Ambala. The BJP’s tractor rally, in favour of the farm bills, was lead by Saini and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria.He was sharing the stage with Ambala BJP chief Rajesh Batoura, son of the deceased farmer, Bhupender Singh, village Sarpanch Anil Kumar and some locals who were injured during the rally.An FIR amounting to murder was lodged against seven farmers including Ambala BKU chief Malkit Singh. “The farmer’s murder by the Congress goons and Chadhuni is a murder of democracy. But those who have committed hooliganism in the garb of farmers’ protest will be prosecuted according to the law and the family will get justice. I’m from the same area and I know that these people are directly associated with the local Congress leaders and party rebel (Nirmal Singh),” Saini told the media persons.He added that no lathicharge took place in Pipli in September when farmers led by Chaduni gathered in the town for a rally against three farm laws.SARPANCH ALLEGES LAPSE IN ARRANGEMENTS BY ADMINISTRATIONVillage sarpanch Anil Kumar, while speaking at the press conference, said that no arrangements were made by the administration during the rally. “The administration failed to maintain law and order during the rally. There were protests in Yamunanagar too, but nothing of this sort happened there.”Several villagers and relatives of Bharat Singh had said that despite knowing that a rally would be conducted, the administration did not make any arrangements. “Even, when we were heading for the rally from our village to the originating spot, BKU goons had tried to block our way and one of them even argued with Bharat,” Anil Kumar had said earlier. On this, Ambala SP Rajesh Kalia said the police restrained from using force, otherwise, there could have been law and order issues in Haryana.“We knew about the probable protests, but the protesters included only 10% of farmers, rest were anti-social elements. Some BKU leaders had praised our preparations then. If we would have used force then that could have serious law and order consequences in the entire state. We are investigating both the complaints (murder and highway blockade),” said Kalia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-goons-chaduni-did-hooliganism-in-name-of-farm-protests-kurukshetra-mp/story-gJbycWOanLjov8Mj317b0I.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||CPCB divides Delhi into 4 zones to focus better on anti-pollution war||A majority of Delhi’s 13 bad air hot spots saw a spike in PM2.5 levels in February this year, as compared to the same period in 2019, the Central Pollution Control Board said on Friday, even as they announced that the city would be divided city into four zones to allow more focussed and specifically tailored anti-pollution efforts. In nine of the 13 pollution hot spots, PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels in February increased compared to the same period last year. The levels of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) were higher in six hot spots that month, as compared to last year, CPCB data showed. Keeping this mind, as well as the rising pollution levels in Delhi and rest of the National Capital Region, senior officials of the anti-pollution body said the city will be categorised into four quadrants—clean, moderate, polluted and critical. Also Read| Delhi: Blame game erupts as bad air worsensThis cluster approach — a part of CPCB’s winter emergency plan — will help agencies monitor areas and pass on information to enforcement teams to focus action, the officials said, adding the division was made based on pollution levels recorded in each area.Speaking about the February spike in PM levels recorded this year, Prashant Gargava, CPCB member secretary, said it was observed that while all resources were focused on controlling the pollution spike in the winter months, especially in December and January when plunge in air quality is most severe, this effort was not consistent. Gargava said this was possibly due to lax on-ground monitoring after the peak winter months. Dwarka saw PM 2.5 levels spike by 44%, while the surge was between 11-14% in Mundka, Narela and Rohini. Six areas, including Bawana, Dwarka, Jahangirpuri, Mundka, Rohini, saw PM10 levels rise between 1-17%. Gargava said CPCB teams will continue monitoring efforts till end of February to ensure such a situation does not recur this season. “We have directed state governments to ensure their enforcement teams are also constantly monitoring the ground situation till February-end. Long-term plans are necessary and we will require the cooperation of all agencies as well as the people of Delhi to curb the levels this year,” Gargava said. In response, Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai said that the government has been working around the year to control pollution levels. “Apart from improving enforcement on the ground, our government has come up with long-term policies, which will help keep pollution levels in check through the year. Our initiatives such as the tree transplantation policy, electric vehicle policy, etc., will go a long way to help bring down pollution levels in the city,” Rai said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), agreed that consistent enforcement is needed to ensure good air quality in Delhi, especially in the 13 hot spots where the pollution levels are higher. “The action needs to be consistent and not just focused during winter months. Compared to January, February is generally warmer with more favourable weather conditions so with stricter action there can be a lot of reduction in the levels,” Roychowdhury. Also Read: AQI reaches ‘very poor’ on the first day of Grap winter plan in DelhiMeanwhile, officials said dividing the city into zones would help focus attention on those areas, depending on the dominant source of pollution in each. CPCB officials explained that the monthly pollution values of all the monitoring stations will be collected and areas will be divided based on the pollution load and the ration between PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels there. Officials said these zones would be dynamic, and areas will be moved after regular reviews.While the pollution load will give a sense of the how much the pollution levels are rising, the ratio between PM 2.5 and PM 10 will help the agency ascertain which source of pollution is acting up every month. For instance, if the ratio shows a higher level of PM 2.5, contribution of smoke from sources such as open burning and vehicular emissions is likely to be more. If the PM 10 is on the higher side, then dust sources are to be targeted during enforcement. “We had put this approach on trial last year and had shared our findings with the municipal agencies for better enforcement. This is the first time we are sharing our recordings and this year we are expecting that the result of such a targeted approach will be better,” a senior official said. According to the division, nine areas — Jahangirpuri, Bawana, Narela, Mathura Road, Anand Vihar etc—have been categorised in the ‘polluted quadrant’, where extensive efforts will be made to control the primary polluting source, dust. The ‘moderate quadrant’ has three areas, Sri Aurobindo Marg, IGI Airport and Pusa, where open burning and vehicular pollution was found to be the primary pollution contributors. Twenty-four areas have been put under the ‘clean quadrant’, where dust is the primary pollutant. There are no areas under the ‘critical quadrant’ yet, but officials warned that this could change depending on the change in pollution levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpcb-divides-delhi-into-4-zones-to-focus-better-on-anti-pollution-war/story-GYnFoTFqafbP2SZwAKvpXO.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||High wind speed improves Delhi’s air quality to ‘poor’ zone||High wind speed cleared Delhi’s hazy and polluted skies to a considerable extent and improved the overall air quality index (AQI) to 239 in the ‘poor’ zone on Friday, a day after it had slipped into the ‘very poor’ category for the first time this season on Thursday.Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 pm bulletin on Friday recorded the overall AQI of Delhi at 239 -- categorised in the poor category. Meteorological officials said some more improvement could happen from Saturday as the wind direction is expected to change to easterly from the north-westerly at present.On Thursday, the day when the winter segment of the Supreme Court-approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) — a set of anti-pollution restrictions that include pre-emptive measures to stop the air quality from deteriorating to emergency levels — kicked in, Delhi’s AQI slipped into the red zone, recording an AQI of 312 in the CPCB scale. On Friday, however, levels of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) also saw a downward trend through the day. Also Read: AQI reaches ‘very poor’ on the first day of Grap winter plan in DelhiFrom 155.1ug/m3 recorded at 2pm on Thursday, the level of PM 2.5 dropped to 104.7ug/m3 at 2pm on Friday. PM 10 levels also decreased from 317ug/m3 at 2pm on Thursday to reach 237.2ug/m2 at 2pm on Friday. The permitted limits of PM10 and PM2.5 are 100µg/m3 and 60µg/m3, respectively. Apart from the Jahangirpuri and Wazirpur CPCB monitoring stations, the hourly average AQI at all other observatories had improved from the ‘very poor’ zone to the ‘poor’ zone. Some stations such as Najafgarh, Lodi Road, Aya Nagar and Okhla had improved to the ‘moderate’ category by Friday evening. Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said this improvement was mainly because the wind speed during the day rose to around 10-12kmph, helping disperse pollutants that had accumulated closer to the surface. VK Soni, head of IMD’s Environment Monitoring Research Centre, said the wind speed during the day remained in the range of 10-12kmph. So, even though the wind direction remained north-westerly, the ventilation co-efficient was high, Soni said. The wind speed till 9am on Thursday was calm. Even though it picked up to reach 6kmph around 11 am, the direction was north-westerly, which brought smoke residue from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.The higher the coefficient, the more efficiently the atmosphere is able to dispose of the pollutants and better is the air quality. Also Read: AAP, BJP trade charges over farm fires, pollution“Through the day, Delhi’s average wind speed was 10-12kmph, blowing from the north-west direction. However, by evening, the wind speed reduced. But from Saturday we are expecting some improvement as the wind direction will change to easterly,” Soni said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, also said that in the next two days, there is no sign of any significant deterioration in the air quality. The Union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) data also showed that the contribution of stubble burning from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana in the city’s air pollution levels remained low. “The share of stubble burning on Delhi’s air quality was 18% on Friday. The number of fires spotted over Punjab and Haryana were 583,” the Safar air quality report read. On a scale of 0-500, a value of 0-50, the air quality is considered good (minimal health risk), 51 -100 is satisfactory (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is moderate (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease), 200-300 is poor (breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure), 300-400 is very poor (respiratory illness on prolonged exposure) and 400-500 is severe (affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-wind-speed-improves-delhi-s-air-quality-to-poor-zone/story-ielCu7t6owEgzkUGhKJbyN.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade charges over farm fires, pollution||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the governments of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab of not being able to control crop stubble burning, which worsens Delhi’s air quality very winter. It also said the city’s BJP-ruled municipal corporations were polluting Delhi’s air by burning garbage in the open. “The governments in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab have failed in stopping crop stubble burning. They have failed in ensuring incentives to farmers for not indulging in crop stubble burning. The stubble burning in these states significantly worsens Delhi’s air quality. We are thankful that the Supreme Court has taken cognisance of the matter and set up a committee to monitor crop stubble burning in these states,” Saurabh Bhardwaj ,chief spokesperson of the party, said. The Supreme Court on Friday constituted a one-member committee headed by one of its former judges, Justice Madan B Lokur, to carry out a physical surveillance of farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh -- a main cause of air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region -- and submit a report after Dussehra vacation. Reacting to the allegations, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Krunesh Garg said, “The issue raised (by Aam Aadmi Party) needs to be analysed properly if there is a truth. In my opinion, if the issue has been raised it should be corroborated with evidence and supported technically. As technocrats, we are open to suggestions, and there is no denying the fact that Punjab is doing its best to control stubble fires.”Also Read| Behind Delhi’s polluted air: Early stubble fires, weatherPunjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the Punjab government is doing all it can to curb stubble burning, but the problem lies elsewhere. “If the AAP has the guts, it should question the Central government. Paddy stubble management by farmers means they have to incur extra cost. The chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh) has written to the Centre several times, seeking funds for cost compensation to motivate farmers against burning of paddy residue, but there has been no response from them so far,” he said. The chief engineer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board, VK Singh, said, “We are tackling the issue of stubble burning proactively. Punitive measures like fines and FIR are being taken.” A fine of Rs 2 lakh in total has been imposed on over 60 farmers in West UP districts and FIRs have been filed, he said.In a separate press conference, the party’s other spokesperson Raghav Chadha accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) of polluting Delhi’s air by burning of garbage in the open at a time when the air quality level is in “poor” category. Chadha said, “The BJP-ruled MCDs is Delhi have been caught burning garbage in Kirari area. The impunity with which the MCDs are playing havoc with the health of Delhi residents is flabbergasting to say the least. Delhi is breathing toxic air because of the MCDs,” Chadha said. He said, “The Delhi government has been fighting pollution with all its political will and administrative might. The EPCA should take strong action against the MCDs.” Also Read: CPCB divides Delhi into 4 zones to focus better on anti-pollution warReacting to Chadha’s allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “This is manipulation of words by Aam Aadmi Party leaders. A solitary accident happens somewhere and they say MCDs are burning garbage as a practice. Such allegations are a part of AAP’s strategy to tarnish the image of hardworking civic sanitation workers. ““Today, the Delhi BJP has drawn attention towards massive dust pollution due to callous works at several PWD projects across the city, including at Ashram Chowk, Pragati Maidan and especially Chandni Chowk, for which the Delhi High Court has shown concern and demands a reply from the Delhi government on this.”In a separate presser, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Delhi government is little to address local factors that contribute 95% to air pollution. He said stubble burning accounts for 5% of air pollution currently. He asked AAP what it had done since the beginning of the year to address the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-trade-charges-over-farm-fires-pollution/story-IXuXFkxwGIHExcRCixV6yN.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Reserving ICU beds a stop-gap measure to combat Covid, govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Thursday told Delhi high court that its decision of reserving 80% ICU beds for Covid patients in city’s private hospitals was a policy decision that was taken considering the increase in the cases across the city. The government said that the move was a temporary measure to mitigate the surge in number of virus-related cases. The court was hearing a plea challenging a September 13 government order, directing all private hospitals having bed strength of 50 or more to reserve at least 80% of their total ICU bed strength for Covid-19 patients. The plea — filed by the Association of Healthcare Providers — had said that the government’s move was a violation of the fundamental right of the citizens of Delhi. Also Read| Covid: Daily RT-PCR tests touch record 15,000-mark, cases above 3,000 in DelhiThe government told the court that the association was looking to secure the financial interests of its member hospitals, under the garb of securing healthcare facilities for non-Covid patients. The government argued that the association was opposed to the reservation of beds as it wanted to admit critical Covid patients in their ICUs and levy arbitrary and exorbitant medical treatment fee and other such charges from them. The government also pointed out that not only did none of the subject hospitals raise any protest and/or objection to the decision, the fact was that almost all of the 33 private hospitals had started implementing the order with immediate effect. The HC then granted one-week time to Association of Healthcare Providers, which claims that the 33 private hospitals against whom the order was passed are its members, to file its response. The high court has asked the association to file a reply and will hear the case on the next on November 18.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe state government in their also reply said several other states like Maharashtra and Odisha have taken similar steps and put in place similar measures to combat the pandemic. It said they have adopted a hands-on dynamic approach for the management and mitigation of this disaster. It said since certain private hospitals have been the preferred choices of patients, it has been found that they hardly have any free and available ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. The government said that there is a section of the society — including those with health insurance, CGHS, DGHS, and ECHS beneficiaries — who prefer admission in private hospitals despite the availability of beds in the government sector. Despite repeated attempts, Girdhar Gyani, the director general of Association of Healthcare Providers was not available for a comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/reserving-icu-beds-a-stop-gap-measure-to-combat-covid-govt-tells-hc/story-oFNP9YVV4rUCWg5zPZi8iJ.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||AAP hits out at BJP for supporting Facebook in top court||The Aam Aadmi Party lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday over the Union government’s decision to back Facebook’s contention in the Supreme Court that the social media company’s representatives must not be made to appear before a Delhi assembly committee.Facebook India’s vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan has been summoned by the committee on peace and harmony to present the company’s stand on allegations that it acted in politically partisan manner, a controversy that echoes similar political wrangling over social media in other countries.“Why is the BJP-ruled Central government backing Facebook at the Supreme Court over the matter of summoning Facebook India’s Ajit Mohan by the Delhi legislative assembly committee on peace and harmony? The BJP government is objecting to the investigation of the role of Facebook in instigating Delhi riots? This raises serious questions against the BJP. The BJP should disclose the nexus between them and Facebook,” said AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj during a press conference at the party’s head office in central Delhi. Facebook India told the Supreme Court on Thursday that it is unwilling to participate in the proceedings before the Delhi legislative assembly’s committee and that the matter was outside the scope of the Committee’s jurisdiction. The central government had said that Delhi assembly’s action in holding such an inquiry is without jurisdiction. Also Read| Unwilling to appear before Delhi assembly panel: Facebook to top court“Public order and police are not under Delhi assembly and their action is without jurisdiction,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the central government, submitted. The court was hearing a plea by Facebook India and its vice-president and managing director, Ajit Mohan challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the Committee that sought Mohan’s presence before the panel as part of its inquiry into the Delhi riots. “The voters of Delhi elected the Aam Aadmi Party to serve them and not be obsessed with social media platforms,” said BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli. A Facebook spokesperson said that they won’t comment on the issue.Bhardwaj said that the BJP is objecting to scrutiny into Facebook’s potential role in “instigation” of the Delhi riots in February, which left at least 53 dead and more than 500 injured. The Committee told the top court on October 6 that Mohan was summoned as a witness and not as an accused – and no coercive action was intended against Facebook India and Mohan – in order to ascertain the social media platform’s views on the question of whether it had contributed in any way to the building up of a situation in Delhi that ended in communal riots in February 2020. The controversy around Facebook traces back to an article by the Wall Street Jounral on August 14 that cited unnamed company insiders as saying Facebook’s India executives had prevented action against a Telangana BJP leader for his Islamophobic comments. Weeks after the report, the company ordered a permanent ban on the leader, MLA T Raja Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-hits-out-at-bjp-for-supporting-facebook-in-top-court/story-CYGcw9VoD0e6lIE3x97PaI.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Four held for slitting throat of e-rickshaw mechanic in front of his nephew||A 23-year-old e-rickshaw mechanic was killed allegedly by four men, in front of his nephew at his shop in north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri late Wednesday night. The four men were arrested on Thursday and police said they are neighbours of the slain man. The arrested men were identified by their single names as Rajan,28, his brother Sanaj,20, and their friends Sachin,20 and Akash,18. Explaining the motive for the murder, police said the two brothers bore a grudge against mechanic Faizan Mohammad .Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Vijayanta Arya said about a fortnight ago, Mohammad had allegedly had made indecent remarks about the brothers following an argument that took place while they were all drinking together. Mohammad’s family said they were unaware of the altercation or the motive for the murder. They alleged that Mohammad was stabbed 17 times with eight knives. The police, however, said apart from his throat being slit, Mohammad had sustained two stab wounds on the hand and back. Arya said around 12.30am on Thursday, the police control room was alerted about a man being murdered at a shop in Jahangirpuri. A police team reached the shop and found a man bleeding from his throat. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. A case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up. Mohammad’s brother Qadir said their nephew, Iqbal, and two other employees were present at the e-rickshaw workshop when the murder took place. While the two staffers were asleep, Mohammad and Iqbal were installing a music system on an e-rickshaw when the four men lifted the iron shutter and entered the shop. “The four men greeted my brother and nephew and then got into an argument with them. One of them slapped Mohammad and he fell on the floor. When Iqbal tried to help him up, two of the attackers overpowered him. One of the two smothered Iqbal while the other pointed a knife at him and threatened to kill him if he raised the alarm. The other two men then stabbed and killed Mohammad,” Qadir said. According to Qadir, Iqbal managed to free himself and fled from the shop. He informed his parents about the attack and also alerted the police. But by the time the family could reach the shop, the attackers had fled, Qadir said. DCP Arya said during the probe, the involvement of Mohammad’s four neighbours emerged. “Our teams raided their hideouts and arrested all four of them within six hours of the murder. The knife used in the crime was also recovered from them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-held-for-slitting-throat-of-e-rickshaw-mechanic-in-front-of-his-nephew/story-ETjGj0AKCDKID8cQL9Zg8J.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||BJP-led civic bodies still not ready to hand over hospitals to govt: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Friday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) for not handing over the charge of hospitals to the Delhi government, despite civic bodies being unable to pay salaries to health care workers. “The hospitals operated by the MCDs lack the necessary patient care and infrastructure. They have not been able to pay salaries to doctors and health care workers, especially at a time when health care workers are risking their lives treating Covid-19 patients. That is not justified. They are also not handing over the charge of these hospitals to the Delhi government,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of MCD affairs. Citing a letter, purportedly written by the North Delhi civic body in July 2018, Pathak said, “The north corporation had told the central government that it was not being able to run hospitals under it. What is stopping the civic body from handing over these hospitals to the Delhi government?” The Delhi BJP denied the allegations and accused the AAP-led Delhi government of perpetrating the crisis by not releasing funds due to the three municipal corporations. Doctors and health care workers of the north corporation’s Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals have been protesting against non-payment of salaries for the past several months. Earlier this week, the Delhi government had denotified Hindu Rao as a Covid-19 facility and had shifted all Covid-19 patients admitted there to Delhi government hospitals. Jain, who is also the urban development minister, had written to the MCDs urging them to hand over the hospitals to the Delhi government if they were unable to operate them. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The AAP leaders have a habit of levelling allegations without going through facts. The MCDs are capable of handling their hospitals if the Delhi government releases proper constitutional funds. Many of the municipal hospitals provide better service than Delhi government hospitals.” Later in the day, Pathak, along with several municipal councillors of the AAP, joined a group of doctors at Jantar Mantar where they staged a protest against the MCDs over non-payment of salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-led-civic-bodies-still-not-ready-to-hand-over-hospitals-to-govt-aap/story-AhBTiPmXzlpG15yFZLppuK.html
17-10-2020||City||Nearly half DU seats filled in first list, second cut-off on Saturday||As many as 34,814 out of 70,000 available undergraduate seats in colleges across the Delhi University have been filled under the first cut-off list this year. The final tally was likely to increase as around 6,000 applicants were yet to pay fees at the time this report was filed. The second cut-off will be released by Saturday evening. Officials across the colleges said there will be a marginal drop of 0.5 to 1 percentage points in the second list in almost all the courses. Last year, 24,000 candidates had taken admissions under the first cut-off list. According to the data provided by the university, as many as 59,730 students had applied for 70,000 undergraduate seats across 61 colleges (excluding St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary) under the first cut-off list. Of them, 34814 had paid the fees to confirm their admissions by 8 pm on Friday. At least 6,394 applicants were expected to complete the formalities by 11.59 pm on Friday. Despite the high cut-offs, colleges witnessed a huge rush for admissions in the first list. Several courses at some colleges have already seen over-admissions. In Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College, which has announced a 100% cut-off for admissions to Political Science, Psychology, and Economics this year, 400 out of the available 750 seats were filled in the first cut-off list. Principal Suman Sharma said that seats under the unreserved category won’t be available in some courses, including BSc (Hons) in Mathematics and at least four combinations of BA (prog) in the second list. However, seats are still available in all three courses having the 100% cut-off. “There will be only a marginal drop in the cut-offs of these subjects in the second list,” Sharma said. Hindu College will close admissions for eight of the 17 undergraduate programs it offers. The college has already enrolled more students than the available seats in courses such as BA (Hons) Hindi, Political Science, History, and English. “We will close admissions under Political Science, History, Physics, Hindi, English, Sanskrit, Chemistry, and Zoology. For the roughly 20 seats in BA (Honours) in Hindi, we had admitted over 65 people. So there will only be a marginal drop in the rest of the cut-offs,” said principal Anju Shrivastava. The college has admitted over 900 students under the first cut-off list. Ramjas College has also witnessed over-admissions in courses, including Political Science (Hons), BSc in Statistics and Zoology, and some combinations of BA (prog). The college has witnessed 916 admissions under the first cut-off list. Principal Manoj Khanna said there won’t be any change in the cut-off of some courses in the second list in which only a few seats are vacant. In Hansraj College, as many as 1,220 seats were filled in the first cut-off, and admissions in some courses including BSc in Mathematics, Anthropology, and BA (Hons) in History will be closed in the second cut-off list. Miranda House had admitted at least 542 students under the first cut-off list till Friday evening. Acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said the college will not take admissions in BA (Honours) in Political Science and Geography for the unreserved category in the second list. “There will only be a marginal decrease between .25 and one percentage point across the rest of the courses. We had kept the BA programe cut-offs on the higher side, so that too will be reduced,” she said. In Shri Ram College of Commerce, as many as 125 students have already enrolled for BA (Hons) in Economics against the available 155 seats. In BCom (Hons) 121 admissions were done in the first cut-off list for 626 seats. The rush was equally heavy in off-campus colleges in the first list. In Rajdhani College, 450 out of the available 1194 seats were filled in the first cut-off. College principal Rajesh Giri said that the admissions will not be open in the general category in some courses, including English (Hons), Political Science (Hons), History (Hons), and BSc in Mathematics and Chemistry, in the second cut-off list. In Bhaskaracharya College Of Applied Sciences, seats in 7 out of 11 courses were filled in the first cut-off. College principal Balram Pani said, “We won’t have admissions in the unreserved category in some courses including Physics (Hons), microbiology, Zoology (Hons), Chemistry and biomedical science in the second cut-off list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-half-du-seats-filled-in-first-list-second-cut-off-on-saturday/story-eaaD5HRESlenXOzwow1UHL.html
17-10-2020||Delhi||Use student funds to pay salaries, Delhi govt tells 12 DU colleges; teachers decry move||Twelve Delhi University colleges, fully funded by the Delhi government, which have been unable to pay salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff for the past several months for want of funds/grants from the government, were Friday told the directorate of higher education to utilise the student fund to pay salaries within two weeks. Citing the pending salaries of staff owing to “ongoing special audit and non-release of grant-in-aid”, the directorate of higher education ordered, “Outstanding salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff be released immediately from the Student Society Fund (SSF) as has been done in the past, till the process of special audit is completed/further instalments of grant-in-aid (under the salary head) are released.”The government did not clarify whether the money, thus borrowed, would be later put back.No sooner had the direction been issued than it came under fire from teachers, including members of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), which said it was “unacceptable to use student funds for paying teachers their salaries”.Maintaining that employees of at least six government-funded DU colleges are without salaries for six months, DUTA president Rajib Ray said, “Using Students Society Fund (SSF) for pay the outstanding salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff is unacceptable. This fund is collected from students for organising extra-curricular activities and is, thus, used by colleges for students. By ordering that colleges use SSF to pay salaries, the Delhi government is pushing the burden of salary payments on to parents and students. This is unacceptable, even as an interim measure.” The 12 colleges include Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Shaheed Rajguru College for Applied Sciences for Women, Maharaja Agrasen College and Acharya Narendra Dev College, among others. There are around 1,200 teaching and 900 non-teaching staff members employed on a permanent basis in these colleges, apart from contractual staff.DU teachers and principals have been protesting since May against the delay in disbursal of grants to 12 government-funded colleges, which they said is the main reason for salaries remaining unpaid for the past five to six months. The government, last month, attributed this delay in releasing funds to the alleged financial irregularities in these colleges and ordered special audits of these colleges. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia later said the initial reports of the audit showed misappropriation of funds in at least four colleges. The department also said if any salaries remain unpaid even after SSF is exhausted, the remaining amount will be covered by the government on “receipt of a formal request from colleges”.Teachers are decrying the move. “Even in the past, if colleges were forced to use SSF for such purposes, the money was borrowed from the account and was always returned as soon as grants-in-aid were released. The SSF cannot be siphoned off towards salary payments on a permanent basis…Audits are routine matters for any institution and salaries have never been stopped on this pretext earlier. Why should it be any different this time?” Ray said. The Delhi government, in a statement, said, “The lawyer representing Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College had stated in court that they have paid salaries from the SSF in the past. When the judge asked him whether they are allowed to do so, he said “yes, they are -- all they need is a permission from the directorate of higher education”. They should also be asked to present any document that states that this is illegal. The reason they now claim this is illegal is because this fund is discretionary, to be spent by principals, and there is corruption in how the money is spent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/use-student-funds-to-pay-salaries-delhi-govt-tells-12-du-colleges-teachers-decry-move/story-YZN8L2RS6YhRqPBmiknVjP.html
17-10-2020||City||Flash floods in city: Punekars demand permanent solution||Pune: The victims of flash flood that damaged their houses and caused lose to property have demanded the civic administration to erect a retaining wall near Ambil Odha.Some of the residents were seen still cleaning their houses on Friday after heavy rains on Wednesday night caused muddy waters to enter their homes. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials and workers visited the various flood-affected areas and carried out cleaning and relief related works. The affected citizens have asked the civic administration to build a strong retaining wall on both sides of Ambil Odha flowing through the city area. The 2019 flash floods in the city had claimed 266 lives of which seven residents of Tangewala colony in Sahakarnagar were washed away in the strong currents of water as they were asleep. “The cleaning of our houses is still going on and stink will remain for some time. We are living under fear and PMC has not learnt a lesson from last year’s flash floods. PMC officials and local coporators visited our area today and once again assured to build the wall. Who will compensate for the damage that could have been avoided if civic administration had taken adequate steps?” said Kaushik Sabale, a resident of Sahakarnagar area whose entire house was filled with water and mud. People living at Katraj area and close to the lake also face risk of water entering their houses during heavy rains.“It is an issue we face in every rainy season. The damage we faced this time is less as compared to previous year, but we cannot live under flood threat every year. PMC should find a permanent solution to flooding and water logging issues.” said Navnath Kamble, a resident of New Katraj Vasahat area under Katraj bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flash-floods-punekars-demand-permanent-solution/story-IjQpDuNZhTgVtB5Ozg2GFN.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar and Supriya Sule water down reports of Khadse’s switch to NCP||After reports emerged of Eknath Khadse, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and former opposition leader in the Maharashtra assembly, being set to join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Ajit Pawar and Supriya Sule have clarified that they are not aware of any such move. Khadse has made his dissatisfaction with the BJP public and has engaged in continuously attacking former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The buzz in political circles is that Khadse is going to join the NCP very soon, as early as the Navratri festival, which begins from October 17. Pawar was in the city to take a review of the Covid- 19 situation in the district. All party MPs and MLAs from the Pune district were invited to the meeting. When Pawar was questioned on Khadse’s switch to the NCP, he said he wasn’t aware of any such developments. Pawar said, “It is very common that people from different political parties meet each other. We cannot come to the conclusion that meeting the opposition party leaders means any new development. Even I used to meet opposition party leaders when we were in the opposition.” Meanwhile, when Sule was questioned about Khadse’s induction into the party, she replied, “I am not aware of this. Media should ask this to the state unit president Jayant Patil.” Meanwhile, Pawar charitable trust donated ambulances to the district administrations of Shirur, Baramati and Indapur in Pune district. No political intention behind inquiry of Jalyukta Shivar Abhiyan – Pawar Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said that though the state government opened an inquiry into former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis’ flagship scheme Jalyukta Shivar, no political intention was behind it. Pawar clarified that the inquiry was not to corner anyone. According to Pawar, the CAG has highlighted some flaws in it and the minister of state for irrigation Tanaji Sawant has raised some points about this scheme in their tenure only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-and-supriya-sule-water-down-reports-of-khadse-s-switch-to-ncp/story-qKtQQLNu5aztdmb1gHmeZK.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Schools won’t start until post-Diwali, says Ajit Pawar in Pune||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced that schools won’t begin in the state until after Diwali. “Some of the states tried to start schools but later they had to face its consequences. Learning lessons from those schools, we have decided we will not start school in Maharashtra until after Diwali. After Diwali, we will review Covid-19 and then a decision will be taken about starting schools,” Pawar said. He was talking at the inaugural programme of “Punyacha Nirdhar, Corona Haddapar’ under the ‘My Family My responsibility’ campaign started by the state government. The programme was organised on Friday at the PMPML head office near Swargate. Pawar further said, “We need to take the economy forward along with Covid, and there are no favourable conditions as of now to start schools. Navratri and Diwali festival are coming, earlier we celebrated Ganpati and other festivals in a very simple manner and my appeal to citizens would be to celebrate forthcoming festivals in a simple way. The recovery rate in Pune has come to nearby 90 and until we make Pune Covid free, we won’t stop.” On this occasion, Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune MP Girish Bapat, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, Pune district collector Rajendra Deshmukh, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, PCMC commissioner Dr Shravan Hardikar, PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap and several other political party leaders and senior government officials were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-won-t-start-until-post-diwali-pawar/story-S2pkMOw8kzdUHmj4OWTMVP.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Mandals in Pune give mandaps a miss for Covid-hit Navratri||The Navratri mandals have taken a conscious decision to not erect pandals of the goddess Laxmi for the nine-day celebration of Navratri in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic this year. The famous temples in the city that attract a large crowd during the nine-day festival like Chaturshringi devasthan, Bhavani mata mandir, Tambdi Jogeshwari, Taljai, Mahalaxmi mandir, Padmavati are following the government norms and have decided to keep their temples shut. Some temples in the city have taken a decision to live stream the rituals like ghatstapana on Saturday and the aarti of the goddess on their websites or social media pages. “It is most unfortunate that we have to keep the temple closed during the Navratri celebrations, but one has to follow the government norms and rules which in the best interest during the Covid-19 situation in the city. Though we will be continuing with the religious rituals within the inner sanctum performed by the priests and staff, we will live stream on the big LED screen displayed near the big gate in our premises,” said Devendra Angal, managing trustee, Chaturshringi devasthan. The Chaturshringi devasthan will upload videos and stream on their official page on social media and also on their website www.chattushringidevasthanpune.org and www.chattushringidevasthan.org. The Mahalaxmi temple has also announced that it will be live streaming the ghatastpana and other programmes online. But older temples in the city like Tambdi Jogeshwari are still undecided on how to reach out to their lakhs of devotees. “We usually have a lot of women performing the puja and other rituals within the inner sanctum of the temple, and since it is a small space, we usually use to have a mandap outside the temple with all the nine vahanas on display, which also eased the crowds from entering into the temple, but this year, we are following the protocols laid by the government and also still haven’t got permission to put up LED screenings, so we are undecided,” said Vinayak Bendre, a priest at the Tambdi Jogeshwari temple. There are at least 100 smaller temples who usually put up mandaps outside the small temples of the goddess. However, in light of the protocol, they have taken a decision to not to hold any programmes for nine days. “We will have ghatastapana within the small temple performed only by the priest and have cancelled most of our programmes except for a ‘hom’ which will be held outside the temple in a 10x10 mandap, provided we get permission,” said Kumar Renuse, president of the Nav Vishnu chowk mitra mandal, Navratri utsav, Sadashiv peth. Madhav Jagtap, head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) encroachment department said, “Looking at the Covid pandemic situation, we have begun unlock phase 4 however, not a single mandal or temple has approached us for permission for setting up mandaps for Navratri. It is a conscious decision by many mandals to follow the norms in the strictest possible way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mandals-give-mandaps-a-miss-for-covid-hit-navratri/story-G0BfqpwZSsJWV7d0GuZo2L.html
17-10-2020||Pune||200 illegal structures over waterbodies await demolition in Pune||The issue of illegal structures constructed over different nallahs (canals) in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) regions, has come to light following the death of Nimit Ashok Aherwal (21), a resident of Sanaswadi, who was swept away by water overflowing in a nallah near Hotel Kaveri on the Pune-Ahmednagar road on Wednesday night. Following the incident, residents of Wagholi have demanded strong action against PMRDA officials for failing to act against construction on nallahs in the area. According to the PMRDA administration, there are 100 structures occupying space on natural waterbodies in the area, causing repeated flooding in Wagholi. Apart from Katraj, Sahakarnagar, Bibvewadi and Dhankawdi, suburbs like Wagholi, Undri, Mohammadwadi, Ahmednagar road, Vishrantwadi, Phulenagar, Mundhwa, Hadapsar and Wanowrie areas have experienced flash floods in the past one year. Citizen rights activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “We are waiting for another tragedy to happen. The builders in connivance with the politicians have brutally chopped off the hilltops, destroyed the environment and filled up nallahs and rivulets during the past one decade. The citizens are afraid to raise their voice against these illegalities. It is time Puneites take action against construction on waterbodies. Nallah encroachments in the suburbs and inaction by the respective civic bodies is the main reason behind intense waterlogging.” Sanjeev Kumar Patil, director, Wagholi Housing Societies Association, said, “The PMRDA is guilty of misconduct and action needs to be taken against officials for not removing the illegal encroachments on the nallah. We want to make lives safe for all Wagholikars and also all commuters using the highway. There are a large number of encroachments on natural water bodies which need to be removed at the earliest to prevent flooding and flash floods in the area.” Suhas Diwase, chief of PMRDA, said action will be taken against violators. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have ordered an inquiry into the death and suitable action will be taken against the violators.” Twenty-one-year Nimit Ashok Aherwal of Sanaswadi lost his life near hotel Kaveri on Ahmednagar road at 10 am on Wednesday. He was on way to drop his relative to railway station and when he saw overflowing water asked his relative to get down on bike. While he proceeded on bike, he was washed away.Unchecked construction near water bodyDevelopment Control (DC) rules of the PMC prohibit construction within 20 metres of any water body. Even if the nallah flows through private land, the owner cannot construct on it. While the responsibility of keeping a check on such violations lies with the irrigation department, ward offices of the civic body are also empowered to act against offender. The PMC had appointed a private firm, Pri-Move, which identified 77 structures alongside the Ambil odha which aggravated the floods last year. A separate committee of environmental activists and residents then prepared a report pointing to specific unauthorised constructions that contributed to the floods. Based on the Pri-Move report, the PMC served notices to all 77 unauthorised structures, but none have been demolished till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-illegal-structures-over-water-bodies-await-demolition/story-WwrLKa3dS1aWEWfJl7jy4K.html
17-10-2020||Pune||Death toll in Western Maharashtra rises to 29; 8 remain missing; 40k people displaced||A total of 29 persons have died due to the heavy rain in western Maharashtra, the District Collector’s office, said in a release issued on Friday. A total of eight persons are still missing, one of whom is from Pune. Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, and Kolhapur districts are parts of western Maharashtra under the jurisdiction of divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Along with a total of seven people who lost their lives due to the rainfall in Pune district as of October 15, one person who was swept away in Daundh tehsil remains missing. One of the seven deaths was confirmed from Shel Pimpalgaon in Chakan, after the body was found late on Thursday night. “We found the body late in the night so it was reported late. The man was riding his bike on a bridge in Mohitewadi and was swept away. His body was found later in the night,” said Manchak Ipper, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1, Pimpri-Chinchwad. In other parts of Western Maharashtra, two lives were lost in Satara; six in Sangli; and 14 in Solapur. Of the eight who are still missing as of Friday, three are missing from Sangli and four from Solapur. The rainfall affected 40,036 people from 10,349 families in the five districts. Solapur was the worst affected with 32,521 people displaced, followed by Pune district where 6,221 people were affected. In Sangli district, 1,081 people, and in Satara, 213 were affected. Pune district lost crops growing on 18,746 hectares which included soyabean, vegetables, rice, onion, groundnuts, jowar, flowers, fruits, fodder, corn, and millet. In Solapur, crops on 58,581 hectares were affected; the damaged crops included sugarcane, soyabean, cotton, pomegranate, tur, vegetables, onion, groundnut, millets, jowar, corn, sunflower, banana, papaya, and watermelon. In the five districts, a total of 87,416 hectares were damaged in the rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/death-toll-in-western-maharashtra-rises-to-29-8-remain-missing-40k-people-displaced/story-czDjUijRKnvd1W1ryBim0K.html
17-10-2020||City||Video on how to cheat in online exam goes viral; SPPU files police complaint||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Friday lodged a police complaint against unknown persons for allegedly circulating a video on social media showing how to cheat in online exam. The varsity’s final year exams started from October 12. Around 2 lakh students are appearing in online mode and 50,000 through offline mode at 113 examination centres. The video was uploaded on YouTube by “Sarpanch HD channel” on October 14 named as “SPPU Cheating Mantra 2020”. The 7.32 minutes video show tricks and hacks on clearing the online exams. It contains Do’s and Don’ts and step wise instructions on how to cheat in online exams. The video is viewed by more than 10,000 people and received comments, according to a varsity official. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of examination department, “We verified the video first. It puts the varsity in a bad light and students can be misguided. As those who made the video have used the photograph of SPPU main building, we approached the police. The video maligns the image of SPPU administration, faculty and violates the rules of conducting exams. We have lodged a written complaint with Chatuhshrungi police station.” “We have received the complaint from SPPU and forwarded it to our cyber cell department for further action,” said senior inspector Anil Shewale of Chatuhshrungi police station. Meanwhile, on Friday, 60,822 students were expected to appear for the online exam and 15,196 for offline format. Of which, 54,384 students successfully completed their online examination and 13,501 appeared for offline exams. The five subject papers scheduled on October 13, but rescheduled due to technical issues will be conducted on later date by the SPPU examination department. Master of Science Chemistry - Inorganic Reaction Mechanism will be held on October 24, third year Bachelor of Science - Real Analysis Part 1 (November 3), Master of Science Mathematics – Advanced Calculus (October 24), Bachelor of Commerce – Business Management (Marathi) on October 17 and third year Bachelor of Science – Solid State Physics on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/video-on-how-to-cheat-in-online-exam-goes-viral-sppu-files-police-complaint/story-IldzrZfJypDf2MKkrpTA6M.html
17-10-2020||City||Two fall off Bhide bridge in Pune; search on||Two boys fell off Bhide bridge over Mula-Mutha river in Pune on Friday evening. Fire brigade officials are carrying out rescue work. The missing duo has been identified as Om Timappa Tupghar (18) and Saurabh Suresh Kamble (20), both residents of Tadiwala road, according to fire brigade officials. “There were taking photos when they slipped and fell. We are still looking for them,” said Sunil Naiknavare, fire officer who is heading the search operation. The incident will be recorded at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-fall-off-bhide-bridge-search-on/story-I3wScbbsocmWC7JBEz6EIM.html
17-10-2020||City||Pune: 50-year-old woman bludgeoned to death, son’s mother-in-law grievously injured||A 50-year-old woman was found bludgeoned to death in Kalewadi, Pimpri-Chinchwad, on Friday morning. Another woman was also found to have sustained grievous injuries in the same incident. The deceased has been identified as Chaya Pandurang Gunjal and the injured woman is Mangal Sahebrao Satvadhar (48), according to the police. Santosh Pandhurang Gunjal (32), the deceased woman’s son, who is also the complainant in the case, is married to Satvadhar’s daughter. Members of the Gunjal family have vegetable stalls in Pimpri market. The incident happened in Gunjal’s house in Tuljabhawani colony, Nadhenagar in Kalewadi. Senior officials, including Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash, visited the scene of the crime. “The assailant switched off power to the entire colony before entering the house,” said assistant inspector Tanaji Bhogam of Wakad police station, who registered the complaint. According to the complaint, the Gunjal couple, Satvadhar and the complainant’s grandmother were sleeping in the house on Thursday night. Early on Friday morning, the grandmother left to sell vegetables, as she does so every morning, according to the complainant. After she left, between 4am and 5am, the two women were attacked. “There are four rooms. In the living room, these four persons were sleeping. In another room, the complainant’s step grandmother was sleeping. And the complainant and his pregnant wife were sleeping in yet another room. The complainant’s father has a history of paralysis, according to the complainant. They heard the women’s screams and came out, but the assailant had fled by then,” said API Bhogam. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempted murder), and 450 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Wakad police station against the unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-year-old-woman-bludgeoned-to-death-son-s-mother-in-law-grievously-injured/story-AN3B3S8FNeQfyoxga45y0I.html
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet withdraws ordinance on private job quota||The Haryana cabinet on Friday withdrew the ordinance it had approved two months ago to provide 75% reservation in private sector jobs. The ordinance was not promulgated by the governor, who had reserved it for the consideration of the President. The proposed legislation was sent to the Union home ministry for scrutiny before the President took a call. The BJP-JJP regime intends to bring a replica bill in the assembly after withdrawing the ordinance. A replica bill passed by the assembly will also have to be reserved for the consideration of the President, officials said. Deputy chief minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala, who piloted the private quota move, had earlier written to the governor, seeking the withdrawal of the ordinance. However, officials said the cabinet will first have to sanction the move to withdraw the ordinance. “The ordinance has not been promulgated. Since it has been sent to the Centre for the President’s consideration, it is still under progress. So,unless it’s withdrawn by the governor by writing to the central government, a replica bill cannot be tabled in the assembly. The move to withdraw it can only be approved by the cabinet,” a senior official said. Former advocate general Ashok Aggarwal said it is the government’s prerogative to introduce an identical bill in the legislature. However, the decision not to do so when an ordinance is reserved for the President’s consideration is a step in consonance with the highest traditions of constitutional propriety. “Once the governor has expressed an opinion for seeking presidential assent, it is appropriate not to hurry up or make an overreach by presenting a bill in the assembly. Let the higher constitutional functionary take a view,” Aggarwal said. The law expert said the Supreme Court had held that an ordinance is also identical to a law passed by the legislature. The governor’s move to reserve the ordinance for the consideration of President is being seen as a setback for Dushyant, whose party had made a poll promise to implement the quota. Article 201 of the Constitution says that President can either declare that he assents to the proposed law or that he withholds the assent. The President can also direct the governor to return it to the House for reconsideration. Why was it reserved for President’s consideration The ordinance was reserved for the President’s consideration as its Section 23 gave it an overriding effect over other laws and it had the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana also was seemingly in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) that provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. The Constitution does not provide a time limit for the President to assent to a bill or withhold it. Amended crime control bill without wiretap clause to be tabledFollowing objections by the Centre, the cabinet on Friday struck off provisions pertaining to phone interception in the Haryana Control of Organized Crime (HCOC) Bill, 2019, replacing it with an amended version. The state assembly had in 2019 passed the HCOC Bill. Subsequently, the governor had reserved it for the consideration of the President. However, the Centre raised objections regarding provisions pertaining to phone interception and its authorisation in the proposed law on the ground that such provisions already exist under the Indian Telegraph Act and the IT Act. Thus, the cabinet considered the proposal of home department to withdraw the 2019 bill and introduce it in the amended form in the next assembly session. Other decisionsHaryana cabinet on Friday approved amendments in the Teacher Transfer Policy, one of which states that after the transfer drive, the ‘newly married’ or ‘recently divorced’ female employees will be given preferred place of posting against vacancy upon request.Haryana government has also decided to exempt CTU buses plying in Panchkula on local routes from payment of Motor Vehicles Tax.It gave nod for draft of Haryana Water Resources Conservation (Management and Regulation) Authority Bill, 2020.Haryana government has decided to redesignate the ‘Department of Housing’ as ‘Department of Housing for All’, which will subsume various housing schemes currently undertaken by several departments.It has also given nod to reinstallation of toll point number 26 on Kala Amb-Sadhaura-Shahbad road up to March 31, 2022.The cabinet gave ex post facto approval for providing state government guarantee of ₹700 crore in favour of commercial banks for working capital facilities sanctioned to DHBVNL.It also approved an amendment in Haryana Civil Services (Pay) Rules, 2016, for the pay fixation/ pay protection on subsequent appointment from higher pay scale to lower pay scale.The cabinet gave its nod to creation of new directorate of MSME, which will be responsible for making policies, schemes for the overall development of such enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cabinet-to-withdraw-ordinance-on-private-job-quota-today/story-7Mar8i3tbvii1BnWG0ZlvI.html
