18-10-2020||Mumbai||Powai police find 50% decomposed body in bushes near Mumbai’s Vihar lake||Powai police on Saturday registered a case of murder against an unknown person for allegedly killing and trying to dispose of the body of a Bhandup resident. The deceased identified as Prashant Rane, was a driver by profession and lived with his family at Ramabai Nagar, Bhandup (west).After a pedestrian informed police about a strong foul smell coming from bushes near Vihar lake, a police team reached the spot and started combing the area.Vijay Dalvi, senior inspector from Powai police station, said, “On October 16, while checking we found a body which was almost 50% decomposed. It was difficult for us to identify the man. We sent the body to Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar for post-mortem and learnt that the man was killed with a sharp-edged object.”According to police, the initial report suggested that the killer stabbed the deceased on the left side of his chest and only one stab caused his death. Following this, the case was filed under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.An officer said, “We had no clue about the identity of deceased, so we took photos of him as well as his clothes and circulated to all police stations. Later, we received information from Bhandup police station about a missing complaint registered on October 9 and the description of the clothes matched.”“After that we contacted the family to come to Rajawadi Hospital for identification. The family confirmed that it was Rane. We are questioning people to ascertain who killed him and why,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/powai-police-find-50-decomposed-body-in-bushes-near-mumbai-s-vihar-lake/story-1L7dRccTZhrBbVyfyQh5ZI.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Employee of e-wallet service provider arrested in Mumbai for stealing customers’ passwords and duping them||The state cyber police on Saturday arrested an employee of an e-commerce payment service provider for allegedly stealing passwords of customer’s and later using them for unauthorised transactions. The accused Mohammed Munna Ansari, 25, is a field sales executive at the company, and under the pretext of resolving technical errors in the app of customers, he would reset their password and memorise it. Later he would use the password to illegally transfer money into desired accounts. The probe has revealed that he has similarly carried out 4-5 unauthorised transactions. His partner, who taught him the trick of how to withdraw money using someone else’s password, is wanted in the case. Ansari has been arrested on the complaint of one Rajesh Patel, a milk shop owner in Andheri (West). Patel has lodged a complaint with the cyber police in September after he discovered that five unauthorised transactions worth over ₹50,000 were carried out between August 19 and September 20 from his e-wallet account. On October 5 when Patel checked his email account he found an August 19 email from the company alerting him of a suspicious login on his account from an unknown device. Patel had missed this email, cyber police said. The cyber police officers arrested Ansari after analysing the details of the beneficiary account. His interrogation revealed that as he was working for the company and thus got details of the customers. “He would visit customers and under the pretext of resolving errors in their apps, would reset the password and memorise the new password. Later he would log in to the customer’s account from another device and make unauthorised transactions. He is believed to have similarly stolen money from 4-5 such customers,” said a police source. The number of victims may increase as the investigation progresses. The person who taught Ansari how to do this con job is wanted in the case and would soon be arrested, the police said. Ansari has booked under sections 420, 34 of Indian Penal Code and 43A, 66 and 66C of Information Technology Act. His mobile phone has been seized by the police to secure evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/employee-of-e-wallet-service-provider-arrested-in-mumbai-for-stealing-customers-passwords-and-duping-them/story-CUGl2LvUxc4Ugx16zaPGDP.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks banks to disburse loans and refund interest to farmers||In a major relief to over a lakh farmers who were being held at ransom by banks refusing to disburse loans for the ongoing Kharif season, till the farmers paid interest on the previous loans, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed the banks to release the loan amount. Court has also restrained the banks from demanding interest on the previous loan and directed the banks to return the interest collected from the farmers.The farmers eligible for loan waiver under the Mahatma Phule Karjmukti Yojna approached the court after banks refused to disburse the new loans to them even though the state had issued a government resolution in January 2020, stating that it would pay the banks the previous loan amount under the scheme. A division bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Kishore Tangade, a resident of Aurangabad, was informed by advocate Satish Talekar that banks were resorting to arm twisting tactics with the farmers. Talekar submitted that the though the banks had been asked by the state government not to seek interest on the previous loans from October 1, 2019, and to disburse new loans to the farmers, the banks were holding the farmers to ransom and telling them that new loans would be released only if the farmers paid interest accrued after October 1 on the previous loans.Citing the example of Aurangabad District Central Cooperative Bank Ltd, Talekar informed the court that even though it had passed an interim order on July 9 directing banks not to ask for interest and disburse new loans, the said bank was adamant and refused to release the new loans till the farmers paid interest accrued after October 1, 2019. Talekar submitted that as the Kharif season was underway and the delaying tactics by banks would result in huge losses to the farmers who would not be able to take benefit of the season, due to lack of funds, the court should initiate contempt proceedings against such banks. Senior counsel RS Deshmukh for the bank submitted that after the interim order, the bank had released loans to around 98,000 farmers, but was not releasing loans to chronic defaulters. Though the bank intends to challenge the order wherein they have been restrained from demanding interest on the previous loans after October 1, 2019, in light of the interim order they had stopped demanding interest. After hearing the submission, the court observed that 2020 was a tumultuous year due to Covid but with timely rains, the agriculturists would suffer if they do not get short term loans on time. In light of this, the court directed the banks to not only disburse loans to the remaining beneficiary at the earliest but also refund the interest collected by them to the tune of ₹5 crore immediately to the farmers. The court then disposed of the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-banks-to-disburse-loans-and-refund-interest-to-farmers/story-EhaK5dY7LXIPGhzmxgboVL.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||CAS promotions: PUTA threatens to hold dharna if interview schedule not finalised by November 3||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Sunday said they will hold a dharna at the university if the schedule for pending interviews of teachers for promotions, under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), is not finalised by November 3.The teachers’ body wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and demanded that the pending interviews of more than 50 teachers “who have been waiting for months” be held.CAS promotions were one of the main agendas of the new PUTA executive body in the recent elections. The interviews were fixed in March and April, but due to the virus outbreak, many of them could neither be held on the scheduled dates nor could be rescheduled.In their letter to the V-C, PUTA said that there was no justification for not holding the pending interviews “when Unlock 5 has already been announced by the Government of India and most of the restrictions have been removed from October 15.”The letter also stated that if the schedule was not finalised by November 3, PUTA would sit on a dharna protest at 12noon on that day in front of wherever the vice-chancellor was operating from.V-C Raj Kumar said, “We have already initiated the process and the schedule of interviews will be finalised soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cas-promotions-puta-threatens-to-hold-dharna-if-interview-schedule-not-finalised-by-november-3/story-EJKAN1g0njqefPm8uLaMzI.html
18-10-2020||City||Ludhiana residents move human rights panel over contaminated water||Irked over contaminated water supply for around two weeks, residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar Block - E filed a complaint with the Punjab State Human Rights Commission on Sunday.The residents rued that despite several complaints submitted with the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB), the authorities have failed to find a solution for the problem, due to which they are falling ill.They said a foul smell emanated from the water and amid the Covid-19 pandemic and rising dengue cases, the fear of water-borne diseases was haunting them.One of the residents, Aamarjit Singh, said, “Supply of potable water is fundamental right of the residents. We made several requests to the authorities, but they have still failed to find a solution. They have not even been able to find the cause so far. We were forced to submit a complaint with the human rights commission and have also sought action against officials concerned.”Another resident, Arvind Sharma, said, “My grandson fell ill last week by consuming contaminated water. Many others in our locality are also falling ill, but authorities are not paying heed to the problem.” “Residents are forced to purchase mineral water because of this. Earlier, we had filed a complaint with the principal secretary of the local bodies department. But, as the authorities failed to resolve the problem, we have submitted a complaint with the human rights commission,” he added.LIT officials said that PWSSB officials are working on the issue.PWSSB sub-divisional officer (SDO) Gurpreet Singh, said, “We have checked sewer lines in the area but there is no problem in them. Now, we will be inspecting house connections of residents. Only a few houses are now getting contaminated water supply in the area and we are constantly working to resolve the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-move-human-rights-panel-over-contaminated-water/story-QBlH6LHswScqNsiouTB8YO.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||23-yr-old student from Mumbai hopes recent judgment by SC will help him get admission in IIT-B||In what could come as a major relief and success for a 23-year-old student belonging to the reserved category, who was denied admission to a post-graduate diploma course in the Industrial Design Centre of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B), a recent Supreme Court judgement could ensure that he gets his way.After the institute failed to intimate the student Prathmesh Pedamkar him about his selection for admission on time, the student approached the Bombay high court as IIT-B refused to accommodate him. However, IIT-B informed the HC that they could not make an exception for him, the court asked the student’s lawyer to bring past judgements that directed institutes to admit students, though the seats were filled up. The apex court judgement will be placed before the HC on Monday. The Apex court judgement of December 2019 in a similar case has held that if the student is not at fault, an institute is bound to grant the student admission in the current academic year by increasing a seat or granting him admission in the next academic year based on the selection procedure he/she underwent this year.According to the petition by Pedamkar, he had worked hard to get admitted to the masters in diploma course at the IDC in IIT-B. Due to the pandemic the entire selection process of the institute which was to start in May had got postponed and had completed only in July with his personal interview.Pedamkar’s advocate Ashraf Shaikh had informed the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that though the institute had not put up the revised schedule for the selection process, it kept the applicant students informed through email and mobile phone messages. Shaikh submitted that his client had managed to reach the final stage of selection through this method and was told that he would be intimated through the same method if he was shortlisted for the 17 seats on offer.On August 21, after waiting for a month, Pedamkar who had not got any email or SMS from the institute contacted the authorities only to be told that he had not responded to the mail sent to him on August 2 and hence lost his seat after being selected for admission. Pedamkar then sought details of the email and a copy of the sent email, but the institute did not oblige. Hence he approached the Navi Mumbai Cyber Cell to find out whether he had received the email from IIT-B. The cyber cell, however, declined his request for want of a court order. Pedamkar then approached the high court as the institute refused to grant him admission belatedly as the reserved category seat had been filled up by another candidate.The institute had however maintained that though the mail to Pedamkar had not reached him, it was his duty to check the IIT-B and IDC website to ascertain whether he was selected. The institute further submitted that though there were 19 students who had not received the mail, 14 of them secured their admission before August 6 after finding their name on the website. In light of this and there was no additional seat, the institute refused to grant him admission this year. It also refused to grant admission next year stating that Pedamkar would have to undergo the selection process again.As IIT-B was adamant on not admitting Pedamkar, the court said it wanted to help Pedamakar but for that Shaikh should find previous orders of the SC or any other HC wherein an institute was asked to accommodate a student beyond its intake capacity.The Supreme Court judgement passed on December 19, 2019, pertaining to admission of a student the MBBS course. The student had approached the SC after her petition for admission in the Delhi HC had got delayed and the date for admission had passed. The SC bench of justices Arun Mishra, MR Shah and B R Gavai held that though the date for admission had passed, keeping a meritorious student had to be put in the original position of getting the seat if he/she had lost the seat for no fault of his/her own.The SC issued the following order:1. The Court under exceptional circumstances and in rarest of rare cases direct the admission in the same year by directing to increase the seats, however, it should not be more than one or two seats and such admissions can be ordered within a reasonable time.2. Such relief can be granted only in exceptional circumstances and in the rarest of rare cases. In case of such an eventuality, the Court may also pass an order cancelling the admission given to a candidate who is at the bottom of the merit list of the category3. Wherever the court finds that the action of the authorities has been arbitrary and in breach of the rules and regulations or the prospectus affecting the rights of the students and that a candidate is found to be meritorious and such candidate/student has approached the court at the earliest and without any delay, the court can mould the relief and direct the admission to be granted to such a candidate in the next academic year by issuing appropriate directions.4. if it is found that the management was at fault and wrongly denied the admission to the meritorious candidate, in that case, the Court may direct to reduce the number of seats in the management quota of that year, meaning thereby the student/students who was/were denied admission illegally to be accommodated in the next academic year out of the seats allotted in the management quota.5. Grant of the compensation could be an additional remedy but not a substitute for restitutional remedies. Therefore, in an appropriate case, the Court may award the compensation to such a meritorious candidate who for no fault of his/her has to lose one full academic year and who could not be granted any relief of admission in the same academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-yr-old-student-from-mumbai-hopes-recent-judgment-by-sc-will-help-him-get-admission-in-iit-b/story-yCvyVvbpZwbty9PNYksFPK.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB arrests South African national in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested a South African national, Agisilaos Demetriades, with small quantities of drugs in connection with drug case into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). The accused is the brother of a Bollywood actor’s girlfriend. Demetriades was in constant touch with several drug peddlers who supplied drugs to Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and others arrested in the SSR case, said NCB officers. Mumbai zonal director of NCB, Sameer Wankhede, confirmed the arrest. Following a tip-off, the Mumbai NCB team raided a resort at Lonavala and arrested Demetriades. He was staying with his fiancé. NCB recovered 0.8 gram black colour sticky substance purported to be charas. The agency also conducted a search at his residence in Khar and recovered Alprazolam tablets, said an NCB officer. After checking his call records, it was found that he had contacted Anuj Keswani and Dwayne, both of whom have been arrested in the SSR case. Demetriades said he had supplied drugs to Kaizan Ibrahim. An NCB officer said, “Demetriades was dealing in a variety of drugs. Electronic evidence showed that he was in touch with Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda, who are linked with accused Rhea and Showik Chakraborty.” Demetriades was produced before a court and has been remanded in NCB custody for three days. The agency has so far arrested 23 people including actor Chakraborty and her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, and drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar among others. Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 7 while her brother is still in jail. On October 15, NCB arrested Jai Madhok, a management professional and drug peddler who dealt in cocaine and hashish. Madhok’s name came up during various statements of drug peddlers recorded in the case. Madhok was involved in cocaine and hashish consumption as well as distribution, along with Dharma Productions’ former executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad and Ankush Arenja, both were earlier arrested in the SSR case. Madhok has direct links with Nigerian nationals and procured cocaine for himself and also distributed the contraband to his friends. During interrogation, Madhok said he was in touch with Sam alias Rahil Vishram who used to supply hashish to him. He then supplied the hashish to his few friends to earn money. When NCB officers checked Madhok’s financial transactions, they found that he had made many transactions for payment of drugs. Last month, NCB recorded statements of Bollywood actors Rakul Preet Singh, Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan. Statement of Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash was also recorded. The agency is probing the drug angle into Rajput’s death. Rajput was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-arrests-south-african-national-in-drugs-case/story-708MpQs6D7HHiDJWbcqxxO.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor’s ‘Secular’ taunt: Issue has ended for us after Amit Shah’s stand, says Sanjay Raut||In the backdrop of Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s ‘secular’ taunt to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Shiv Sena MP and executive editor of the party mouthpiece Saamana Sanjay Raut said the curtain has been drawn on the episode for them. Meanwhile, the Congress has demanded action against the ‘anti-constitutional’ stand by the governor.Raut on Sunday said that after the stance taken by Shah, a message would have been sent out to governors across the country. “The controversy could have been avoided, had it not been commenced by Governor. We did not start, ours was a reaction. However, the issue has now ended for us after an earful by Union home minister Amit Shah, whose ministry handles matters related to governors and Raj Bhavans. We respect Shah as he never hesitates to put up the truth frankly. We respect his stand on the issue and draw the curtain on it now,” he said.Shah had, on Saturday, in an interview to a media group said that Governor BS Koshyari should have chosen his words carefully in the letter he wrote to Thackeray. “I have read the letter. He has made a passing reference. I believe some restraint could have been exercised,” Shah said.Koshyari had written to Thackeray last week raising the issue of reopening of places of worship in Maharashtra. “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular ‘ yourselves, the term you hated?” Koshyari had asked Thackeray in his letter. In his response, Thackeray said he does not need a “certificate” on Hindutva from the governor and added, “Do you mean that opening up religious places is Hindutva, and not opening them means being secular? Secularism is a crucial base of the oath you took as Governor. Do you not believe it?” The Congress has demanded that the governor be called back by the Central government. “If the Central government is convinced that the honourable governor has crossed his brief, he should be called back to safeguard the constitutional framework,” said Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant.Meanwhile, Sawant has also raised questions as to why the Railways was dilly-dallying in commencing local train services to women commuters despite having agreed amicably during a meeting on October 13. “The railway officers agreed to allow women commuters board train from October 17, the first day of Navratri, during non-peak hours. The meeting was chaired by the chief secretary of Maharashtra and both the sides had agreed. Why are BJP leaders, who have been insisting on opening temples, silent on the delay? And why do not they ask their leader Piyush Goyal, who heads the railway ministry, to intervene?” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-s-secular-taunt-issue-has-ended-for-us-after-amit-shah-s-stand-says-sanjay-raut/story-5fSc1YYV060qGiPWhZlYEP.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Mental illness common on campus, academic pressure, anxiety most common cause, finds survey by IIT-Bombay magazine||A significant number of students at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), who were surveyed by student magazine Insight, said mental health problems were common in the institute. Academic pressure and anxieties about career are some of the top causes for mental health problems among students, finds the survey aimed at understanding students’ experience with mental health in the institute. Of the 450 students, who responded to the survey, 85% said problems in mental health were common in IIT-B and 93% said mental health problems were real psychological problems. When asked about the possible causes for their mental health illness, 71.3% said academic pressure was the reason and 52.2% said decisions about professional future was the cause. The survey, published in a special edition on account of the World Mental Health Day on October 10, registers anonymous responses from students to a range of objective and subjective questions on whether they had experienced negative emotions, for how long and reasons for feeling such emotions. It comes close in the heels of an article chronicling the personal experiences of alumni members with mental health that was published by Insight in September.“The idea behind the special issue is to get people to talk about mental health and address the stigma around it,” said Amogh Gawaskar, chief editor of Insight IIT-B. Students at IIT-B have the option of getting help in-house by approaching the student wellness centre which has nine counsellors. However, stigma and scepticism made students wary of seeking help, found the survey. When asked if students sought help while facing a mental health illness, 44.6% said they did not as they feared judgement and were sceptical of the effectiveness of counselling. “The proportion of the students currently suffering from a mental disorder (35.9%) is the most crucial and requires active intervention,” read the article by Insight. To beat the stigma, Insight has now invited anonymous or candid accounts of students who are currently suffering from a mental illness or have suffered at some time on how to seek help and work through the illness. “These stories will be published on a self-help portal that will be launched soon. It will help people find a voice and navigate a mental illness,” said Gawaskar.Juhu-based clinical psychologist Neha Patel said academic pressure was common among students and led to anxiety and depression. “Students, especially those at IITs, have worked their whole life to get into the institute. Competition is deeply ingrained in their psyches by the society and the parents. So when they are in the campus, pressures build-up to get the best job or outperform colleagues,” said Patel, adding that this anxiety also drives students towards drug use, which is further detrimental to mental health. “The most important thing is to seek professional help. To take the pressure off, students should be encouraged to balance academics with other interests,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mental-illness-common-on-campus-academic-pressure-anxiety-most-common-cause-finds-survey-by-iit-bombay-magazine/story-Cc6hmepa4LCvt1sbIKBJqK.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Anticipating surge in Covid cases, PGIMER says time not right to reopen OPDs||Anticipating a surge in cases of Covid-19 during the festive season, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has said that it will be wise to wait for more time before reopening the outpatient departments (OPDs).An official release quoting professor Jagat Ram, the director of PGIMER, said, “We at PGIMER are fully conscious of our responsibility towards non-Covid patients and are keen to open the physical OPDs. However, in pre-Covid times, a routine day at our OPDs meant a footfall of over 10,000. It’s a decision worth waiting for some more time till it is amply clear that the worst is over and the curve has actually flattened. Any hasty decision may backfire, amounting to risking precious lives.”The director said that considering the upcoming festive season, a surge in numbers could not be ruled out.4 lakh provided teleconsultations since May 19On catering to non-Covid patients during the pandemic, the director was quoted saying, “It is a misconception that the health needs of non-Covid patients have not been addressed because physical OPDs were closed. On an average, 1,800-2,500 patients reached out through teleconsultation on a daily basis, and PGIMER has provided OPD consultation to almost 4 lakh patients since May 19. In addition, 27,722 surgeries have been performed and 30,389 patients have availed treatment.”Physical OPD services in the gynaecology, radiotherapy and ophthalmology departments have been functional throughout the pandemic, he said, adding that initiatives way beyond their bed strength had been taken by them.To avoid crowding in the OPDs, the institute is ramping up the infrastructure required to ensure social distancing by creating separate screening and holding areas, which is almost ready now, the director said.Consultations were on with various stakeholders to work out the modalities to reopen physical OPDs through staggered steps to ensure safety of patients, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anticipating-surge-in-covid-cases-pgimer-says-time-not-right-to-reopen-opds/story-CM8IZRMFyizOEcztw1VquK.html
18-10-2020||City||Robber falls from roof after stealing mobile phones from a godown in Bhiwandi, near Mumbai||One of the three robbers who stole mobile phones from a godown in Bhiwandi died after falling from the roof, while the three tried to escape. A case was registered at the Narpoli police station against the other two robbers, who fled from the spot. However, a murder case against the godown owner is also registered.The godown situated in Parshnath Complex is owned by Kushal Hasmukh, 32. Six labourers were asleep at the time of the incident. The deceased- Bharat Sai, 25, a resident of Anjur Phata in Bhiwandi, broke into the godown with two others to steal mobile phones while the labourers were asleep, on Friday night.Maloji Shinde, a police personnel said, “After stealing the phones, while the three were trying to escape, Sai fell from the second-floor onto an asbestos roof on the first floor. The two others fled from the spot after they could not find Sai. Early in the morning, the labourers found Sai trying to escape. They caught him and informed the police. We immediately took the injured to the hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries at the hospital.” A case has been registered against the owner of the godown and the labourers for manhandling the robber. Hasmukh will be in police remand till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robber-falls-from-roof-after-stealing-mobile-phones-from-a-godown-in-bhiwandi-near-mumbai/story-KYSHqwA6jLmL6kWJ4QPUCK.html
18-10-2020||City||Dejected over NEET result, 18-year-old Jagraon girl hangs herself||Upset over not doing well in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), an 18-year-old girl hanged herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Jagraon on Sunday. The teenager’s parents were away at a market and she was alone at home when she took the extreme step. Inspector Nidhan Singh, SHO, Jagraon City police station, said they received informed about a suicide by a young girl on Sunday evening, following which they reached the spot and initiated investigation.According to her parents, who are government teachers, they had left for the market while their daughter was studying in her room on the first floor of the house. After returning home, they asked her to come downstairs. But, she did not respond to their calls. When the couple went to their daughter’s room, they were shocked to find her hanging from the ceiling fan. They lowered her after cutting the rope and rushed her to a local hospital, where doctors declared the girl dead.The couple told the police that their daughter wanted to enrol in MBBS, but did not get the desired rank in the recent NEET, which pushed her into depression. They said their daughter was a bright student and among the toppers in her Class 10 and 12 examinations. But, she had fallen sick before NEET, which did not allow her to perform well in the exam. Despite the unexpected result, they did not scold her and encouraged her to try again next year, they said.The inspector said the girl was survived by her parents and a 10-year-old brother. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of her parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dejected-over-neet-result-18-year-old-jagraon-girl-hangs-herself/story-95s7VshYDs6XHbjRgn67XL.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Ramlila goes virtual in fight against Ravana & Corona||With Covid-19 posing a new set of challenges, the Ordnance Cable Factory (OCF) Sanskritik Manch, which stages Ramlila in Sector 29, has turned to technology to take on Ravana and the pandemic in one go.The group’s artistes have already started shooting and uploading Ramlila episodes on YouTube and Facebook. OCF’s general secretary Rajiv Sharma said this way, devout audiences won’t have to miss out on the performance and they can watch it from the safety of their homes amid the pandemic. Jyoti Bhardwaj, who plays the role of Ravana in this Ramlila, said that their troupe was already familiar with the lines and had the costumes and props from previous years, so they decided to put together the production for a virtual audience. “We will be uploading around seven to eight episodes, of 20-25 minutes each, depicting the important moments in Ramlila. The first episode is already out and we have amassed over 1,500 views for it.”Bhardwaj added that they are using a pair of DSLR cameras to shoot the Ramlila. It is being shot on the stage of their Ramlila ground in Sector 29-A. His son Chirayu Bhardwaj is editing the videos and posting it online.Many organisers still waryDespite getting permission from the administration, many organisers are still wary of going ahead with the performances. Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha president Bhagwati Prashad Gaur said that even though almost all of the 50-60 Ramlila associations in the city have got permission from authorities, only a handful have started staging the shows. “Sectors 7, 20, 22 30, 46 and Manimajra are holding Ramlilas but the other organisations are still hesitant. Most Ramlilas have people with government jobs and they are worried that any violation of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) may land them in trouble.”Houseful at some placesThe Sector 20 Azaad Dramatic Club entered the second day of their Ramlila performance on Sunday. Ashok Choudhary, who plays the role Ravana here, says, “We have around 200 seats, which are already beginning to fill up. Ramlilas usually draw lean crowds in the initial few days, but since many of our neighboring Ramlilas aren’t being organised this year, we are drawing big crowds from the other sectors too,” he said.Financial troublesDirector of the Navyug Ramlila and Dusshera Committee Sector 7, Pardeep Kumar, said he has been organising the Ramlila from October 14, right after the group got the permissions. However with donations going down this year, they have been struggling. “Due to delay in permissions, we did not have time to collect donations for the Ramlila this year. In addition to it, the cost of sanitising the premises and ensuring the SOPs also costs a lot of money. So, we urge the administration to help us with the sanitising bit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-ramlila-goes-virtual-in-fight-against-ravana-corona/story-tXZe0IcjrkRRfO0v6BbnaP.html
18-10-2020||City||Jalandhar police recover cache of drugs from Ludhiana man’s house||A day after a drug supplier was arrested on the disclosure of his aide, the Jalandhar police on Sunday conducted a raid at his house in Chet Singh Nagar on Gill Road and recovered 30,000 intoxicant pills. Vikas Bansal, alias Bunty, was arrested in Ludhiana on Saturday after his accomplice, who was nabbed by the Jalandhar police a few days ago, revealed that Bansal was his supplier. Police had recovered 27,000 pills from Bansal’s aide in Jalandhar.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Dharampal said during questioning, the man arrested by the Jalandhar police revealed that he used to procure intoxicant pills from Bansal in Ludhiana, following which a police team came down here and arrested him on Saturday.The ACP said as a drug inspector was not available during Bansal’s arrest on Saturday, the police team went back on Sunday to search his house and recovered 30,000 tablets.According to his neighbours, people, especially labourers, often queued up outside his house to buy pills.The ACP said more recoveries were expected on Bansal’s disclosure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-police-recover-cache-of-drugs-from-ludhiana-man-s-house/story-nuWWaZqMXEEQT85VMt1YvN.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation proposes major relaxations in rural building bylaws||The municipal corporation is considering bringing in major relaxations in the city’s building bylaws for allowing higher ground coverage, additional floor, basement and covered area in residential and commercial properties in the villages. The MC commissioner had constituted a committee headed by the additional commissioner in July 2019 to examine and recommend amendments in the Chandigarh Rural Rehabilitation Construction and Reconstruction Building bylaws, 2017. “The situation is grave in villages that have recently been transferred to MC where no bylaws existed earlier. The recommendations of the committee and the MC engineering wing will be tabled before the MC General House meet on October 20. After approval, the recommendations and the plan will be submitted for UT chief architect’s approval, and thereafter the administration’s approval will be sought,” said an MC official.Up to 5 marla plots exempted from setbacksAs per MC’s proposal, plots having area up to 125 square yards (5 marla) will be exempted from setbacks and allowed 100% coverage subject to proper light and ventilation. “According to 2017 bylaws, the setbacks are fixed for all types of plots. In smaller plots of 1 marla or 2 marla, such prescribed setbacks are not feasible. Their owners, therefore, do not submit plans for approval as these are not sanctionable, and consequently these are termed ‘illegal constructions’,” added the official.Similarly, a 100% ground coverage has been recommended for commercial establishments subject to the deposit of conversion charges. “At present, 50 square metre of a village building is allowed to be used for commercial purposes. Owners of big plots (shops) don’t submit their building plans, which leads to revenue losses in the form of conversion charges, which is ₹2,400/square yard,” the official said.Provision for basements in plots has also been proposed. “The corporation charges commercial rates on basements, and no provision for them in the bylaws means revenue loss for MC,” added the official.Currently, ground plus two floors are allowed in village houses. In the new proposal, additional floor has been recommended so that ground plus three floors can be constructed.Compoundable violationsThe new proposal also seeks the imposition of a composition fee for allowing minor sanctionable variations in buildings, which are not part of the sanctioned building plan of the property.“Composition fee of ₹500 per sanctionable deviation will be imposed, so that compoundable violations can be regularised,” the official said.Mandatory certificatesThe MC will sanction an occupation certificate (OC), which will be made mandatory, after the submission of a completion certificate by the owner duly signed by supervisor architect, structural engineer and plumber.A plinth-level certificate will have to be obtained and in case of absence of non-issuance of certificate, a penalty of ₹10,000 on plots with area up to 250 sq yard and ₹25,000 above 250 sq yard will be imposed.BOXCHANGES PROPOSED100% ground coverage in houses with area up to 125 sq yard100% ground coverage for commercial establishmentsAllowing basement in housesAdditional floor in houses with ground plus two floors to be allowedCompoundable violations to be regularised with composition feeOccupation certificate, plinth-level certificates to be made mandatory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporations-proposes-major-relaxations-in-rural-building-bylaws/story-GszotkE8hiGdr5ovK8NLTK.html
18-10-2020||City||9 girls born on first day of Navratri in a private hospital Kalyan||On the first day of Navratri, nine girl children have born in a private hospital in Kalyan on Saturday. During Navratri women power is celebrated and Goddess Durga is worshipped. “There were eleven women who went into labour on Saturday, however coincidentally nine of them gave birth to girls. All the kids and their mothers are in good health,” said Dr Ashwin Kakkar, Vaishnavi Maternity home, a private clinic in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-girls-born-on-first-day-of-navratri-in-a-private-hospital-kalyan/story-sxCt0rWfeU4e3plelZrdaP.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old girl ends life in Maloya||A 20-year-old girl ended her life at her residence in Maloya on Sunday morning. A suicide note recovered from the spot stated that no one should be blamed for the incident.The girl’s parents told the police that she was a student of BA Final Year and had taken up a job in a private firm to support herself. But during the lockdown, she lost the job and had been upset ever since.She was last seen alive around 8.30am when her mother was leaving to pay obeisance at a temple. On returning, her mother found her hanging and informed the police. She was taken to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-girl-ends-life-in-maloya/story-Z1Xb6z1goE8cxr90uHRQOP.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Sepoy deployed at Mumbai’s Ghatkopar naval facility found dead||A 44-year-old guard of Defence Security Corps (DSC) was found dead at his duty post at naval store depot in Ghatkopar (West) on Sunday. The deceased, Raipal Pal Singh, a sepoy of the 106 DSC platoon attached to the naval material organisation in Ghatkopar, died due to gunshot injury on his chest. His service rifle, with two rounds discharged, was found next to him, said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police Prashant Kadam (zone 7) said, “As per preliminary inquiry, it appears that he shot himself from his service rifle. The accidental death report has been registered and the investigation is going on”.The incident occurred around 7pm when Singh was posted at the gate. On hearing the gunshot, people inside the depot rushed on the spot. The Ghatkopar police were informed about the incident and Singh was taken to the Rajawadi Hospital by naval ambulance where he was declared dead. The police have been conducting an inquiry to find out the reason behind his death, said a police officer. Singh hailed from Sangrur district in Punjab and was survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sepoy-deployed-at-mumbai-s-ghatkopar-naval-facility-found-dead/story-MfPQmhKz43871LWZxTwmuI.html
18-10-2020||City||Javadekar urges public participation in fight against pollution||New Delhi: Union minister of environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said that while the government was doing its bit in controlling pollution in north India ahead of winters, public participation was imperative in ensuring better air quality in the region. Addressing a Facebook Live event on Sunday, Javadekar said the central government had taken a number of measures to tackle pollution. “Pollution is an issue in every country and the chief causes of pollution in India pertain to traffic, industries, waste management, dust and stubble burning,” Javadekar said. He said the government implemented BS-VI in the country, which will lead to decrease in pollution. He also said that the expansion of Metro services and the introduction of CNG buses have contributed in bringing down pollution levels. “E-buses and Metro are coming up in all major cities, which cause zero pollution. There are over two lakh e-vehicles in the country. I also use an e-vehicle,” the minister said. Javadekar said that while these measures were improving the air quality, public participation is required to make these initiatives a success. He added, “People’s participation is very important for reducing air pollution. Proper maintenance of vehicles, using cycles for shorter commutes, walking and not being dependent on cars every time; all these small steps can go a long way in helping bring down pollution levels in your city.” He also asked people to plant more trees in their neighbourhoods, as increased tree cover aids in reducing pollution. Javadekar also urged people to download Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) mobile application ‘Sameer’, to remain up to date about all details of real time air quality. He said that the first step towards solving a problem is to accept it and take measures to control it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/javadekar-urges-public-participation-in-fight-against-pollution/story-MBsyym55g4J2ocd6qO555I.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC allows setting up of special stalls in festive season||The municipal corporation (MC) has allowed setting up of special stalls in city markets during the festival season.Stalls will be allowed for Diwali, Dussehra and Karva Chauth. Permission will be given for three, seven and 20 days. For Dussehra, the MC will start issuing permissions from October 23 to October 25. Traders looking to set up special stalls on the occasion of Karva Chauth will be granted permissions from November 1 to November 3. For the 20-day stalls, permission will be given from October 23.Traders will be able to put up stalls in open spaces and near parking lots of the markets.Last year, the MC earned revenue of about Rs 30 lakh through these permissions. In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, those setting up stalls will have to follow social distancing norms and other guidelines such as wearing of masks. The enforcement department of the MC has been directed to strictly ensure compliance, and not to allow illegal setting up of stalls where permissions are not given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-allows-setting-up-of-special-stalls-in-festive-season/story-3glh5hgytMeqSyWOLar2lK.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Heavy govt deposits bring down banks’ credit-debit ratio in GB Nagar||The push of government funds into banks for upcoming projects in Gautam Budh Nagar, has brought down the credit-debit ratio (CDR) of the banks to below the optimum 60% in the district, officials said. District lead bank manager Ved Ratna said that as per the reports submitted by a few banks, the CDR of these banks had gone down despite regular financing. “The government has deposited over ₹4,000 crore as many upcoming projects like Jewar airport and Smart City will be kicked off soon. On the other hand, we don’t have as many entrepreneurs who want finances from banks. As a result, the CDR is expected to go down to 57% by the end of this quarter,” he said. He said banks in the district had disbursed over ₹511 crore to 6,535 individuals under the government-backed emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS). “This collateral-free, government-backed scheme was launched in May to enable small businesses to resume operations. Later, based on industry demand, the ambit of the scheme was expanded to include micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with turnover of up to ₹250 crore from ₹100 crore, in line with the new MSME definition and individuals for business purposes. Of these 6,535 persons, who have got loans from banks, over 5,000 are MSME entrepreneurs and the banks have given them loans of ₹449 crore,” he said. Ratna further said that loans have also been extended under ₹20-lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package, to street vendors, for tiding them out from the financial crisis in the post-Covid situation. “The GB Nagar district administration had already identified as many as 3,153 small vendors eligible for loans. So far, we have disbursed ₹1.8 crore among 1,800 of them. Under the scheme, a loan amount of ₹10,000 is being extended to street vendors, which can be repaid in 12 instalments with an interest rate of 7%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/heavy-govt-deposits-bring-down-banks-credit-debit-ratio-in-gb-nagar/story-8TxqeGb18Ky0uVLAz9636I.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Deceased Ludhiana industrialist’s kin seek action against hospital for negligence||Seeking action against Deep Hospital for alleged negligence and concealing information, family members of deceased industrialist Angad Singh Ahuja, 33, who succumbed to dengue on October 8, staged a protest near Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Model Town Extension, on Sunday. Industrialists including DS Chawla, president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), and Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (FICO), also participated in the protest.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) also came out in support of the aggrieved family. District president of Youth Akali Dal, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, and Maheshinder Singh Grewal, member of SAD core committee, also protested.Protesting under the banner ‘Justice for Angad’, the family members said that after Angad tested positive for dengue, the hospital continuously misguided them during the treatment. They added that it was only when the situation got out of hand and his condition deteriorated that Dr Baldeep, the owner of Deep Hosiptal, who Angad was consulting for treatment, referred him to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).“It was only when we reached DMCH that we found out that Angad’s condition was critical. He died due to negligence on the part of Deep hospital as they did not disclose his condition to us. We do not want any anyone else to suffer or die due to the negligence of the hospital so we are demanding action against the doctor and hospital,” said Angad’s father-in-law, Upkar Singh Ahuja, who is also the president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU).Ahuja said that the licence of the doctor should be cancelled and he should be arrested. Further, an inquiry should be marked to check the number of patients who might have died due to the negligence of the hospital in the past. We are also seeking legal advice on the matter, he added.Dr Baldeep Singh, the owner of Deep Hospital, said that the family was not misguided about the patient’s condition and he was personally monitoring Angad. “It is only when his condition started deteriorating slightly, that I referred him to DMCH. The patient’s condition deteriorated after that, as stated by DMCH. The patient’s dengue was severe. Also, there was kidney injury and he tested positive for Hepatitis-B in DMC. I am ready to face inquiry as there was no negligence on the part of the hospital and we have the test reports of the patient while he was in the hospital,” he saidAngad, the managing director of Big Ben Group, died during treatment at DMCH on October 8. He is survived by his wife and two daughters, aged eight and three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deceased-ludhiana-industrialist-s-kin-seek-action-against-hospital-for-negligence/story-PqWsid37Zv8V9r9fm5OX2M.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Discom cuts power supply to over 5,000 defaulters||NOIDA: The Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has recovered over ₹3.64 crore from 1,778 consumers in its recently launched disconnection drive in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. The fortnight-long drive, which started on October 13, saw the power supply of more than 5,000 households disconnected as part of the process to recover dues.Virendra Nath Singh, PVVNL chief engineer, said the disconnection drive is being undertaken to snap electricity connections of nearly 60,000 consumers who have not cleared their dues despite repeated reminders. “During the ongoing crackdown to reduce major power loss, our officials disconnected power supply to 5,004 consumers, who had not cleared electricity dues of ₹10.99 crore,” he said. As on October 8, nearly 60,000 consumers owed dues amounting to ₹33.75 crore to PVVNL.Singh also said that out of 5,004 disconnected power lines, 1,148 are from urban areas of Noida. “Electricity supply to 3,856 consumers in rural areas was disconnected on Wednesday as they have not cleared dues of ₹8.48 crore despite repeated reminders. It is appreciable that our officials have recovered more than ₹1.94 crore from 1,028 consumers in only five days from rural areas, where recovery rates are very low,” he said. The chief engineer also said that no untoward incident has taken place during the disconnection drive so far as the PVVNL raiding teams were assisted by local police to avert any resistance from the defaulting consumers, particularly in the rural areas. The power distribution company has also decided to regularly inspect electricity meters of heavy load connections, as it is the main reason for mounting AT&C (Aggregate Technical and Commercial) loss. The overall line loss in Noida is about 17.8%, officials said. “Despite being the biggest revenue-generating power region, the line loss has mounted due to power theft in areas coming under 60 identified electricity feeders. We have taken these areas on priority for launching crackdown on power thieves, besides launching disconnection drives,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-discom-cuts-power-supply-to-over-5-000-defaulters/story-hBF0IDkGjvUSgfDFoZtEzK.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Multi-level parking project for Sector 38 Golf Course scrapped||NOIDA: The Noida authority has scrapped its multi-level car parking project which was scheduled for its Golf Course located in Sector 38. The move comes after it won a case against a contractor who had applied for the project, dragging the authority to Allahabad high court. The authority won the case in arbitration directed for by the high court.“The authority had, in 2010, wanted to construct a fully-automatic multi-level car parking at the Golf Course, but due to technical issues the work could not be started, and the contractor filed a case at the Allahabad high court. The case is resolved now and the authority has decided not to build the parking facility,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager of the Noida authority.In 2010 the authority had signed a memorandum of understanding with a private contractor for the construction of the parking. Subsequently the authority sought help from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi to check whether the company can build the fully automatic parking building at Golf Course.“The IIT Delhi, in its report, had said that the contractor is not technically qualified to construct such a parking facility. As a result, the authority asked the contractor not to build the same. However, the same year, the contractor filed a case in the Allahabad high court and also sought ₹39 crore in claims from the authority. The court appointed an arbitrator to settle the matter. The arbitrator finally resolved the case and rejected the claim made by the contractor,” said Tyagi, who pursued the case on behalf of the authority at the arbitrator’s court.The arbitrator also directed the contractor to pay ₹14.44 lakh to the authority as legal fees, said officials of the authority.“The arbitrator has directed the contractor to pay ₹14.44 lakh in next two months to Noida authority, which had been fighting this case since the last ten years. We put all technical issues strongly before the court and the matter is finally settled,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-multi-level-parking-project-for-sector-38-golf-course-scrapped/story-nklanlyiIzfR13dVm2j21H.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Noida: CRPF official files complaint for cyber crime||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) assistant sub-inspector has alleged that an unknown person was misusing his ID card to cheat people. Complainant Ram Vilas is a native of Sutyana village in Greater Noida and is posted in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. Vilas said that his son had put up an ad on a website for renting out his apartment in Greater Noida after he was transferred in Gwalior in September. “Soon, a person contacted me and enquired about the house. The person had identified himself as Ajit Kumar Shinde. He said he would like to rent my flat but wanted my identification card’s e-copy on whatsapp to ensure I was a genuine person,” Vilas said in the FIR. Vilas claimed he had agreed to the request. The deal, however, was not signed as the suspect said he had found another flat. However, a few days later the CRPF official started getting calls from unknown people accusing him of fraud. “I received around 5-6 calls from people who accused me of cheating. I was in a shock to know this. I informed them that I am a police official and there must be a mistake,” he said. He suspected the role of the stranger who had taken his identity card and filed the complaint. Bhuvnesh Kumar, Station House Officer at Ecotech 3 police station, said that based on complaint an FIR has been registered against the suspect under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code. “It appears the suspect used the CRPF official’s ID and mobile phone number to cheat people. We have registered a case and investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-crpf-official-files-complaint-for-cyber-crime/story-W0FZdUtoxe4Ic9h9EeNoaI.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Public awareness vehicle launched by Noida police||Noida: As part of the ‘Mission Shakti’ programme that started on October 17 by the district administration, the police commissionerate on Sunday launched a public-addressal vehicle aimed at creating awareness about women’s rights and providing necessary guidance. The vehicle was flagged off from the police commissioner’s office in Sector 108. A video talking about multiple scenarios in which women might feel unsafe and what steps they can take to help themselves is played on a screen on the vehicle’s continuously.The vehicle will cover both city and rural areas, including markets, residential localities as well as Ramlila or Durga Puja pandals.“Initially, the plan was to keep the vehicle roaming throughout the district for the Mission Shakti week. However, looking at the response and in order to make sure that we cover the maximum ground, we will continue it after October 25 as well. There are options for video conferencing as well so that women connect with officials from the field,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and children safety. The Mission Shakti programme, launched by the district administration on Saturday, is going to run till October 25.The nearly eight-minute long video played on loop talks about women’s rights and ways in which they can seek immediate assistance from the Noida police. The motto of the initiative is that awareness is empowerment.Besides, the police department is working on revamping the women safety help desks across all police stations. In light of this, a separate women centre was inaugurated at the Sector 20 police station, which will be operated by women police personnel where women can bring their grievances.The police commissioner also inaugurated a shooting academy in Dadri. The initiatives are the part of the Mission Shakti programme that was launched based on directives of the Uttar Pradesh government aimed at empowering women and reducing crimes against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/public-awareness-vehicle-launched-by-noida-police/story-mCOSELq8xDzCNcnOncRg6N.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Noida: E-Lok adalat to be held on November 1 for matrimonial and accident claim cases||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district legal services authority (DLSA) will hold an e-lok adalat on November 1 for settling matrimonial cases and accident claim cases.District court bar association president Sanjeev Verma said, “During the lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, domestic dispute cases have come up.”“The bar association has appealed to advocates to motivate couples with such cases to approach the e-lok adalat. Motor Accident claim cases too can be settled,” said Verma.Para-legal volunteers (PLV) too reported a rise in cases of domestic violence and conflicts. “Several domestic abuse cases have been reported. In some cases, it was found that some men consuming alcohol at home due to the lockdown verbally abused their spouse and family. In some cases, women were beaten up by their husbands. Though we arranged for counselling but in some cases, couples have planned for divorce. I have requested such couples to get their cases resolved at the e-lok adalat,” Mool Chand Tyagi, a PLV, said Friday.“There are around 50 PLVs in the district. Over 200 domestic conflicts involving couples were reported at these PLVs. Majority of cases have been resolved after PLVs arranged counselling with panel advocates and some tele-counsellors of the Gautam Buddha University and other institutions. But in around 20 to 30 cases, issues could not be resolved, hence PLVs have been directed to motivate them for e-lok adalats,” said Sushil Kumar, secretary, DLSA.“Further, PLVs have been directed to spread awareness among all residents about the e-lok adalat. We identify separated couples through village pradhans or local residents and motivate them to use this opportunity for mediation,” said Kumar.“Advocates and family courts have been directed to motivate the divorce petitioners for mediation through e-lok adalat,” said Kumar.Accident claims too will be taken up and settled at E-Lok Adalat. “Economically impoverished accident victims who face problems in video conferencing will be helped by PLVs,” said Kumar.On Sunday, a mini lok adalat was held for taking up petty cases. “At least 1,396 petty cases were resolved on Sunday,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-e-lok-adalat-to-be-held-on-november-1-for-matrimonial-and-accident-claim-cases/story-uW8XV5BpMPwbNgk7ACVzoI.html
18-10-2020||City||Brace for flight cancellations at Chandigarh airport this winter too||Brace for cancellation of flights this winter too, as work on installation of CAT-3 instrument landing system (ILS) at Chandigarh International Airport has been delayed again.For the past few years, flights operating from the airport remain grounded from mid-December to mid-January due to foggy weather.At present, the airport has CAT-2 ILS, which enables pilots to conduct an instrument approach if they are unable to establish visual contact with the runway. It permits landing even when the visibility is down to 350 metres . The advanced CAT-3 ILS, however, works at even as low as 50-metre visibility.Even as in March this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court directed the chief of defence staff, department of civil aviation, department of military affairs, ministry of defence, Airports Authority of India and other stakeholders to examine and decide on installation of the advanced ILS, nothing has moved forward. The stakeholders have now stated that they are facing “technical issues” in the installation of CAT-3 ILS.Sanjeev Vashisht, member of Chandigarh International Airport Advisory Committee, said: “There are issues in the installation of CAT-3 ILS as the airforce has to first remove some obstructions. In the present situation, they cannot be removed. But CAT-2 ILS is operational at the airport.”In April last year, round-the-clock operations began at the airport, allowing landing of wide-bodied aircraft, including Boeing 787-800 (Dreamliner) and Airbus 330, but even after 18 months, no big aircraft is in the pipeline.The same month, after various stakeholders approved the installation of CAT-3 ILS, the board of directors, Airport Authority of India, had approved to allot the work to Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division, but the agency failed to get permission from the ministry of defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brace-for-flight-cancellations-at-chandigarh-airport-this-winter-too/story-K2j2nx5mdb4mHNzmLByTWL.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Driver killed in accident, family alleges foul play||The family of a 42-year-old driver who was killed in an accident on October 11 has alleged that he was murdered following a disagreement with three other workers a few days before the incident.Lokesh Tomar, a native of Jarcha, was working as a truck driver for the past three years for a Noida-based transporter. On October 11, he was transporting fly ash from the NTPC plant in Dadri to a private company in Phase 2.“We got a call in the evening at around 4pm from the private company’s plant in Phase 2 telling us about our brother’s death in an accident,” said Jitendta Tomar, the deceased’s brother.He said that a few days before the accident, his brother had told him of a disagreement and brawl with three other people working at the private company. “Those men had threatened revenge and dire consequences after which my brother refused to transport material to that company. However, on October 11, upon his employer’s request, he agreed. At the site, a malfunction in the unloading machine allegedly resulted in his death,” said Jitendra.But the family doesn’t believe that this was an accident and they feel that the three people who had argued with Lokesh Tomar were behind his death. Based on the complaint of the family, a case has been registered at the Phase 2 police station under section 304A of the IPC (causing death by negligence).“A probe in the matter is underway, Prima facie it seems to be an accident but the case is being looked into and necessary action will be taken,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-driver-killed-in-accident-family-alleges-foul-play/story-gTyX4loO39j8OX88pmendP.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC plans to levy garbage collection fee||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will soon start charging user fee for door-to-door collection of garbage in areas from where it is already lifting solid waste.Charges will be added to the water bills or property tax bills, and are likely to imposed on 34,000 houses and 3,000 shops in these areas. “The charges are likely to be ₹50 to ₹100 for houses, and ₹200 to ₹2,000 for commercial establishments. These will be finalised after discussions in the MC General House,” said Dr Amritpal Singh, medical officer of health.According to the Solid Waste Management Bylaws 2018, the user fee for collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste is to be charged from residential and commercial establishments. The proposal will be tabled before the General House on October 20. Once it gets the nod, the financially struggling MC aims to earn additional ₹90 lakh per month. Areas to be covered, for nowDoor-to-door garbage collection in most sectors is so far being done by private agents, who collect user charges.The MC has started the process in 13 villages and residential areas of some sectors besides several markets.For now, the user fee is to be imposed in Dhanas, Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Daria, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Raipur Khurd, Behlana, Makhan Majra, Maloya, Railpur Kalan. The markets where the MC is collecting garbage include Sectors 7- 9, 16, 21-24, 26, 28-33, 36-38 and 49.If the MC extends the facility to other sectors, then there will a trial run in the first month, and user charges will be applied from the first day of the next month.The civic body currently has 100 garbage collection vehicles, which are being used in villages. With Chandigarh Smart City Limited allotting the tender for purchase of 390 more vehicles recently, the MC expects to get 200 of them by the month end.Property owners to do self-assessmentOwners of residential or commercial properties will have to submit a self-declaration about the number of households or economic units on their premises within one month. If they fail to do so, the MC will carry out the assessment on its own, and impose administrative/penalty charges of ₹5,000 each household on the owner or occupant.Pvt collectors, Cong oppose moveThe MC move to impose user charges has elicited opposition from garbage collectors and the Congress. Safai Karamchari Union leader KK Chaddha, said, “We condemn this move. We plan to strike work from October 23 in the city on this issue as well as selective tagging of safai karamcharis through GPS-enabled watches.”Congress councillor Satish Kainth said: “When the MC is not executing proper garbage collection, how can it impose user charges? We will oppose this move.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-plans-to-levy-garbage-collection-fee/story-iilt4IWoOdv5jV9xaQ4jFM.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Man nabbed for attempting to steal from constable||A 19-year-old domestic help of a Noida police inspector has been arrested for attempting to steal the phone and jewellery of a constable from the police station barracks. The incident occurred on October 16 early morning when the constable, Sunita Kumari, who is deployed at the sector 20 police station was sleeping in the barracks there.“I stay on the ground floor. We keep the gate open for constables living on the upper floors due to a lack of a washroom there. I woke up around 3.30am and realised that Dilip, who is a help for a former SHO from this police station, was trying to remove my earrings and take away my phone,” said the constable in her complaint.She raised an alarm following which other constables came to her rescue. However, the suspect managed to free himself from their hold and escaped.“We tried to follow him but he fled through the back gate. I was scared at the time because of which I didn’t file a complaint immediately,” said the woman.Based on her complaint a case was registered at the sector 20 police station against the suspect under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 511 (Punishment for attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code. “Dilip had fled, however, we had an idea about his whereabouts and caught him the next day. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer.Police officials said that the suspect lived in the premises with the inspector and was familiar with the area. They did not mention the role of the inspector in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-nabbed-for-attempting-to-steal-from-constable/story-6qRAc6U58bptmXvoADmg5K.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Surgeons get training on robotic knee replacement||As many as 50 orthopaedic surgeons received hands-on training on robotic knee replacement during a workshop held at a local hospital here on Sunday.The workshop was inaugurated by Ludhiana mayor Balkar Sandhu in the presence of Dr Hari Om Aggarwal, secretary of Punjab Orthopaedic Association.Dr Baldev Aulakh, senior urologist and transplant surgeon, said robotic and computer surgeries are the way forward to get better results post- surgery. Mako Robot is the world’s most widely adopted US-FDA approved robotics arm assisted technology for hip and knee replacements, with more than 1,000 installations, he added .“Mako Robotic arm assisted surgery helps cut the bone with precision, which gives better results,” said Dr Manmohan Singh, an orthopaedic surgeon. He added that this will help patients lead a normal life for 25 years after knee replacement.Also, it has shown to significantly reduce post-operative pain, drive faster recovery and quicker discharge and help preserve natural bone and soft tissues, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-surgeons-get-training-on-robotic-knee-replacement/story-49VxeLrX0LKJUAYgBpuraJ.html
18-10-2020||City||Mohali reports four more Covid deaths; one succumbs in Chandigarh||Four more people lost battle against Covid-19 in Mohali district on Sunday, taking the toll to 222. With 40 fresh cases being reported, the infection tally rose to 11,753. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 27 surfacing on Sunday, followed by five in Dera Bassi and four in Kharar. However, the number of active cases was pushed down to 748 as 98 patients were discharged, which also took the number of those cured to 10,783 (91.7%) in the district. 64 cases, one death in UTChandigarh recorded one death and 64 new cases on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as a 57-year-old woman from Sector 26, who had acute kidney injury, diabetes and hypertension. As many as 13,646 people have tested positive so far, of whom 12,554 (92%) have recovered, including 94 discharged on Sunday, and 208 have died, leaving 884 cases still active. To boost voluntary testing, mobile teams of the health department will collect samples at the resettlement colony in Dhanas, CITCO dispensary at the Industrial Area, rehri market in Sector 29, and the hospital at the police lines in Sector 26.No casualty in PanchkulaPanchkula reported no casualty, though 28 residents tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Maximum cases (seven) surfaced in Sector 25. The district’s infection tally stands at 6,837, with 327 cases still active. While 6,404 (93.6%) people have been cured and discharged, 106 have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-reports-four-more-covid-deaths-one-succumbs-in-chandigarh/story-8tCYIZ1dnpW9CHbA6bqW4K.html
18-10-2020||City||Society goes hawker-free, residents thank Thane civic chief||Residents of Satyashankar society in Thane celebrated as the hawker menace outside their society gates ended after more than 11 years. They held placards thanking Thane civic body for this move. The initiative was a part of Thane civic commissioner’s drive to make the city clean and free of illegal hawkers. These hawkers were shifted to the designated space for hawkers and vendors across the city.Anirudha Asanare, resident of Satyashankar society said, “I have been staying in the vicinity for over 11 years and have been noticing the hawkers selling fruits and vegetables on their handcarts right outside the society gates. Repeated complaints were made to the civic body over the years, but to no avail. On Friday the civic body successfully removed them and they have not returned for three days now.”At the beginning of September, a special drive was initiated by the Thane commissioner to evict illegal structures across the city. As a part of this initiative, these hawkers were asked to move to the designated space provided to them in the vicinity. “We have hawker zones and no hawker zones marked in the city. We have set up special structures for the hawkers as well. They have been moved from the illegal places and provided space there. We have also recently begun with the cleanliness drive. The efforts to ensure a cleaner and better city will continue,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.Kasber Augustine, citizen activist, said, “This is a welcome move from the civic body. It should be implemented outside all societies, offices and educational institutes. Only then will we be able to enjoy wider roads and bigger spaces, as currently they are being occupied by hawkers and food stalls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/society-goes-hawker-free-residents-thank-thane-civic-chief/story-KUY7Skg7C8oxLLElPYE1PK.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Five persons arrested for bank loan racket operating from a car||Knowledge Park police on Saturday arrested five persons involved in bank loan fraud operating from a car in Greater Noida. The suspects would advertise low cost bank loans through social media and would convince people to pay a processing fee for the loan in advance, said police. Once the money was transferred, the suspects ceased all communication with the victims. To avoid electronic surveillance, the suspects would keep moving in the car. The suspects were identified as Rabupura resident Tinku Bhati (25), Bulandshahr resident Jasmendra Pal Singh (24), Ankit (27) from Rajasthan, Ankul (24) and Ashish (25) who are from Aligarh. They allegedly met while searching for a job in Greater Noida and lived in a rented accommodation.Varun Pawar, station house officer (SHO) of Knowledge Park police station, said, “We had no complainant in this case. On Saturday evening the police team was conducting a routine checking drive near Knowledge Park T-Point. They stopped a Volkswagen Polo car for checking and found the five persons in the vehicle,” he said.Pawar said the team found 15 mobile phones, two laptops, three debit cards, one pen drive, ₹1,000 from their possession. “The police team found the 15 mobile phones unusual. They first believed the suspects were mobile phone snatchers and brought them to police station for questioning,” he said. Police said the suspects were questioned separately and they admitted to running a call centre from the car. “They used to advertise on social media to facilitate loan at minimum interest rates. They pretended to be representatives of a finance company. Once a person called in, the suspects sought their identity cards asked him to pay ₹2,500, and sometimes more, as loan processing fee. Once the money was transferred, the suspects used to block their numbers and stop all communication,” he said. The suspects are believed to have cheated over 200 people in the last six months. Police said the seized Volkswagen Polo is registered in the name of a Ghaziabad resident. “Primary investigation shows the suspects had got the car financed using a fake identity. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” Pawar said. A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 66 of the IT Act. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-persons-arrested-for-bank-loan-racket-operating-from-a-car/story-wJxN3X5KXMscQlpt6Pd1GK.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Admission to PG courses: Govt colleges in Ludhiana extend last date for registration to Oct 22||Both government colleges in the city have extended the last date to apply online for postgraduate courses to October 22. As result of bachelor of arts (BA) sixth semester was declared on Saturday evening, authorities of both colleges expect more students to apply for admission. In the last ten days, 1,305 candidates have applied online against 700 seats in 11 PG courses at SCD Government College. At Government College for Girls, 218 students have registered online against 290 seats in eight courses. At Government College for Girls, in MA (music) instrumental, no applications have been received for the 20 seats offered. In MA fine arts, 15 students have registered against 40 seats and 10 have applied for MA Punjabi which has 60 seats.In MSc (IT) and postgraduate diploma in computer applications, 12 each have applied against 70 seats (30 seats in MSc (IT) and 40 in PGDCA).For the PG diploma in nutrition and dietician, 10 candidates have applied against 20 seats. However, in MSc botany, 34 candidates have applied against 40 seats.More applications have been received than seats available only in the Mcom course where 125 candidates have applied against 40 seats. Gurpreet Kaur, officiating principal of GCG, said, “The sixth semester results of BA and BSc have been declared recently. So, more students will apply for postgraduate courses now. Most students of BA opt for MA music, Punjabi or fine arts. So, we expect these seats to get filled now.” In SCD Government College, for 40 seats in MCom course, 318 candidates have applied and in MSc, 161 against 60 seats.In MA English, the college offers 120 seats, for which 150 students have registered. In MA Hindi and Punjabi, against 60 seats in each course, 38 and 71 candidates have applied, respectively. In MSc chemistry, 81 candidates have applied against 60 seats and MSc physics, 87 have applications have been received against 60 seats. In MCom (business innovations), the college offers 40 seats, for which 170 candidates have registered online. In MA (geography), 26 students have applied for 40 seats while in MSc (IT) 36 candidates have applied against 40 seats.Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of SCD Government College, said, “We have extended the last date to apply for PG courses so that students get ample time. The results of BA and BSc final year were declared recently and these candidates can now apply till October 22. The counselling for PG courses will start from October 24.”“Students are not supposed to come to college for counselling. The admitted candidates will get a message from the college to deposit their fee as per schedule mentioned and check their status in the login account through the “My dues and payment buttons”,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admission-to-pg-courses-govt-colleges-in-ludhiana-extend-last-date-for-registration-to-oct-22/story-ZreHbGHdL0BsZ35icTokWI.html
18-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Teams formed to check pollution at construction sites||NOIDA: As air pollution has started to increase in the region, the Noida and Greater Noida authorities have formed teams to keep tabs on polluting sites on a daily basis. Both cities were in the ‘poor’ category on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI), with Noida at 252 and Greater Noida at 278.The Noida authority said Sunday it has intensified action against those flouting construction guidelines, causing air pollution in the city. Officials said they had started acting against violators on Thursday, when the authority imposed the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) in the city to contain air pollution, when it imposed a penalty of ₹42,500 against violators. On Friday and Saturday, it imposed penalties of a total of ₹11.5 lakh against different entities, including waste management firms, individuals, private companies and others.On Sunday, Noida imposed a total fine of ₹3,75,400 against nine firms for flouting National Green Tribunal guidelines in the city.Noida authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari said she has directed staff to carry out monitoring on all construction sites and take effective steps to implement Grap measures to control pollution, ordered for by the Supreme Court in 2016 for the National Capital Region (NCR). “All project engineers are working as nodal officers in their respective areas and taking appropriate action in this regard,” said Maheshwari, who directed staff to take up water sprinkling and mechanical sweeping on roads and ensure anti-smog guns at all construction sites, among other measures.Noida is spread across 20,000 hectares and is divided into 10 work circles. Each circle is headed by a project engineer along with his team of junior engineers, who report to the general manager or the chief engineer of the authority. Officials said the authority has started using treated water to sprinkle on city roads so that dust settles down.Anti-smog guns have been set up at Chilla elevated road, Bhangel elevated road, sectors 71/51 underpass, an under-construction building in Sector 96, underpass construction sites in sectors 44 and 151 being built along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.“We have deployed anti-smog guns at all our construction sites to make sure that dust does not fly about, causing air pollution. We are taking adequate measures to reduce air pollution,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager of the Noida authority.Residents, meanwhile, demanded that the authority clean and sprinkle water in all roads, be it main or small.“The authority must sprinkle water on dust in the city’s small as well as arterial road. It should also make sure that anti-smog guns are functioning properly, to reduce pollution, besides other measures,” said PS Jain, president of confederation of NCR residents’ welfare associations (Conrwa), an umbrella body of RWAs.The neighbouring city of Greater Noida, developed on 38,000 hectares, has been divided into eight zones for better monitoring of all construction sites, including private and government.“We have appointed zonal-in charges for all eight zones for requisite steps to contain air pollution. We have also requested residents to call at 0120-2336046, 47 and 48 and WhatsApp number –8800203912 – on which they can register their complaints related with air pollution, burning of garbage in open and flouting of norms causing air pollution. We will take prompt action against violators and impose penalty,” said Deep Chandar, additional CEO of Greater Noida authority.The Greater Noida authority has decided to clean a total length of 133.37 kms of road via mechanical sweeping, that include the 130 metre-wide road that connects Greater Noida West with Dadri road, and another that connects Greater Noida with Ghaziabad.“We imposed a total of ₹50,000 penalty on Thursday, ₹11 lakh penalty against two developers on Friday and ₹1 lakh penalty against violators on Saturday. Action against violators will continue,” said Chandar. Greater Noida on Sunday did not impose any penalty for violations.However, residents said the action is not adequate.“We spot so many violations daily on roads as well as construction sites, with construction material lying uncovered with sheets, though it is mandatory in order to control pollution. Also, the anti-smog guns hardly function. The authority should take stringent action,” said Vivek Raman president of Greater Noida West entrepreneur association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-teams-formed-to-check-pollution-at-construction-sites/story-VtAPhp6UwcGrbnLFwtAR8N.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn bungled as Covid cases surged in September||As the Covid-19 pandemic surged in Chandigarh in September, the UT administration was not able to get in touch with those testing positive within 24 hours of reporting, which further delayed contact tracing.This along with many other issues was highlighted by a team of two experts deputed by the central government in early September to find gaps and assist the local administration in dealing with the pandemic. Last month saw a major surge in infection, with the record being set on September 13 (449 cases) while the highest number of active cases (3,171) was reported on September 16. Though the number of cases started declining in the last couple of weeks, the month accounted for 61% (7,266) of the cases reported between March 18 (first case) and September 30. Also, in comparison to 41 deaths in August, Chandigarh witnessed 106 deaths in September.The central team observed that initially in the zones where there were less number of cases or during the initial phases of the epidemic, the authorities were able to contact all positive cases in 24 hours. However, as the cases were surging, not all patients were being contacted within 24 hours of reporting, and this also resulted in delayed testing of their household contacts. Some positive patients even complained that the health department did not contact them and they didn’t even know whom to contact in case of any problem.The experts also found that asymptomatic household contacts were being tested the very next day (after exposure), resulting in negative results in many instances, and contacts were developing symptoms at a later date. Negative reports tend to give false reassurance to those tested, and mixing of these asymptomatic cases after the end of the quarantine period could also lead to spread of the disease, the team had observed. Testing issues at GMCH, PGIAlso, the testing capacity at the government’s tertiary level hospital was only 150 a day, which led to a huge backlog. “The RT-PCR testing capacity of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, was only about 150 samples a day, which was hindering testing of household contacts. There was a huge backlog of testing of household contacts in the south zone, because of a large number of positive cases and limited testing capacity of GMCH,” the committee noted. Also, the non availability of rapid antigen testing at the PGIMER Emergency led to intermixing of positive and negative cases for a period of at least 10-12 hours, which is an average turnaround time for RT-PCR results, it was observed. The PGIMER has since started rapid antigen testing in the Emergency.Covid care facilities poorly managedWhen it comes to Covid care, the facilities are categorised into three levels. Level-1 is for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients, Level 2 is for mild to moderately symptomatic cases, and Level 3 is for critical patients needing ICU or ventilator, including pregnant and aged patients.The expert committee found that the Level-2 centre at GMCH had cases that could be stepped down to Level 1 and cases in Level-3 centre at the civil hospital in Sector 48 could be managed at a Level-2 facility. “Covid hospital was being burdened with asymptomatic stable patients but requiring treatment for non-Covid problems, which can be easily handled at Level-2 centres,” the report further stated. It was also observed that Covid care centres maintained by the UT health department were better managed as compared to those maintained by GMCH. ‘Need for more such studies’The detailed report was procured under the Right to Information (RTI) Act by RK Garg, president of Second Innings Association. He said the two-member team was the only one that made on-the-spot study and was able to find out the details. “More such teams should be deployed once again to assess the prevailing situation, and to see if recommendations have been implemented and are working perfectly,” he said. UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “We have gone through all suggestions made by the central team, and all departments involved in Covid-19 management in Chandigarh are complying with them. Various indicators, such as recovery rate and fatality rate, have improved due to steps taken by the administration.”As reported recently, the doubling time of new Covid-19 cases in the city has improved to 130 days from 19 days in mid-September. A higher number suggests slowdown in spread of infection .However, cases per million in Chandigarh stand at 11,519, double the national average of 5,621. Other issuesDuplication of work as three different departments (SDM, MC and health) chased for the same information from patients.Though positive patients were being contacted, the negative reports were not being provided to people, leading to confusion.Active surveillance on daily basis not being carried out in containment zones. In some buffer zones, thermal scanners and sanitisers were not present at the entry and exit points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-bungled-as-covid-cases-surged-in-september/story-8BEo4EnTnujBF8uw9SQIJM.html
18-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC mulling re-introduction of mechanical sweeping||For providing better sanitisation services, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) is mulling reintroducing mechanical sweeping in the city. The civic body is also planning to bring in IT reforms for providing online services to the residents. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting in this regard at MC Zone D office on Sunday. Officials of an IT company officials also gave a presentation to MC officers for upgrading the system and infrastructure. As per the information, MC provides 67 services to residents and many of those are being offered offline. Residents have to make rounds of the MC office for availing services such as TS1 certificates (NOC) and change of ownership of properties. Officials said that MC is also making efforts to revive the mechanical sweeping project in the city, which was put to halt in 2018 after objections were raised on the working of the company and payment of bills. The MC was spending ₹70 lakh per month on mechanical sweeping at that time and had spent around ₹16.5 crore in the past, which was a heavy financial burden on the fund-starved corporation. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “We are working to provide better online services to the residents so that they need not visit MC offices for getting their work done. The IT infrastructure would be developed and more online services would be initiated. Also, we are trying to simplify the process to avail certain facilities.” MC team to visit Mohali to learn about mechanical sweepingMC commissioner Sabharwal said that a five-member committee of health branch officials has been formed which will visit Mohali to look at the mechanical sweeping project being taken up by the Mohali civic body. The learnings of the visit would be beneficial while planning the project for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-mulling-re-introduction-of-mechanical-sweeping/story-OQ1P6BpdMnyOEjPAx7WHkJ.html
18-10-2020||City||Ahead of festive season, Gurugram police intensify checking drive to stop liquor smuggling||Gurugram: With the rise in incidents of liquor smuggling ahead of the festive season, the Gurugram police have intensified vehicle checking drive near the border areas of the district. Liquor being cheaper in Haryana as compared to Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) from the state is being smuggled in large quantities in the past couple of months as the demand goes up during the festive season, the police said. “A surge in liquor smuggling attempts has been seen ahead of the festive season for the past several years. Our teams have intensified checking at 11 bordering areas that connect the district with other districts of Haryana and the national capital,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). The police are jointly operating with the excise department in the checking drive. On Sunday, 20 teams were formed who were deployed at all major intersections. “At least 13 people were arrested from the district in the past three days for smuggling liquor. We are also in the process of making a list of repeat offenders and areas where the maximum number of such cases were reported. We will explore possibilities of imposing stringent sections on repeat offenders,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police. According to the police, over 900 cartons of illicit liquor were recovered last week during the drive. Meanwhile, a gang allegedly involved in fake labelling was also arrested on Saturday in Manesar which used to paste fake label of ‘for sale in CSD only’ on rum bottles after buying empty bottles from scrap dealers and sell them as ‘canteen liquor’, said the police. “On Sunday, our team arrested three men who had allegedly packed 520 cartons of IMFL stored in a godown in Surat Nagar phase 2 near Sector 5. They were using fake labels (of Army canteen) on the used bottles and were packing these bottles which are sold at higher prices outside,” said Sangwan. Nuh police have also intensified checking at the border areas. Narender Bijarnia, superintendent of police, Nuh, said that they have deployed teams at all the borders and are checking suspected vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-festive-season-gurugram-police-intensify-checking-drive-to-stop-liquor-smuggling/story-8TnNAyBZXi41FblNECnbfL.html
18-10-2020||Gurugram||26-yr-old held for murder of businessman in road rage incident||A 26-year-old man was arrested from Dhighal village in Jhajjar in connection with the murder of a businessman, in a road rage incident, at Kherki Daula on October 11. The police said it was a case of “blind murder”, where the businessman died while undergoing treatment.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect was identified as Rohit alias Monu of Kakrola, who lived at a rented accommodation in Garhi Harsaru.“Monu had intercepted way of Netrapal Singh, the victim, while he was on his way for a business meeting along with his colleague near Kherki Daula. He thrashed him and called a few of his friends, who brutally assaulted him and snatched his car keys, following which he collapsed on the road and was rushed to a private hospital,” he said.On October 12, doctors declared him dead and informed the police control room, following which a case was registered at Kherki Daula police station.“A team from the police station went to the hospital and investigated the case. They consulted the doctor who told them that he was severely hit on his head, which were fatal. The victim’s nephew, Chetan Kumar, told police that he had shifted his uncle to another hospital in Gurugram after his condition deteriorated and he died,” Sangwan said.Kumar, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, in his complaint to the police, said that his uncle, an electrical engineer, was a resident of Vasundhra in Ghaziabad and had been running his business in Delhi and Gurugram. He said that the suspect had intercepted his uncle’s car near Bhangrola, claimed that his vehicle was hit and started hitting him. “His friends joined him in the tiff and assaulted him with wooden canes and iron rods after which he fell on the road and was rushed to the hospital,” said Sangwan.According to the police, the suspect has admitted to his role in the incident and they are in the process of locating the weapons used in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/26-yr-old-held-for-murder-of-businessman-in-road-rage-incident/story-q0iSPha9MC5NJoACwIi4zM.html
18-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG set to take control of 260 parks due to poor upkeep||Around 260 of the 483 parks maintained by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) may soon be taken over by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) ward committee, officials said on Sunday.In January, the MCG had formed a regulation and monitoring committee for supervising parks and community centres in Gurugram. The committee is responsible for issuing funds to the RWAs for the upkeep of parks. The committee, which is empowered to hand over the maintenance of parks to the MCG’s ward committee in cases of infighting, discrepancy or below-par maintenance, has drawn up a list of parks to be transferred to the ward committees. Each ward committee consists of the local councillor, experts, few MCG officials, residents and representatives of RWAs.Currently, there are 808 parks in the city, of which 483 are maintained by RWAs and 325 by the MCG. Earlier this month, 15 more parks were transferred by the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to the MCG.“Wherever RWAs were found to be working to their optimum capacity, we have continued to retain the maintenance of parks with them and wherever this was not the case, or there were some internal issues within the functioning of RWAs, we have recommended transferring such parks to the MCG ward committee. The list has been compiled and shared with senior MCG officials for their perusal,” said Devender Bhadana, executive engineer, horticulture wing, MCG.According to a senior MCG official privy to the matter, a final decision on the matter would be taken next month, once air pollution levels in the city stabilise and the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures reduce.The maintenance of parks and community centres has remained a major point of contention between RWAs and MCG. On January 10, during an MCG meeting, all 35 MCG councillors unanimously approved the decision of taking back the maintenance of all parks and community centres, citing lack of upkeep, from RWAs both verbally and in writing.A week later, around 60 RWAs had submitted a memorandum to Gurugram member of Parliament Rao Inderjit Singh, protesting against the MCG’s decision. The matter became political, with several Haryana politicians also opposing the MCG’s decision on social media and calling for protests.Subsequently, MCG set up a regulation and monitoring committee to oversee the functioning of parks in the city, while the decision to take back all parks and community centres from RWAs was dismissed.There are 60 community centres in the city, of which 22 are maintained by RWAs and 38 by the MCG.This was not the first time that the MCG initiated such a move. Last August, councillors during a House meeting, citing lack of maintenance, had raised the issue of handing over all parks from RWAs to MCG’s ward committee.“The decision by the MCG to take back parks that are not well-maintained from the RWAs is a positive move as it will ensure that the standards and upkeep of parks remain at a high level. However, the MCG should consider introducing the practice of rewarding RWAs that maintain parks at the highest standard with monetary incentives as it will push more RWAs to increase the standard of their parks to even a higher level, similar to the system they have adopted for property tax targets,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council, an umbrella body of RWAs in Gurugram.In May 2017, seven RWAs were rewarded Rs 5 lakh each for ensuring that more than 80% of residents in the area paid their property taxes to the civic body. Under the same criteria, two RWAs were also rewarded with Rs 5 lakh each this September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-set-to-take-control-of-260-parks-due-to-poor-upkeep/story-81wvN9S9Zoeszqd7798RQJ.html
18-10-2020||Gurugram||Cops to check illegal sale of crackers in Gurugram||The police on Sunday launched a drive to check illegal sale of firecrackers, in view of the rising pollution level and the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to curb pollution during winter.The commissioner of police, in meetings with deputy commissioners of police, assistant commissioners of police and 40 station house officers (SHOs), asked them to take steps to ensure supply of green firecrackers to all licensed shops and encourage people to stick to the guidelines issued regarding bursting of crackers.The Supreme Court in 2018 had banned conventional firecrackers in Delhi-NCR due to rising pollution levels and had allowed only green firecrackers, which cause 30% less pollution, during allotted time slots for bursting crackers.So far, no licences have been issued by the district administration this year to traders for selling firecrackers.The SHOs have been asked to hold meetings with residents’ welfare associations in their areas, to ensure that residents do not burst firecrackers indiscriminately and also to keep a check on the illegal sale of firecrackers.The police have formed 20 teams for the purpose and are also undertaking checks at borders to ensure crackers are not being smuggled into the city. Police commissioner KK Rao said that nearly 1,500 police personnel have been deployed on the ground during the festive season, to ensure safe celebrations. “The SHOs have been asked to personally patrol their area concerned and be in touch with RWA members where the celebrations are taking place, and to ensure the women are safe and no snatching incident is reported. Any person found indulging in illegal activity, be it bursting crackers, smuggling liquor, gambling or loitering around in residential areas, will be booked,” Rao said.Personnel will also be deployed in plain clothes to keep a check on hooliganism and street crimes, the police said.“The crime teams have been instructed to keep a close watch on history sheeters who have been indulging in smuggling, snatching and gambling during this season. Also, they have been asked to inform women to be careful while moving out wearing heavy jewellery,” he said.At least 20 personnel from each police station, including the SHO, will patrol their areas and will send daily report to the Rao’s office, as per the plan. The police station numbers have been shared with RWAs to ensure a quick response.Rao said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, social gatherings will be limited and mask swill be mandatory. The police said they are waiting for the administration to issue guidelines in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-to-check-illegal-sale-of-crackers-in-gurugram/story-c3zCeShHgwC8nffNFzzeHP.html
18-10-2020||Gurugram||Air quality remains poor||Air quality in the city remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday, with Gurugram recording an air quality index (AQI) of 273, which was slightly better than the 280 reported on Saturday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin.The average concentration of ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) in the air stood at 266 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3), while a maximum of 327ug/m3 was recorded by the air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. The air quality is expected to deteriorate further due to an expected increase in farm stubble fires.The Graded Response Action Plan, to check the rising air pollution, is already in place, as directed by the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA), since October 15.Air quality in neighbouring Faridabad stood at 277, while the AQI in Dharuhera was 287, as per CPCB data.An AQI between 401 and 500 is considered ‘severe’, between 301 and 400 as ‘very poor’, between 201 and 300 as ‘poor’, between 101 and 200 as ‘moderate’, between 51 and 100 as ‘satisfactory’ and between 0 and 50 as ‘good’.A forecast on Sunday by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) stated that synergized stubble burning fire counts from Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions has increased, with 1,230 incidents reported. “Though fire emission has increased and transport-level wind direction is also favourable, an increase in transport level, wind speed, as well as local Delhi surface winds, are likely to maintain the stubble contribution in Delhi PM2.5 around the same level,” it said.Pollution department officials said that weather conditions and a check on farm fires over the next week will play a key role in the quality of air. “If the weather is good and wind speed is high, the AQI will improve but the farm fires also play a role in wind quality and these need to be curbed. Locally, steps are being taken to check pollution by various agencies,” Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-remains-poor/story-Coyob5Te2k9zjfbOss28cK.html
18-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram agencies directed to keep dust pollution at bay||The district administration of Gurugram has identified 12 city roads that witness heavy dust pollution and has directed the agencies concerned to take steps to control pollution, in view of the worsening air quality and the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) since October 15.The Deputy Commissioner of Gurugram has specifically called for increased mechanised cleaning, regular sprinkling of water on roads, implementation of construction norms and repair of potholes on these roads, which were identified in a report last Wednesday.According to the administration, the most polluted roads are Sohna Road, Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, stretch from Hero Honda Chowk to Basai, Dwarka Expressway, stretch from Sector 10 Chowk to Ghadoli village, Mini secretariat and Vikas Sadan Parking, the vehicle training ground near Leisure Valley Park, Huda City Centre in Sector 29, internal roads between sectors 58 and 67, Genpact Chowk, internal roads from sectors 83 to 93 and roads in Udyog Vihar.The roads were suppliers of building and construction material are located also need to be surveilled and action taken, as per the directive.Different agencies in the city, which are responsible for the upkeep of these roads, stated in their report to the deputy commissioner that mechanical cleaning and sweeping of these roads is being carried out and water is being sprinkled to reduce dust pollution.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that it has formed multiple teams to implement the directions issued by the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) and that violators are being penalised on a daily basis. On Saturday, the MCG had collected penalties amounting to Rs 7.25 lakh from violators, a senior official said.The official said that treated water is being sprinkled on roads and trees to reduce dust pollution and that the agency is also carrying out mechanical cleaning and sweeping of roads.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that it has directed contractors to sprinkle water at sites where construction is taking place on of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and Sohna Road, and cover construction material. “The contractors have deployed sprinklers to check dust pollution. We will implement the rules strictly,” said Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI.Officials of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran said that they have appointed nodal officers to keep a watch on roads, construction sites and its markets. “Our officials are keeping a close watch on the situation. No activity which causes dust will be allowed,” said Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP.Officials of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) said that developers have been asked to follow directions issued by EPCA. “Construction sites and roads being made by developers are being monitored,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement).The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), in its reply to the district administration, submitted that roads under its jurisdiction are in good condition and well-maintained. It also said that wherever required, potholes are being repaired under special repair works.The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) informed the district administration that there are no unpaved roads in Udyog Vihar and that a fund of Rs 7.69 crore has been sanctioned for improvement of internal roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-agencies-directed-to-keep-dust-pollution-at-bay/story-AFFibrSPFJhcZ79WdxAymN.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with banned injections, cocaine in Chandigarh||The police, on Saturday, arrested a 45-year-old man for possessing 50 banned injections of buprenorphine and pheniramine maleate and 1.5 gm of cocaine near the cremation ground at Daria village in Chandigarh. As per police, the accused Avinash Sharma of Daria was stopped for checking at a naka near the cremation ground.A case, under sections 21 and 22 of the Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, was registered against the accused at the Industrial Area police station. He was presented in court on Sunday and a day’s remand was given to the police. Officials privy to the case said they would probe into the source of the accused and who he was planning to sell the contraband to. As per police records, this was the first time someone was arrested with cocaine since March 13, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-banned-injections-cocaine-in-chandigarh/story-I1jggC2ujneYas0waRwlTJ.html
18-10-2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath calls female minister ‘item’, CM Chouhan announces ‘maun vrat’ in protest||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced a ‘maun vrat (observing silence)’ in protest against former chief minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath who referred to a female minister as an “item” at an election rally in Gwalior-Chambal region. Chauhan said his predecessor committed a “crime”. “Ex-chief minister committed a crime. Incumbent CM will repent for it,” said the chief minister announcing his ‘maun vrat’ protest at an election meeting held at Vrindavan Vatika in Gwalior on Sunday. It all began at an election meeting held by the Congress in Dabra legislative assembly constituency, one of 16 legislative assembly constituencies in Gwalior-Chambal region, which was addressed by former chief minister Kamal Nath. Nath was drawing a comparison between Congress candidate Suresh Raje and BJP candidate and woman and child development minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet Imrati Devi. Nath said, “Suresh Raje is a simple man. He is down to earth. He is not like the person. What is the name of the person?” As crowd responded to his question citing Imrati Devi’s name, Kamal Nath called her an “item”, saying, “Why should I name her? You know her better than I know… Ye kya item hai...” Also read: Covid-19 community transmission occurred in some districts - Harsh VardhanA delegation of the state BJP, led by its general secretary Kavita Patidar, lodged a complaint with the state chief electoral officer and demanded action against Nath. The chief minister, in his election meeting in Gwalior, said, “My brothers and sisters! I can tolerate any insult to me but Kamal Nath! You have done a great injustice. You have insulted a daughter of Gwalior district. Imrati Devi was born to a poor family. She worked as a labourer and then became an MLA and minister. She was born as a member of the scheduled caste but no one has the right to insult a daughter of the poor.” Chouhan said, “Kamal Nath seth (rich trader) says Imrati Devi is an item. He should feel ashamed. Will someone be allowed to play with the dignity of a woman and daughter? Today is the second day of Navratra (during which) we worship mother Goddess... This is our land where it is said women are honoured, divinity blossoms here…This is India where when Draupadi was insulted it ensued Mahabharat and a clan was annihilated (ek vansh ka vinash ho gaya).” Chouhan said, “insult to sister Imrati is an insult to every sister of Madhya Pradesh. People of the state in general and BJP workers, in particular, will not tolerate this.” State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Kamal Nath ji didn’t mention name of Imrati Devi while citing ‘Ye kya item hai’. He clearly said he would not name anyone. But BJP, which doesn’t have any real issue to raise during the by-polls, misinterpreted the word ‘item’ for its political gains.” Saluja said, “The fact is that the BJP is insulting the womenfolk by associating the word ‘item’ with Imrati Devi and it should apologize to people for its actions. Congress will lodge a complaint with the Election Commission on this.”Imrati Devi, who held the same portfolio in the Kamal Nath government, resigned from the state assembly on March 10 this year along with 21 other Congress MLAs including five ministers which led to fall of the Congress government. All 22 ex-MLAs joined the BJP and are now fielded as BJP candidates in state legislative assembly by-polls which will be held in 28 assembly constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/kamal-nath-calls-female-minister-item-cm-chouhan-announces-maun-vrat-in-protest/story-YjWSJP6QqXCSIzZH4o8dNO.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Monorail services resume in Mumbai after pandemic; ridership continues to be low||Services on the 20-km monorail line in the financial capital resumed on Sunday, after nearly seven months of closure following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.The single line, which had been struggling with ridership numbers before the pandemic as well, witnessed low patronage which can also be attributed to it being a weekend.Services on the line, which extends from Chembur to Lacob Circle at Mahalaxmi, were carried out in two phases – one each in the morning and evening bands with additional Covid-19 related precautions like social distancing and regular cleaning.The Monorail services have started a day ahead of resumption of more popular Metro services on the 11-km Ghatkopar-Versova route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monorail-services-resume-in-mumbai-after-pandemic-ridership-continues-to-be-low/story-Se1okMoaF3WYpgVQR4MWfL.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three more Covid deaths in Himachal, 170 test positive||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 170 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 18,967. Besides this, the death toll mounted to 263 as three patients succumbed to the contagion in Shimla, Kullu and Hamirpur districts respectively. Of the new cases, 40 were reported in Mandi, 30 in Shimla, 23 in Kangra, 17 in Hamirpur, 14 in Kullu, 12 each in Bilaspur and Una, eight in Chamba and seven each in Solan and Sirmaur. There are 2,630 active cases in the state. Solan remains the worst-hit district with 3,441 total cases and is followed by Kangra where 2,786 people have been infected till date. Mandi has 2,405 cases, Sirmaur 2,100, Shimla 1,966, Una 1,473, Bilaspur 1,127, Hamirpur 1,094, Chamba 1,034, Kullu 1,018, Lahaul-Spiti 286 and Kinnaur 237. Recoveries cross 16k-mark Recoveries in the hill-state crossed the 16,000-mark on Sunday. Till date, 16,040 people have been cured with 217 people having recovered on Sunday. The recovery rate was 84.56%.So far, 3,25,526 tests — over 47,000 tests per million population — have been conducted. Approximately, one person died per 100 confirmed cases. There are around 2,600 confirmed cases per million population and the new infections have grown at a rate of 1.4% in the past week. Among the 14% active cases, maximum (538) are in Mandi, 441 in Shimla and 306 in Solan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-covid-deaths-in-himachal-170-test-positive/story-2Oybmtj7H6JwNmMEbanjTI.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||HRTC conductor exam: Question paper leaked by candidate, police launch probe||The Shimla police on Sunday launched a probe after the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) conductor recruitment paper was leaked on social media soon after the exam began.A candidate at an exam centre at APG University, Shimla, allegedly sneaked in a smartphone. He clicked the photo of a few pages of the question paper and circulated it on WhatsApp. The same also surfaced on other social media sites within minutes.The paper was leaked 20-30 minutes after the exam began at 10am.The accused has been arrested and is being interrogated by the Shimla police.The exam was being conducted by Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC), Hamirpur. More than 60,000 candidates, vying for 568 posts of conductors in the state road transport corporation, appeared in the exam at 304 centres across the state.HPSSC chairman said he has ordered to lodge an FIR into the incident. He said the decision to cancel the exam or not will be taken later.Sources revealed that the HPSSC was also probing similar cases of paper leak from some centres in Solan and Kangra.The incident has raised questions over the security arrangements being made by the HPSSC at exam centres. State transport minister Bikram Singh said any action in this matter will be taken by the HPSSC.Meanwhile, former transport minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali has slammed the BJP-led state government for irregularities in the recruitment exams.“This is injustice with the youth of the state who study hard with a dream to crack recruitment exams and get jobs,” said Bali.He said that during the Congress regime, BJP questioned the recruitments and even moved the court to stall the process. “We got a clean chit on each occasion. However, now when they (BJP) are in power, first there were irregularities in patwari recruitment exam and now the conductor exam has also come under the scanner,” he said adding that this was unnecessary harassment of jobless youth.CM calls for strict actionTaking cognisance of the paper leak, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said those responsible would not be spared and strong legal action would be taken against them. He added that the government would ensure complete transparency in the written examinations so that such incidents do not occur in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hrtc-conductor-exam-question-paper-leaked-by-candidate-police-launch-probe/story-iIaW04WGThN5AXeHl1YgVM.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bickering in Himachal Congress ahead of panchayat polls||With elections to Panchayati Raj institutions and civic bodies round the corner, fault lines in the Himachal Congress have become apparent yet again with former state part chief Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu expressing dissatisfaction with the working of the state Congress committee and lobbying for a change in leadership.Sukhu on Sunday spearheaded a closed-door meeting with a group of former legislators from Shimla district, which has eight assembly segments, to chalk out future. Former Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator Rohit Thakur, former Chopal legislator Subash Manglait , former Shimla legislator Harbhajjan Singh Bhajji, former Kasumpti legislator Sohan Lal and Deepak Rathore, who unsuccessfully contested the election from Theog during the last assembly elections, attended the meeting. Sukhu’s supporters had held similar meetings in Mandi and Kangra last month.The incumbent Himachal Congress chief, Kuldeep Rathore, had replaced Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year. Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh had demanded Sukhu’s replacement. The Naduan MLA is the longest-serving state Congress president.Legislators and leaders loyal to Sukhu are keen that high command either appoint him as state party chief or leader of opposition in the state assembly. A Congress leader in attendance, requesting anonymity, said, “We discussed the way forward for reviving the Congress. We need strong leadership in the state to take the party forward. The party has suffered a humiliating defeat in the Lok Sabha elections and has lost two bypolls.”Rathore, 55, who hails from Kumarsain in Theog, was once considered close to Congress Rajya Sabha member Anand Sharma. However, upon taking reins of the party he aligned himself with former chief minister Virbhadra Singh.The clamour for change in the state Congress leadership had become shriller after the saffron party made a clean sweep in all four Lok Sabha seats - Shimla, Kangra, Mandi and Hamirpur. The BJP had won with a record margin of around 3 lakh votes in each seat and had secured around 72% of the polled vote share.Rathore underplays meetingsRathore, however, underplayed the meetings held by his rival group. “Party leaders are free to hold meetings. This is not tantamount to indiscipline,” he said.Congress leaders had voiced their dissent when newly appointed party in-charge for Himachal affairs Rajiv Shukla had made his maiden visit to the party headquarters, Rajiv Bhawan, on September 25. Shukla has been gathering feedback from leaders and workers. Congress senior leader Asha Kumari, who was formerly in-charge of party affairs in Punjab and five-time legislator Harshwardhan Chauhan are other contenders for the post of state Congress chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bickering-in-himachal-congress-ahead-of-panchayat-polls/story-26igSj4OacCSZGup4lNSjP.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s water supply to be affected for next 4-5 days due to maintenance work||Water supply will be affected in parts of Delhi for the next four to five days due to the closure of the Upper Ganga canal for annual maintenance, the Delhi Jal Board said on Sunday.The canal supplies around 270 million gallons of raw water a day to the city, of which around 120 MGD goes to Bhagirathi plant and 150 to Sonia Vihar plant for treatment. Water treated by the Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar plants is supplied to east Delhi and south Delhi areas.The flow from the Upper Ganga Canal is reducing due to closure for its annual maintenance, the DJB said, adding that the production of the Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar plants may get affected. Water level in the Yamuna is also less. Therefore, water will be available at low pressure for four to five days till the situation improves, a DJB official said.   “The areas likely to be affected are parts of south Delhi, east Delhi, northeast Delhi and NDMC areas,” the water utility said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-water-supply-to-be-affected-for-next-4-5-days-due-to-maintenance-work/story-XGojOYk42Lw01bjFTs6nJM.html
18-10-2020||Lucknow||Ballia shooting case: BJP MLA says he’ll present ‘true account of incident’ before party leadership||After being called by BJP state chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Sunday, party MLA Surendra Singh, who had initially defended the main accused Dheerendra Pratap Singh alias Dablu in the Ballia shooting case, said he would present a true account of the incident before the leadership. The development came hours after the Special Task Force (STF) arrested Dheerendra Singh from Lucknow.Surendra Singh, who was on his way to Lucknow on Sunday, said over the phone, “Yes, I have been called to Lucknow. The party’s state unit chief will ask about the incident that took place at Durjanpur village (in Ballia). I will present a true account of the incident. I will tell him about a series of incidents which led to the chaos during the meeting and then the unfortunate incident.”On Thursday, Dheerendra Pratap Singh, who calls himself a BJP worker, allegedly shot a 46-year-old man dead in an open meeting in the presence of officials after a dispute over allocation of two fair price shops in Durjanpur village of Ballia.On Friday, the BJP MLA, who represents Bairia assembly constituency in Ballia, had said that Dheerendra had fired in self-defence. He had claimed that had Dheerendra not opened fire, dozens of women of his family would have been killed in the incident.Also read: ‘B-team of BJP, vote splitters’ - Tejashwi’s veiled attack on LJPSurendra Singh on Saturday visited Revati police station in Ballia and demanded that an FIR should be registered based on the application moved by Dheerendra Singh’s female relatives who, he alleged, sustained injuries in stone-pelting during the Thursday incident. He also took them to the district hospital and got their medical examination done.Surendra Singh on Sunday said, “I am carrying with me the medical reports of five women (Dheerendra’s relatives) who were injured in the stone-pelting incident. I will present it there (before the state unit BJP chief).”He claimed that the true account of the incident was not being presented by the media. “If the media presented a true account, the women would get justice,” he said.When he was asked for his comment on Singh’s arrest, the phone got disconnected. An aide of the state BJP chief too confirmed that Surendra Singh had been called by the party.“Yes, he has been called for his outspoken remarks. The party isn’t happy with him,” the aide said. “Had he not fired from his licensed firearm, he and his family would have been lynched,” the MLA said.BJP party leaders admitted MLA Surendra Singh to have a habit of passing controversial remarks. It isn’t clear if the party leadership was contemplating any action against him.“Since the party expressed displeasure over his remarks, the MLA has been singing a different tune. He has since said that the law would take its course in case of those who violate it,” a party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ballia-shooting-case-bjp-mla-says-he-ll-present-true-account-of-incident-before-party-leadership/story-aQmvhTFfgvZSk36HM2UEDN.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Bodies of two, who fell off Bhide bridge, found by NDRF||The two men who fell off Bhide bridge on Friday night were found on Sunday morning by a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officials.The two have been identified as Om Timappa Tupghar (18) and Saurabh Suresh Kamble (20), both residents of Tadiwala road area in Bund garden.“The operation started last evening (Saturday). We found the first body around 6:30am at around 200 metres-300 metre distance from the spot as it got stuck nearby and the second one was found at 8:30am around 2km away from the spot (in Sangamwadi) as it was swept away in the current,” said deputy commandant Mahesh Nalawade of NDRF.The fire brigade and police undertook a search operation that started on Friday night. However, they could not find the bodies due to the increased flow of the river. The NDRF team was deployed on Saturday afternoon.The two were clicking pictures atop the bridge a day after the river was overflowing caused by rains in the city when they fell. Their deaths were recorded in an accidental death report at the Deccan Gymkhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bodies-of-two-who-fell-off-bhide-bridge-found-by-ndrf/story-gzskquvmD3knkIoZEtxqBM.html
18-10-2020||City||Go all out to negate effect of new farm laws, Cong MLAs tell CM at CLP meet||Chandigarh Punjab Congress MLAs on Sunday asked the Capt Amarinder Singh government to take all possible steps, including a Bill, to negate the effect of the three agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Centre on farmers in the state. The MLAs were unanimous in their view at the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh here. They asked the chief minister to reject the three anti-farmer legislations and bring a new Bill or make suitable amendments in the existing laws to provide for strict action, including imprisonment, against those who purchase wheat or paddy below the minimum support price (MSP). They also said the CM should leave no stone unturned to invalidate the contentious agriculture marketing laws even if it means running the risk of dismissal of the state government by the Centre. The MLAs who spoke included Barindermeet Singh Pahra, Pargat Singh, Angad Saini, Darshan Singh Brar, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Fatehjang Singh Bajwa. Amarinder, who addressed the CLP, said the state government will fight this till the Supreme Court. “The views of the MLAs will be taken into account while finalising the strategy to battle the farm laws, in consultation with legal and independent experts, including former Union minister P Chidambaram and other lawyers,” he said, refusing to go into the specifics of the legislative action planned by his government. Advocate general Atul Nanda was also present. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar later said the MLAs spoke in once voice on the need to stand with the farmers and the chief minister was also clear that he will not let any harm come to farmers irrespective of the cost. “The state government will take care of farmers and no cost is too high,” he said. At the CLP meeting, several MLAs also stressed the need for aggressively countering the false propaganda being spread by the opposition parties, particularly the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), against the state government and party on the Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 2017, and other related issues. The party MLAs suggested that the role of Akalis in the enactment of the Centre’s three new laws and the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013, should be exposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/go-all-out-to-negate-effect-of-new-farm-laws-cong-mlas-tell-cm-at-clp-meet/story-rUw4T4Hqa6FN4XziqmO13H.html
18-10-2020||City||Illegal paddy inflow: 13 FIRs registered, over 822 tonnes of paddy confiscated||Patiala Patiala police have registered at least 13 FIRs (first information reports) and confiscated 822.5 tonnes of paddy that was being brought in illegally from other states into Punjab in last two days. Police have also arrested 20 people, mainly drivers, besides impounding 32 goods carriers. Traders purchase paddy at lower rates outside Punjab and then sell it at much higher price in grain markets across Punjab, causing losses to the exchequer.Patiala’s senior superintendent of police Vikramjeet Singh Duggal said the police have launched a widespread drive to check the malpractice. “It has been learnt that goods carriers loaded with paddy from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are entering Punjab from different interstate routes,” the SSP said. He further police in coordination with the district administration identified various spots across Punjab-Haryana border such as Shambu, Pehowa, Balbera, Cheeka, Dhabbi Gujjran and Patran in Patiala district and put up special check post at these places. “Flying squads consisting of police, revenue and mandi officials were formed to check the illegal practice,” he said. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the paddy is first purchased at lower rates in other states and then transported to Punjab for sale at a higher price. This practice causes undue burden on the state exchequer on one hand, while causing great deal of indirect loss to the Punjab farmers on the other,” the SSP said. Ghanour’s deputy superintendent of police Jaswinder Singh Tiwana said most of the heavy vehicles carrying paddy were coming from UP and Bihar.“The traders purchase paddy at ₹900-1,100 per quintal from these states and sell it at ₹1,860 per quintal in Punjab,” he said. The cases have been registered under Section 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. “We have initiated the process of identifying the traders,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-paddy-inflow-13-firs-registered-over-822-tonnes-of-paddy-confiscated/story-xZjTu3VnT8XI4JJTNjhwMJ.html
18-10-2020||Election:||‘B-team of BJP, vote splitters’: Tejashwi Yadav’s veiled attack on LJP||With the BJP asserting that the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is not part of the NDA in Bihar, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday took an indirect dig on the party describing it as a “B-team” of the BJP and a “vote splitter”. Without taking name of the LJP or its president Chirag Paswan, Tejashwi asked the voters at his rallies in Mokama, Sheikhpura, Jamui and Nawada to be cautious of the “B-team” of the BJP. “You all should be cautious of the B team of the BJP. They are vote katwas (vote splitters),” Tejashwi said, indirectly referring to the LJP. He also took a jibe at chief minister Nitish Kumar for the latter’s repeated attacks on the RJD by portraying its rule for 15 years as a “misrule” and asserting how the “lantern age” (lantern is RJD’s poll symbol) in Bihar was passe now. He called it an attempt by the JD(U) strongman to keep his election narrative focused on his development model of 15 years versus the 15 years of the RJD government. Also read: Eye on 2022 assembly polls, SP announces Uttarakhand executive body“Chief minister Nitish Kumar says the lantern age is over. I want to tell him that the age of the arrow (poll symbol of the JD(U)) is also over. The missiles have now replaced arrows. This is an age of missiles,” he said, making an oblique inference as to how people were also tired of CM Kumar’s government for its inaction and wanted a replacement to step into modernity. In many meetings in recent past, Tejashwi had said that CM Kumar had become tired and cannot handle the state. Tejashwi cited how the state was ridden with unemployment, poverty and migration. Earlier in the day, the 31-year-old Yadav scion started his campaign with his first meeting at Mokama where he canvassed for party’s nominee and strongman Anant Singh who is incarcerated in various criminal cases at Beur jail in Patna. He is charged under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) after recovery of sophisticated arms and ammunition last year. Reports said Tejashwi did not name Singh in his election speech, instead restricted his speech more on making promises. “People should give us an opportunity to serve for the next five years. I promise to give employment to 10 lakh youths in government with my first signature on coming to power. We’ll also implement same pay, same work practice for contractual teachers, ASHA workers and Anganwadi workers,” he said. Also read: Bihar candidates’ affidavits show some aged by a decade since last electionTejashwi also promised that the old pension for beneficiaries would be raised from Rs 400 to Rs 1,000 if his party assumes power. Mokama constituency is dominated by the sitting MLA Singh’s caste men Bhumihars as well as Yadavs and other OBCs. Singh is a four-time MLA from Mokama and contesting for the fifth time from his traditional seat. Singh’s wife, Neelam Devi, who had unsuccessfully contested the last parliamentary polls from Munger seat, and also filed her nomination papers from Mokama seat this time before withdrawing it, was present at the dais with Tejashwi, reports said. Singh’s candidature as an RJD nominee has given ammunition to the ruling JD(U) and the BJP to accuse the principal opposition party of promoting don-turned politicians. Besides, the RJD’s chief ministerial candidate also slammed the chief minister, accusing him of betraying people’s mandate in 2015 by realigning with the BJP in 2017. “Our paltu chacha (turncoat) not only betrayed the mandate of the Grand Alliance government but also cheated the people of the state,” he said at the rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/b-team-of-bjp-vote-splitters-tejashwi-yadav-s-veiled-attack-on-ljp/story-QfULcG2Hmwy83A0NyZhQKN.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s Covid recovery rate soars to 90%||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday reported seven deaths and 578 new coronavirus infections, taking the total positive cases in the Union Territory to 87,942.Of the seven deaths, four were reported in Jammu division and three in Kashmir division, taking the death toll to 1,379, officials said, adding 385 people tested positive in Kashmir and 198 in Jammu.The overall recoveries reached 77,886, which accounts for a recovery rate of nearly 90%, the highest so far. The recovery rate in the UT has consistently improved over the past 27 days. This month, 20,962 patients have recovered against 12,892 fresh infections, so far. There has also been a decrease in the average number of daily cases in October. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 20 lakh. Of the total deaths, 922 were in reported in Kashmir and 457 in Jammu.As many as 326 Covid-related deaths were logged in August, 478 in September and 191 in October so far.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases, 119, were recorded in Jammu district. In Kashmir,most fresh cases were reported in Srinagar, where 167 people tested positive the disease. Srinagar tops the case tally with 17,697 cases and 332 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 16,106 cases and 237 deaths.Till date, 6.27 lakh people have been enlisted for observation —21,218 in home quarantine, 8,677 in isolation, and 52,490 under home surveillance. So far, 5.43 lakh people have completed the surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-covid-recovery-rate-soars-to-90/story-wF3nK1eMbAhvudyuvnjfyO.html
18-10-2020||City||Illegal liquor seizure: 17 arrested in Yamunanagar so far||Almost a month after a truck transporting illegal liquor was seized in Yamunanagar’s Radaur area, police have arrested 17 people so far, including nine from a factory that was raided on Friday night, superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal said. The raid at a packaging factory in Jagadhari’s Shanti Colony where 145 liquor boxes were recovered took place after an accused involved in the truck seizure confessed about the illegal activities during interrogation. The SP said the arrests made so far are a part of the investigation in the truck seizure case that was registered on September 11. Police had recovered 689 boxes of country-made liquor (8,279 bottles) from the truck and arrested four men from the spot.“One of the accused disclosed about the production of illegal liquor at the factory that was raided. We found huge quantity of empty liquor bottles, equipments used for production, chemicals, labels and holograms of different brands. Nine men who were in the factory were arrested,” he said.“The accused also told us that the factory was running since August 22 and supply was mostly concentrated to Haryana’s Rohtak. He confessed about the supply chain and around 300 boxes were recovered from a liquor vend in Rohtak’s Meham. Two more accused were arrested on the disclosure. The total number of arrests made so far is 17,” the SP said.Jagadhari deputy superintendent of police Sudhir Taneja said Vikas Dahiya, the key accused from Panipat arrested on Friday, is among five men who are currently under ten-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-liquor-seizure-17-arrested-in-yamunanagar-so-far/story-PeCrn8wOQ8gfBLw1Cib3AP.html
18-10-2020||Lucknow||Ballia shootout case: UP STF nabs main accused, 2 others arrested||The UP Special Task Force (STF) on Sunday morning arrested Dheerendra Pratap Singh alias Dablu, the main accused in the shootout and murder of a 46-year-old in Ballia, Uttar Pradesh.The victim, Jaiprakash Pal, was killed when Singh, BJP’s district unit president of ex-servicemen cell, opened fire at a meeting convened for the allocation of two fair price shops in Ballia on Thursday. His arrest was made from Lucknow, the police added. Two other accused were also arrested in Ballia on Sunday, the police added.STF’s inspector general (IG) of police Amitabh Yash confirmed Singh’s arrest by sharing a picture and a video of the accused on the WhatsApp group of the STF to share details with the media. He said Singh was arrested from the polytechnic crossing on Lucknow-Ayodhya highway.There had been speculation about his surrender since Saturday afternoon but it was denied by deputy inspector general (DIG), Azamgarh, Subash Chandra Dubey. Only a few hours after the denial, Singh was arrested from Lucknow.STF officials said Singh claimed in his statement that he, and his associates, opened fire in retaliation when another group, led by one Krishna Kant Yadav, opened fire on them. He said Singh’s nephew Golu Singh and women members of his family were critically injured in the firing by the rival group. Golu later succumbed to his injuries during treatment, according to Singh.He was on the run since Thursday afternoon after the shootout and his video message surfaced on the social media on Saturday alleging that he had been framed.About the two others arrested, DIG (Azamgarh range) Subhash Chandra Dubey said, “On Sunday morning, two other accused named Santosh Yadav and Amarjeet Yadav were arrested in Vaishali area of Ballia city. They were carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on their heads. The properties of the accused will be seized under the Gangsters Act.”Among the others arrested in the case earlier are Narendra Pratap Singh, the brother of main accused, and Devendra Pratap Singh.The state police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 each on the arrest of Dheerendra Singh and five others — Amar Jeet Yadav, Santosh Yadav, Prabhat Singh, Jaswant Pratap Singh and Prayag Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ballia-shootout-case-up-stf-nabs-main-accused-2-others-arrested/story-2e6V9YUeMH7u9cbbwXifAJ.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Parents rely on school recommendations for ed-tech solutions: Survey||Close to 42% parents trust education apps recommended by schools and teachers states a nationwide survey conducted with participation of over 10,000 parents.The survey was conducted by Flowbook, an online education platform to understand online education, its reach and benefits to students and parents post-Covid-19.Interestingly, 54% parents said they were aware and were clear on what to expect from an online or ed-tech company before using its services. Another 18% parents looked for accessibility and convenience. The 44% make their decision based on the customer experience and the home environment so that their children can easily adapt to the app. In western India which consists of Maharashtra, 68% parents said that they were aware of how to use technology for educational purposes. In rural India, however, the awareness about online learning existed in only 34% parents surveyed. While asked about the amount of money that parents were willing to spend on the education of their children, up to 64% parents said that they would spend about 25% of their income. Many parents who could not use ed-tech platforms (38%) said that the higher costs involved in subscribing to them are a key reason. Arjun Reddy, chief executive officer of Flowbook said, “The survey has helped us to understand that India is adopting the online model of studies and the lockdown has somehow benefited to experience the same. Heavily priced models make a business sustainable in the short run. But what really helps the majority of Indian parents is a monthly model where parents retain the choice to pay or discontinue if they don’t find value in what is being offered to their children.”Parents said that with the risks around the physical reopening of schools, many were still preferring online study platforms, along with their regular online school. “Children cannot go for coaching and thus need additional guidance with respect to studies. Online platforms allow them to choose their subjects and get help,” said Ritu Saha, a Malad-based parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-rely-on-school-recommendations-for-ed-tech-solutions-survey/story-Yh7rMtJv4JQ9i01CV2z5GM.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Agri loss unprecedented, says Pawar as he promises to meet PM for Centre’s help for rain-affected areas||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar began his two-day visit to flood-affected areas of Tuljapur and Ausa in Osmanabad district on Sunday. After reviewing damage to crops and interacting with farmers, Pawar said that the Centre will need to offer financial assistance as the loss is huge and the state government has limitations. Heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 48 lives in Maharashtra’s Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions last week while crops on lakhs of hectares have been damaged extensively, leading to farmers demanding immediate relief. After taking stock of the situation on the ground on the first day of his tour, Pawar said that the rain has damaged agriculture on large scale and its impact will be felt long term. “While the state government will offer it help, it has limitations. I have come across Prime Minister Modi’s statement of all possible assurance to Maharashtra. Therefore, I have decided to meet the Prime Minister in Delhi within the next 10 days along with MPs,” Pawar told farmers. “Standing crops have been destroyed and the land has been damaged. Everything needs to be rectified. The state government cannot do it alone. We will speak to the Centre as well regarding a long-term package and immediate assistance,” said Pawar, whose party is a coalition partner in the Thackeray-led state government.The BJP, however, targeted Pawar for passing on the responsibility to the Centre. “If the Centre takes all the responsibility, then, what are you doing,” asked BJP state unit chief Chandrakantdada Patil while demanding the state government to come forward and assist farmers.PM Narendra Modi has already assured help after he interacted with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “Spoke to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray Ji regarding the situation arising due to flooding and heavy rain in parts of the state. My thoughts and prayers are with those sisters and brothers affected. Reiterated Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work,” Modi had tweeted on Friday. Besides Pawar, the chief minister will also be visiting flood affected areas of Solapur and Osmanabad on Monday and Tuesday. The announcement of Thackeray’s visit comes amid severe criticism from opposition that CM has not been stepping out to take stock of situation on the ground. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis too will be on tour of flood-affected areas, starting with Baramati in Pune district, Solapur and Osmanabad. In Western Maharashtra alone, 29 people have lost lives while 16 persons died in central Maharashtra’s Aurangabad division and three in coastal Konkan. Farmers’ leader and president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana Raju Shetti offered immediate assistance to people as the rain impacted crop which was ready for harvest. Meanwhile, farmers in Nanded stopped a convoy of minister for rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar demanding immediate assistance. “The state government wants to help farmers and therefore, the administration has been asked to carry out panchanamas. Once it is done, we will ask Centre also to help,” said Wadettiwar as angry farmers shouted slogan against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/agri-loss-unprecedented-says-pawar-as-he-promises-to-meet-pm-for-centre-s-help-for-rain-affected-areas/story-2UxlMiwvFbN1fs9cun0WmM.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Physical hearings to resume in Chandigarh district court from Monday||The district and sessions judge has allowed physical hearing of cases at the Chandigarh district court from Monday. However, the consent of both parties to appear in court is mandatory, in view of the prevailing pandemic.In case consent is not given by either of the two parties, the hearing will be carried out virtually.Only advocates concerned will be allowed to go inside the court rooms. Litigants and witnesses will be allowed entry only if their appearance is allowed by the court.The order by the district and sessions judge reads, “Keeping in view the urgencies, apart from virtual hearing and in addition to the matters already being taken up through physical hearing, the court may, where the counsel for all parties give their consent to appear for physical hearing, permit physical hearing in criminal trials, where accused is in custody, matrimonial case, compromise matters, MACT cases, cases under Section 138 of NI Act or in any other matter.”It adds, “The directions are subject to assessment of prevailing local conditions, including intensity of the Covid-19 pandemic by the undersigned.”“If both parties give consent, then they will submit a joint request in shape of an application at the special counter on ground floor, for putting the same before the court concerned till 12 noon,” the order further read.The work of supply of uncertified copies and inspection of judicial records has also been resumed. However, only the advocate concerned or their clerks will be allowed to inspect the judicial records in the courtroom or record room concerned, on working days from 12 noon to 1 pm only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/physical-hearings-to-resume-in-chandigarh-district-court-from-monday/story-5raNPzL4Sv3yqZgDUnmVFK.html
18-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal launches campaign to prevent electrocution deaths of elephants||The West Bengal government has launched a campaign in areas adjoining elephant habitats in the northern parts of the state to prevent electrocution deaths of the pachyderms, a top forest official said on Sunday.The campaign was launched on Saturday in the villages and tea gardens of Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts where recent deaths of elephants due to electrocution have been reported, state Chief Wildlife Warden VK Yadav said.It will, however, be officially flagged off by Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on a later date, he said.“Forest personnel are asking locals through public address systems to report illegal hooking and fencing of fields and tea gardens with live wires.“We are making people aware of the need to protect our wildlife and report criminal activities,” Yadav told PTI.Priority has been given to areas adjoining Buxa Tiger Reserve and Jaldapara and Gorumara national parks, he said.“We have also launched the campaign in villages and tea gardens in Bagdogra and Naxalbari areas of Darjeeling district,” Yadav said.The issue of electrocution deaths of the elephants was discussed with the additional chief secretary of the Power Department and he has given instructions to his officials to take strict action against offenders, he said.The forest minister, during his recent visit to Siliguri, had held a meeting with Power Department officials, forest officers and representatives of tea gardens on the issue, Yadav said.Eleven elephants have died in north Bengal so far this year, of which six due to electrocution, he said.“We need to sensitise people on the need to protect elephants,” he said.Banerjee had on Saturday flagged off from the Forest Department’s headquarters in the metropolis three tableaux which will move around Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas districts during the Durga Puja days to spread the message of wildlife conservation, Yadav said.The MUVs will display colourful images of wild animals and slogans on their conservation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-launches-campaign-to-prevent-electrocution-deaths-of-elephants/story-mwZSZTPQo7NpBdD11d2xHL.html
18-10-2020||City||Man, nephew found dead in Karnal||A middle aged man and his 25-year-old nephew were found dead inside their house at Anand Vihar colony of Karnal city on Sunday, police said.The deceased Joginder Singh, who worked in a factory and his nephew Arun Kumar belonged to Uttar Pradesh. They had shifted to Karnal a few years ago. Police officials said Joginder was living in the house with his son Sanjay and Arun had come to live with them a few days ago.Police said the bodies with multiple injuries caused by sharp edged weapons were found inside a room. The bodies were taken to the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.After preliminary investigation, police have detained Sanjay for interrogation since he was living in the same house. His statement has been recorded. However, police said the involvement of more than one person cannot be ruled out as it appears that they consumed liquor the previous night. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said a case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against unknown person. He said police were also looking at the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-nephew-found-dead-in-karnal/story-9RIr94oCxhTfXWeWD4tqgM.html
18-10-2020||City||5.5kg of narcotics seized in Kupwara during weapon smuggling probe||Jammu and Kashmir Police recovered 5.5kg of narcotics worth crores on October 13 while probing a weapon smuggling case in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, a spokesperson said on Sunday.“Acting on a specific input, the police and Indian Army’s 6 Jammu and Kashmir Rifles launched a joint search operation. Five pistols, 10 pistol magazines, five hand grenades and 138 nine millimetre rounds were recovered,” the police spokesperson said. Three suspects - Tanveer Ahmed Khan of Teetwal, Karnah; Sajad Ahmed Kakroo of Gundishat; and Zakir Hussain Shah of Takia, Bahadurkot - were questioned in connection with their involvement in cross-border narco-weapon smuggling, the spokesperson said. Five packets of a brown sugar-like substance were later recovered from Tanveer’s courtyard. The trio have been arrested and a case has been registered under Sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act is underway.A case will be registered at the Karnah Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-5kg-of-narcotics-seized-in-kupwara-during-weapon-smuggling-probe/story-IVBnMh4aqtHMqcKeiwJCnM.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Student dies by suicide in Kondhwa||An 18-year-old student died by suicide in Kondhwa on Saturday. The parents of the student have not yet recorded their statements to the police. The teen was rushed to a nearby hospital, but was declared dead immediately. The boy was a Class 12 student at a well-known school in Pune Camp. “We have filed a case. The parents are not in a state to record a statement so we cannot confirm the reason,” said senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station. A case of accidental death was recorded at Kondhwa police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/student-dies-by-suicide-in-kondhwa/story-M9KSK3cd8T6Kwd36c8PSHP.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Man in police custody for stabbing friend in Pune Camp||A 26-year-old man has been remanded in custody of the Pune police until Tuesday for killing his friend after a fight they had on Friday night.The deceased was identified as Obaid Mujaffar Kureshi (30) while his accused friend has been identified as Nabil Shabbir Balib (26), both residents of Babajan chowk in Camp.“The deceased man used abusive language while referring to the accused man’s mother. He went inside his house, brought a kitchen knife and shoved it in his chest. Then, he ran away. The injured person told his brother what had happened and he was rushed to the hospital,” said senior police inspector Chandrakant Bhosale of Lashkar police station.The deceased man owned a meat shop while the accused man’s family are in the tailoring business - all located near their houses in Babajan chowk, Camp.“He is a little whimsical. He speaks in English, and has been remanded to police custody,” said police inspector Arun Hazare of Lashkar police station. The police will be investigating the reason for the fight between the two. Whether the police have found the weapon used in the murder or not could not be ascertained immediately.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Lashkar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-in-police-custody-for-stabbing-friend-in-pune-camp/story-aaRUOuqsyori9etWXYmAiI.html
18-10-2020||Jaipur||No Kota Dussehra fair this year, 2nd cancellation in 126 years||The grandeur of yearly month-long famous Kota Dussehra fair will not be seen this year along with the Dussehra fairs in Kullu and Mysore due to restrictions in place to contain Covid-19. The cancellation of the Kota Dussehra mela is only the second such instance in its 126 year history, said experts.Kota Dussehra fair is not only the biggest Dussehra fair of Rajasthan but is also in the league of famous Dussehra fairs in the country. The main cultural event of the coaching city witnesses a footfall of over 50,000 to 1 lakh visitors every day during the fair at the Dussehra ‘mela’ ground in Kota city.Commissioner of the Kota municipal corporation (KMC), south, Kirti Rathore said the fair had been cancelled due to the restrictions placed on holding any kind of large religious congregation and government events in order to maintain social distancing norms to prevent further spread of Covid-19. She, however, added that some traditional Dussehra rituals will be performed symbolically, but there will be no month-long fair like every year.The effigies of Ravana and his son Meghnad and brother Kumbhkaran will be around 11 feet high during the effigy burning event, which will be attended by a limited number of officials and stakeholders, said Rathore. She added that the procession of Lord Lakshminarayanji will also be taken in a vehicle by a few people instead of a grand procession.Kota Dussehra fair begins during Navratri and reaches its peak on Dussehra day when over a lakh people in number witness the burning of tall effigies of the mythological demon king.Historian and also a member of Indian trust for art and cultural heritage, Firoz Ahmad says “Kota Dussehra fair was also cancelled in the year 1971 during Indo-Pak war due to a blackout in Kota and if the fair is cancelled this year also then it would be the second such instance in its history”.The cancellation of the fair will be a disappointment for the locals and traders from across the country as well for those who put up their shops during the fair.“Nearly 1500 traders from across the country put up their stalls in the fair and trade worth Rs 150 crore takes place during the fair but such trade activity will not be held this year due to Kota Dussehra fair cancellation,” said Mahesh Gautam Lalli, ex corporator and also former member of Kota Dussehra mela committee. He claimed that the fair witnesses a footfall of over 16 lakh visitors every year.Also Read: Maha Yagya at Vaishno Devi shrine as Navratri begins, Vedic hymns fill airCommissioner Kirti Rathore explains a few reasons that make Kota Dussehra fair a special attraction.“While most Dussehra events last for maximum a week to 10 days, Kota Dussehra fair is probably the only one which runs for nearly a month, during which a spree of cultural programs is held and famous artists perform.”“The height of Ravana’s statue and that of his family members also remains the highest in the state, with the Ravana statue being as high as 100 feet,” she said.Firoz Ahmad says that Kota Dussehra fair started in 1893 in the reign of ex-ruler of Kota, Maharao Ummed Singh on the existing Kota Dussehra mela ground and it is among the rare Dussehra fairs left in the country in which scions of erstwhile royal family participates.“A colorful royal procession of Lord Lakshminarayan comprising of horse, camel carts, music bands, artists and folk artists and led by the scion of ex-Kota royal family in an open jeep is carried out from Kota Garh Palace to the Kota Dussehra fair ground,” Ahmad said.Also Read: DDMA allows Durga Puja, Ramlila with Covid riders The fair is so popular and deeply embedded in the culture of Kota that the former state government had given the Kota Dussehra mela grounds a facelift with an expenditure of Rs 70 crore, 3 years ago, to develop it on the lines of Pragati maidan in Delhi.Earlier, there used to be an open undeveloped stretch of land at the Kota Dussehra mela grounds, which now has been transformed into an elegant campus after construction of heritage boundary wall, shops, cemented grounds, roads and theaters, said Lalli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/no-kota-dussehra-fair-this-year-2nd-cancellation-in-126-years/story-odTCo8hIBukpn2fSUcqWOI.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Two arrested for running over cop while trying to avoid challan||Two men were remanded to judicial custody on Saturday for running over a traffic police official while trying to avoid a challan for not wearing a mask in Shivajinagar.The arrested men have been identified as Saurabh Lahu Umre (20) and Mayur Dhananjay Chatur (26), both residents of Hingane and natives of Osmanabad. While Chatur is involved in pest control work, Umre is a student at a local college and has a history of a case under Arms Act at Sinhgad road police station.The two were riding on a motorbike along Savai Gandharva Road in Shivajinagar at 11:10pm on Friday when they were stopped for not wearing masks by Hawaldar Balaji Baburao Pandhare who works at the Shivajinagar traffic division.The two first hit the policeman with the vehicle, causing him to fall on the ground, and then ran the two-wheeler over his left leg, according to the police.“Umre was riding the motorbike and Chatur was sitting behind him. The policeman Pandhare has sustained injuries in his left leg. He went to the government hospital and meanwhile, these two men were caught at the next check post,” said police sub-inspector SP More of Shivajinagar police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332, 279, 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Shivajinagar police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-arrested-for-running-over-cop-while-trying-to-avoid-challan/story-aI4KJe3xgsFU2BXPJSmRiM.html
18-10-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Pune residents resolve to keep virus at bay during this festive season||The prime minister and the chief minister have underlined the need for residents to strictly follow Covid-19 prevention measures. With the authorities taking adequate measures to check virus spread in view of the easing of lockdown restrictions and upcoming festive season, readers list steps they will take as responsible citizens... Extra caution necessary during festivities It is being recorded by authorities that during the Ganeshotsav and post the festival, Covid-19 cases increased. One of my closest friends lost his family member due to the virus. Against this background, we have decided to celebrate festivals at home itself. We are not even going to buy food items from outside, but will prepare the delicacies at home. To avoid the eleventh-hour rush, we have decided to do online shopping. We have even appealed to our extended family to avoid home visits during this Diwali. Vivek Patil Avoid visiting hometowns, villages Though Diwali is auspicious and one of the major festivals, I think people should avoid meeting each other during the festival this year. It is a tradition that people go to their native villages and towns during festivals. But this year, it should be avoided. The Covid-19 virus spread is mainly in urban areas like Mumbai, Pune and other cities. If people visited their native places, it would help to spread viruses in rural areas. We should strictly follow the prevention guidelines given by local and central authorities. Smita Bhatane Do early shopping to avoid virus spread The government is taking adequate steps and giving instructions to be followed during festivals. I think it is true and we experienced it during the Ganesh festival. People should keep festival celebrations low key. To avoid the rush, people should engage in early shopping to avoid the typical rush during the last week of the festival. We have strictly decided not to visit relatives and will do video chat with them during the festival. Vinay Kulkarni Mask usage, a necessity Each year we used to go to West Bengal to celebrate the Diwali festival with relatives. But this year, we are planning to drop the plan. We might go outstation around Pune for a day, but will prefer to do one day return and avoid contact with anybody else. I think it is necessary to wear a mask, but many people on streets are seen ignoring this important prevention. In some places, people have masks but they put it on their chin instead of covering their nose and mouth. I strictly instruct these people, mainly vendors, to wear masks properly. Rachna Gupta Avoid unnecessary travel Wearing a mask and sanitising hands regularly is a key for keeping Covid-19 infection away. If hundreds of people used a mask and avoided travelling unnecessarily, it would help to get control the virus spread. Diwali is an annual festival, but the coronavirus pandemic is not a yearly affair. People just need to tone down the festivities and avoid unnecessary travel during vacation time. Ranjit Nair Diwali 2020 at home All our relatives have decided to not visit each other this year. We will celebrate Diwali at home only and make delicious dishes. Due to commercialisation, from last many years, we used to purchase sweets from outside. This year is a good time to prepare our traditional menus during Diwali. We have decided not to go outside for shopping. As it is, I and my husband both are engaged in work from home. We haven’t used office wear or other clothes for the last few months which are lying idle in cupboard. Geeta Kumar No Diwali celebrations in society Every Diwali, we use to burst crackers and build a play fort in our society. Considering the Covid-19 situation, I convinced my kids not to play with any other children in the parking lot. Even other families from our residential society have decided to not arrange any common Diwali function. Vaishnavi Joshi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-pune-residents-resolve-to-keep-virus-at-bay-during-this-festive-season/story-eox5G0u55hLHRIW2ugyRMP.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Rain-hit farmers stop minister’s convoy, seek aid||Farmers suffering crop losses due to heavy rains stopped the convoy of Maharashtra minister Vijay Wadettiwar in Nanded district on Sunday and demanded that instead of survey tours, the government provide them immediate help.The farmers also gave a representation to the state disaster management, and relief and rehabilitation minister to declare ‘wet famine’, and threatened that they would protest in Mumbai if their demands are not fulfilled.Later, talking to reporters, Wadettiwar, who visited the district to assess damage caused due to heavy rains over the past few days, assured the farmers that those affected by the heavy showers will be provided assistance once the government receives the survey reports.As the minister arrived in Nanded’s Salgara village, some farmers stopped his convoy and said instead of survey tours, they should be provided aid immediately.The farmers also informed him about the hurdles they were facing in availing crop loans from banks.Wadettiwar later said, “As soon as the survey reports are received by the government, help will be commenced immediately.” He said the state government would also seek aid for farmers from the Centre.“The state government had earlier helped farmers who were affected by the cyclone Nisarg by changing the criteria (of financial aid),” he said.The state government also gave an aid of Rs 180 crore for flood-hit areas of Vidarbha, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-rain-hit-farmers-stop-minister-s-convoy-seek-aid/story-BrKcMEy91vJyCCBEnnRM6N.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar assures jobs for slum dwellers displaced by metro project in Pune||After guardian minister Ajit Pawar’s instruction for acquiring the slum area near civil court for metro, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed a special cell for rehabilitation work. The minister has also assured jobs for slum dwellers in the metro project. Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) acquired the land near civil court for metro work. The area includes Kamgar Putala, Rajiv Gandhi and Jana Topkhana slums. Pawar on Friday took a meeting to solve the issue of slum rehabilitation for metro work. Pawar said, “Maha-Metro, PMC and slum rehabilitation authority should come up with a rehabilitation solution for acquiring the slums. The youths should be trained so that they get job opportunities in the metro.” The minister has given the responsibility for acquiring the slum to divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Atul Gadgil, director, Maha-Metro, said, “We will have to rehabilitate 1,100 huts from the slum, but in the first phase 211 huts will be affected.” After Pawar’s meeting, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal formed a team of ten junior engineers along with zonal commissioner Nitin Udas and instructed them to concentrate on the rehabilitation work for next few days. Agarwal said, “The team should start the city survey number 19 on final plot number 109 at Rajiv Gandhi and Juna Topkhana area. They should prepare a list of beneficiaries. The officers concerned need to submit daily progress reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-assures-jobs-for-slum-dwellers-displaced-by-metro-project-in-pune/story-1vXuZRg25Ldm4gEqw3Lt2N.html
18-10-2020||Pune||21 leprosy patients undergo Covid-19 treatment at reserved facility at jumbo centre in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) jumbo facility is currently treating about 21 leprosy patients who have tested positive for Covid-19. To ensure safe treatment, the civic body has reserved 40 beds for these patients as more might come following the contact tracing process.Dr Shreyas Kapale, medical officer, jumbo facility at College of Engineering, Pune (COEP), said, “The entire block has been reserved for leprosy patients who have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.”“These patients are ‘healed’ so they are not infectious. They have deformities as their fingers and toes are missing which makes it difficult to take saturation levels like in case of a normal patient using a pulse oximeter. So, we have to correlate the heart rate, consciousness level and respiration rate factors,” he said.The 21 patients were found during a contact tracing programme at the Dr Bandorawalla Government Leprosy Hospital which is also a rehabilitation centre for leprosy patients.A senior official requesting anonymity said, “Initially we had four patients who could not find a hospital bed due to their deformities. After being denied admission, the patients were admitted at the jumbo facility following the intervention from additional commissioner. After the four patients were admitted, we traced contacts and found more patients who might have come in contact at the rehabilitation centre.”About 128 leprosy patients were screened during the contact tracing process, of which 17 more patients were found positive.Dr Kapale said that the medication for leprosy and Covid-19 do not interfere in the treatment process. The staff for the block is different and they do not mingle with the other employees.Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We will provide all required Covid-19 treatment for people suffering from leprosy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/21-leprosy-patients-undergo-covid-19-treatment-at-reserved-facility-at-jumbo-centre-in-pune/story-tjTcA7xoZlGWCuRIDzaGRN.html
18-10-2020||Election:||BJP following ‘coalition dharma’ by attacking me despite ‘anger’ against Nitish: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Sunday downplayed the BJP’s recent attacks on him, claiming that it was only following the “coalition dharma” as an ally of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.“I do not need to exhibit my relations with the prime minister. From the time when my father was in the hospital to his last rites, I can never forget what he (PM) has done for me,” Paswan said in a series of tweets in Hindi.With the BJP working overtime to dispel the impression of having any tacit understanding with the LJP, Paswan claimed that Kumar has been trying to create distance between the saffron party and him.He said the thrust of Kumar’s campaign has been on showing a distance between Modi and him.Paswan said the chief minister, also the JD(U) president, should be thankful to his ally for following the coalition dharma by giving him a “certificate” every day that it has no links with the LJP president despite “so much anger” against Kumar.“I do not want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be in any dilemma due to me. He should follow his coalition dharma. He can say anything against me without any inhibition to satisfy Chief Minister Nitish Kumar,” he said.He added that he is committed to Modi’s mantra of development.Modi is set to address a number of poll rallies with Kumar and other coalition leaders in the coming days in Bihar.The LJP’s decision to fight the Bihar polls independently after walking out of the NDA, which includes the BJP and the JD(U), has muddied the waters ahead of the upcoming assembly polls.Paswan has been making determined efforts to target the JD(U) by putting up candidates against it, while his party is not contesting on seats where the BJP is in the fray.The BJP has in the last few days accused Paswan of trying to spread confusion by harping on his claimed proximity to its senior leaders and reiterated that Kumar will become the state’s chief minister again if their alliance gets the mandate.On the other hand, Paswan has been claiming that an alliance of the BJP and the LJP will come to power after the polls.The Bihar Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bjp-following-coalition-dharma-by-attacking-me-despite-anger-against-nitish-chirag-paswan/story-iwMjJQhSjfHRaociHcZwYM.html
18-10-2020||Bhopal||Ujjain illicit hooch tragedy: Chouhan’s crackdown continues, top cops punished||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday ordered shifting of Ujjain’s two top police officers and suspended another following the loss of at least 12 lives in illicit hooch tragedy over two days in the district, said a senior official. Superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Singh and additional superintendent of police (ACP) Rupesh Dwivedi were shifted out while city superintendent of police (CSP) Rajnish Kashyap was suspendedEarlier on Saturday, an assistant commissioner of Ujjain municipal corporation (UMC) was suspended after it was found that two of the main accused-- Sikandar and Gabbar happened to be employees of the corporation engaged on contractual basis.The duo made and sold illicit hooch along with their accomplice Yunus, all residents of Ujjain, in the corporation’s parking area in the city. Both were sacked from the corporation after the tragedy. All the three accused were arrested in the past few days and also booked under National Security Act (NSA). As many as 147 persons including the three main accused have been arrested so far in connection with the tragedy, as per officials. The CM’s action came during a review of Ujjain tragedy on Sunday morning, based on the report filed by additional chief secretary home, Rajesh Rajora, who visited the city on Friday as a part of a special investigation team (SIT) probing the incident.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Congress releases its manifestoThe high-level meeting was attended by chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, principal secretary and officer on special duty in CM secretariat, Manish Rastogi and Makarand Deuskar and commissioner public relations, Sudam Khade, as per an official release. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Trade and sale of intoxicants being done illegally should be stopped at any rate in the state. There should be efforts to ensure harsh punishment to the guilty. There should be a constant drive against drug addiction and illicit hooch to ensure there is no recurrence of Ujjain-like incidents.” More than 12 labourers and beggars lost their lives after consuming illicit hooch called ‘Potali’ or ‘ginger liquor’ in Ujjain city on Wednesday and Thursday.Also Read: BJP laps up ‘Bhookhe Nange’ slur to make MP polls Chauhan vs Nath battleOne of the three main accused, Yunus, was arrested from Indore on Thursday while the other two, Sikandar and Gabbar, were arrested on Friday night. Prior to the action taken by the government on Sunday, as many as six police personnel, including a police station in charge, a sub-inspector and four constables were suspended. There have been different accounts of the number of deaths caused due to the tragedy. The health officials in Ujjain claimed that at least 14 victims died and the police authorities too confirmed it initially but it later changed the number of casualties to 12. (With input from Anand Nigam in Ujjain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ujjain-illicit-hooch-tragedy-chouhan-s-crackdown-continues-top-cops-punished/story-yYAHCKu9mVd3yuQlf2ud7N.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Durga Puja, not Durgotsav this 2020: Private venues, no bhog, pre-booking of visits via app||50% capacity in closed spaces, no rallies, no food stalls, no entry without masks, strict social-distancing and the likes. These guidelines by the Delhi government may have restricted the past years grand celebrations but is ensuring the welcome of Maa Durga in a safe and secure way. From shifting to private venues, going digital to pre-booking visits via an app, Durga Puja communities are doing it all, yet look forward to welcome Durga with much more zest and zeal the next year. While South Delhi Durga Puja Samiti is doing a Facebook, Instagram and YouTube live of Ghot Puja, on October 22, and donations via online payment, Bangiya Parishad, Gurugram is urging members to pre-book visits. No physical Anjali this year Aurindam Mukherjee from the Purbapalli Durgabari Samiti Gurugram, i.e celebrating their 32nd year this time around, says: “Owing to the ongoing pandemic, we are working with the local authorities to ensure our members and community are safe. To ensure this, we aren’t having the Puja at our regular venue (Community Centre, Sector 15). We are going to have the rituals performed at a private venue. This will be a member’s only event and only 100 of us shall be allowed via a roster prepared to ensure everyone gets a chance to see Maa. At the venue, we are practising all the steps such as temperature checks, masks, sanitization, social distancing to ensure everyone is safe,” he says. Sharing the ritualistic changes he adds: “No physical Anjali to happen. We aren’t bringing our Dhaki from West Bengal (WB) but are collecting money to be sent to them. We are proceeding with covering our Purohit with appropriate Covid health Insurance. Members shall be able to see the Puja from the comforts of their home via online streaming.”Pooja at a Private Venue: Face-shield and masks to be providedPandara Road Puja Samity, has, too shifted their pooja to a private venue, Gautam Bose, president, says: “We are doing a private puja i.e only restricted to the members. There’s no public puja this year. Even in the private puja at a house lawn, we’ll follow proper safety. It’s the 65th year of the celebrations. We are very restricted this year.”Aram Bagh Puja Samiti has, too, has shifted their puja to Narayan Satsang Mandir, Rani Jhansi Complex (Delhi) from October 21st to 26th, and their idol, is three and a half feet long vis-à-vis previous year’s 16 feet idol. “This year, it’s only Durga Puja and not Durgotsav. All workers including security, cleaners, kitchen staff are being tested prior. At a time only 40 people will be allowed. Face shield for the elderly and masks will be provided. Premises will be sanitised everyday,” says, Abhijit Bose from the Samiti. Limited entry via pre-booking through AppPartha Dey, General Secretary, Bangiya Parishad Gurgaon, says: “We are doing it on a small scale, with safety first. Our aim is that people who are going over there, shouldn’t get infected. Although we are urging people not to come. There’s limited entry for members via pre-booking, who can book their visit via the Bangiya Parishad App. We are looking at not more then 10 minutes. This is primarily for the members. They aren’t any banners or stall, too. Guidelines include checking of temperatures, and Aarogya Setu. If I am found suitable, then only I’ll be allowed. We have got around six to seven sanitisation centre across the pandal, and keeping adequate masks, too. Nobody will be allowed without a mask. We have to ensure fewer people visit us and keep safe-distance.”“For the puja, we have booked the Community Centre, 56. Some rituals start at 6am. Earlier ten people came to arrange and hundred to watch. But things are different and it’ll all be telecasted online. People can enjoy the puja from their homes this year,” he adds. From a Grand affair to One-Day onlyB-block Durga Puja, CR Park, has decided to only do one-day Ghot Puja on 24th October, Saturday from 7 am onwards.General Secretary, Suprakash Majumdar, says: “Inside the Vedi only Priest (Pujari) and two helpers will be allowed. This year the committee has decided that flower, sweets, fruits etc for Individual Barir (home) Pujo cannot be offered. Pushpanjali, prasad, Bhog, will not be accepted by the Priest / Committee due to Covid-19 restrictions. There won’t be any pandaal, idol , entertainment/cultural events, sports events,bhog distribution at our ground either. Such unprecedented times call for such actions. We wish and pray to Devi Durga to bless us all and look forward to celebrate Durga Puja next year with much more zest and zeal.”Sayan Acharya, one of the executive members, adds: It’ll be a one day affair. We are doing Niyom Rokkha (Neeyam ka Palam). Due to the pandemic, we don’t want to pressurise people to come. We’ll most likely be making a video, try to get a live feed.” Navapalli Puja Samity, at CR Park, is, too hosting the pujo for a day. Ravi Kant Singh, General Secretary, says: “The rituals will only be held on October 24, 6am to 12 noon. We are not inviting devotees to come on the ground, urging for puja and pushpanjali online. There are no physical offerings of puja, no distribution of prasad. Maximum of 15 designated devotees will be allowed. We are advising devotees to declare themselves corona free, who will then be allowed after thermal scanning and sanitisation of hands.”Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/durga-puja-not-durgotsav-this-2020-private-venues-no-bhog-pre-booking-of-visits-via-app/story-KiBkqTXJpvnKaI3gjwbKOP.html
18-10-2020||Lucknow||Ballia shooting case: UP Police nabs Dheerendra Singh from Lucknow||The Uttar Pradesh police has nabbed Dheerendra Singh for the alleged murder of a 46-year-old man from Lucknow on Sunday. Dheerendra Singh, is the Ballia unit president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Sainik Prakosht (servicemen’s cell). Dheerendra Singh has been accused of shooting a 46-year-old man because of a dispute related to allocation of a fair price shop at Durjanpur and Hanumanganj villages. The Uttar Pradesh police had earlier said that it would invoke the stringent National Security Act and Gangster Act against the main accused who was responsible for the death of the man. The police then set up a Special Task Force which nabbed Dheerendra Singh from the state capital. Dhirendra Singh, the main accused in the murder of a 46-year-old man in Ballia has been arrested. He was held from Lucknow on Sunday morning near Polytechnic area,” IG of Special Task Force (STF) Amitabh Yash told news agency PTI. The three other accused who have been arrested in this case have been identified as Munna Yadav, Raj Pratap Yadav and Rajan Tewari. The UP police had formed 12 teams to arrest the accused in this case. Police had also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for information on their whereabouts.The Ballia firing case led to harsh criticism of the state of law and order in Uttar Pradesh. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi had accused the UP government of shielding criminal. She also said that the UP government has a “a politically motivated narrative” which is “justifying and protecting perpetrators”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ballia-shooting-case-up-police-nab-main-accused-dheerendra-singh-from-lucknow/story-2IXnGgMGPmURuwPjODtQVJ.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Only 30% business for Maharashtra hotels and restaurants in slow turnaround||The hotels and restaurants in Maharashtra have seen a sharp decline in patrons after reopening of business following almost a seven-month-long closure due to Covid-19 triggered lockdown.Fear of contracting Covid-19, shortage of hotel staff, restrictions on the number of guests and menu along with travel restrictions have all impacted business, which has dropped to just 30% compared to the pre-Covid-19 era, according to the hotel and restaurant association of western India (HRAWI), a top body of hoteliers.“Our clients still do not have the confidence as they still fear Covid-19 virus infection. We are getting hardly 30% of the business, but this will eventually improve with time,” said Sherry Bhatia, President, HRAWI.The Maharashtra government allowed hotels and restaurants to reopen from October 5 after a gap of close to seven months. However, it restricted operation at 33 % capacity for Mumbai eateries and hotels and 50% for such businesses across the state in order to enforce social distancing norms deemed necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection.“Since travelling is restricted, we have lost a big clientele in this bargain. In addition, since we are operating within 33-50% of total capacity, this is also impacting our business,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, director, Pritam Hotels.Also Read: Could have exercised restraint in his words’: Amit Shah on Maharashtra guv Koshyari’s letter to ThackerayThere are four lakh hotels and restaurants in Maharashtra, of which, barely 30% have resumed operation. One of the major problems is the acute shortage of staff, yet to return in adequate numbers after leaving the state at the height of the lockdown. Fewer outstation trains have added to the difficulty in the migrant worker’s return to the cities.Also Read: Cooperating with Mumbai Police in TRP scam probe: BARCShivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR) said the majority of hoteliers are adopting a wait and watch approach before reopening their establishments. “Most of the hoteliers are facing twin issues of finances as well as staff. Many will open gradually as the situation unfolds itself,” said Shetty.Savio D’sa, a consultant in the hospitality industry says almost all the hotels and restaurants are running into losses. “This situation is better than before as some income is being generated unlike in the lockdown period, where there was absolutely no income,” said D’sa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-30-business-for-maharashtra-hotels-and-restaurants-in-slow-turnaround/story-QvGqLMr5lVtiInM9eUyDaK.html
18-10-2020||Environment||Tigress found dead in Bandhavgarh with 1 cub, 3 missing||A 10-year-old tigress and its newly born cub were found dead in the buffer zone of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve located at Umaria in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday morning, said a forest official.The forest officials suspected poisoning behind the tigress’ death but were waiting for the post-mortem report to establish the cause.“The forest patrolling team found the carcasses of the tigress and the cub near Damokar range on Saturday. The carcass of the tigress seems to be four-day-old and the cub, one-day-old. The cub might have died due to starvation,” said Vincet Raheem, field director Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. “A few days ago, the tigress was spotted with four cubs and we are concerned about the remaining three cubs. Elephant patrolling teams are holding massive search to locate the three cubs,” Raheem added.Also Read: Lift ban on elephant catching to curb man-jumbo conflict- Wildlife experts“As all the body parts of tigress are intact, it was not a case of poaching,” he added. A few days ago, two newly born cubs were found dead in the reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/tigress-found-dead-in-bandhavgarh-with-1-cub-3-missing/story-sRUCambrc5U42BKB1HTGSP.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Jewellery store employee fakes attack to pass it off as a robbery attempt||A 33-year-old employee of a jewellery showroom in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh stabbed himself with a nail on a flyover late last month to pass off the injury as an armed robbery attempt and siphon off 985 grams of gold jewellery, police said on Sunday.The gold jewellery with a market worth of nearly Rs 50 lakh has been recovered from Umesh Bhosle, who was working as a salesman for a jewellery showroom in Karol Bagh since 2019, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central district).“On September 30, he made a police call to allege that he was carrying the gold in a bag and travelling on Zakhira Flyover when two motorcycle-borne men attacked him with a knife and fled with his gold,” said the DCP.Bhosle was hospitalised and treated for the non-fatal injuries even as the police registered a robbery case and began probing the case.When the police obtained no leads from CCTV footage and their sources on the ground, they began speaking to Bhosle for clues about the alleged crime. “But we found his statements to be contradictory. When we questioned him further, he broke down and confessed to attacking himself with a nail and passing it off as a knife attack during a robbery,” said the DCP.“Bhosle told us that he was getting married later this year and needed the money to fund his wedding. So, he decided to siphon off the jewellery by passing it off as a robbery,” said the DCP.Bhosle was arrested on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jewellery-store-employee-fakes-attack-to-pass-it-off-as-a-robbery-attempt/story-q6RSoigjjE3OrvOUKIo3SO.html
18-10-2020||Lucknow||Pradhan of Mulayam’s village and childhood friend dies after 48-year reign||The village head of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s ancestral village Saifai in Etawah, passed away in a Lucknow hospital on Saturday, having held the position for 48 years since 1972.Darshan Singh Yadav, 90, was also a childhood friend and close political associate of the three-time former UP chief minister.Besides being famous as the ancestral village of Mulayam Singh Yadav’s clan, Saifai is also known for its infrastructure that perhaps no other village in India can boast of. The village has a super speciality medical institute, airstrip, hockey stadium, cricket stadium, sports hostel and a medical college. Successive Samajwadi Party governments developed the village by adding infrastructure and public utility projects to it. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav expressed grief over the demise of Darshan Singh Yadav. He was not keeping well for some time.Mulayam, SP national general secretary, Ramgopal Yadav, and several other Yadav family members, too, expressed their condolences.Also Read: People spot ‘alien’ in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida. Turns out to be ‘Ironman’ shaped balloonA statement from Samajwadi Party said that Darshan was dear to the Yadav family. SP chief and Azamgarh MP, Akhilesh Yadav; SP Rajya Sabha member Ramgopal Yadav; Jaswant Nagar MLA, Shivpal Yadav, former Badaun MP, Dharmendra Yadav reached Saifai on Saturday and paid their last respects to Dharshan Singh Yadav before his mortal remains were consigned to flames.During Akhilesh Yadav’s term as UP chief minister, the government awarded Yash Bharati to Darshan Singh.Also Read: Barabanki case: UP Police makes second arrestDarshan won his first gram pradhan election in 1972 and was re-elected in 1982, 1988, and 1995 whenever elections were held. The elections were irregular till 1995 but they were held every five years thereafter with Darshan winning them all unopposed.PM Narendra Modi had visited Saifai in 2015 to attend a wedding ceremony in the Yadav family; APJ Abdul Kalam, when he was the President of India, had visited Saifai in 2004, and many Bollywood stars including Salman Khan, Madhuri Dixit, Alia Bhatt, Hrithik Roshan, Jacqueline Farnandez, Parineeti Choptra and Arijit Singh have performed at the annual Saifai rural festival.In 2015, the Indian Air Force (IAF) landed two of its Mirage 2000s fighter jets at the Saifai airstrip to see if it could be used in emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pradhan-of-mulayam-s-village-and-childhood-friend-dies-after-48-year-reign/story-UfDBnPCEGXvJP3V8z5tsMP.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to hazy skies, air quality remains ‘poor’||Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday, with the air quality index settling at 276 at 7am, according to government data. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the hourly average air quality index of Delhi at 7am was 276 on Sunday. On Saturday evening, the overall air quality index of the city was 287, also in the ‘poor’ category. Air quality The situation is likely to be similar on Sunday. “The wind direction was north-westerly on Saturday and will continue to remain so for the next couple of days. Stubble fires will impact Delhi’s air,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at India Meteorology Department (air quality management division).Air quality in land-locked Delhi-National Capital Region deteriorates rapidly every year with the onset of winter weather conditions, vehicular emissions, and stubble burning of crops from neighbouring states such as Haryana, UP and Punjab. Coupled with low wind speed, pollutants are not dispersed easily, blanketing the region in toxic smog and hazeData shows that action against stubble fires has not been as widespread this year, as compared to previous years. Far fewer subsidised straw management machines have reached farmers in Punjab and Haryana this year compared to the past two years -- potentially exacerbating the worsening air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-hazy-sky-air-quality-remains-poor/story-XeEPqd6jnrVjdz0zZfsSLM.html
18-10-2020||City||Punjab’s first post-Covid care centre to come up at Amritsar Government Medical College||The Punjab health department has decided to start the state’s first specialised post-Covid care centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, to treat patients who develop complications or seek consultation after having recovered from the virus infection. The health officials said the patients facing issues such as weakness, lung fibrosis or psychological problems post-recovery will be provided consultation, treatment and testing facilities at the centre which will start functioning from Monday (October 19). Currently, Punjab has a little more than 6,500 Covid-19 active cases with a total of 1.14 lakh recoveries so far. “Though the department has not received complaints of serious complications from the recovered patients, many complain of prolonged symptoms. There were patients who were found suffering from cough or body ache even a month after they were diagnosed negative for the virus. To maintain a follow-up, we have decided to open the state’s first post-Covid care centre at the largest tertiary health care,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.“Besides consultation and treatment, the health experts will further investigate the adverse effect of Covid-19 in the patients, especially those with co-morbid conditions such as heart disease, kidney failure and diabetes. If required, we will open more such centres in Punjab,” Dr Bhaskar added.Amritsar GMCH medical superintendent Dr JP Attri said, “It was observed that the patients, who got chest infection during Covid-19 infection got lung fibrosis post- recovery. Besides, many patients face social stigma after getting discharged from hospital and it affects their mental health or causes trauma or depression in them.”“Patients from at least six districts of Punjab seek treatment at GMCH Amritsar. It was observed at over 25% of seriously ill Covid-19 patients, who were admitted at level-3 stage at the hospital, got complications and needed immediate one or other kind of post-Covid treatment. To tackle such complications, we have roped in doctors from the departments of medicine, psychiatry and chest and tuberculosis for the specialised centre, which will be open on all working days. The centre will provide all types of medical tests, including ECG, X-ray, ultrasound, etc,” Dr Attri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-first-post-covid-care-centre-to-come-up-at-gmc-amritsar/story-K8wFEFzcN4UdQ3B0jPAuVM.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP general secretary Malwinder Kang resigns in protest against Centre’s new agriculture laws||The Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit’s general secretary and a prominent Sikh face in its state core committee, Malvinder Singh Kang, on Saturday resigned from the primary membership of the party in protest against the Central government’s recently enacted agriculture laws. A two-time student council president of Panjab University, Chandigarh, from the Panjab University Students Union (PUSU), Kang said he was feeling suffocated after enactment of the farm laws and repeatedly raised the issue before the party leadership, but to no avail. A right-hand man of state BJP president Ashwani Sharma, Kang stunned the party with his exit as he was in touch with the state leaders throughout the day before announcing his resignation around 5pm on a news channel. His exit is being considered as a big setback for the BJP in Punjab and is likely to further weaken the party’s position in the perception game on the agriculture laws. The BJP leadership had been maintaining that those agitating against the laws were misguided by the political parties. Kang is likely to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the coming days and is learnt to have held a meeting with the top party leaders. “The only logic the Punjab BJP leaders have is whatever Narendra Modi does is good for the state. I kept on telling that people of Punjab and Haryana were on the streets against these laws and the party should talk to them. I even raised the issue in a meeting chaired by RSS leader Manmohan Vaidya a few days back, but nobody paid heed,” Kang told HT. ‘I cannot be a bhakt’ Kang claimed that no state BJP leader, including state BJP chief, has the guts to speak at national level and neither they have their own plan for the state. “The Punjab leaders need to understand that Punjabiat comes first. In one of the party’s core committee meetings, when I questioned these laws, Tarun Chugh (now national general secretary) snubbed me saying we should not speak Pakistan’s language,” said Kang. A two-time PU senator, Kang hails from Madhya Pradesh and joined student politics Chandigarh. He remained general secretary of the BJP’s youth wing and was directly elevated as general secretary. State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, when contacted, said everyone has the right to choose their political path. “But as far as his claims are concerned, the BJP is the only party where you can put your voice across all platforms. But it’s not necessary that the party would agree with all the voices,” said Sharma. The BJP leaders are seeing Akalis’ hand in the development, especially keeping in view the SAD leaders, including spokespersons, circulated Kang’s resignation on social media. Kang is learnt to be eyeing ticket for the 2022 assembly election from Mohali where he lives. The BJP was banking on him ahead of the polls due to a dearth of Sikh faces in its cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-bjp-general-secretary-malwinder-kang-resigns-in-protest-against-centre-s-farm-laws/story-q4gSqemDZruBT1UE0wUh3M.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s top NEET scorers aim to pursue medicine at 94-year-old civic-run Seth GS Medical College||A day after the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced results for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), celebrations continue in several Mumbai households. Several top performers scored 700 out of 720, making it possible to bag a seat in the institute of their choice.18-year old Rahul Kothari bagged the all India rank of 91 with his score of 700 out of 720 in the NEET exams this year, which includes 180 out of 180 on the Chemistry section. “I’ve been passionate about medicine since childhood, as both my parents are doctors and have been my guides and support system,” said Rahul, who aims for a seat in GS Medical College (attached to KEM Hospital, Parel). His father is a cardiologist with Lilavati Hospital and his mother is a pathologist.Jayatra Shah, 18, scored 180 on 180 in the physics section while his overall score was 700 out of 720. “I’ve spent the past few months focussing on NEET exam. I am very happy with my NEET score. This should help me bag a seat in GS Medical College, where my brother is currently pursuing his third-year MBBS,” said Shah, whose father is an ophthalmologist and mother a gynaecologist. Shah wants to become an ophthalmologist.Anuj Doshi, 18, and his twin brother Agam spent the last few months studying together and both have scored well. “My motivation was a promise I made to my teachers that I will do well in the entrance exam and I’m glad I managed to keep my promise. After MBBS I wish to pursue higher education in either hospital administration and management or artificial intelligence (AI),” said Anuj, who scored 700 on 720 while his brother Agam scored 645. Anuj also wants to pursue medicine at Seth GS Medical College.The state topper this year was 18-year old Ashish Zantye from Malwan, Sindhudurg district. He scored 710 out of 720, bagging the all India rank 19.The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) will announce dates for admissions to state medical and dental colleges soon. Admissions will be conducted by the state common entrance test (CET) cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-top-neet-scorers-aim-to-pursue-medicine-at-94-year-old-civic-run-seth-gs-medical-college/story-QdpA1NPZJNHtEYkTqTxbxL.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar to start two-day visit to flood-hit areas from Sunday; CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit Solapur on Monday||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has planned a two-day visit to the flood-affected areas of Marathwada region (central Maharashtra) starting Sunday. Pawar will be visiting parts of Osmanabad and Latur districts during the visit.On the first day, the NCP chief will visit Tuljapur, Umarga (Omerga), Osmanabad tehsils of Osmanabad district and Ausa tehsil of Latur district. On Monday, he will visit other areas of Tuljapur tehsil and later visit areas of Paranda tehsil in Osmanabad district, said a senior NCP leader, wishing not to be named.In the past four days, the retreating monsoon has caused damage to harvest-ready crops across over 7 lakh hectares in more than 10 districts in central and western Maharashtra. In districts like Solapur, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Aurangabad, heavy rains have destroyed standing crops such as soy bean, cotton, gram, sugarcane and pomegranate. Solapur in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad in central Maharashtra are considered as the worst-affected districts.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray about the flood situation and assured the Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work. The state has also decided to approach the Centre for a relief package.CM Thackeray to tour flood-affected Solapur on MondayChief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is going to tour flood-affected areas in Solapur district on Monday. There was growing pressure on the CM to tour the areas in western Maharashtra and Marathwada from political opponents. Thackeray will review the situation in Akkalkot, Rampur, Bori-Umarga talukas in Solapur. He is also going to hold a meeting with district officials for speeding up panchnamas to assess the extent of crop damage and damages to property.Fadnavis to start 3-day visitMeanwhile, Leader of Opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis has also declared holding a three-day visit to the flood-hit areas starting from Monday. On Monday, he will visit areas in Pune and Solapur districts and On Tuesday, he will be visiting areas in Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Parbhani districts and on the last day, he will visit parts of Hingoli, Jalna and Aurangabad districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-to-start-two-day-visit-to-flood-hit-areas-from-sunday-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-visit-solapur-on-monday/story-SsE4QFZsvt6xO5odTQMplJ.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: Republic TV owner moves Bombay HC seeking to quash case||ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which owns Republic TV, has moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking that the first information report (FIR) registered by the Mumbai Police in connection with the television rating point (TRP) scam be quashed.In the petition filed on Friday, the firm also sought a direction to transfer the case for investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), said public prosecutor Dipak Thakare.Thakare said the petitioner firm has also contended that the investigation in TRP scam case will have pan-India repercussions, and therefore, it will be appropriate that the case was handed over to the central agency.Kandivali police registered an FIR in the case on October 7 after the Mumbai Police’s crime branch busted a racket involved in fraudulently increasing TRP of certain channels by paying households where barometers were placed for the purpose of measuring TRP.One of the arrested accused had informed the police that he was working for Republic TV to pay households to fraudulently increase TRP of the English news channel.Republic TV had moved the Supreme Court for quashing of the FIR. The Apex court, however, refused to entertain the petition on Thursday and asked the firm to approach the Bombay HC first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-scam-republic-tv-owner-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-to-quash-case/story-Su1Q0hKFnVyfe296FFF7ZN.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Body of Cox and Kings staff found on railway track in Mumbai||A 38-year-old man who was found dead near Titwala railway station has been identified as Sagar Deshpande, chartered accountant and general manager of travel company, Cox & Kings (India). Deshpande was reported missing on October 11. He is survived by his parents and sister. On October 11, Deshpande left his house in Thane, saying he needed to go to Titwala for official work. When he didn’t return, his father filed a missing person report on the same day at Naupada police station. On October 12, Kalyan government Railway police (GRP) received a call at 6.30am about a man lying on the tracks between Titwala and Khadavli railway stations. The man was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Kalyan GRP circulated his description among police personnel groups and on Saturday, Naupada police identified him as Deshpande. Assistant police inspector Valmiki Shardul of Kalyan GRP said a probe is underway to ascertain if Deshpande’s death was accidental. Deshpande had worked with Cox and Kings for 10 years and had been questioned by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing. There are allegations that the company had carried out fraud of approximately ₹20,000 crore. Cox and Kings was also under the Enforcement Directorate’s scanner (ED) for its involvement in alleged money laundering by Yes Bank. Earlier this month, ED had arrested Cox and Kings’s former chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/body-of-cox-and-kings-staff-found-on-railway-track-in-mumbai/story-6ap0WCyRPHCTkmTBI13TAO.html
18-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal woman lynched on suspicion of theft||A 41-year-old woman died while her husband was seriously injured after they were beaten up by four persons who suspected the couple of stealing money, at Chinepukur village, around 30 km east of Kolkata on Friday. Police have arrested four persons including the main accused, 50-year-old Mahibul Mollah, an LPG dealer in the locality. A senior officer of Kashipur police station said on condition of anonymity that Mollah had accused the woman’s husband Ali Hossain of stealing money. An argument followed and Mollah and his associates assaulted Hossain. “When Hossain’s wife Sufia Bibi tried to intervene, she was also beaten up. Villagers rescued the two and rushed them to a hospital from where they were referred to a state-run hospital in Kolkata. The woman was declared dead on arrival at the hospital in Kolkata,” said the officer. Later Hossain lodged a complaint on the basis of which the accused were arrested (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-woman-lynched-on-suspicion-of-theft/story-GYBScPuGGNJBCwRXEp6xKJ.html
18-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Congress releases its manifesto||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Saturday promised jobs and pensions to kin of those who died due to Covid-19 in its 52-point ‘Vachan Patra’ (manifesto) released for the November 3 assembly bypolls to 28 seats in the state. The manifesto— which focuses on Covid-19 victims, farmers, unemployed youth, women and businessmen—was released by the state Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath. Releasing a list of promises “fulfilled” during the 15 months of the last Congress government state (December 2018-March 2020) in the state, Nath said, “During the 15-month tenure, Congress fulfilled 574 out of 974 promises made in the manifesto released before the 2018 assembly election.” He added, “We don’t believe in making false promises like Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.” Nath also said that Congress opposed the three farm bills and the amendments in the labour laws approved in the monsoon session of Parliament, and said the same would not be implemented in Madhya Pradesh, if Congress returns to power in the state. Congress needs to win all the 28 assembly seats in the bypolls on November 3 to cross the majority mark of 116 in the 230-member state assembly.“If Congress comes to power, it will start Corona Samajik Suraksha Pension Yojna for the next of kin of the people who lost their lives due to Covid-19. Similarly, jobs will be provided to a family member of Covid victims. The Congress-led state government will also help the family members of victims in setting up their own businesses,” Nath said. The manifesto mentions that businessmen affected by the pandemic will be provided loans worth ₹50,000 without any interest to revive. The manifesto also promised to not charge unemployed youth any fee while applying for government jobs. Nath also said if the party is voted to power again in the state, the farm loan waiver scheme— under which loans up to ₹2 lakh for farmers will be forgone— will be resumed. Like the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government, Gaudhan Sewa Yojna ( under which cow dung is procured by the state government at ₹2 per kg) will start in Madhya Pradesh as well, the manifesto further declared. Besides promising development of the Gwalior-Chambal division, where by-polls will be held on 16 of the 28 assembly seats, the Congress also said that it will notify Keer, Meena and Pardhi tribes as Scheduled Tribes (ST). In its manifesto, the Congress also promised to start an annual award of ₹1 lakh person for a person working in the field of women empowerment, safety, security and welfare. MP Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “Earlier in September, MP Congress committee had released the sample draft on local manifestos for all the 28 assembly seats, but that was not the final agenda plan. The final draft of the manifesto was released on Saturday. Nobody raised any question from the party. It is BJP working on manufacturing propaganda against our list of promises.” The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government termed Congress’ manifesto “a document of lies” (kapat patra). State home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Congress promises are just going to be on paper and they have no intention to fulfill them. Earlier, they had cheated voters in the name of the farm loan waiver, and now nobody in the state is going to believe the new promises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-congress-releases-its-manifesto/story-BTiykLyqxYEGMgx7nvw0ZM.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar may come under ED scanner amid money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has launched a probe into money laundering allegations against various corporations of the Maharashtra irrigation department in connection with alleged irregularities in 12 projects under Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation, according to people aware of the developments.ED has sought tenders for dam projects, revised administrative approvals, and bills paid to the contractors linked to Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation, Krishna Valley irrigation project, and Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation between 1999 and 2009, from officials of the water resources department, an ED official said on condition of anonymity.The probe is likely to bring deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar under scanner after irregularities in the department came to light in 2012. Pawar was the water resources minister between 1999 and 2009. In December last year, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) gave the deputy CM a clean chit in the case. An affidavit to this effect was filed in the high court on November 27, a day before the MVA government came to power in the state on November 28.The probe coincides with the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government ordering a probe into former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s water conservation project, Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan.The development comes weeks after the Mumbai Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) gave a clean chit to Pawar and others in the ₹25,000-crore Maharashtra State Cooperative banks irregularities case. The EOW last month filed a closure report in the case, calling it to be a civil matter. ED has opposed EOW’s move in the court.Pawar, who was touring the flood-affected areas of Solapur and Pune district on Saturday, declined to comment on the ED probe and said that a probe into Jalyukt Shivar was not ordered out of any spite. “A few ministers in the cabinet raised issues that if CAG itself raised questions on it (Jalyukt Shivar) then the ambitious project on which crores were spent must be probed. Therefore, the chief minister has ordered an open inquiry into it through a special investigation team (SIT). There is no feeling of spite or grudge against anybody in this,” Pawar told reporters.Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader and one of the architects of the three-party alliance, refused to comment on the probe. “It won’t be correct for me to respond to it; the state government will respond to it. I know that the state government’s investigation agencies have given a clean chit,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-may-come-under-ed-scanner-amid-money-laundering-probe/story-M3h38mQlOWF1KxottvCWzL.html
18-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Man kills wife and daughter, cuts bodies into 22 pieces||A 35-year-old man was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district for allegedly killing his wife and toddler daughter and chopping their bodies into 22 pieces, police said.The district’s superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Singh said the accused Chindalal Saket got into an argument with his wife on Wednesday, suspecting her of infidelity. He then attacked her with a sharp-edged weapon, Singh said. “Saket slit his wife’s throat. He then strangled his one-year-old daughter because she was crying and cut the two bodies into 22 pieces,” the SP said and added that Saket has confessed to the crime. The accused was arrested on Thursday when he was trying to dispose of the body parts. “He was carrying the body parts in a cloth to a forest area when the villagers stopped him after noticing a foul smell. When they checked the cloth, they found parts of his daughter’s body,” Singh said.The accused was produced before a court on Friday and was remanded to judicial remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-man-kills-wife-and-daughter-cuts-bodies-into-22-pieces/story-Q9laHj4iuS8pFrvUOQLBYO.html
18-10-2020||City||University of Mumbai’s distance education institute locks in new exam service provider; pending exams to be held through Google forms||Two days before the re-examination for students of the distance education wing of the University of Mumbai (MU) are set to begin, the varsity has decided to conduct all the backlog exams, scheduled to take place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, on Google forms. The university has also zeroed in on a new online exam service provider to conduct the exams for the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) students. The exams were postponed owing to a technical glitch, which MU officials said was caused due to a cyber attack. The new service provider will conduct exams tor fresh candidates. Vinod Patil, MU’s controller of examinations, however, did not divulge any details on the name of the new service provider. “Only a few hundred students will be appearing for the backlog exams. So IDOL teachers will conduct the exams on all the three dates on Google forms. Exams for fresh candidates, including TYBCom (third-year Bachelor of Commerce), TYBA (Bachelor of Arts) as well as MCom (Master of Commerce) and MA (Master of Arts) will be conducted by the new service provider,” said a senior official. This decision comes days after all the exams conducted by IDOL had to be rescheduled, as thousands of students could not appear owing to technical glitches. On October 7, around 9,000 TYBCom and TYBA students from IDOL and various other MU departments could not attempt their paper due to “technical glitches”. Many students complained about not being able to log on to the exam link on the examination application. In a statement released on the same day, the university blamed the glitch on a cyber attack on the examination software. No further information has been shared on the issue by the varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/university-of-mumbai-s-distance-education-institute-locks-in-new-exam-service-provider-pending-exams-to-be-held-through-google-forms/story-APYzKqxnK4ljK0U3k6LkrJ.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Choreographer arrested for posing as Mumbai civic body official, cheating doctor||Oshiwara police on Friday arrested a 28-year-old choreographer for allegedly posing as an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and cheating an eye specialist to the tune of ₹26,600. The accused has been identified as Vivek Sadare, a resident of DN Nagar, Andheri (West).Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station, said that they received a complaint from a doctor last month saying that two men came to his clinic posing as BMC officials and questioned him about non-payment of signboard charges.According to Dr Sanjay Chaudhary, the complainant, the conmen told the doctor that he had not paid signboard charges — charges for putting up his board outside the dispensary — to BMC since the past two years and therefore, he will have to pay the charges along with a fine.“The accused told him that the total amount to be paid was ₹26,600. The next day, one of the accused went to the dispensary and collected the amount,” Bangar added.Chaudhary later realised that the two had conned him, and approached the police. A team led by sub-inspectors Mahendra Puri and Tushar Sawant checked footages of all CCTV cameras installed in the area and identified Sadare and arrested him from DN Nagar on Thursday. Police said the accused has another case of cheating registered against him at Khar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/choreographer-arrested-for-posing-as-mumbai-civic-corporation-official-cheating-doctor/story-UtSPeYWL8398iuTubVRH5N.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Settlement no ground for setting aside conviction in non-compoundable cases: Bombay high court||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to set aside the convictions of two rival groups, who fought and injured each other’s members. The court was hearing separate petitions filed by members of two groups from Kandhar in Nanded district of Maharashtra, seeking an order to strike down their convictions on the ground of an amicable settlement between them. A branch of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar held that the HC had no power to set aside the convictions on the ground of amicable settlement of the disputes. “If after conviction, the parties settle the dispute and offences are non-compoundable, the conviction cannot be set aside,” said the bench. In non-compoundable cases, charges cannot be withdrawn if all the parties agree for a settlement. “Even this court (high court) has no power under section 482 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) to set aside the convictions on account of such compromise, as there is substantive appeal provided to challenge the conviction,” said the bench. In May 2009, several members from both the groups suffered serious injuries after a fight. They had lodged cross-complaints with the local police. All the accused were tried together and convicted under sections 149 (unlawful assembly), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon or means) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapon or means) of the Indian Penal Code by the local judicial magistrate in 2015. Both the sides had appealed against the decision and arrived at an amicable settlement during pendency of the appeals. In their appeal, they had urged the additional sessions judge at Kandhar to strike down their convictions on the ground of their settlement. They had moved HC ten days back, after the additional sessions judge rejected their pleas. The HC, too, rejected their petitions observing that convictions in compoundable offence cannot be truck down on the basis of settlement between the parties. HC clarified that when appeal is preferred by the convicts, the compromise can be considered by the appeal court if the parties succeed in showing that only compoundable offences were made against them. The bench added that even if the parties are not able to make out the case for a compoundable offence, it is always open to the appeal court to take a lenient view due to such settlement and accordingly modify the sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/settlement-no-ground-for-setting-aside-conviction-in-non-compoundable-cases-bombay-high-court/story-SaBp17cjpYYtpWYgNcSYHO.html
18-10-2020||City||Power outage in Mumbai: Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission seeks report from utility firms||Following the power outage on Monday that affected Mumbai and its neighbouring areas, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) on Saturday directed the Maharashtra State Load Dispatch Centre (MSLDC) to submit a report to the commission by Monday. It has also asked power distribution utilities to make their submissions based on the report by Tuesday, following which MERC will conduct a hearing on Wednesday to probe the reasons behind Monday’s incident, if the standard protocols were followed and the reasons for non-restoration of power supply in some parts. It will also probe if Mumbai’s islanding system worked as envisaged, the status of the system and its relevance in the changing scenario, what will be the action plan to prevent such an occurrence in the future and what protocols were followed by the distribution agencies while restoring power. Mumbai boasts of an islanding system through which the power supplied to the city gets isolated in case of a state-wide grid failure. Mumbai and its surrounding areas faced a massive power outage on Monday, with many areas facing power cut for close to 15 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-outage-in-mumbai-maharashtra-electricity-regulatory-commission-seeks-report-from-utility-firms/story-oPaFeLGrGtQnr82zrVZliL.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena may hold a virtual Dussehra rally this year due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Covid-19 pandemic has dampened the Shiv Sena’s Dussehra rally this year, which also marks the first time that the party chief is also the chief minister of the state. In view of the pandemic, Sena’s annual rally is likely to be held virtually.This year Dussehra falls on October 25, but unlike previous years Shiv Sainiks will not be able to throng Dadar’s Shivaji Park ground in central Mumbai. The state government so far has not allowed any public gatherings, political rallies, etc.“The Dussehra rally is addressed from a stage, but we are trying to find a way around it. We are discussing it, and a decision will be taken keeping in mind security, public health etc. This time, after several years, we have a Shiv Sena chief minister. Keeping all things in mind, a positive decision will be taken,” Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut told reporters.A party functionary involved in the planning added that an announcement will be made next week.Raut also said the party will study how Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to hold election rallies for the upcoming Bihar polls. “Dussehra rally is the state’s tradition for several years now. But in the current scenario, everything is moving to online mediums. However, today I read that PM Modi is going to hold 12 rallies in Bihar. We are studying how he is holding these rallies. We will definitely have a Dussehra rally without breaking any rules of the state government,” Raut added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-may-hold-a-virtual-dussehra-rally-this-year-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-aUo1mh6WGSjVksfqgWni3I.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||13 passengers injured as BEST bus hits wall in Mumbai’s Vikhroli area||At least 13 passengers, including women and children, were injured on Saturday around 11.30am after the driver of a BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) bus lost control over the vehicle and crashed it into a wall on the side of the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) at Vikroli (East). One woman, who has sustained a severe injury to her head, was rushed to Sion hospital. All the other injured, including the bus driver, sustained minor injuries and were taken to Rajawadi Hospital, said a police officer attached to Vikroli police station. The police said that the BEST driver was trying to save a bike rider whose two-wheeler abruptly came before the bus. The driver steered the vehicle away from the motorcycle and first crashed into the footpath before ramming into the adjacent wall. “The bus was heading towards Ghatkopar from Bhandup on the EEH and the incident occurred when it reached Vikroli,” said deputy commissioner of police Prashant Kadam. The police recorded the statements of the injured passengers and booked the bus driver for negligent and rash driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/13-passengers-injured-as-best-bus-hits-wall-in-mumbai-s-vikhroli-area/story-QrAOACfudo9LIZjz409mlJ.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Import of 3 fire-fighting vehicles for Mumbai delayed by 3-4 months amid Covid-19 pandemic||Three fire-fighting vehicles that the Mumbai Fire Brigade is importing from the Netherlands and Germany will arrive three to four months late due to the pandemic. The vehicles suit Mumbai’s urban conditions and were expected between August and January 2021. They will now arrive between December this year and May 2021. The specialised vehicles include one with a water tower with booms that can extend up to 55 metres and will help fight fires in congested localities. The chassis and super structure of this vehicle are being imported from Germany. The vehicle was expected to arrive between November and December, but will now arrive in February 2021. Booms of this vehicle can go over other structures and deep into the fire pit. In buildings with glass facades, booms can break the facade and extend into difficult corners of the floor on fire. A vehicle like this one would be effective in fires like the one that gutted south Mumbai’s cutlery market in Masjid Bunder in the first week of October, and took over 40 hours to douse. A senior civic officer said, “In case of that fire, the structure that caught fire was in the centre portion, surrounded by smaller structures, and was very difficult to reach. The 55-metre water tower will help in such situations.”Mumbai Fire Brigade has also purchased three water transportation vehicles with submersible pumps that can draw out water from a water body — such as the sea or a lake — up to 3 kilometres away through hoses. The vehicle has a special system to lay and recover hoses, with submersible pumps that can lift water from a depth of 30 metres. The system is from the Netherlands and is expected to arrive in December or January, after which it will be mounted on a vehicle that is presently being assembled in Palghar by a fire-fighting equipment manufacturer. The fire brigade has also purchased a special-purpose vehicle to fight fires in high-rise buildings, with capacity to boost water up to 150 metres, which is approximately the 50th floor of a building with high-power pumps. While this vehicle will be put together by a local company in Pune, the pumps are being imported from Germany and are expected in May 2021. A senior civic officer said, “After the lockdown, there was no progress for the first few months about these imports. We have been following up with the companies we are purchasing equipment from, and apart from the delay in delivery, everything else is going as per plan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/import-of-3-fire-fighting-vehicles-for-mumbai-delayed-by-3-4-months-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-OkJcAccs180PrzSYM4SUMN.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Background PM2.5 levels were highest in Mumbai among 6 cities between February and April: Study||A study has found that Mumbai recorded the highest background PM2.5 concentration among six Indian cities, between February and April. Background levels are the permanent concentration in any city when anthropogenic (human-induced) emissions are at their lowest.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) under the Indian Institute of Tropical Management (IITM) Pune, the level of permanent concentration of PM2.5 was highest for Mumbai at 33 microgrammes per cubic metre (μg/m3) and lowest for Chennai (6 μg/m3). Following Mumbai were Ahmedabad (32 μg/m3), Pune (29 μg/m3), Delhi (22 μg/m3), and Kolkata (18 μg/m3). Data for the six cities was collected from February 20 to April 14, allowing a comparison of levels before and during the lockdown. The data has been published in a research paper by IITM. PM2.5 is breathable particulate matter which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller; and can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments. The national safe standard for PM2.5 is 40 µg/m³ for 24 hours.The findings were presented at a discussion organised by the non-profit organisation Natural Resources Defense Council on Thursday. SAFAR project director and scientist Gufran Beig told HT, “Even though Mumbai may have high pollutant dispersion due to advantages such as sea breeze, its background air already has higher PM2.5 concentration than other cities, even landlocked ones such as Delhi.”The period of IITM’s study — February 20 to April 14 — covered both pre-lockdown conditions (when human-induced emission sources were present) and those during lockdown. The data suggests those exposed to higher baseline levels of particulate pollution are at greater risk of dying from Covid-19. During the first phase of the lockdown (March 24 to April 14), 909 Covid-19 related deaths and 27,251 cases were recorded in Mumbai. Ahmedabad recorded 645 deaths and 9,724 cases in the same period. The lowest number of deaths were reported from Chennai (70) while the fewest cases were from Kolkata (1,570). “Our study results indicate that, in general, cities with a high PM2.5 baseline level are associated with a higher number of deaths due to Covid-19 during the study period, and those cities which have a smaller magnitude of PM2.5 baseline level have relatively lesser numbers of mortality,” said Beig. “However, considering all uncertainties involved (testing capability, health infrastructure, environmental and climatological conditions etc.), more studies are needed to determine what is the cause of high baseline levels for a few cities along with connection between PM2.5 rise and Covid-19 deaths,” he added. Beig further explained that baseline pollution represents the lowest levels of ambient air pollution or a level that would have been naturally present and remained under photochemical equilibrium. “Lockdown created an unprecedented emission scenario with near negligible magnitude, which was virtually impossible under normal scenarios and paved the way to determine the baseline levels, but this is the level we are chronically exposed to naturally and it is more dangerous because these levels cannot be curbed through human intervention,” he said.Independent experts said the high background PM2.5 level in Mumbai clearly indicates elevated pollution levels in the air-shed of the city. “This is influenced by the pollution sources across the region, long-range movement of pollutants, and pollutants that are precursor to the formation of secondary pollutants. It is therefore important to have national or regional level policies to reduce the background pollutant concentration otherwise the city will always be fighting hard to reduce levels especially below the background level,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi.SAFAR’s analysis also revealed the baseline values of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), which were highest for Delhi (8 parts per billion) followed by Ahmedabad (6 ppb), Mumbai (5 ppb) and lowest for Kolkata and Chennai (1.7 ppb). The high magnitude of NO2 (8 ppb) in Delhi implies the dominant role of fossil fuel emissions from transport sources in inﬂuencing the base level of NO2, the study said.Meteorological conditions Even though Mumbai recorded the second highest wind speed (11.4 km/hr), lowest average maximum temperature (32.5 degrees Celsius) and third lowest average humidity levels (69%) among the six cities during the first phase of the lockdown, it still recorded the highest PM2.5 baseline levels. “In general, meteorology and topography of a city plays a major role in dispersion of pollutants but in this case all six cities observed calm, steady and consistent weather immediately after the lockdown when pollutants sharply dropped and remained steady until some restrictions were relaxed. So in this case, the drop in pollutants or baseline levels is more due to human-induced sources dropping significantly,” said Beig.Sources of high PM2.5 baseline levels in Mumbai’s air SAFAR recorded the emission inventory for PM2.5 pollutants in Mumbai’s air during 2019. While the transport sector was the most dominant source at 30.49%, sources titled ‘others’ including open fires, brick kilns, textile plants, dust storms, sea-spray etc. — all inside and outside the air shed — accounted for 20.88%. The residential sector, including biofuel or solid fuel emissions for domestic cooking and other activities, accounted for 15.52%. Remaining sources (14.8%) were from windblown dust and 13.08% from industrial emissions. “Overall, the lockdown saw about 85-90% reduction in human-induced sources. The baseline may factor in some amount of household biofuel emissions,” said Beig.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/background-pm2-5-levels-was-highest-in-mumbai-among-6-cities-between-february-and-april-study/story-YhR0p81NoFfAu3ZdIPr8gP.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||ED starts investigation into irrigation scam in Maharashtra||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has commenced a probe into the money-laundering allegations against various corporations of the state irrigation department in a scam that came to light in 2012. The probe is likely to bring the role of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar under the scanner, as he headed the water resources department during 1999 and 2009. Interestingly, the move coincides with the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government ordering an open probe into former CM Devendra Fadnavis’s pet water conservation project, Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan. ED officials have already asked water resources department officials to provide tenders for dam projects, revised administrative approvals, and bills paid to the contractors linked to Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation, Krishna Valley irrigation project, and Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation between 1999 and 2009.A senior ED official, who did not wish to be named, confirmed that as part of its probe, the agency has asked the office of the state water resources department to provide all documents. When asked if any officer from the department has been summoned as they have not provided the details yet, the ED official said that the summons is not for questioning, but a reminder to explain what documents are required for the probe.The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has already given a clean chit to Pawar in December last year in connection to alleged irregularities related to twelve projects under Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation.According to an affidavit filed in the high court on November 27, the NCP leader was cleared of all allegations in the Vidarbha irrigation scam by the Maharashtra ACB. The affidavit was filed just a day before the MVA government came to power in the state on November 28.The development from ED also comes weeks after Mumbai Police’s Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) gave a clean chit to Pawar and others in the ₹25,000-crore Maharashtra State Cooperative banks scam. EOW last month filed a closure report in the case, claiming it to be a civil matter. ED has opposed EOW’s move in the court.Pawar, who was touring the flood-affected areas of Solapur and Pune district on Saturday, declined to comment on the ED probe and said that a probe into Jalyukt Shivar was not ordered out of any spite. “A few ministers in the cabinet raised issues that if CAG itself raised questions on it (Jalyukt Shivar) then the ambitious project on which crores were spent must be probed. Therefore, the chief minister has ordered an open inquiry into it through a special investigation team (SIT). There is no feeling of spite or grudge against anybody in this,” Pawar told reporters.The repercussion of the probe by the Central agency against Pawar was felt in the three-party (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) state government. Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader and one of the architects of the three-party alliance, refused to comment on the probe and its impact. “It won’t be correct for me to respond to it; the state government will respond to it. I know that the state government’s investigation agencies have given a clean chit,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-starts-investigation-into-irrigation-scam-in-maharashtra/story-I9vyHL2ckBJrrV3xrA6TaK.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Metro ops to operate at 3rd of pre-Covid passenger capacity, services halved||Metro train services will be only half of the pre-Covid levels and will operate at a third of the passenger capacity once the services restart next week, a top official said on Saturday.Time duration of the operations for the single 11-km line between Ghatkopar to Versova has also been curtailed to 12 hours starting from 0830 hrs daily, Mumbai Metro One’s chief executive Abhau Kumar Mishra told reporters while showing the revamped set up.He said the cut in services, passengers and operational timing is to ensure the passenger safety through proper social distancing which needs to be followed.Only 200 services of trains will run with services in either direction in up to 8 minutes as against 5 minutes and 400 services earlier. As against 1,350 people per service earlier, now the train will carry only 360 people.It can be noted that earlier this week, the Maharashtra government had allowed Metro services in the financial capital to resume from October 15, but the company decided to start it from Monday after finishing all the safety runs.Temperatures inside the coaches will be maintained between 25-27 degree Celsius and passengers are encouraged to use digital tickets, smart cards or QR code-based tickets, an official statement said, adding no plastic token will be issued.The authorities will be carrying out regular disinfection of all the stations and also the coaches, it said.Over 300 workers have worked through the lockdown period for upkeep of the trains and the station infrastructure, Mishra said, adding 32 of them had turned positive for Covid-19 of which four continue to be infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-ops-to-operate-at-3rd-of-pre-covid-passenger-capacity-services-halved/story-KEc7x2XQS7PSfM87gXibVM.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli booked for ‘spreading hatred’||The Bandra police on Saturday registered a first information report (FIR) against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, for sedition and spreading communal hatred, a day after the Bandra metropolitan magistrate court issued an order to this effect. On Friday, metropolitan magistrate Jaydeo Ghule, acting on a complaint filed by casting director Munawarali alias Sahil Sayyed, directed the police to initiate criminal proceedings against Kangana and her sister.In his order, the magistrate said that a search and seizure may be necessary, and asked the police to take appropriate action under section 156(3) of Code of Criminal Procedure.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut reacts as court orders FIR against her: ‘Pappu sena in Maharashtra seems to be obsessing over me’Sayyed had alleged that over the last few months, Kangana, through her tweets and interviews, defamed the film industry by portraying Bollywood as a “hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased and murderers”.He alleged that her statements “created a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and even creating a communal divide and rift between people of two communities”. Kangana has been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”, he added.Targetting Rangoli, the casting director said that she had also tweeted objectionable posts intended to create a communal rift. Rangoli also works as Kangana’s manager. Sayyed said that her tweets had hurt the feeling of the Muslim community in the country. He also quoted one of her tweets: “Make the Mullas and secular media stand in line and shoot them…the history may call us Nazis, who cares.”The two were booked under sections 124(A) (sedition), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, language etc) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class) of the Indian Penal Code.Following the FIR, the actor tweeted, “Who all are fasting on Navratris?...meanwhile another FIR filed against me, Pappu sena in Maharashtra seems to be obsessing over me, don’t miss me so much I will be there soon #Navratri.”Rizwan Siddiquee, Ranaut’s lawyer, said, “The order passed by the learned magistrate shall be legally dealt with on ‘merits’ as per procedure of law. Right of speech and expression should not be construed as promoting communal disharmony...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-booked-for-sedition/story-R15pfG1wQcapb4pHqCdSRP.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Seven months on, Mumbai Metro to be back on track with 200 services from Monday||Seven months after Mumbai Metro-1 ceased operations owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, it is all set to resume services from Monday. More than 200 services will operate every 6.30 minutes during peak-hours on which 300 commuters will be permitted to travel, the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the line between Versova and Ghatkopar, announced on Saturday. Before closing operations in March, MMOPL used to operate around 400 services on the line, with headway of 3-3.5 minutes during the peak hours. Each train would ferry around 1,350 passengers before the pandemic broke out. The services will operate between 8.30am and 8.30pm with a limited access to stations. For instance, at the western express highway, entry will be allowed from gate one near Guru Nanak petrol pump and exit from gates 6 and 7 near Maharaja restaurant. “We will observe the commuting pattern for a week and increase the services, if needed. However, there will be stand-by trains at both terminal stations if there are more than estimated commuters at a time,” said Abhay Mishra, chief executive officer, MMOPL. Commuters will have to leave one seat between them and stand at designated markers to maintain social distancing at all times. Commuters have also been advised to download the Aarogya Setu app and carry a sanitiser bottle at all times. Wearing a mask at the station and on the trains will be mandatory. “Temperatures of passengers will be checked at the gates and sanitisers will be available at several points. We encourage commuters to opt for mobile ticketing,” Mishra said, adding that commuters who have balance available on their smart cards for the tickets will also be able to avail the benefits after verification at the customer care. 32 Metro employees tested positive for Covid-19 In the past six months, 32 metro staffers were tested for Covid-19, of which 28 have recovered, while four are undergoing treatment, MMOPL said on Saturday. Though the services were closed for seven months, these staffers had to carry out maintenance works periodically. MMRDA chief travels on Monorail A day before the Mumbai Monorail resumed services after seven months, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) chief RA Rajeev travelled on the line from Wadala to Sant Gadge Maharaj Chowk on Saturday. The services will resume from Sunday morning. Mumbai Monorail will also introduce contactless ticketing services from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-months-on-mumbai-metro-to-be-back-on-track-with-200-services-from-monday/story-gh1Trg89QTsTqcr3H1AuYN.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Foul smell, akin to gas leak, reported from Mumbai’s eastern suburbs||For the third time in a span of a little over a year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday received complaints about foul odour, akin to a gas leak, from parts of Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Govandi and Bhandup, Chembur, Mulund, Bhandup, and Powai. Many residents took to Twitter to raise their concerns about the smell.Categorising it as an ‘unknown foul smell’, BMC mobilised the Mumbai Fire Brigade, and alerted the Mumbai Police, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, and ward officials of the respective areas. By 8.15pm, BMC’s disaster management department said it checked with the complainants and the investigating agencies, and they said the foul odour no longer existed. Earlier in June, a similar incident was reported to the BMC’s disaster management department by residents. Being the second such incident at the time, BMC set up a committee to trace the origin of the leak, but the panel could not determine the cause. The first such incident was reported in September last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foul-smell-akin-to-gas-leak-reported-from-mumbai-s-eastern-suburbs/story-Si7WuFfoKbCWyaCITXqidI.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Gyms across Maharashtra set to open from Dussehra; Maha Covid-19 tally reaches 1,586,321||The state government on Saturday decided to allow opening of gymnasiums and fitness centres from Dussehra, which falls on October 25, as the Maharashtra Covid-19 case count reached 1,586,321, with the addition of 10,259 infections.Gyms and fitness centres have been asked to strictly follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) and violators will have to face stern action. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who made the announcement, said steam baths, saunas, zumba and yoga classes will remain shut till further orders.The coronavirus toll went up to 41,965 after 250 more casualties were reported on Saturday, of which, 152 were in the last 48 hours, another 47 were from last week, while the remaining 51 were from before that, officials said.The relative decline in fresh cases, since the past few weeks, has resulted in a steady fall in active cases to 185,270. It comes to 11.67% of the total cases. On September 17, the state’s figure of active cases was 301,752.Despite a decline, the state has crossed over 200,000 cases this month on Saturday. In the last 17 days, 203,029 cases have been reported whereas last month (September), the state had recorded 223,068 cases in just 11 days (as on September 11). State health minister Rajesh Tope said it appears that the state has hit a plateau and they are looking at positive outcomes in the future. “We are looking at the current situation positively. It appears to me that the state has hit a plateau as the infection rate is not going up. However, we are still not in a position to make any kind of prediction because everything depends upon how peoples’ cooperation would be in the coming days. A decline in fresh cases will start only if they continue to cooperate,” the health minister said.“Gyms and fitness centres work to keep people healthy, but we have to take all precautions to ensure they will not escalate the problem [coronavirus pandemic]. The number of gyms are significant in urban areas as well as in rural areas and hence the standard operating procedure prepared by the state will have to be strictly followed. The responsibility for the same will be on the owners and those found not following them will face strict action,” the chief minister said during a virtual interaction with representatives from gym and fitness centres on Saturday.He said that the fresh cases of Covid-19 are reducing in the state, but they have to be careful considering the European countries which are experiencing the second wave. “Covid-19 cases are declining and the state government is also giving relaxations from restrictions but we have to be very careful, considering the situation of European countries as a case in point. We cannot afford to become careless with more relaxations coming in,” Thackeray said.Following the spike in Covid-19 cases, the state had augmented the health infrastructure, but as the cases have reduced, beds at many parts in the state are lying vacant. We don’t want any stress on health infrastructure because of any lackadaisical attitude, he added.Mumbai on Saturday recorded 1,791 new covid-19 cases, second highest in the state, and 47 deaths, taking the total number of cases in the city to 240,335, and total deaths to 9,739. There are now 22,664 active cases in the city.Case fatality rate (CFR) of the city is now 4%, a drop from the 5.5% recorded in August and September. Mumbai has 12% of Maharashtra’s active cases and 23% of the total deaths in the state. Recovery rate in Mumbai is 86%, growth rate has dropped to below 1% contrary to the spurt seen in September and is at 0.81%. The doubling rate is 86 days.Until Friday, Mumbai conducted a total of 1,370,767 tests, with a positivity rate of 17.79%. Positivity rate is a percent of positives in comparison to total tests conducted.On Saturday, Nagpur city recorded 1,794 infections, the highest number of cases across the state, pushing its case count to 72,299.Pune city contributed third-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 471 cases, taking its tally to 167,823.With fresh cases, the state is also experiencing a slight decline in Covid-19 casualties. However, Maharashtra still has the highest number of casualties across the country.State’s CFR went up a bit to 2.65% after a gap of more than a month. It is at second position after Punjab. The CFR of Punjab was 3.14% (with 3,980 deaths) till Friday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.The state has also breached the eight million mark of tests as 79,407 tests were conducted on Saturday. Total tests conducted till date are 8,069,100. The state’s overall positivity rate stood at 19.66%.The number of recovered patients also reached 1,358,606 as 14,238 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 85.65%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gyms-across-maharashtra-set-to-open-from-dussehra/story-tJwrb4yIBvDet62YmcS6jN.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government, railways to allow Mumbai local train commute for all women passengers from coming week?||Women commuters in the city may be allowed to travel by suburban trains from next week. A meeting of state government officials and Central (CR) and Western Railway (WR) authorities is likely early next week, to discuss the matter.As part of its Mission Begin Again, the Maharashtra government on Friday wrote to Railway authorities, to allow women commuters to travel by local trains during stipulated hours from October 17. Prior to this, in a meeting held last week between state officials and Railway authorities, the subject of allowing women commuters was briefly mentioned. “Allowing women passengers to travel by local trains was mentioned in the meetings. However, there was no concrete discussion regarding permitting them,” said a senior official who had attended the meeting.After receiving the state’s proposal on Friday, CR and WR said this was not immediately possible. “We have received a request letter from the state government and have processed the same. Once approval is received from the Railway Board, we will allow women passengers to travel by local trains,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. Railway officials have raised concerns over the state’s suggestion that women be allowed to travel between 11am to 3pm and from 7pm till midnight. “The timing that has been given makes it tricky as in the evening, women passengers could arrive before 7pm and wait, leading to overcrowding. An estimate of the increased number of passengers is crucial as services will be increased in a similar manner. We are looking into allowing women commuters to travel from next week after discussions with state government officials,” said a senior Railway official.Meanwhile, passenger associations have welcomed the idea, but reiterated the need to maintain social distancing on trains. “This will reduce crowding in buses and other vehicles. However, before allowing passengers, proper provisions should be made to ensure social distancing and there is no overcrowding inside train compartments,” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association. Mumbai’s local trains, used by around 8 million people daily pre-Covid-19, were suspended on March 23 after the state went into a lockdown to stop the spread of the virus. Some services, however, resumed on June 15, with the state allowing only essential services workers, differently-abled people and cancer patients to use the trains. At present, CR operates 481 daily services, while WR runs 700 services as compared to their regular of 1,774 and 1,367 respectively. CR and WR operate two ladies’ special trains each. In a 12-compartment local train, nearly 30% is reserved as women compartments. The combinations may differ from service to service, but there are usually two and a half general compartments and three quarter-size first class compartments for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-railways-to-allow-mumbai-local-train-commute-for-all-women-passengers-from-coming-week/story-4JtO2yJrYO8Di13shajCjN.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University library to resume lending books to research scholars||Days after allowing the research scholars to visit campus, Panjab University’s AC Joshi Library will now start lending them books from next week. However, the library will not allow sit-in sessions for now.The decision was taken in a meeting convened by librarian Jivesh Bansal on Saturday.Bansal said, “Lending facilities will be resumed for those research scholars who are permitted to visit departments. They can take books from the library from next week.”For now, only those research scholars who have been enrolled for more than three years have been allowed by PU to visit departments and use laboratories. Scholars of the humanities departments can visit only with the permission of their supervisors.The AC Joshi Library building, which is near PU’s Student Centre, houses more than six lakh volumes and has a seating accommodation of 500 readers. It also has a collection of over 6.4 lakh publications including books, journals, theses/dissertations, rare books, reports, government documents, back files of newspapers, and a prized collection of 1,490 manuscripts.For availing the books from the library, the chairpersons of the respective departments will provide a list of the permitted research scholars to the library.Last month, the Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) had demanded accommodation in hostels and access to libraries, saying that their work was suffering since March.A research scholar, Priya, who is a representative of PURSA, said, “This will help scholars especially of the humanities departments, who can access books from the library. PURSA had also demanded that the library should be reopened for research scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-library-to-resume-lending-books-to-research-scholars/story-IJJEr856vfXsPLBSHfozzI.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Move to reserve beds in private hospitals sought to mitigate Covid spread, says Delhi health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the move to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients in several private hospitals here was to “mitigate the spread of virus” and those levelling allegations on the government were trying to “jeopardise efforts” being made for people’s welfare. A plea in the Delhi High Court has challenged the September 13 order of the Delhi government, directing 33 private hospitals to reserve at least 80 per cent of their total ICU bed strength for Covid-19 patients. “The decision to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients stems out of sheer concern to mitigate spread of virus. Those putting allegations against the Delhi government are trying to jeopardise the efforts made by us for the welfare of our citizens,” he said. Jain made the assertion in a Facebook post and also shared a news article related to the issue. The national capital recorded 22 Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 5,946, while 3,428 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.24 lakh, authorities said. These fresh cases came out of the 58,145 tests conducted the previous day. On October 10 and September 29 as well, 48 fatalities were reported in the city, the highest number of deaths recorded in a day since July 16, when Delhi saw 58 fatalities. The tally of active cases on Friday slightly rose to 22,814 from 22,605 the previous day. The number of containment zones in Delhi also slightly increased to 2,747 from 2,727 on Thursday. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days, with the count on several times crossing the 60,000-mark. The government on Friday told the Delhi High Court that the policy decision directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients was taken as a stop-gap and temporary measure with an intent to mitigate the surge of coronavirus cases in the national capital. In an affidavit filed before Justice Navin Chawla, the AAP government vehemently denied that the decision, which was stayed by the high court on September 22, was in violation of any fundamental right of the citizens of Delhi and termed the petition by ‘Association of Healthcare Providers’ as wholly misplaced and baseless. The high court granted one week time to the petitioner association, which claims that the 33 private hospitals against whom the order was passed are its members and sought to quash the order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, to file rejoinder to the government’s affidavit and listed the matter for further hearing on November 18. The government has already challenged the single judge’s stay order before a division bench which has listed it for hearing on November 27. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the government, said there is a prediction that in the upcoming festive season, the number of Covid-19 cases will go up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/move-to-reserve-beds-in-private-hospitals-sought-to-mitigate-covid-spread-says-delhi-health-minister/story-YpJsAr7PlIEInwTjlhQJuI.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Chandigarh reopens OPDs from Monday||Only one attendant will be allowed with patients who will be coming for doctors’ consultation at the outpatient department of the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 that opens on Monday.The hospital will be the first among the city’s government health institutions to restart routine services since they were suspended on March 19, a day after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in Chandigarh.UT health officials said that for now, only orthopaedic, gynaecology, surgery, skin and paediatrics departments will be restored and a maximum of 50 patients will be registered in a day per specialty.“Services will be restored to full capacity in a phased manner. For this week, we will see how social distancing measures and other safety precautions are being adhered to. We are expecting full cooperation from the people,” said Dr VK Nagpal, medical superintendent-cum-joint director, UT health department.Measures in place to avoid crowdingDifferent entry and exit points have been marked. The registration time will be from 8am to 11am while the consultation time will be from 9am to 3pm.The counters for registration have been increased from two to four. Patients will be provided with the triple-layer mask and their hands will be mandatorily sanitised before they enter the OPD.Token system will allow only 10 patients in each OPD at one time. Extra security guards will be deployed to regulate the flow of patients, and ensure social distancing and wearing of masks.Meanwhile, two major tertiary-care institutes of the city, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Government Medical College and Hospital, are yet to take a call on reopening their OPDs.The UT health department is also planning to allow registration of patients through a phone call remotely. “To avoid rush on the premises, we are also mulling that patients could register from a remote location through a phone call and they will be provided a particular time for consultation. It is on the cards and we are working on it,” said a senior UT health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-multi-speciality-hospital-in-chandigarh-reopens-opds-from-monday/story-ADy3CCWNbfUM4dq1tfmbDJ.html
18-10-2020||Bhopal||‘Harassing for money after failed marriages,’ allege parents after MP woman accuses brothers of rape||A 36-year-old woman registered a case on Saturday against her two younger brothers, one of them is a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), for allegedly raping her eight months ago in Bhopal, the police said.The woman, a resident of Misrod in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, also accused her parents of supporting the brothers and physically assaulting her, said Niranjan Sharma, inspector, Misrod police station. The police registered an FIR under section 376d (gang rape) 120 b (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against a 32-year-old brother, who is an SDM, and a 34-year-old brother, who is an employee of the Indian Railways. The woman’s parents have been booked under section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement against) of the IPC. No arrest has been made so far.In her complaint to the police, the woman said she was “raped by her brothers, who are unmarried, in February. When she shared her ordeal with her parents, they also beat her up. All four members of the family are harassing her. They also tried to implicate her in a false case.”Also read: ‘Not an accident’ - Odisha couple charred to death by nephews, niecesHowever, the woman’s 64-year-old father said, “after the failure of my daughter’s two marriages, she started harassing us for money. Upset with regular harassment, my wife and I complained to Misrod police station in August this year. After the complaint, police registered an FIR and arrested her under section 294 (punishment for obscene acts and words in public), 327 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort property) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. After she was released on bail, she was forcing us to withdraw the complaint. Now, she registered a false complaint against her brothers.”Bhopal, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Irshad Wali said, “Earlier, it was a family dispute between the woman and her parents. Now on Saturday, the woman came up with this new fact. We are investigating the matter and will arrest the accused after investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/harassing-for-money-after-failed-marriages-allege-parents-after-mp-woman-accuses-brothers-of-rape/story-qKHHrSpzPFePwgjqjVD4DN.html
18-10-2020||City||Day 1 of Navratra Mela: 16,000 devotees visit Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula; ₹23.79 lakh cash in offerings received||A total 16,106 people turned up at Mansa Devi temple to pay obeisance on the first day of the Navratra Mela on Saturday.As per the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, devotees started coming in 5am onwards. “The rush this year was less as compared to previous years as online appointments were made necessary to visit the temple. Everyone was wearing a mask and all efforts were taken to ensure social distancing,” said the CEO of the Board MS Yadav.Speaker of Haryana Vidhan Sabha Gian Chand Gupta was among those who visited the temple on Saturday. However, some said social distancing was not maintained properly owing to the large number of people gathered on the premises.Around ₹23.79 lakh in cash were offered, almost double the amount that was offered on the first day of the fair last year. Five gold nugs weighing 13.532 gram and 61 silver nugs weighing 1071.1 gram were also offered by the devotees.The temple’s scheme to provide a prasad of dry fruits by post was also received well. The prasad was available in packets of 100 gram for ₹101 and 200 gram for ₹151. Devotees spent ₹20,200 on 100-gram prasad packets and ₹19,700 on 200-gram ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-1-of-navratra-mela-16-000-devotees-visit-mata-mansa-devi-temple-in-panchkula-23-79-lakh-cash-in-offerings-received/story-6wQKkvGygEr9W6u42bpXNK.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: ED files chargesheet against Tahir Hussain in money laundering case||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognizance of a charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain for his alleged role in money laundering, funding protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act; and orchestrating the Delhi riots in February, which claimed 53 lives and left around 400 injured.Additional sessions judge (ASJ) Amitabh Rawat said there was prima facie, sufficient incriminating material to show the involvement of Hussain and co-accused Amit Gupta in these offences. The court directed Tihar jail officials to produce Tahir Hussain before it on October 19. “... cognisance of the offence under Section 3 read with Section 70, punishable under Section 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, is taken against accused Tahir Hussain and Amit Gupta,” the court said in its order.Hussain is currently in judicial custody, after being arrested in connection with numerous riot cases, including one filed by the Delhi Police special cell related to conspiracy to engineer the Delhi riots. Also Read| Delhi riots: Cops blow cover of own secret witnessesThe ED told the court that further investigation is on and a supplementary charge sheet may be filed later.Hussain’s counsel, advocate Rizwan, said the charges against his client are all false. “This is a coverup to save the actual perpetrators. Everyone knows and has seen the videos as to on whose directions the riots had taken place,” he said.Gupta’s counsel could not be reached for comment despite repeated attemptsThe agency had arrested Hussain on August 31 to probe allegations that he along with other persons had laundered about ₹1.10 crore by using shell (dummy) companies to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and also the Delhi riots. Police have maintained that the riots were planned at the anti-CAA protest sites in north-east Delhi. The ED said their investigation is based on multiple police FIRs. It said the investigation conducted under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, has revealed that companies owned/controlled by Hussain and his relatives allegedly transferred huge amounts of money to dubious entities/entry operators, which were returned by them in cash.“The cash received by Hussain through entry operators was used to fuel the anti-CAA protests and Delhi riots. Investigations have also revealed that Hussain and his companies were involved in money laundering in the past as well,” the ED had said on August 31.Also Read| Delhi riots: Police file supplementary charge sheet, name 9 for promoting religious enmityIn June, ED had conducted searches at residences and business premises of Hussain and his relatives in Delhi, Noida and Greater Noida. These searches had allegedly led to the recovery of incriminating documents and evidences, including fake invoices which were used for the fraudulent transfer of money, the ED claimed.The agency is investigating two cases of money laundering – one against Hussain and another against Popular Front of India (PFI), a Muslim organisation with fundamentalist leanings -- for allegedly mobilising funds for north-east Delhi riots.In its probe against PFI, the ED has alleged that about ₹120 crore was funnelled in by the organisation to fuel anti-CAA protests across the country. The PFI has termed the allegations “baseless”.Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 after clashes between CAA supporters and opposers spiraled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and more than 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-ed-files-chargesheet-against-tahir-hussain-in-money-laundering-case/story-g38bIqbeUqe4UHv1K2HSLJ.html
18-10-2020||Education||Cut-offs drop marginally in DU’s 2nd list; some seats available in popular courses||The second cut-off list for undergraduate courses released by Delhi University (DU) colleges on Saturday saw eligibility scores drop marginally, between 0.2 and 1 percentage points, with seats in several popular courses like English (Hons), BCom (Hons) and Economics (Hons) still up for grabs in several colleges.Despite the rush in most of the on-campus colleges under the first cutoff — that saw 35,500 of the varsity’s 70,000 filled — seats in the English (Hons) course are still available in sought-after colleges such as Lady Shri Ram College (98.75%), Miranda House (98.75%), Hansraj College (97.75%), Ramjas (97.25%) and Kirori Mal College (97%). Similarly, BA (Hons) in Economics is available in LSR at 99%, Hindu (98.75%), Miranda (98.5%), and Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) (99%). Students wishing to pursue BCom (Hons) can still apply in Hindu College (98.25%), LSR (99.5%), Hansraj College (98%), Ramjas (98.75%), and SRCC at 98.5%.The process for admissions under the second cut-off will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday.  Seats are available in other popular Humanities courses as well. For instance, seats in the Political Science (Hons) programme are still available in LSR (99.75%), Ramjas (98.75%), Kirori Mal College (98.75%), and off-campus colleges including Gargi (97), Rajdhani College (93.75%), and Aryabhatta College (94.5%).Explaining the reason behind the marginal drop in the cut-off in the second list, Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said, “Courses available in the second cut-off have very few seats left in a majority of the colleges, so there has only been a marginal drop in the second list.”“We have announced the same percentage for some BA (Prog) combinations in the second cut-off as in the first cut-off to avoid over-admissions,” he said. In LSR — which had announced a 100% cut-off for admissions to Political Science, Psychology and Economics in the first list — seats are still available in many courses with a marginal drop in the required Class 12 board exam score. Also Read: Amend Delhi University Act, help us start new colleges, CM tells CentreWhile the cut-off for admission in Economics (Hons) dropped by 1 percentage points at the college in the second list, it has dropped by just 0.25 percentage points for Psychology and Political Science.SRCC has not changed the cut-off for admission to Economics (Hons) and continued with 99% in the second list. However, the cut-off for admission in BCom (Hons) dropped by 0.5 percentage points for admission to BCom (Hons) in the college. In Hindu College, admission closed for the unreserved category in many courses including English, History, Political Science, Chemistry, and Physics. The College has witnessed a drop of 0.5 percentage points for admission to BA (Hons) in Economics and one percentage point in BCom (Hons) in the second cut-off list. Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu College, said the college has either kept cut-offs the same or dropped them marginally in some courses where only a few seats are left to be filled. “For instance, we have the same cut-off for Philosophy in the second cut-off because we have only one seat left in the course against the sanctioned strength,” she said.At least 10 out of 20 courses were closed for the unreserved category in Hansraj College. It includes History, Hindi, Mathematics, Botany, and three combinations of BA (prog). The college has dropped the cut-off for admission to Economics (Hons) and English (Hons) by just 0.25 percentage points. While popular colleges saw a nominal drop in the required percentage between the two cut-offs, the off-campus colleges saw a drop as high as five percentage points. For instance, at Dyal Singh College, there has been a drop of between three-four percentage points across several courses including BSc (Honours), Physics, Mathematics, and Chemistry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cut-offs-drop-marginally-in-du-s-2nd-list-some-seats-available-in-popular-courses/story-jO9LNGp3EZvDqjkxDVcSGM.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Ramlila takes an online turn to guard against Covid-19||Unlike previous years, when the Red Fort lawns would be teeming with people enjoying the rides, browsing through the scores of food stalls, and enjoying three of the biggest Ramlila performances in the capital, the area wore an empty look on Saturday — the first day of Navratri celebrations. Pointing towards the empty grounds, Santosh Kumar, a hawker who has been selling his wares in the area for over three decades, said, “During Navratri celebrations, thousands of people would come here to see the Ramlila performance, bringing in good business. Since the celebrations have been cancelled this year due to Covid-19, we will earn less than half of what we used to.” The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had issued an order on October 11 allowing Navratri and Durga Puja functions in the city, while following social distancing norms, limiting attendees, and prohibiting fairs and processions. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDelhi has 327,718 Covid-19 cases till now, including 298,853 recoveries and 5,981 deaths. There were 22,884 active cases on Saturday. Many major committees said there would be no Ramlilas this year. Others said they have limited the number of guests and would ask elderly citizens and children not to come. On Saturday, many performed symbolic ceremonies. Dheeraj Dhar Gupta, general secretary of the Dharmik Lila Committee, which organises Ramlila on the Red Fort grounds, said, “We have been organising Ramlila since 1923 – with the only exception being in 1965, due to the Indo-Pak war. We held a Ganesh Puja on Saturday with a limited number of attendees.” Gupta said, they would be telecasting last year’s Ramlila performances on television from October 18 to 26 at 8.30pm. Suresh Bindal, president of Shri Ramlila Committee Indraprastha Vihar, said, “We have booked an air-conditioned hall this time and will show a three-hour, Ramlila including the journey from Lord Ram’s birth till the defeat of Ravan and bharat milap. The number of artists have been reduced from 70 to 40 this time,” he said, adding the event will be broadcast on their Facebook and YouTube channels as well. Also Read: Move to reserve beds in private hospitals sought to mitigate Covid spread, says Delhi health ministerBindal said, adding that the children and elderly will not be allowed at the venue. Last year, President Ram Nath Kovind had visited the IP Extension Ramlila. Since the fair is located at the Delhi border, Bindal said thousands of people from neighbouring states would turn up taking the footfall to 80,000 until last year. With hardly any fairs during the festive season, many temples are preparing for a surge in the number of devotees. South Delhi’s Kalkaji Mandir has sought help from the police and the district magistrate to manage crowds. Only one entry-exit point is being used instead of the existing four to manage the crowds. “Only 10 people can enter the bhawan at a time after sanitizing their hands. There will be no Prasad and all stalls leading to the mandir are closed. Around 1 lakh people used to visit the temple per day during Navratri celebrations,” said a priest from the Kalkaji Mandir. Arjun Kumar, general secretary of Lav Kush Ramlila Committee which organises an 11-day event every year at the Red Fort, said that since these gatherings involve large congregations, they were not willing to take any risk and won’t have organise the Ramlila this year. Pramod Kohli, treasurer at the Ashok Vihar Ramlila Committee, said, “With a raging pandemic, we didn’t want to take any chances, plus the government order came too late to make the arrangements necessary. The limit was for 200 people, but there are 300 artists involved in putting up the Ramlila, so a physical show would not have been possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ramlila-takes-an-online-turn-to-guard-against-covid-19/story-b6X0zZej7tmMnPm19KwtLI.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||BJP attacks AAP, says govt not doing enough to check bad air in Delhi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday attacked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi by claiming they had not done enough to tackle the problem of poor air quality in the national capital.BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma said that Safar (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research) has reported the AQI in Delhi improved on Friday, despite the contribution of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 pollutant load, shooting up.This conforms the finding of an IIT-Kanpur study of 2015, which stated that the main factors that contribute to air pollution in Delhi are road dust (38%) vehicles (20%) and domestic sources (12%).“This means 70% of Delhi’s air pollution woes are due to local factors. Why does the Delhi government then always shift blame to Punjab and Haryana or the Central government for pollution management,” she said.Also Read: Farm fires contributing 22% to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load, shows dataSharma said the Centre, apart from earmarking ₹1,600 crore this year to tackle the problem of air pollution in Delhi-NCR, had also cracked down on stubble burning, besides undertaking other steps like closing the Badarpur and Panipat Thermal Power Plant,switching from BS4 to BS6 fuel and backing innovation of Pusa decomposer for crop residue etc.This is in addition to the multiple meetings by the Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar with minister of the five states — Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, UP and Rajasthan — to find a solution to the problem.Also Read| Behind Delhi’s polluted air: Early stubble fires, weather“The Delhi government allocated a meagre ₹52 crore in its ₹65,000 crore budget for environment and spent nil from the ₹787 crore that it received from the environment cess it received in 2017, However, the same government spent upwards of ₹73 crore on advertisements and self promotion in the months of July and August only,” Sharma claimed.The AAP did not respond to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-attacks-aap-says-govt-not-doing-enough-to-check-bad-air-in-delhi/story-KsALlqdILwEiYvkoW7f0nO.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||HSRP home delivery system to have live tracking facility, says Delhi transport minister||To ensure timely home delivery of high-security registration plates (HSRP) and fuel-based colour-coded stickers to vehicle owners in the city, the Delhi government has asked manufacturers to add a real-time tracking feature so that the applicant can track the rider, as is done currently on food delivery apps. The direction was issued to the three HSRP manufacturers of Delhi in a meeting held on Friday. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) is working on creating another parallel system, wherein OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) would get HSRPs and colour-coded stickers affixed on old vehicles that come in for servicing at various centres. HSRPs are hologram plates made with a laser-branded permanent identification number, which cannot be copied. The colour-coded stickers are meant to identify vehicles based on their fuel type. The stickers also include details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and the engine and chassis number of the vehicle.Also Read: Passenger vehicle sales rise 26.5% in SeptemberA senior transport official said there are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi — both commercial and private — which are supposed to have these high-security registration plates. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, as vehicles registered after that date are mandatorily equipped with HSRPs and fuel stickers.“The government has made it clear to HSRP manufacturers that an unreliable home delivery system will not be acceptable. We cannot have a situation where people are given a time and date for delivery of their HSRP and sticker and the rider is unable to arrive on time. So, we have asked them to build a feature where the applicant can track the rider on a real-time basis. It’s similar to the feature which have on food delivery apps,” Gahlot said. The minister added that many people also complained about the need to fill the entire chassis number, which many found inconvenient. “So, now only the last five digits of engine and chassis number will have to be entered in the software,” he said. The city administration was flooded with complaints from vehicle owners who had failed to get the high-security number plates despite having paid for them and made the mandatory visit to the vehicle dealer outlets to collect them. The problem started after the Delhi government, on September 23, issued a public notice asking vehicle owners to get HSRP and colour-coded stickers at the earliest in order to avoid being penalised under existing laws. While the notice did not mention when the crackdown would begin, it created a lot of panic among people and the dealers were flooded with applications for new HSRPs. The result was that there were at least 8,000 pending applications for HSRPs as on October 1, creating a huge backlog and triggering chaos at dealer outlets. The minister had then directed that no new application should be entertained until the backlog was cleared and the crisis was resolved. At present, the status remains the same, which means even as the backlog has reduced, the manufacturers are still not taking any fresh applications. A senior official of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited – the primary manufacturer of HSRPs in Delhi – said the home delivery project is in the advanced stages of completion and the final modalities would be ready by Tuesday, when another review meeting is scheduled. “Thereafter, we are hoping to formally launch the home delivery service by the end of the month or early November. The process will be seamless as the portal for applying will be the same -- bookmyhsrp.com. The user will be given the option to choose home delivery or self pick-up,” said the official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hsrp-home-delivery-system-to-have-live-tracking-facility-says-transport-minister-gahlot/story-6iDjwfM25M902dWA6yWFgO.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Dengue campaign enters 7th week, it’s the turn of shopkeepers to check for stagnant water||The seventh week of the Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign will see shopkeepers participating in the drive, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said on Saturday. The initiative, known as the “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute” anti-dengue campaign was launched on September 6 with Kejriwal inspecting his residence for stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. This was followed by all MLAs doing the same in the first week and then doctors and health care workers in the subsequent weeks. “This week, shopkeepers will be urged to inspect their shops and surroundings for stagnant water every Sunday for 10 minutes, and drain it away to prevent the breeding of dengue mosquitoes. Inspecting the surrounding market areas and their shops will keep shopkeepers as well as their customers safe from dengue,” the government said in a statement. Last year, the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) played a huge role in this campaign and Kejriwal had thanked all RWAs at Talkatora Stadium, while launching the five-point action plan for RWAs to follow to combat dengue. Also Read: Involve your family in anti-dengue campaign, Delhi chief minister Kejriwal urges“This week, the key focus of the Delhi government would be on the participation of shopkeepers. Last year, through the participation of the people of Delhi and other organisations, there were only 2,036 dengue cases and two deaths, as against 15,867 cases and 60 dengue deaths in 2015. The first edition of the anti-dengue campaign was launched in 2019,” a government spokesperson said. A special helpline has also been launched by the Delhi government for the public if they require any assistance with dengue. People can call on 011-22300012 or send WhatsApp messages on 8595920530. In the third week of the anti-dengue campaign, Kejriwal had tweeted, “Delhi will defeat dengue again, and for this, today, the third Sunday of the campaign at 10am, I checked my house and replaced the stagnant water. You must also check your house every Sunday and ask your 10 friends/relatives to do the same. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dengue-campaign-enters-7th-week-it-s-the-turn-of-shopkeepers-to-check-for-stagnant-water/story-aytsQuH0GNpHfIJX5KpNeI.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Farm fires contributing 22% to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load, shows data||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) remained in the “poor” category, with the contribution of stubble fumes to the city’s PM 2.5 (fine, respirable pollution particles) load doubling to 22% on Saturday from 11% a day earlier, according to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi under ministry of earth sciences.Delhi’s AQI on Saturday was recorded at 287 in the poor category, according to CPCB’s 4pm bulletin, with PM10 being the prime pollutant.Though wind speed was around 12 kmph during the day, pollution levels continued to remain poor because of stubble fumes from neighbouring states and high local pollution, scientists said. The ventilation index — function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants — on Saturday was 10,000 m2/s. A ventilation index below 2350 sq metres/second is considered poor. The mixing height is the height at which the pollutant mixes in the air.“A ventilation index of 10,000 m2/s was recorded during the day time. But at night, the wind is calm and the temperature is low. The ventilation index also falls. Air pollution levels didn’t deteriorate further only because there was wind in the daytime. The wind direction is north-westerly and will continue to remain so for the next couple of days. Stubble fires will impact Delhi’s air,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at IMD (air quality management division).Also Read: SC appoints ex-judge to monitor stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana, UPData on Saturday also showed that action against stubble fires has not been as widespread this year, as compared to previous years. Far fewer subsidised straw management machines have reached farmers in Punjab and Haryana this year compared to the past two years, according to data with Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). In 2018-19 and 2019-20, around 51,000 machines were distributed. But in 2020-21, for this season, only 9,000 machines have been distributed in Punjab. “Less than half of the machines that were to be made available have actually reached the farmers. I cannot tell you why this has happened but the money has already been given to states for distribution of machinery,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director general, ICAR.Anirudh Tiwari, additional chief secretary (development), Punjab said around 23,500 machines have been sanctioned for this year. But Punjab government received 77,000 applications for machines. They then organised a draw of lots to distribute the machines. But even for individuals who got selected to buy these machines and avail a 50% subsidy, they need to pay the entire amount upfront before subsidy is transferred to them. To pay the amount upfront, they need money which often comes only when harvest begins. “For example, about 50 lakh tonnes paddy has been harvested and those farmers would have got the money to buy the machinery if needed. We expect 170 lakh tonnes of paddy to be procured during the season. So, in areas where there was early harvest like Amritsar, Tarn Taran etc people have bought, machines have been delivered and they are also being physically verified so that subsidy can be paid. It was 9000 machines till last week, now the total number of machines delivered may have increased to over 10,000,” he said. “Farm fires will increase in areas where farm agitation is high and protests (against the new farm bills) are going on like Barnala, Sangrur, Bhatinda . No official or authorities will go there to check stubble burning, so farm fires will continue. Apart from this, less machines have been distributed to farmers this year . Not even 30% of harvesting is complete. So farm fires will peak next week in Punjab,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary, Punjab.Also Read: Farm fires increase in Punjab, Haryana despite assurances“There was hardly any wind till 7.30 am today. Now, winds are blowing in the north-westerly direction at a speed of only 5kmph. Minimum temperature has also fallen to 16.8 degree Celsius compared to normal of 19.4 degree Celsius. When wind direction is north-westerly, the impact of stubble burning in the northern states will be felt,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Since the winter segment of Grap was put in place from October 15, enforcement agencies have been keeping a close eye on polluting sources to prevent the deterioration of air quality in the coming months. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Saturday shut down seven polluting industries in Wazirpur industrial area. Apart from this, regular inspections are also being carried out to check open burning and dust. All municipalities have been ordered to ensure that water sprinkling is carried out along roadsides to settle dust. An action-taken report will be submitted by these agencies to the DPCC every fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-fires-contributing-22-to-city-s-pm2-5-load-hows-data/story-WOsKpvGJCS50gZnvAjRKIN.html
18-10-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia inspects sports varsity site in Mudka, says work will pick up pace||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday inspected the proposed site for the upcoming sports university in Mundka, west Delhi, and said the university, once set up, would make India proud in the world of sports. The Delhi government had last year passed the Delhi Sports University Bill to pave way for the setting up of the university. The Delhi Sports University Bill also grants the proposed university the right to establish constituent schools and colleges. These “sports schools” will identify and groom budding sporting talents at an early stage, the government had said, while the sports university will offer field-specific degrees to interested students. These would be on par with those offered in other courses at graduate, postgraduate and doctoral levels.“It is the vision of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide world-class facilities and training to our youth. If we do that, then our sports talents will leave no stone unturned in bringing home the laurels in international sporting events such as the Olympics,” Sisodia said. During the visit, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said the work on the university was disrupted by the onset of the pandemic. “But now we want to pick up pace. We endeavour to ensure that the level of training and facilities at the Delhi Sports University is cutting-edge and so advanced that the best of the sporting talent can come and train in Delhi. Once this dream comes true, no world power can stop India from securing the gold medals in international sports competitions and events,” he said. Sisodia said the objective of Delhi Sports University is to promote world-class training, research, and academics in the field of sports as well as health and exercise. “It is our aim to provide multidisciplinary teaching and training in sports to ensure that sports professionals are better prepared for a wide range of employment opportunities. This university will also promote public health through sports in academia and make it more accessible to the public,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-inspects-sports-varsity-site-in-mudka-says-work-will-pick-up-pace/story-gXcdhUDugSklsJ5cGV9ZUI.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||More than 63K suffer from respiratory infections, influenza-like illness: Thane civic body survey||More than sixty three-and-a-half thousand people suffer from sever acute respiratory infections and influenza-like illness in Thane city. This has emerged from a Thane Municipality Corporation (TMC) survey of close to a lakh people with co-morbidities.The TMC completed the first phase of door-to-door survey of over 19 lakh population under the My Family My Responsibility Survey launched by Maharashtra Government last month.Around seven lakh households were surveyed between September 18 and October 15. Each household was checked for people with low oxygen levels, Covid-19 symptoms and comorbidities.Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “During the door-to-door survey, we conducted antigen testing of all those with symptoms. Around 73,897 such antigen tests were conducted in the last 20 days as part of the door-to-door survey. The main aim of the survey was early detection and isolation of patients. Accordingly, the teams visited each home within Thane city. Those with severe acute respiratory infections and Influenza-like illness were tested and timely treatment was provided.”A senior TMC officer added, “Initially we had fewer teams, around 100 every day, but gradually we increased the number of teams and each day around 500 teams was deployed. They surveyed around 25,000 to 30,000 households every day. In the last few days of the survey, close to 47,000 households were surveyed.”Even before the survey suggested by the state government was introduced, TMC claimed to have screened 24.5 lakh residents through door-to-door survey for two months. “Since July 1, we have been rigorously conducting door-to-door surveys, especially in areas with a spike in cases. This helped control the spread of the virus. Moreover, our teams have been trained to conduct the survey and efficiently undertake testing,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-than-63k-suffer-from-respiratory-infections-influenza-like-iillness-thane-civic-body-survey/story-9ZMzN28qnmPUm4S9qgvixK.html
18-10-2020||Mumbai||Though drop in number, pandals in Navi Mumbai and Raigad go ahead with Navratri festivities||The Covid-19 pandemic has failed to dampen the spirits of Navratri festival in Raigad district. Most pandals are going ahead with the festivities.According to the Raigad police record, this year, the number of public pandals for Navratri are 1,467 whereas in the year 2019, it was 1,515, a drop by merely three per cent. The private celebrations, though, have reduced by over 28 per cent here.The Raigad police has deployed one platoon of State Reserve Police Force, four platoons of Riot Control Police (RCP) with 83 staff, four platoons of striking force with 40 staff, 41 staff from 14 police stations, 300 home guard, three teams of special force and seven staff from special branch of district as bandobast during Navratri in Raigad.Of the 1467 public pandals, 1,062 of them have statue of Durga, 217 have kalash installation and 188 have photo installation. Besides, 1,338 of private pandals are also organised this year of which 160 have statue, 1,115 have kalash installation and 63, photo.“Even as the reduction in number of pandals is far less, we will make sure that there is no crowding anywhere. The pandals have been given instruction to not let more than five people to visit at a time and no procession is allowed. The traditional dandiya and garba dance is also not allowed. We have made several teams of the total staff of 28 police stations and each team would patrol around five pandals,” Raigad SP, Ashok Dudhe, said.Quieter celebrations in Navi MumbaiMeanwhile, Navi Mumbai has 488 pandals this year as against last year’s 674 last year, less by 27 per cent. In Zone I, there are 211 public pandals as against 348 last year, down by 39 per cent.Fifteen police inspectors, 59 assistant police sub-inspectors, 349 staff and 75 women staff have been deployed for the bandobast of Zone I pandals.“The statues would not be more than four feet. We have also asked the pandals to display clear instructions on social distancing outside. The pandals would also be promoting the message of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’,” deputy commissioner of police, Zone I, Suresh Mengade, said. In Zone II, 277 public pandals would be installed this year as against 326 which was last year, with a bandobast of 13 police inspectors, 53 officers and 377 constables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/though-drop-in-number-pandals-in-navi-mumbai-and-raigad-go-ahead-with-navratri-festivities/story-PQ7HF8ktf6Cn6OjTVRbgJJ.html
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh enrolments through Panjab University’s PhD entrance test for now||With the scrapping of the entrance examination for PhD admissions this year, Panjab University will enrol only those candidates who have qualified the National Eligibility Test (NET) or the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF).Besides, those applying through programmes like Rajiv Gandhi fellowship, Inspire fellowship, etc are also eligible for admissions.Hundreds of students were otherwise enrolled for PhD every year through the PU entrance examination. Dean university instructions (DUI) professor RK Singla said, “NET/JRF qualified students are eligible for admissions to PhD and also those whose PU-PhD scores are still valid.”The PU-PhD entrance test is valid for five years. According to a university official, PU has received over 3,000 applications for PhD admissions this year; in 2019, 1,800 applications were received.The University Grants Commission’s (UGC) minimum standards and procedure for award of MPhil/PhD degrees says that all universities, and deemed to be universities, will admit MPhil/PhD students through an entrance test conducted at the level of an individual university or an institution deemed to be a university.PU dean research VR Sinha said, “At present, the matter is at the discussion level and we will figure out how to give equal opportunities to every candidate.”Research output to go downAs a result of this decision, the handful of PhD scholars at PU will have to bear the brunt of the varsity’s performance in various rankings as the research output will go down.A PU senator, professor Rajat Sandhir, said, “Ultimately this will impact our rankings as we have always scored the maximum from research output.”“The number of PhD enrolments in PU were already down since the UGC reduced the PhD slots for assistant and associate professors from eight each to four and six, respectively. The decision to scrap the test will impact students who will be passing out this year. Since the number of students appearing in the entrance test is anyway not too high, the university should consider holding the exam through online mode,” he added.A senior PU official said that if the situation allowed and the departments demanded, the entrance test may be conducted whenever it was possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-admit-phd-students-only-through-net-jrf-for-now/story-UdO7xV3g2FuummalW9UrBM.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Man arrested for impersonating police official in Pune||One person has been arrested by the Pune police crime branch on Saturday for impersonating a police official in Hadapsar.The man was carrying an identification card of a police constable with the signature of DCP headquarters. The man was allegedly using the ID card in order to harass citizens, according to the police.The ID card bore the name Imtiaz Memon and had the mentioned year of issuance as 2007, according to the police.The man was found to have been booked earlier in five cases in Hadapsar and Wanowrie police station. Among the five cases registered against him, one is of extortion while one is of vandalism by fire.A case under Sections 465 and 171 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station against Memon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-for-impersonating-police-official-in-pune/story-Yv69NJ2uj1VEtWnCJZztnO.html
18-10-2020||Pune||Pune airport to start walk-in Covid-19 testing centre for international passengers||The city’s Lohegaon airport will soon start a walk-in Covid-19 testing facility for international passengers at the airport. The passengers coming to the city through the ‘Vande Bharat mission’ can get themselves tested by walking in at the centre or book a test before the flight lands. The airport will provide for a waiting period in case of molecular tests which give results within 15 minutes or opt for RT-PCR test and stay in a hotel for about 12 hours. Kuldeep Singh, director, Pune airport, said, “We are happy to announce the availability of RT-PCR testing for all passengers arriving on international flights. Any passenger who wishes to undertake the test can pre-book the test or contact the help desk in the arrival lounge.”“ An official from the district administration will also be present to escort the passenger to the testing facility. The samples will be collected and the passengers can either wait at the waiting area till the test results come or either isolate themselves in a hotel room in case of RT-PCR which takes up to 12 hours,” he said.“The facility is in strict compliance with the test protocols established by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL),” he said.In case if the Covid-19 test result is negative, the official will stamp ‘RT-PCR’ in indelible ink on the left hand added Singh. He said, “The passenger may then proceed to departure hall for connecting flight or alternatively may proceed for home quarantine. On receipt of a positive RT-PCR report, the passenger will be referred to the designated hospital under strict isolation protocols.”Pallavi Jain, managing director, Krsnaa Diagnostics Pvt Ltd, which will be running the testing centre, said, “We have molecular testing which is at par with RT-PCR standards of testing. The test results are available within 15 minutes. The testing centre will be set up at the airport premises by Tuesday.”“Earlier we had our technician deployed at the airport who used to collect samples, but now we will have a centre and people can rest in the lounge area till the test results are available. Also, the PMC officials will be informed for further quarantine and isolation purposes,” she said.“Multiple countries have now made it mandatory for a person to carry a Covid-19 test result which was done within 48 hours, but even a person who did test negative before the flight does not guarantee that the person would not have caught the infection during the journey and so these test results will help the passengers take the right decision accordingly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-airport-to-start-walk-in-covid-19-testing-centre-for-international-passengers/story-WIhCliSVQfFetjpY8bMqmM.html
18-10-2020||Pune||After picking up in July August, liquor consumption dips in Pune region in September||With liquor shops shut since the lockdown in March and subsequent shutdown extensions due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state excise department for Pune region has pegged its losses for the industry between April and September 2020 at Rs 190 crore. Also, September witnessed a decline of 50.88 per cent of the revenue earnings for the region as the department could fetch only Rs 127.92 crore for the said month as compared to Rs 178.80 crore during the same period last year. Percentage-wise the overall decline has been at least 21.74 per cent, excise department officials said. According to state excise SP Santosh Zagade, the revenue losses have been significant in April and May due to Covid-19 lockdown. “However, September also shows revenue decline as full-fledged operations are yet to begin. The industry is recovering slowly and it will take time for revenues to come back to the original position again,” Zagade said. The state excise figures reveal that the department earned Rs 45.88 crore for April 2020 compared to Rs 121.71 crore during the same period last year; Rs 107.91 crore for May compared to Rs 140.03 crore during the same period in 2019; Rs 101.16 crore in June compared to Rs 124.77 crore during the same period in 2019; Rs 157.48 crore in July 2020 compared to Rs 160.53 crore during the same period in 2019; Rs 143.92 crore in August compared to Rs 148.50 crore during the same period last year and Rs 127.92 crore in September compared to Rs 178.80 crore during the same period last year. The total revenue earned stood at Rs 874.34 crore in 2019-2020 and Rs 684.28 crore in 2020-2021 during the corresponding period and total aggregate loss has been pegged at Rs 190.07 crore and total loss has been measured at 21.74%. The Pune unit of the Maharashtra state excise department took action against 23 establishments, including 21 hotels, one wine shop and a countrymade liquor shop, for violating social distancing guidelines and endangering the lives of customers amidst the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the past 48 hours. An aggregate fine of Rs 10,000 each was imposed on the said establishments. The total fine is estimated to be worth Rs 2.30 lakh and it will be deposited in the state treasury soon, Pune excise department officials had stated. Ikram Khan, owner of a prominent restaurant int he city, said, “The industry needs rebates and reduction in GST duties. Already 50 per cent of restaurants are not going to start in the future. Most of the establishments have taken loans and are paying EMIs. The excise department is resorting to coercive measures like using tapes to measure distance between two customers and measuring distances between two tables. If this is the scenario then the industry is doomed further. Heavy fines are being imposed for violations. The strictures are so many that better the industry be shutdown. The government must decide whether they want to shut the business or support it. At least 20 per cent of our earnings goes to the government. The government is our partner in business and it is high time that the chief minister intervenes in the matter.” Manish Thakur, owner of GB Restaurants in Hadapsar, said, “The hotel industry has been hit hard and there is no business for us. The excise duty paid by us has become next to nil as there is no business. The industry needs sops from the government and needs a tax holiday for next one year.” The Maharashtra government permitted hotels, beer bars, food malls and restaurants to reopen from October 5. The state government made it mandatory for these establishments to follow public safety norms related to the Covid-19 and accordingly issued guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection due to unnecessary crowding of citizens during normal business activities. All hotels and other hospitality units have been instructed to take suitable measures to restrict any further transmission of Covid-19 while providing the services. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) aims to minimise all possible physical contact between staff and guests and maintain social distancing and other preventive and safety measures against Covid-19. Revenue earnings Month- 2020- 2019April- Rs 45.88 crore- Rs 121.71 crore May- Rs 107.91 crore- Rs 140.03 croreJune- Rs 101.16 crore- Rs 124.77 crore July- Rs 157.48 crore- Rs 160.53 crore August- Rs 143.92 crore- Rs 148.50 crore September- Rs 127.92 crore- Rs 178.80 crore Total- Rs 684.28 crore- Rs 874.34 croreTotal aggregate loss has been pegged at Rs 190.07 crore Total loss has been measured at 21.74%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-picking-up-in-july-august-liquor-consumption-dips-in-september/story-MpoUhDsooMXAfv0tSwU7xJ.html
18-10-2020||Lucknow||Created 7.6 cr mandays of work, spent Rs 7,118 cr on poor, claims UP govt||Uttar Pradesh had generated a whopping 7.6 crore plus mandays of employment and had already utilised Rs 7,118 crore under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan (GKRA) since its launch earlier this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said state’s additional chief secretary (ACS) for rural development and panchayati raj departments, Manoj Kumar Singh. The employment was created under projects such as ‘Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana’, ‘Chief Minister Awas Yojana’, ‘Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana’, ‘Panchayat Ghar’ scheme, and those related to community toilets’ construction, minor irrigation, horticulture and forestry projects, he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the scheme on June 20 this year to alleviate the economic distress caused to migrant workers and rural population due to Covid-19. The scheme contained multiple provisions for immediate assistance and also employment and livelihood opportunities, Singh added.Uttar Pradesh witnessed the highest level of reverse migration with an estimated 3.7 million (37 lakh) migrant workers returning from other states during the lockdown, according to official estimates.“The state is working towards creating an ecosystem to enable migrant workers and vulnerable families to sustain and promote livelihoods. To this effect, the state has been engaged in the collection and analysis of data of returnee migrants, skill mapping of migrants to link them to the industries as well as creating opportunities at the local level. To give a perspective, skill mapping of about 30 lakh returned migrant workers was undertaken,” said Singh giving a glimpse of the exercise undertaken by the state.The rural development and panchayati raj departments have been in the thick of action since the migrants’ reverse exodus began.Also Read: UP government clears Rs 1,960 crore festive bonanza for state employeesSingh said owing to the concerted efforts by the state, there was an unprecedented rise in the number of people employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).“Around 62.5 lakh labourers were employed in a single day on June 26 on the launch of the Self-Reliant Uttar Pradesh Employment Campaign. So far, wages of Rs 4,500 crore have been disbursed in the last four months to workers in the state, which is almost equal to the entire wage disbursed in the last financial year,” he said.Also Read: UP: Five, including brother of main accused, held for firing at Ballia meetingSingh added that under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, the UP government had taken up construction of more than 30,000 community sanitation complexes in 31 districts of the state.“Initiatives like these will be the key to providing livelihood to our migrant population. This pandemic is far from over and as we continue to battle against it, we are determined not to lose sight of the larger picture of ensuring inclusive development,” the bureaucrat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/created-7-6-cr-mandays-of-work-spent-rs-7-118-cr-on-poor-claims-up-govt/story-0Z4XYMTRDum9RPgIqYWjJP.html
