19-10-2020||Mumbai||Ahmednagar resident arrested for issuing rape threat to Marathi actor Deepali Bhosale Sayed||Oshiwara police on Sunday arrested a 28-year-old man from Ahmednagar for allegedly issuing rape and death threats to Marathi movie actor Deepali Bhosale Sayed, 40, who had also contested the Assembly elections on a Shiv Sena ticket. The arrested accused, Sandeep Machchindra Wagh, had been harassing her since a year, said Oshiwara police officers.Sayed said, “In August 2019, I had gone to Ahmednagar for a protest regarding water issues. Wagh took my number from someone and started calling and texting me without any reason. I was fed up and had blocked him.” “Recently on October 4, he called me again. I didn’t realise it was him and answered the call. He told me that he was calling from Pathardi, Ahmednagar and wanted to invite me for a birthday party. I told him that I charge ₹1 lakh for attending any party. He then started abusing me, following which I warned him that I would file a police complaint. He replied that he would rape me and even kill me if I dared to visit Ahmednagar,” said Sayed.“I immediately disconnected the call and contacted my brother in Ahmednagar and told him everything. I shared the number with him to see who the person was and why he was threatening and abusing me. When my brother called Wagh, he abused my brother as well. He even tried to spread lies about me saying that he supplies drugs to me,” Sayed said.Following this, Sayed filed a complaint against the caller and Oshiwara police registered a case under sections 354A (sexual harassment), 354D (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Inspector Vivek Shende from Oshiwara police station said, “We have arrested the accused and produced him before Andheri metropolitan magistrate court on Monday. He has been remanded in police custody for a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahmednagar-resident-arrested-for-issuing-rape-threat-to-marathi-actor-deepali-bhosale-sayed/story-iJeI0gkf9QcdXSBFPEllYL.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Cow vigilante attacked by 150 in Nallasopara near Mumbai; 14 held||Rajesh Pal, 35, was allegedly thrashed by a 150-strong mob in Nallasopara (West) late on Sunday. Three cops who had escorted the victim, a cow vigilante, to check on alleged cow slaughter rescued him and took him to a hospital. Police arrested 14 people in connection with the case on Monday.The incident took place around 9.30pm, when the victim, Rajesh Pal, along with three cops from Nallasopara police station reached Sopara village upon receiving information about alleged cow slaughter. Pal, in his complaint, said that a mob of 150 men attacked him with weapons, lathis and iron rods. Senior inspector Vasant Labde of Nalla Sopara police station said, “We have arrested 14 accused under sections 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult that may lead to breaking public peace), 427 (mischief), 143 (member of unlawful assembly), 145 (joining unlawful assembly), 149 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code and also sections of the Maharashtra Police Act. We produced the accused before the Vasai court on Monday which remanded them in police custody.” He added that the police are looking for the other accused and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cow-vigilante-attacked-by-150-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai-14-held/story-EA3zCjZEVMA45b1CICtUQI.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC extends tender deadline for 90,000 more RT-PCR test kits for Mumbai||To overcome any shortage of Covid-19 test kits in Mumbai in the future, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to procure 90,000 real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test kits. A tender in this regard, floated by the BMC in September, was extended until the end of October.Till September, the Centre was making these kits available to municipal bodies. Since then, the Maharashtra government procured 12.5 lakh kits from a private company. BMC had planned to procure them from the state, but most of the test kits were found to be faulty.As of now, the civic body says that their stock of RT-PCR test kits will last till November 15. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “We have an adequate supply of RT-PCR test kits as of now. We are taking a weekly review of the kits that we have and ensuring that there is no shortage. We have conveyed it to the public labs in the city to project if there will be a shortage and inform us. Simultaneously, the tendering process to procure RT-PCR test kits will be completed.”Apart from RT-PCR test kits, the BMC also uses rapid antigen test kits to identify Covid-positive patients, with results delivered in less than 30 minutes. However, these tests are prone to give false negatives compared to RT-PCR tests. Nearly 70% of the daily tests conducted in the city currently are being done through RT-PCR, and rapid antigen test kits have taken a back seat following criticism over false negatives and unreliability.Since September, BMC conducted between 8,000- 15,000 Covid-19 tests daily, of which 30-40% were through rapid antigen testing. Civic officials said that once the procurement of new kits is completed, the daily test count will reach 20,000. According to data released by the civic body, so far, the BMC has conducted 13.54 lakh tests across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bmc-extends-tender-deadline-for-90-000-more-rt-pcr-test-kits-for-mumbai/story-xUYKtGzMfzWNYEjlCVf2VO.html
19-10-2020||Noida||Thin attendance as schools reopen after seven months in Ghaziabad and Noida||Ghaziabad/Noida: Government and private schools in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar reopened for students of classes 9 to 12 on Monday after remaining shut for nearly seven months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, most of the schools in the two districts recorded thin attendance as a majority of parents are still wary of sending their wards to schools. According to officials of the Ghaziabad district education department, the first day saw an overall attendance of about 10 to 15%. However, the officials said they expected that the number of students at the schools will rise in coming days. In GB Nagar, the government schools witnessed better attendance at 39% of the permitted seats, while the overall attendance in the private schools of the district was mere 11%, officials said. According to the Ghaziabad education department officials, about 50 of 165 private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian School Certificate Examinations (ICSE) opened on Monday, while all 226 schools affiliated to the state board -- whether aided, unaided and government-run -- opened up. The Uttar Pradesh government on October 10 had issued directions for reopening of schools (for classes 9 to 12 in the first phase) and also released a set of precautionary measures to be taken at schools in the wake of the pandemic. The government order had also said that students should be allowed to attend classes only after written consent of their parents while online classes would continue. “We opened only classes 10 and 12, and only 17 students came to the school for the classes. The online classes were also held, and the offline classes were made available to other students online. Since we will close down from October 22, we expect that the present days are primarily a test-run about how we run our systems as per standard operating procedure,” said Jyoti Gupta, director of Delhi Public School, Sahibabad. “Once we open up again after the festivals, we will also start transport facility, and expect that the attendance will rise further,” she added. Many schools had put up posters welcoming children to school and had even marked circles on the premises where students were checked for body temperature and other Covid-like symptoms. Some schools said that they opened up on Monday but no students arrived. “We have about 350 students in classes 10 and 12. We had conducted two surveys, and majority of parents were in favour of opening schools from November 2 after the festivals. In the meantime, we have also started with the Covid-19 test of our staff members and have taken all preventive measures in the wake of the pandemic,” said Trilok Singh Bisht, principal of Delhi Public School Ghaziabad, Vasundhara. Office bearers of the Independent Schools Federation of India (ISFI), having about 100 member schools in Ghaziabad, said that about 32 of their member schools reopened on Monday. “We had attendance in different schools in the range of 17-100 students, which means about 15% students attended the physical classes. All our member schools have put in place the SOP and have already started with testing of staff for Covid-19. We are expecting that the attendance will rise after Durga Puja festivals, and will rise further after Diwali. With mandatory use of masks and social distancing, we do not expect much issue in students attending schools,” said Subhash Jain, president of ISFI. Ravi Dutt, Ghaziabad district inspector of schools (DIOS), said that the estimated attendance in all schools was about 10-15% on the first day. He further said that officials of the district administration and the education department also carried out inspection at various schools to check if the SOP has been put in place. “The overall attendance was thin in the range of about 10-15%. But more students arrived at government schools. Our officials carried out inspection at different schools about the adherence to SOP, and we found that schools have taken steps,” Dutt said. The parents, on the other hand, said that they did not send their children as the online classes have emerged as preferred mode in the ongoing pandemic situation. “My daughter is in class 10 and she has preferred to stay home for her online studies. We feel that once the vaccine is made available, more parents would be willing to send children to schools,” said Ruby Singh, a resident of Arihant Harmony, Indirapuram. The parents’ association said that they were expecting low turnout of students. “It is because the parents are still worried. Further, the schools are taking consent forms from parents. Instead, the responsibility of students should be taken by schools or the administration. We conducted a survey among about 200 parents and about 90% of them are unwilling to send their children to schools till Covid-19 vaccine is rolled out,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of Ghaziabad Parents’ Association.Even the students, who attended schools, said that several activities such as daily assembly, lunch break and games were missing in their schools. “I was very enthusiastic to visit school to see my friends. But, it was very disappointing for us that we’ve to fall in with different atmosphere here due to the implementation of safety norms. I’ll now avoid coming to the school,” said a class 11 student of Government Inter Girls’ School in Noida’s Sector 51. Echoing similar views, a class 10 student of a private school in Noida Sector 11, said, “The saddest part for me is that my best friend has been put in other group as the class has been split into two different groups.” In Noida, UP board schools record better attendance Neeraj Kumar Pandey, DIOS, GB Nagar, said that some of the UP board schools in the district recorded nearly 80% attendance of permitted seats. “But, the overall attendance in 153 schools, affiliated to UP state education board, was recorded 39% in the allotted half capacity. Similarly, a few private schools affiliated to CBSE recorded nearly 30% attendance. But, since most of the private schools didn’t open today, the overall attendance in 181 CBSE schools in the district was reduced to mere 11%,” he said. Pandey further said that children were not allowed to bring any eatables as there was no lunch break. “Even sharing the water bottles and stationery is not allowed. We have asked the parents to pick and drop their children in their own vehicles. Schools, which were open today, ran in two shifts and they have been permitted to call only 50% of students on alternate days,” Pandey said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the contrast in attendance between private schools and UP board schools clearly indicates the quantum of apprehension in different cross-sections of the society. “We’ll keep monitoring the activities and safety measures of all the schools, irrespective of the attendance percentage there. On the first day, some parents of the children, who have given their consent for offline classes, also visited the schools, which is a positive sign for increase in students’ appearance in coming days. The schools had been closed in the state on March 13 this year after the Covid-19 outbreak,” he said. However, the parents are still reluctant to send their wards to schools. “We are not eager to submit consent letters immediately. Since the schools lack infrastructure to ensure a seating plan with social distancing, it will better for us to adapt a ‘wait and watch’ policy,” said Karun Singh, a parent residing in Noida Sector 77. Corroborating similar views, Deepak Kumar, father of two students in Amity School (Noida), said that there is no point in risking the lives of children till theory classes are live streamed. “But, we’ll have no option other than to send my children to schools for practical classes. However, we have yet not given consent letters in this connection,” he said. When contacted, Renu Singh, principal of Amity school, said that the classes in the school could not begin as consent letters from the parents are still awaited. “However, we kicked off many other activities on the campus today. We are trying to convince the parents about the essentiality of practical classes, particularly for the students appearing in class 10 and 12 board examinations,” she said.DPS Noida said that it is geared up to begin with the trial run of opening the school from Tuesday. “The school begins the trial run with a limited number of class 12 students tomorrow followed by a small number of class 10 students the next day. The students will only be allowed after taking the consent by their parents. The management and the teachers are in the process of convincing and assuring the parents of the safety measures being taken by the school. The school will follow all the norms laid down by the government,” said Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/thin-attendance-as-schools-reopen-after-seven-months-in-ghaziabad-and-noida/story-N0U3Uu0Y7M7E9rpHkrnwFN.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||13,000 commuters travel on Mumbai Metro on Day 1 of reopening||On the first day after Mumbai Metro resumed its services, over 13,000 Mumbaiites travelled on the 11.5-kilometre-long Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor between 8.30am and 10pm. On Monday, Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) said it ran approximately 140 trips till 5pm. By 7pm, 10,194 commuters had used the service. The Metro had been shut for seven months during the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “As Mumbai opens up gradually, the footfalls are expected to grow significantly in the coming few weeks,” said an MMOPL spokesperson. Prior to the lockdown, the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro’s daily ridership was more than 4 lakh. MMOPL said it would observe the travel pattern for a week or a fortnight before increasing services. Prior to the lockdown, MMOPL ran close to 400 services daily, which has now been reduced to around 200 services, with each train catering to approximately 300 commuters. On Sunday, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) also restarted Monorail services in a graded manner. Around 350 commuters used the service on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/13-000-commuters-travel-on-mumbai-metro-on-day-1-of-reopening/story-JkEJO0GrVToTJ2YojZ748N.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Conman uses Prince Narula’s name to cheat Mumbai resident of ₹5 lakh, booked||Mumbai Police booked an event manager for allegedly cheating a Parel resident of ₹5 lakh. The accused posed as a music producer and told the complainant to invest ₹5 lakh in an album that he is making with Big Boss Season 9 winner Prince Narula, and offered ₹7 lakh in return. To gain the complainant’s confidence the accused, Krishna Kumar Sharma, also arranged a meeting of complainant’s son with Narula and introduced him with the model. However, after getting the money, the accused started ignoring the complainant, following which the complainant lodged a complaint. The police have mentioned Narula’s name in the complaint, but not as an accused.Speaking to HT, Narula said, “Sharma, who is an event manager, misused my name, misguided me while introducing me to the complainant’s son. Sharma also owes me ₹8 lakh and has now cut all communications with me. He had offered to work with me for a music album, but the project never materialised. To save people from such conmen, I keep on posting awareness messages on my timelines on social media platforms and appeal people to directly contact my manager and verify things before sending money to any person taking my name.”The complainant, Sheetal More, 50, works at the small cause court while her son Prasad is an aspiring model and music artist who also performs in music events. It is during one such event in Bengaluru that he met a person named Raj, who in turn introduced him to Sharma, who is originally from New Alipur, Kolkata.Sharma told Prasad that he is making an album with Narula in America and is short of ₹15 lakh. He further added that Raj invested ₹5 lakh while another friend was ready to invest ₹5 lakh. He then asked Prasad to invest ₹5 lakh and get ₹7 lakh in return,” according to the first information report (FIR), a copy of which is with HT.As Prasad and his mother did not believe them, Sharma, in 2018, called Prasad and Raj to a housing society in Andheri (East) where Narula lives and introduced them to Narula saying that the two would be investing in the music album, the police said.After this, More and Prasad invested ₹5 lakh in the project in 2018 and signed an agreement with Sharma.However, after receiving the money, both Sharma and Raj started ignoring the duo. Following this, More approached the police last year. Initially, the accused said he would pay back, so the police waited. However, the police have now registered an FIR against Sharma under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code for cheating. Police sources said when More had called Narula, he had told her that he was working with Sharma on an album, but later something went wrong and they parted ways. Narula had also offered to help her. More could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/conman-uses-prince-narula-s-name-to-cheat-mumbai-resident-of-5-lakh-booked/story-mvWTG9rxZyOsOX1HTZCZiI.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for sexually, physically assaulting woman over ₹10,000 in Mumbai||A 45-year-old cable operator was arrested by Versova police for allegedly sexually and physically assaulting a 21-year-old woman who was two months’ pregnant. The woman lost her unborn child after the accused allegedly kicked her in the stomach. According to Versova police, the woman’s husband and the accused knew each other. The woman had borrowed ₹10,000 from him for personal reasons but was unable to return him the money within the given time. On October 15, the accused called her and asked her to meet him near Asma Hospital in Andheri. When she, along with her two-year-old child, met the accused near the hospital, he took her to a Mhada building in Andheri (West), said Versova police officers. “The accused asked a woman, who was present in the house, to take care of the 2-year-old, and took the victim to another room. The accused then threatened her and asked her to return the money. He then sought sexual activity if the woman was unable to repay the money,” said a police officer. “The accused then sexually assaulted her. When the woman tried to escape, he physically assaulted her and kicked her in her stomach. The woman started bleeding and was taken to a hospital where the doctor informed that that she had lost her child,” added the officer. The victim later told her husband about the assault, after which they approached Versova police and lodged a complaint. A case was filed under sections 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-physically-assaulting-woman-over-10-000-in-mumbai/story-8OclQ3928B2Tenxaaqsj9K.html
19-10-2020||City||Raigad police reunites girl with family within 12 hours||Raigad police helped reunite a mentally challenged girl with her family less than 12 hours after she ran away from her home in Nagothane. The 19-year-old daughter of a farmer was diagnosed with a mental illness and has been undergoing treatment for the past few months, said police. In the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, the girl ran away from home. After her family found her gone in the morning, a local search was conducted in the area, but to no avail. The girl had taken her clothes and her phone, which had run out of battery. Meanwhile, around 9am on Friday, Damini squad of Raigad police received a call from Bazaar Peth in Revdanda about a girl creating ruckus in the market. As the girl seemed distressed, Damini squad – an all-women team for women safety – went to the spot. Two women constables — Abhiyanti Mokal and Anushka Pulekar — approached the girl, but she grew violent and started tearing her clothes and throwing her belongings. “The women constables then quickly changed into civil clothes and approached the girl. This time, they were able to talk to her without making her anxious. They helped her calm down and brought her to the police station, where they fed her and tried to find her home,” said Suresh Yamgar, Raigad police spokesperson. While the girl did not divulge proper information, based on initial inquiry, the police learnt that she took first a vehicle and then travelled the rest of 30km on foot. Later, after charging her phone, police officers managed to contact her family and subsequently handed her over to her father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raigad-police-reunites-girl-with-family-within-12-hours/story-Uo33Y79sYuoVUoNdsbKHmM.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Public transport to soon open for more sectors: Maharashtra government to Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government on Monday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it has not conducted a meeting of all stakeholders for the usage of public transport services, as per the previous directions of the court, and would require some time to convene the meeting. The state, however, informed that it had held a meeting of various department heads under the chairmanship of state chief secretary, to deliberate on increasing public transport services for various sectors. After the court asked the state government to consider allowing daily wagers, vendors and shop employees to use trains, and to increase services corresponding to the number of such commuters, the state informed the court that Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) had both increased daily services to 700. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) filed by individual lawyers and the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa, seeking allowance for advocates to avail suburban local services, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was inclined to permit the same. He, however, added that the state was working on the modalities to ensure that the facility was not misused as a lot of people had been caught travelling with fake IDs. The state said that it would consider the lawyers’ request by Tuesday and take a decision on the same. After hearing the submissions, the HC indicated that the earlier arrangements for lawyers on an experimental basis would continue till November 6, and posted the matter for further hearing on October 29. Kumbhakoni submitted that though the court had directed the state to conduct a meeting of all stakeholders from sectors which have been opened up, the same was not conducted, and it needed more time to convene the same. He, however, assured the bench that a meeting of all department heads had been conducted, and the issue of allowing the normal public to travel by local trains was discussed. Kumbhakoni added that it was decided to allow all women – from essential services as well as other sectors –to travel on local trains from October 17. “The further decision of opening local trains will be taken in a phase-wise manner depending on the situation in Mumbai,” said Kumbhakoni. After hearing the submissions, the bench reiterated its stand that it was concerned about the survival of everyone and hence, wanted to know how soon public transport could be made available for all sectors. It also brought up the option of introducing staggered work timings. The court said that while it was continuing the temporary arrangement for lawyers to travel on local trains, it did not want a situation wherein the courts would have to be shut. The bench further directed the state to consider the representation of lawyers to allow registered clerks to travel by local trains as well as use public transport by Tuesday and said that it would hear the matter further on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/public-transport-to-soon-open-for-more-sectors-maharashtra-government-to-bombay-hc/story-NIP8huz36gYI9sbsL4bI3K.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||A month after forming panels, no action against private schools in Mumbai on fee hikes||A month after the Maharashtra education department formed two committees to address complaints with respect to fee hikes in private schools, the department has still not acted on a single school in the city. An official from the education department said, “The work of the committees is getting a bit delayed due to the Covid-19 situation and the resultant restrictions with respect to travel. However, officials are working on the issue and will give a report soon.” Over the past few months, several parents have taken to social media to raise their concerns on unjustified fees in private schools across the state. Several disgruntled parents also participated in the Thali Bajao protest organised by the Forum for Fairness in Education, a city-based non-government organisation, on October 10. With no action against private schools despite several complaints, parents said the education department is not helping address their grievances. “In our school, a fee hike is made even as majority parents have opposed the move. When we objected, the school threatened to remove our children. Complaints made to the education department have gone in vain,” said the parent of a south Mumbai-based school. In a circular issued by the office of the deputy director on September 16, two committees of department officials were formed to look into the complaints of parents from different schools. “While private schools have the powers to fix their own fees as per the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees Act) 2011, the act has set some rules with respect to a cap on the percentage of fee hike, and the duration after which it can be imposed. It has also laid down the procedure for its approval by the Parent Teachers Association. However, some parents have alleged that schools are not following these norms. Hence, we have asked for an inspection of such schools to verify their documents,” said an official from the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-month-after-forming-panels-no-action-against-private-schools-in-mumbai-on-fee-hikes/story-aNsbv20GsGRJ1aWSX4U7EO.html
19-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police face challenge as Nepalese origin criminals use state to hide, crossover to Nepal||In a new challenge for Uttarakhand Police, criminals of Nepalese origin are using the state to hide and, in some cases, crossover to Nepal after committing crimes in other cities. The trend came to light after police teams of at least three states, including Maharashtra, Telangana and Punjab, visited the state in the last 10 days to nab Nepalese origin criminals hiding in the state after committing high profile thefts in their respective states. A senior police officer, who didn’t wish to be named said, “the trend has come up in the past few years only.” “Earlier, these Nepalese origin people were not into crime and were considered as trustworthy. But after there was a regime change there some years ago, some Nepalese people have now got into crime in India using the porous border we share with them,” said the officer. The official said that the “Nepalese origin criminals are using the same modus operandi as the Bangladeshi dacoit gangs use in India”. Also read: Rahul keeps his word, gifts house to girls who lost everything in landslide“The Bangladeshi dacoit gangs, after entering in India from the border in West Bengal, commit dacoities in major cities of the country. They then cross over to Bangladesh from the same West Bengal border with the valuables to evade AN arrest. The Nepalese criminals are also following the same thing,” he said. “Also, as Nepalese origin people of both Nepalese and Indian citizenship are living in Uttarakhand for more than 150 years, the criminal elements try to blend in with them to evade arrest.” Former director general of police, Uttarakhand, Aloke B Lal termed the development as a “challenge for the state police.” “This is definitely a challenge for the state police as it is very difficult for them to keep an eye on all such elements considering the fact that the state shares a porous border with Nepal,” said Lal. He said, “unlike other countries, the Nepalese people are allowed to work here freely after entering without a passport. There are possibilities that some criminal elements may also enter taking advantage of the porous border,” he said. The former state top cop also said that the state police cannot plug the loopholes at the border considering the length of the border as well as its available manpower. “Even if it puts all its manpower at its outposts near the border, there would be numerous unchecked points from where the criminal elements may cross over,” said Lal. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order), Uttarakhand Police, also accepted the development as a challenge and said, “the district police departments, especially in the border districts, would increase vigil.” “We would increase our vigil and alertness to nab any suspicious element in the state. The state police have been coordinating with other state police departments in their probe in our state to nab such criminal elements,” said Kumar.In nearly two weeks, there has been a surprising increase in cases involving Nepalese citizens who are being tracked by the police teams of other states in Uttarakhand. In one of the incidents, a team of Navi Mumbai police reached Bhatlani village of Nainital district in search of a Nepalese man accused of committing theft at a doctor’s house in Navi Mumbai where he used to work as a servant. He allegedly stole jewellery, cash and other valuables worth lakhs from the house and came to the village where his wife lived. The police team failed to nab the accused but took his wife with them to Mumbai after finding a stolen gold biscuit from her possession. His wife told them that he fled to Nepal. Similarly, in another incident, a police team from Telangana visited the state and nabbed seven Nepalese origin criminals who used to commit thefts and burglaries in an organised manner in Telangana and its neighbouring states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. In another incident, a team of Punjab police from Ludhiana reached the border town of Banbasa in Champawat district near India-Nepal border to nab two Nepalese men accused of committing theft of about Rs 1.50 cr at a businessman’s house. The team, however, had to return empty-handed as they couldn’t nab the accused believed to be hiding in Banbasa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-face-challenge-as-nepalese-origin-criminals-use-state-to-hide-crossover-to-nepal/story-XDOefTrNvLcA09TP3LyzvI.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Anyone with self-respect will not continue in post, NCP chief Sharad Pawar slams governor Koshyari||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday upped the ante against Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his “secular” taunt at chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray last week. Pawar said anyone with self-respect would have resigned from the position of governor after being publicly rebuked by Union home minister Amit Shah. “What can I say about the governor? The Union minister for home affairs has spoken about him… I have come across several governors in my long political career, but no one has taken such a stand. A governor must uphold the dignity of the office. He is also expected to maintain the dignity of a CM’s office,” Pawar said. “It is good Shah rebuked him. I believe a person who has self-respect will not continue in the post after being publicly reprimanded by the Union minister for home affairs,” said the veteran leader, who was in Osmanabad as part of his two-day tour to flood-hit areas in central Maharashtra. The state’s BJP unit shot back, questioning Pawar’s self-respect over “forming an unnatural alliance in the state to form the government”. Party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “Where was Pawar’s self-respect when he chose to make an unnatural alliance with Shiv Sena to form the government in the state?. We believe there are many issues the state is facing at present. Instead of commenting on the governor’s statement, concentration should be more on issues such as providing relief to flood-affected farmers.”Koshyari recently wrote to the CM about unlocking places of worship from the Covid-19 lockdown and asked if Thackeray, who is also president of the ruling Shiv Sena, had “suddenly turned secular”. His remark triggered a war of words with the CM, as the latter reminded him in a letter that secularism was one of the tenets of the Constitution that he swore upon when taking oath as Maharashtra governor. In a recent interview to a TV news channel, Shah said Koshyari could have chosen his words better.“I have gone through the letter. He has made a passing reference. However, I feel he should have been more restrained in his choice of words,” Shah has said. Before this, Pawar had written a letter to prime minister Narendra Modi over Koshyari’s letter, saying he was “shocked and surprised” at the language used. “In the very preamble of our Constitution the word ‘secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the chair of the chief minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution. Unfortunately, hon. governor’s letter to the chief minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party. I firmly believe that in a democracy, free exchange of views between the hon. governor and the hon. chief minister must take place,” Pawar said in his letter to PM Modi. “However, the tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the constitutional post occupied by the individuals. Looking at the turn of events, the chief minister in fact was left with no option, but to release his reply to the hon. governor in the press. I fully endorse the decision of the hon. chief minister on this issue,” he added. NCP is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, which comprises the Sena and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anyone-with-self-respect-will-not-continue-in-post-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-slams-governor-koshyari/story-pKAvyyBpVAfKuKXTTrnrPN.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra past 1.6 million cases, daily count dips further||Maharashtra on Monday went past 1,600,000 Covid-19 cases with its lowest single-day spike since July 7 (104 days) as 5,984 new infections took the tally to 1,601,365, which includes 173,759 active cases. On July 7, the state had recorded 5,134 cases. The state also reported 125 more fatalities, its lowest one-day death count since June 22, pushing the toll to 42,240 Meanwhile, Mumbai registered its lowest single-day spike in 48 days with 1,234 fresh infections, taking its count to 243,169, while reporting 43 deaths to push the toll to 9,819. On September 1, Mumbai had reported 1,142 cases. The active caseload in the city went below 20,000 and stood at 19,906. So far, 212,979 patients have recovered and discharged. The recovery rate of Mumbai stood at 87%, while the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 4.03%. Since the first week of September, daily cases have been on the rise in Mumbai with over 2,000 cases on most days of that month. However, in October, cases have been dipping on alternate days.The state’s low case count on Monday could also be attributed to a comparatively lower number of tests. In the previous 24 hours, 46,312 samples were tested, while the average number of daily tests carried out in the month so far is 75,236. State health officials attribute the lower numbers to fewer tests during the weekend, data of which is reflected on Mondays and Tuesdays.The state touched the grim mark of 1,600,000 Covid-19 cases 224 days after it recorded its first on March 9. However, key parameters, including the doubling rate and positivity rate are showing signs that the spread of coronavirus is slowing down in the state. State health department officials, however, warn that there could be a rise in new cases by mid-November.The doubling rate, which is a crucial parameter to show the growth of the outbreak, improved to 48 days in the state. It took 48 days for the state to double its tally from 800,000 to 1,600,000, which is 14 days more than what it took for the state to go from 400,000 to 800,000 Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra went past 800,000 cases on September 1, while it crossed the 400,000-mark on July 29.Another important parameter, the positivity rate, is also seeing a dip compared to previous months. Positivity rate is the percentage of samples that have tested positive from the total samples tested. While Maharashtra’s overall positivity rate is 19.56%, the positivity rate in October so far is under 16% (15.57%). The positivity rate in September was 22.41%, 18.48% in August, 21.25% in July, 21.22% in June, 18.07% in May, 7.31% in April and 4.77% in March.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the Covid-19 situation in the state is seeing a “decline”. He also added that active cases are declining at a faster rate than the new cases. Pointing out that the number of cases has declined by over 50% between September and October he said, “In the second week of September itself, we had nearly 1.53 lakh new cases, and now in the last week we had around 70,000 new cases. This is a reduction by 50% in new cases.”When asked about the lower testing in October, Awate reasoned that with fewer positive cases, the immediate contacts of people, which form the major portion of new tests, have also reduced. “Close contacts of patients form the major component in daily tests. But with new cases reducing, the number of contacts declines; thereby the testing has reduced marginally. Take September second week for instance, where we had over 1.5 lakh cases. In that week, our daily testing was about 89,000. Now it is about 78,000-80,000. So the decline in testing is about 11%, while new cases is about 50%, ” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-past-1-6-million-cases-daily-count-dips-further/story-m9vGB0XTI9Jh9KATsSXG8M.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor smuggling: Haryana cops arrest NV distilleries chairman from Delhi office||Police on Monday arrested the chairman of M/s NV distilleries Ashok Jain from his Delhi office for alleged role in smuggling of liquor in Haryana. Police officials said Jain was earlier served with notices to join investigations in a 2019 liquor smuggling case registered by Panipat police at Samalkha. However, an arrest warrant was issued by a court after he refused to comply. The FIR registered on October 13, 2019 pertained to recovery of 1,179 cases of liquor (there are 12 bottles in each case) marked as Crazy Romeo, an Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) brand owned by M/s NV distilleries having production licenses at Rajpura in Punjab and Ambala in Haryana, officials said. Police had registered a case of cheating, forgery of documents and unlawful import, export, possession of liquor under sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Punjab Excise Act. The seizures of smuggled liquor allegedly manufactured at NV distilleries were also mentioned in detail by a Special Enquiry Team (SET) in its report. The SET, constituted in May by the state government to inquire into the instances of pilferage of liquor from warehouses, had found glaring deficiencies in functioning of excise and taxation department and indicated collusion of officials in smuggling and illegal sale of liquor. “ On analysing police reports regarding the source and intended destination of liquor (more than 100 cases) recovered during April 1, 2019 to May 10, 2020, it was noticed that in several cases there are clear indications that the seized liquor has been sourced from NV distilleries in Naraingarh, Ambala or NV distilleries, Rajpura in Patiala or RS distillery, Chandrao, Karnal. However, the investigating officers have not directed the concerned authorities of the distillery to join investigations,” the SET report had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-smuggling-haryana-cops-arrest-nv-distilleries-chairman-from-delhi-office/story-lqySKGETLqsfnYX3IDKx5O.html
19-10-2020||City||With 28 infections, Ludhiana records its lowest count since July; 1 dead||With only 28 new cases in the last 24 hours, the district has recorded its lowest single-day count since July, health officials said on Monday. Ludhiana also recorded one fatality, taking the toll to 820. The deceased is a 73- year-old female from Dugri Phase-III. The cumulative count of cases has reached 19, 701 while a total of 18, 605 patients have recovered, leaving 273 active cases. Sharing details, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said a total of 3,55,330 samples have been taken so far, out of which, the reports of 3, 54, 126 samples have been received and 3, 31, 816 reports came back negative. As many as 1, 204 reports are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-28-infections-ludhiana-records-its-lowest-count-since-july-1-dead/story-puGV8w3zummSvHOzRfEdGK.html
19-10-2020||City||Ludhiana govt schools reopen to tepid response after 7 months||The city’s government reopened partially on Monday, after remaining closed for around seven months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. On the first day, a student turnout of 10 to 15% was seen in most schools with authorities stating that many parents were hesitant to send their wards, fearing infection. Dusty benches greet students at PAU govt schoolA visit to Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), around 7.45am revealed that the cleaning staff was sanitising the premises at the last moment when students had already started trickling in. In a few classrooms, students were seen arranging the furniture themselves even as the school authorities claimed that they had made prior arrangements to welcome the students. The schools’ teachers said they had made elaborate seating arrangements for students but when this correspondent visited the classrooms, there were more benches than required and most were covered in dust. Furthermore, the teachers were asking students to pick up the benches and move them outside so that social distancing can be maintained.The school, however, did ensure other standard operating procedures such as thermal screening and availability of foot-operated sanitisers.When contacted, school principal Sanjeev Thapar said, “The school was sanitised four days ago and all rooms were cleaned properly. It is possible that some dust may have been left behind on benches but I will tell the Class-IV employees to clean the benches daily.” He added that to maintain social distancing, only five to six students were seated in a room. As per information, a total of 20 students attended school in the morning shift while 110 turned up in the afternoon shift.Last-minute preparations at Cemetery Road school too At Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, too the Class-IV employees were seen cleaning the premises around 8.30am. Though the classrooms, corridor and the area near the entrance gate was clean, social distancing circles were being marked at the last minute. The staff at this school was welcoming students with floral showers even as two other employees stood guard, screening students’ temperature and asking them to use foot-operated sanitisers before entering.This school saw a 10% student turnout in the morning shift. Low turnout at most schoolsOnly four students turned up at Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Jawahar Nagar, which has a strength of 350 students in Classes 9 to 12. School principal Anita Bedi said, “Though several parents had given their consent to send their wards to school, only four students turned up. I think parents need more time.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, 45 students of Classes 9 to 12 showed up, while over 50 parents had given their consent. At Government Senior Secondary School, Gobind Nagar, 21 students opted to come to school against a strength of 275 students. School principal Meenu Adya said, “We have received consent from parents and are expecting that the number of students will increase in the coming days.” Government Senior Secondary School, Lalton Kalan, which has a strength of 400 students in Classes 9 to 12 had around 10% students attending school today. Students overjoyedMeanwhile, students were overjoyed to finally meet their friends and classmates after the long lockdown period. Many others said they are relieved that they can finally clear their doubts as online classes came with its own set of challenges. Rashmi Soni, a Class-12 student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, said, “This is a very crucial time as this is our board year. I was eager to attend school as I faced many issues, including connectivity troubles, during online classes.” Monica, another 18-year-old student, said, “I don’t have a personal phone. So I used to listen to recorded videos of my teachers after my father returned from work. I am glad that I am able to attend school now and clear my doubts.” DEO inspects two schoolsDistrict education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur inspected two government schools on Monday: GMSSS, PAU, and GMSSS, Model Town. She is said to have found the arrangements satisfactory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-schools-reopen-to-tepid-response-after-7-months/story-vLpssv9vEn5hjmY3r8BzVK.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Women commuters on Mumbai trains: No consensus between railways and Maharashtra government yet?||Even as the state has asked railways to allow all women commuters to travel by Mumbai suburban trains on Friday, the railways and state officials are yet to reach a consensus on the standard operating procedure (SOP) and operations of more train services. While the railways stated they have asked the state to provide the quantum of increase in passengers and are ready to permit women to travel by local trains, state authorities have questioned the delay.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said he will again write to the railways. “We had announced the decision, written a letter to the railways and had informed them about the time slot. They have promised us about allowing women commuters in suburban trains in the court. I have also had an interaction with union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and senior railway officials. I don’t know why it has been delayed. Tomorrow again [on Tuesday], I will be writing a letter to the railways in this regard,” Kumar told HT.The Maharashtra government has allowed women commuters to travel in local trains in the stipulated time from between 11am and 3pm, and 7pm till late midnight from October 17. The idea behind the proposal is to make private offices adopt staggered office timings to prevent crowding of trains. The railways are expected to allow all women commuters to travel during non-peak hours from this week. The central and western railways have asked the state to provide an estimated increase in the number of passengers. “We are looking at operating additional trains in the time slot provided by the state. Additional women special trains (women-only trains) can also be operated. However, the decision will only be taken after the state conveys the estimated increase in passengers along with the implementation of QR-based code system and other modalities,” said a senior railway official. Currently, both the CR and WR operate two women special local train services each. Train services are operational only for employees working in essential care, along with differently abled commuters and cancer patients. The railways had on Friday night forwarded the request of state government to the railway board that supervises functioning of zonal railways. The board has sent the proposal for nod of the ministry of home affairs (MHA). On Sunday, senior railway authorities and state discussed over the phone the modalities and increase in the number of passengers. Kumar and Bhalla also discussed the issue. Meanwhile, the WR on Monday issued a statement that the railways have asked the state government to convey the quantum of passengers likely to increase.“Ministry of Home affairs (MHA) have also looked into the issue and have asked state government authorities to finalise the necessary modalities in view of Covid-19 pandemic and convey the same to the Railways. The decision will be based to ensure that social & medical protocols like social distancing with regards to prevailing Covid-19 protocols can be followed,” read the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-commuters-on-mumbai-trains-no-consensus-between-railways-and-maharashtra-government-yet/story-N28LzOpVRQIr38unGp0UwM.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: 252 challans, ₹6.50 lakh fine imposed on farmers in Haryana||Amid concerns about the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi-NCR reaching critical levels due to farm fires, the Haryana government has issued 252 challans and imposed ₹ 6.50 lakh fine on farmers of 11 districts for burning crop residue so far. Other steps taken to stop crop residue burning include registration of 124 police complaints/first information reports (FIRs) in six districts till October 14, Haryana government informed the Supreme Court last Friday. As per the official data, Fatehabad district tops the list with 44 complaints/FIRs registered for stubble burning followed by Jind 43, Sirsa and Kaithal 13 each, and Ambala 10. No FIR was registered in other paddy sowing districts like Karnal and Yamunanagar. The apex court has appointed justice Madan B Lokur (retd) as a one-man committee to look into stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. In his October 15 affidavit, while listing out eight different steps taken to reduce farm fires, Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan assured the top court that the state government has been taking all necessary steps required to curb stubble burning and to prevent environmental pollution. The affidavit was submitted in a case seeking urgent directions to Punjab and Haryana to ensure a complete ban on stubble burning so that the AQI in Delhi-NCR does not reach critical levels this year especially in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Till October 18, the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) detected majority of active fire locations in Kurukshetra (521) and Karnal (562). Also, 57 challans were issued in Kurukshetra and 24 in Karnal till October 14. The highest 63 challans were issued and ₹ 1.57 lakh fine was imposed in Kaithal district. In Kurukshetra, ₹ 1.35 lakh penalty was imposed. Referring to the data (till Oct 14) received from Indian Council of Agricultural Research (lCAR), the chief secretary told the court that there was decline in active fire locations in Haryana in comparison to Punjab and UP. As per the ICAR data quoted in the affidavit, there were 3,020 active fire locations in Punjab against 737 in Haryana and 249 in UP. During the same period last year, Haryana was ahead with 992 active fire locations, Punjab had 856 incidence of farm fires and UP 271. The state government has stated that in order to follow a focused approach and micro-level planning, the districts were categorised into red, yellow and green zones in terms of incidences of crop residue burning based on the data provided by the HARSAC. As per the HARSAC, there were 2,676 cases of farm fires till October 18. Decomposer technologyThe state government has informed the Supreme Court that Agricultural and Finance Corporation Limited has developed the decomposer technology which requires validation before its implementation. The validation is being done by Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar, in collaboration with department of agriculture and farmers welfare. Trial/Microbial treatment on 21 identified locations in four districts of Hisar, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra and Ambala were conducted till November 15 after harvest of the paddy. The results will be declared by December 31 after laboratory analysis of samples. Thereafter, the technology could be adopted for actual implementation, the chief secretary has stated in the affidavit. POINTER BOX: Steps taken to curb farm firesDecomposer technology developed by agricultural and finance corporation Incentives to farmers Micro-level planning Providing crop residue management machinery on subsidy Creating awareness on ill effects of stubble burning Crop diversification Active role of panchayats in crop residue management Enforcement measures||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stubble-burning-252-challans-6-50-lakh-fine-imposed-on-farmers-in-haryana/story-h6z4Fz3wnSlIIA9lyiQGzI.html
19-10-2020||City||DU second cut-off admissions: 5k+ applications approved on Day 1||New Delhi: At least 5,182 admissions were approved on the first day of merit-based admissions under the second cut-off to undergraduate courses in over 60 Delhi University (DU) colleges of which 2,602 students had paid their fees by Monday evening.Around 2,580 more students whose applications were approved by colleges were yet to pay fees to secure admissions. Nearly 9,785 students had applied for admissions.“There is not a major rush like the first cut-off but we approved more than 150 applications till evening. Maximum applications have been in Sociology and Economics – where cutoffs dropped marginally. There have been queries over fee payment and withdrawals,” said Bijayalaxmi Nanda, acting principal at Miranda House.More than 34, 800 students had taken admission under the first cut-off for the 70,000 undergraduate seats offered by the varsity. Applicants who took admission under the first list but wish to change colleges and apply to eligible colleges under the second cut-off can do so by cancelling their admission and paying a fee of Rs 1,000.On the first day of admissions under second cut-off, colleges reported very few cancellations. At Ramjas College, for instance, around 25 students had cancelled admissions. “There were around 2-3 cancellations per subject. We have approved more than 150 applications today and around 950 students in total have paid the fee till this evening [including first cut-off]. However, students are still able to apply in the courses that have been closed for admissions under the first cut-off, leading to an increased number of applications,” said principal Manoj Khanna.Senior officials at the university said candidates can apply to courses and if admissions are closed for a particular subject, colleges can opt to not look at those applications.Applicants who were eligible to take admission and were meeting the required cut-off of a particular college and course combination in the first cut-off, but did not do so, will not be considered for admission in the same college and course combination in the second cut-off. This is a change from previous years when such students would be allowed to take admissions on the final day of the cut-off if there were remaining seats.“It is sad to reject applications with even 100% aggregate just because they could not take admission under the first cut-off for some or the other reason. Earlier, such students would be given a chance on the third day if the said course had vacant seats,” said an official of a north campus college, requesting anonymity.“There have been very few cancellations in our college and we received over 230 applications under the second cut-off. Gradually, people are getting comfortable with the online system and the process is becoming smoother. We noticed that in some cases, as soon as we approved the application of a student, the system reflected that the fee was already paid. We interpreted that this might be the case of students who had cancelled admissions and had already paid the fee in some other college during the first cut-off,” said Simrit Kaur, principal of Shri Ram College of Commerce.There was no cancellation at Miranda House on Monday. Sanjeev Singh, joint director of Delhi University’s Computer Centre, said, “The money paid by those who have taken admission to other colleges under first cut-off is in the virtual wallet. If they cancel their first admission and apply to another college, the same fee is adjusted for the new college. If the new fee is less than the fee paid, the balance is shown. If it is more, the amount to be paid is shown.”On Monday, internet facilities across south campus colleges such as Ram Lal Anand College, Motilal Nehru College and ARSD college were disrupted, affecting admissions work. Singh said, “There was a fibre issue and internet was down for about an hour or so. This did not affect the applicants as they could continue to apply.”Admissions under the second cut-off will continue till 5 pm Wednesday. Applicants can, however, pay the fee till Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-second-cut-off-admissions-5k-applications-approved-on-day-1/story-LXdD1lnNL1P0QMy3vZoNcJ.html
19-10-2020||City||Court dismisses bail of Delhi riot-accused||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday dismissed the bail application of a man in connection with the case of the alleged murder of head constable Ratan Lal during the Delhi riots in February. The court while dismissing the plea, said it observed the man’s call detail records (CDR), which showed that around the time of incident, his location was around the spot of the incident and he had received three calls from his counsel who was representing him in the matter.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said the call detail record of accused Shadab Ahmad showed that he was in constant touch with the proclaimed offenders and co-accused in the case —Suleman Siddiqui and Ravish.“It could be a coincidence, but not without significance. I will refrain from commenting as to whether it was morally or ethically appropriate for the learned counsel to have represented the applicant (Ahmad) in the matter,” it said.The judge said that a perusal of his CDRs from January 31, 2020, to February 24, 2020, revealed that he was in touch with some of the co-accused persons in the murder case as well in the matter related to the larger “pre-meditated” conspiracy in the riots, which was being investigated by the Special Cell of the Delhi police.It said the accused was at “flight risk” because he is not a resident of Delhi, adding he was identified by witnesses and the police even though he was not visible on the CCTV footage shown to the court during the bail hearing.During the hearing, advocate Seema Misra, appearing for Ahmad, argued he has been wrongly and maliciously implicated in the matter by the investigating agency just because he belongs to a particular community. There was no electronic evidence available against Shadab either in the form of any CCTV footage or his CDR location, which could prima facie show his presence at the scene of crime on the date of the incident, his counsel said.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, opposed the bail plea saying Ahmad used to share stage with other protestors and instigate the gathering against the Government of India, which ultimately led to violence on February 24, resulting in the death of more than 50 people in north-east Delhi, including Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-dismisses-bail-of-delhi-riot-accused/story-VuMEs3NriTgqBolqH8sT8K.html
19-10-2020||City||1 killed. 1 injured as truck rams into bike in Mumbra, near Mumbai||A 28-year-old woman riding pillion died after a speeding truck hit her bike on Monday morning. She was found beneath the truck tyres on Mumbra-Shilphata road. A 22-year-old riding the bike with her suffered serious injuries.The Shil-Daighar police have registered a case against the truck driver and arrested him.The incident took place at around 7.30 am on Monday. The police took both the deceased and the man injured to a hospital.The biker, Mohammad Shahid Abdul Rafiq Choudhari, and pillion rider, Yasin Choudhary were the motorcycle when a truck hit them from behind near Siddique Tower, Shilphata Road, Mumbra.Police official said, “The injured bike rider has been shifted to Kalsekar Hospital, Mumbra while Yasin died on the spot and was taken to CSM Hospital, Kalwa. The driver of the truck fled the spot and was arrested later. He was identified as Rajkumar Yadav, 40.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-killed-1-injured-as-truck-rams-into-bike-in-mumbra-near-mumbai/story-N6kefGObCASd7cLioT804H.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||UG medical aspirants from Maharashtra move Bombay HC over discrepancies in evaluation and NEET scores||Days after the National Testing Agency (NTA) declared results for the undergraduate National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG), a student from Maharashtra has approached the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court alleging discrepancies in the test assessment system after she scored zero in the exam. This student in her writ petition has stated that she was expecting at least 600 out of 720 in her entrance exam and was shocked to see her final scorecard. “After having scored 81.85% in her HSC exams, the student was expecting to score at least 600 in her NEET exam. The first problem was that the NTA never uploaded her optical marking recognition (OMR) sheet, then her result shows she has scored zero out of 720. There is a glitch in their online evaluation system,” said advocate Ashwin Deshpande, who represented the student in court on Monday. The court has now asked NTA to clarify whether the said student’s OMR sheet was uploaded in the first place or not by the next date of hearing. “How can a student score zero marks when she was expecting 600 or more? NTA will have to clarify this,” added Deshpande. This is not the only case where students have pointed at discrepancies in the marks on their scanned OMR sheets and their final scorecard. In another case, a student from Akola district in Maharashtra has also approached the NTA with a similar problem. “As per the provisional answer key shared by NTA in the last week of September and the scanned OMR sheet of every student that was uploaded by the NTA, this student has scored a perfect 720 out of 720. However, as per his final scorecard, he has scored a mere 212 marks which is impossible,” said an activist who is currently helping this student approach the Bombay high court. NEET-UG was conducted across the country on September 13 this year and a second phase of the exam was conducted on October 14, following which the results were declared on October 16. Several students, since, have approached the NTA with the scanned copy of their OMR sheets and their final scorecard highlighting a difference in marks. “My OMR sheet shows two different answers to the same question in two different pages. All these points towards technical trouble in the evaluation software. The NTA will have to clarify this problem soon,” said one of the students on condition of anonymity. On Monday, the director-general of NTA, Vineet Joshi said that prima facie, such blatant discrepancies in marks is not possible. “However, since we have received queries from some students, we are individually checking each query and trying to solve the same at the earliest,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ug-medical-aspirants-from-maharashtra-move-bombay-hc-over-discrepancies-in-evaluation-and-neet-scores/story-X5Bg4kOdNoqNDO1BwpK8EI.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||2,355 tocilizumab injections and 30,927 remdesivir vials used in Mumbai: BMC data||Amidst the growing demand for essential drugs in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that till October 18, as many as 2,355 tocilizumab injections have been used to treat critically-ill Covid-19 patients in the city. While another 30,927 vials of remdesivir have been provided to patients.The city has more than 20,000 active Covid-19 patients. Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used for the treatment of Ebola, is used in the early stages of the Covid-19 infection to bring down the viral load in patients. While tocilizumab, also known as atlizumab, an immunosuppressive drug is given to critically-ill patients. It was originally designed to treat arthritis, and is imported by Roche pharma and marketed by Mumbai-based Cipla.Since April, the demand for the two drugs has increased drastically which is also leading to black marketing. The civic body, however, ruled out any claim of shortages of the essential drugs.Since the outbreak of the pandemic, BMC has procured over 33,000 and around 2,500 doses of tocilizumab and remdesivir respectively. At present, the civic body has 140 and 2,800 dosage stock of tocilizumab and remdesivir respectively.“We have received promising responses from Covid-19 patients who are treated with remdesivir and tocilizumab. Taking this into consideration, we are in the process of procuring 72,000 vitals of remdesivir. These will be distributed in jumbo centres and hospitals,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Additionally, the civic body BMC has also procured 3,01,478 tablets of flavipiravir, an antiviral drug which is given to moderately-ill patients to reduce the viral load of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. Out of these, already 2,67,978 of the tables have been consumed. At present, the civic body has 33,500 tables in stock.After initial months of shortages of drugs, hospitals in the city have adequate amounts of the medicines. “At present, we don’t have any shortages of medicines in our hospital. We do have an adequate number of vials. Also, as the procurement process has got more channelised, the involvement of middlemen has come down,” said Dr Jalil Parkar, a pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra.Doctors in the city are relying heavily on these three promising drugs which are helping save the lives of thousands. As HT reported on August 27, a total of 77% of Covid-19 patients treated with tocilizumab and remdesivir in a major tertiary-care civic-run hospital have survived.Seek written consent to administer remdesivirThe Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) last month issued a circular making it mandatory to take written consent of patients or their relatives before giving remdesivir. This directive was given to involve patients or their relatives in administering expensive drugs like remdesivir and to curb the unregulated usage of it.“The instruction has been provided to doctors following the centralized directive of the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI),” said Dr TP Lahane, director of DMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-355-tocilizumab-injections-and-30-927-remdesivir-vials-used-in-mumbai-bmc-data/story-fpxHHDtA9B7JEXVrFONOxI.html
19-10-2020||City||Need to check unfair terms of tour and travel industry||This week I want to refer briefly to a recent order of the apex consumer court, to highlight the unjust terms and conditions imposed on consumers by the tour and travel industry and the urgent need for the consumer protection regulator constituted under the Consumer Protection Act of 2019, to step in and put stop to all such unfair and inequitable terms.The apex consumer court’s order centres around a claim for refund made by a consumer following cancellation of his trip on account of the Swiss Embassy’s refusal to grant him a tourist visa. Here, the consumer’s contention was that the travel agency collected Rs 60,000 from him on May 23, 2013 as the booking amount and subsequently, on August 21, the remaining amount of Rs 1,92,970, despite knowing that on august 19 his visa application had been rejected and that he would therefore not be able to travel. Worse, later when he sought a refund, he was told that as per their terms and conditions, he was not entitled to any refund.The travel agency in turn claimed that they had got to know of the rejection of the visa application only on August 26 and as per their cancellation policy, the consumer was not entitled to any refund for cancellation seven days prior to the date of departure.The apex consumer court said the agency cannot usurp the money paid by the consumer, particularly when he had not availed of their services in respect of the tour. However, while the lower consumer courts had ordered refund of the entire amount paid by the consumer, the apex consumer court allowed the tour agency to retain Rs 30,000 on account of the fee spent on the visa application and other administrative expenses and ordered refund of the remaining amount with 7% interest.(Makemytrip (India) Pvt Ltd Vs Vijendra Mathur, RP NO 1877 of 2018, date of order: August 27, 2020)Consumers have for long suffered injustice, financial loss and mental agony on account of unreasonable terms in consumer contracts and have had to wage protracted legal battles for justice. Consumers were particularly at a disadvantage on account of the absence of a law to curb such unfair terms.Now the new consumer protection law fills the gap in this area. The Consumer Protection Act, 2019, defines unfair consumer contracts as those that cause significant change in the rights of consumers . One of the examples provided, says: “Imposing on the consumer, any unreasonable charge, obligation or condition which puts such consumer to disadvantage” is an unfair contract. So the consumer watchdog -- the Central Consumer Protection Authority(CCPA) -- has to now regulate consumer contracts in the hospitality, travel and tourism sectors and ensure fair play. I particularly refer to the tour and travel industry because of the large number of consumer complaints emanating from unreasonable contract terms and the fact that unlike sectors such as insurance, telecom or housing, there is no sector regulator here.Interestingly, the Competition and Markets Authority in the United Kingdom launched a concerted campaign last year against unfair and opaque contract terms vis-à-vis the holiday and travel industry.The two examples of such unfair terms that the Authority quoted is highly relevant in the Indian context too because here also, consumers suffer huge financial loss when circumstances beyond their control such as sickness or death in the family force them to cancel a tripTerms that allow a business to take large, upfront deposit , but refuse refund on cancellation of the trip, irrespective of the amount the business is losing or the reason for the cancellation, is unfair, said the Authority. Similarly, when a business insists on a large cancellation fee which bears no relation to the actual losses it experiences from the cancellation, such a condition is unfair, it said..The consumer protection regulator in India too needs to take up such campaigns to end unfair contracts.---||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-check-unfair-terms-of-tour-and-travel-industry/story-LzjBw4si0psR0ipA1Ht19O.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Panel seeks permission to auction land of three realty projects in Gurugram||A committee comprising senior officials of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and department of town and country planning (DTCP) has recommended that the possibility of auctioning of the land of three projects, whose licences have been cancelled, should be explored and permission regarding this should be sought from the DTCP. The projects owned by three developers cumulatively owe external development charges of ₹150 crore. A letter in this regard has been sent to the headquarters in Chandigarh and further action would be taken after directions are received, said officials on Monday.The DTCP in the last two years had cancelled the licences of 21 developers who had failed to launch their projects and also did not pay EDC/IDC charges to the stage government. Following the cancellation of these licenses, the director, DTCP, had formed a committee headed by administrator, Gurugram, to take over these projects and find ways to ensure that third party rights of buyers, land owners and the dues owned to the government as fees were cleared, said HSVP officials.However, after the cancellation of the licenses, 14 developers out of 21 approached the court seeking relief against the government decision. HSVP officials said that it was brought to the notice of the committee by developers of three other projects that their licences were cancelled wrongly and they would be given fresh hearing. One of them has agreed to get the licence renewed and pay the dues, they added. The report of the committee said that third party rights of the three projects under its scanner have not been created and no stay has been granted by the court. In one of these cases, the owners could not be contacted and the land was lying vacant. “It has been decided by the committee that approval for auction of land may be obtained from DTCP and after conciliation of dues to be recovered by the government and of the allottees if any, the process of auction shall be initiated as per government policies,” said the committee in its recommendation on Friday.The total area of these projects is around 23 acres and two of these were to be developed as IT parks, said officials. RS Bhath, district town planner (DTP), planning, who will take the charge of enforcement wing on Tuesday, said that the committee looked into every aspect of the projects such as land ownership, third party rights and dues to government. “A recommendation has been made to explore the possibility of auctioning the land so that dues to all the stakeholders can be recovered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/panel-seeks-permission-to-auction-land-of-three-realty-projects-in-gurugram/story-4kYNkrE7OeBMooRzDmA77H.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Construction workers protest against changes in labour laws, grant of social benefits||Around 250 construction workers in the city gathered at Kamla Nehru Park on Monday and marched up to the Mini Secretariat building to highlight the problems being faced by them related to registration and the availability of benefits under the schemes launched by labour welfare board. The workers also said that only few of them received financial and material help from the state government during the lockdown. Dharm Saini, president, Bhawan Nirman Kamgaar Union, said that the decision of the government to change labour rules and the inability of the authorities to reach out to construction workers during the lockdown and thereafter have caused immense hardships for them. “The construction workers are yet to receive any monetary benefits due to them under the Kanyadan scheme, the death claim benefit scheme, the cycle scheme and the toolkit scheme. Authorities have rejected their claims raising several objections,” said Saini. The protesting workers also said that decision of the government to register workers only online was also causing lot of problems as majority of them have no formal education and find it difficult to complete the online process. “The government should allow offline registration of workers. The money with construction workers’ welfare board should be spent on the welfare of the workers,” said Rajender Saroha, district secretary of the union. Saroha also said that financial and material benefits announced for construction workers reached very few of them, and they wanted to bring this matter to the notice of the government by holding this protest.The Kamgaar union on Monday also submitted memorandums to the state and central governments through deputy commissioner of Gurugram. The protesters also said that if their issues were not solved then they would start a larger protest movement. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram,said that the issues raised by construction workers will be sent to the government for consideration. “The memorandum will be sent to state government for consideration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/construction-workers-protest-against-changes-in-labour-laws-grant-of-social-benefits/story-0QjbYcg9zXjKXxwxrFGI8J.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Cops bust gang of four vehicle-lifters who stole over a dozen motorcycles||The police on Sunday night arrested four members of a gang for allegedly stealing over a dozen motorcycles from different areas of the city and planning to steal another one on the same night from Sector 45. The police said they have recovered eight stolen motorbikes, two scooters and one auto-rickshaw from their possession and have solved at least 15 cases with their arrest. The police said, during questioning, they revealed that they had also broken into locked houses and had stolen cash and jewellery from at least 11 houses in Sushant Lok-1, Palam Vihar, Sector 5, Sector 14, Sector 29, New Colony and Sector 56. The suspects were identified as Rakesh alias Tatal of Nuh, suspected kingpin of the gang; Jatin alias Tedha of Nai Basti; Aamir Khan of Nuh and Hakummuddin of Sohna. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that these gang members have been arrested seven times earlier. The mastermind, Rakesh, was arrested in March last year and was granted bail on October 1. “He contacted the other gang members who were out and started stealing two wheelers from different sectors of the city. The gang members have been allegedly involved in crime for the last four years. The suspects, during questioning, told the police that they used to visit the city from Nuh thrice a week to steal motorbikes,” he said. The police also said the accused and his friends from Mewat targeted the developing sectors in Gurugram as police presence is low there. In their quest to make a quick buck, they allegedly stole motorbikes which had good resale value. The suspects used to hide the two-wheelers in kingpin’s house in Nuh till he could sell them, the police said. He used to send pictures of the stolen two-wheelers to his friends in Uttar Pradesh who used to get good deals for him. On Sunday afternoon, the gang members visited Iffco Chowk to target parked two-wheelers, but got arrested. “The gang members were arrested after we received a tip-off that four men were roaming near parked motorbikes. We sent our teams, barricaded the area and arrested the gang members,” said Sangwan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-bust-gang-of-four-vehicle-lifters-who-stole-over-a-dozen-motorcycles/story-ogM4nIyGBUdlg3zDf2xK2L.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Cops arrest two sharpshooters for murdering liquor shop owner||The police on Sunday night arrested two sharpshooters from Sector 95 bus stand for allegedly murdering a 42-year-old liquor shop owner and injuring his friend while they were returning to their house in Jatauli in Haily Mandi on the night of September 2. The police said the liquor trader was shot at least 16 times and died on the spot. His friend, on the other hand, suffered three bullet injuries and was discharged from a private hospital after a week. The police said that the suspects were hired by a business rival and he had paid them an advance of ₹1 lakh to carry out the assassination. The suspects were identified as Ujjwal Kumar of Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh and Jeewan Singh of Gautam Budh Nagar of Uttar Pradesh. The Haryana Police had announced a reward of ₹5,000 two years ago for information leading to Kumar’s arrest. According to the police, the incident took place around 10pm on the night of September 2, when the victims, identified as Inderjeet, Vikram and Vishal, who have a liquor business in Haily Mandi, were returning to their residences in a car. As their car entered a lane, a herd of cattle blocked their path and five men on three motorbike surrounded the vehicle and opened fire at them. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, prima facie, it appears a case of personal enmity, which led to the alleged murder. We had formed five teams including crime branch to nab the suspects. The police said Inderjeet, who was behind the wheel, was declared dead on arrival by doctors at a hospital in Pataudi. Vikram, 40, seated on the co-driver’s seat, sustained three bullet wounds on his arm and waist, while Vishal, who was on the back seat, survived the shooting unscathed, the police said. “The probe revealed that in July 2019, some of the accused men had fired gunshots at Inderjeet in Jatauli. An attempt of murder case was registered against a few people and two men were arrested. But the main suspect, Abhishek Kumar, of same village hired people from Uttar Pradesh and paid them money for contract killing,” said Sangwan. Sangwan said the complainant in the case had recorded the statement that in the last week of July, one of the accused men had threatened to kill Inderjeet and tried to extort money from him. “They were threatening him for life and told him they were in touch with criminals. They had also asked Inderjeet to shut down his business. One of the family members was elected in a municipal election too which led to personal enmity,” he said. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object, 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Pataudi police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-arrest-two-sharpshooters-for-murdering-liquor-shop-owner/story-IMamSWBhaGX2XZW4m4He9L.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||NHAI fined Rs5 lakh for lack of dust control measures||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Monday penalised the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) Rs 5 lakh for dust emission on the stretch connecting the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway with Dwarka Expressway, from Kherki Daula, and issued a show cause notice in this regard.The penalty has been imposed while in accordance with the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to tackle deteriorating air quality, said officials.Air pollution resulting from construction activities emitting heavy dust and particulate matter in air has been one of the main sources of pollution in Delhi-NCR, besides stubble burning and vehicular emission, during winter months.For the last one week, the air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram has been in the ‘poor’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. Persisting high concentration of pollutants kept Gurugram’s AQI at 245, a slight improvement from Sunday’s AQI of 273. The concentration of ultra fine particulate matter (PM2.5) was 251 micrograms per cubic metre, as per the monitor at Vikas Sadan.Neighbouring Delhi had an AQI of 244 on Monday.To tackle the situation of ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ air quality in Delhi-NCR, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) has directed Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to implement Grap guidelines.“In view of Grap, the pollution board team on Monday visited the Dwarka Expressway stretch of NH 48. During the inspection, it was found that appropriate dust control measures were missing from the site,” said Shakti Singh, regional officer, Gurugram (South), HSPCB, who is also the nodal officer for Grap implementation in the district.He said that complaints have been received regarding constantly visible dust emission on the road and surrounding areas due to construction activities, contributing heavily to the degradation of ambient air quality in the area.“The department has therefore issued the show cause notice and penalty of Rs 5 lakh to the NHAI along with the construction company. The agencies have been given a week to submit a compliance report on the construction activity. They have to tell why the activity should not be stopped under Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Also, as to why action should not be taken against them under various provisions of environmental laws for non-compliance of Acts, notification and rules,” said Singh.Singh said the activity was in violation of the directions issued by CPCB, under Section 5 of Environmental (Protection) Act, 1986, to regulate dust emission from construction and demolition (C&D) activities.Officials said that the penalty is in line with National Green Tribunal (NGT) rules, which state that a person, owner or builder found to be violating air pollution norms will be liable to pay a compensation of Rs 5,00,000 in relation to construction activity at its site and Rs 5,000 for violation during carriage and transportation of construction material, debris through trucks or other vehicles.Singh said that the CPCB on October 16 issued a letter directing the pollution board to ensure strict vigilance of unregulated construction activity. They have been told that constructed waste material has to be stored in a designated place with all precautionary measures. As per the directive, dumping of waste in open land is the responsibility of the land-owning agency.A senior NHAI official privy to the matter, said, “We have taken measures to curb pollution. But the suggestions put forth by the pollution control board will be implemented. The authority will not allow any pollution to be caused during the construction activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhai-fined-rs5-lakh-for-lack-of-dust-control-measures/story-SHpMStdxrwnjWUYGgUaMTL.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Implementing Grap in Udyog Vihar main priority, say officials||Road dust, dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) waste and insufficient remedial measures have turned Udyog Vihar into a pollution hot spot, where the implementation the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) is a top priority, according to officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).Officials said that the area was visited by a task force of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in the last week of September. The area was also visited by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) chairman in 2019 and deficiencies were identified, with the same to be addressed as per an order issued by deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on October 14 to prevent severe air pollution in Gurugram.However, despite the problems being identified, incomplete road widening projects, heavy traffic and open dumping of waste in the factory-heavy area continue to worsen air quality. The issue is exacerbated during winter.“The criteria for Udyog Vihar being the hot spot are dumping of solid waste and road dust. Epca chairman Bhure Lal during his field visit in 2019 identified the deficiencies in Udyog Vihar area. Recently, in the last week of September, a CPCB-led task force visited Udyog Vihar,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB.When asked about the concentration of particulate matter in the area, Singh did not comment. The area lacks a proper air pollution monitoring system.According to the reports on the action plan to control pollution, accessed by HT, three road widening projects which were planned to reduce dust emission are still incomplete.Work on the stretches from National Highway 48 (NH 48) to Old Delhi-Udyog Vihar and NH 48 toll gate to Kapashera border in Udyog Vihar could not start due to shifting of utilities, such as 11KV electric lines and 66 KV Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVNL) towers, the report stated.A road-widening project from Shankar Chowk on NH 48 to Old Delhi Road in Daruhera, which is currently underway, is likely to be completed by this year, according to the report.The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), which is the agency responsible for the road projects, cited a shortage of skilled labour due to Covid-19 pandemic as the reason for delay.Besides, the industries department has also invited tenders for projects amounting to Rs 7.69 crores, to repair and upgrade internal roads. The work is yet to be taken up. Pawan Kumar, a property dealer in Udyog Vihar, said that due to construction of Old Gurugram-Delhi Road, there is heavy dust in the area during the peak hours. He said, “There has been enough movement in the area with the unlock, which has led to road dust along with the vehicular pollution. It should be sprinkled with water every few hours, but we haven’t seen any such activity happening.”Open dumping of C&D waste, adding to the concentration of fine particulate matter, compounds the issues in Udyog Vihar further.Officials of the municipal corporation said they are taking action to keep a check on polluting activities.Jitender Garg, additional commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), who is in charge of implementing Grap guidelines in Udyog Vihar, said that garbage-vulnerable points (GVP), where dumping of construction waste is highest, have been identified.On Friday, three people were penalised Rs 5,000 each by the MCG for dumping waste. “Being a hot spot area, we have put a strategy in place, whereby two teams comprising of three members each will do night patrolling as most of the waste is dumped after midnight. A sprinkler machine has already been stationed specifically for the area, along with the road sweeping machine to prevent the dust emission from the GVPs and roads,” said Garg.According to him, actions are being taken in compliance with the October 14 order, which listed solid waste dumping in industrial areas as a problem to be taken up on a priority basis.An employee of a private company in Udyog Vihar, who preferred anonymity, said, “In Udyog Vihar Phase-1, one can easily see C&D waste being dumped on the roadside. But this time, there has been an improvement compared to last year, when there were unpaved roads and excessive dumping of solid waste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/implementing-grap-in-udyog-vihar-main-priority-say-officials/story-MKsYWmnVa1SmxeFBMWWgeP.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Second round of statewide sero-survey begins; 630 samples collected||The second round of the statewide Covid-19 serological survey started in the district on Monday. At least 630 blood samples were collected from 12 rural and four urban areas. Through the collection of blood samples, presence of antibodies developed against the Covid-19 infection will be checked to gauge the prevalence of the infection within the community. This because many people might get infected but can still remain asymptomatic. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “On Tuesday, 90 samples will be collected from the identified clusters. The overall sample size of the district is 750. The purpose of the survey is to know how many people in the district have already suffered from the Covid-19 infection. It has been observed that many people get the infection but do not display the signs and symptoms of the illness.” Antibodies develop in the body two weeks after the onset of infection and can last for several months. It is for this reason antibody test is not preferred for detecting acute infection. In the first survey conducted across the state in August, 18,905 samples were collected, which showed sero-positivity of SARS-CoV-2 at 8%. At that time, it was found that urban population was affected more than the rural population. In urban areas, the sero-positivity was 9.6%, while in rural areas it was 6.9%. Districts like Gurugram, falling in the NCR region showed higher prevalence. Gurugram had 10.8% sero-positivity and Faridabad reported the highest positivity of 25.8%. Yadav said that the second round is now being conducted on COVID-19 Sero Survey Mobile App. According to him, this helps in online data entry, geo-tagging, offline data entry, and self-generated SMS. Gurugram Covid-19 numbersOn Monday, the district reported 249 new cases, taking the total count of Covid-19 infections to 25,389. Of these 2,398 are active cases, while 22,801 have recovered from the illness. The Covid-19 toll stands at 190. More than 92% of the active cases are currently under home isolation, 11 in district Covid care centre and 174 are hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/second-round-of-statewide-sero-survey-begins-630-samples-collected/story-2VtNVVWtJ6RZwjmbqoVXGI.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||Attendance picks up, but space concerns persist in Gurugram schools||Some of the larger government schools in the city on Monday reported an uptick in the number of students, four days after schools were allowed to reopen for classes 9 to 12. However, smaller schools are still curtailed by their capacity to make arrangements for students, keeping in mind social distancing norms. Principals and teachers said that parents of nearly 70% of the class 12 students have permitted their wards to attend classes. In some instances, parents are also visiting the school to review the seating arrangements. On Monday, the largest six of the 52 government schools in the city reported a footfall of over 200 students. There are 125 schools in the entire district.“It is easy to manage a class of 10-15 students in one classroom, but if the number increases, then it would be challenging to adjust students,” said Raj Kumar, principal, Government Senior Secondary School in Islampur. In Kumar’s school, at least 325 students are enrolled in classes 9 to 12. The school currently lacks basic infrastructure like proper rooms and benches.“In class 12, 64 students are registered. Of them, only 15 are visiting the school as parents are hesitant to send them. Fixed number of students are called, based upon their roll number count. Once the footfall increases as we receive proper guidelines from the government, we might have to think of seating arrangements ensuring physical distancing among students. We may have to put carpet in the classroom and get students seated on the floor,” said Kumar.Geeta Arya, principal of a senior secondary school near old Civil Hospital, Jharsa Road, shared similar views. “We have big classrooms, where students are being made to sit on every alternate bench to maintain distance. The footfall will gradually increase this week as many parents whose kids will appear for board exams this year are ready to send their kids to schools. They are coming along with children to see seating arrangements,” said Arya. There are almost 243 students in class 12 at Arya’s school. According to her, more than 70 students of class 12 are visiting the school. Kavita Sapra, who teaches English at the Sector 4/7 Model Government Senior Secondary School, said, “Students are being called in slots and are seated accordingly, to avoid crowding. Every day, almost 70 students of class 12 are coming to school. On Monday, 43 from class 9, 41 from class 10 and 27 from class 11 attended their respective classes. Currently, every batch is being divided into two to three classes, where teachers take one class after the other.”Both Kumar and Arya clarified that it would be difficult to have the entire class 12 batch in one go, even if the classrooms are available. Suman Sharma, the principal of Sector 4/7 school, said that schools might not have enough teachers to take lectures. “Even if morning and evening shifts are created, and class 12 batch is divided into two, it won’t be possible to cater to the entire batch,” said Sharma. In her school, there are 385 students in class 12 — enrolled in two sections of science, three of commerce and two of arts. “Considering we call 192 students in the morning shift and the remaining half in the evening shift, then also it is impossible to hold classes. Even if we make 30 students sit in one classroom, then for 192 students we need six classrooms and six teachers who will reshuffle. It will require more teachers,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/attendance-picks-up-but-space-concerns-persist-in-gurugram-schools/story-0uenlJaYnF9wA21bxRBL3L.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana murder case: Man’s mutilated body recovered from canal||A day after three brothers and their aide were booked for kidnapping and murdering a Congress worker’s physically-challenged brother, Charanjit Singh, police recovered a decomposed body from a canal near Dhaipai village. The body was badly mutilated and its head and hands were missing.The recovered body had polio in one leg, due to which Charanjit’s family suspects that it is his body. The victim was missing since October 2. The body has been sent to civil hospital for postmortem. One of the accused owed Charanjit Rs 20,000, police said.One of the brothers and their aide have been arrested, and have confessed to killing the victim, and dumping his body in a canal near Khanpur village, Dehlon, on October 2.The arrested accused have been identified as Veeram Singh, alias Bittu, of Mohalla Basant Nagar and Simran Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver, who lives in the same locality. Veeram’s brothers Gurdit Singh, alias Panchi, and Dapinder Singh, alias Gagan, remain at large. Veeram confessed to having thrashed Charanjit when he came to his house to recover his money on October 2. Later, Veeram and his brothers took Charanjit to the canal in Simran’s auto-rickshaw. There, the four accused stabbed him with sharp-edged weapons and bludgeoned him with bricks to ensure his death, police said. Inspector Pavittar Singh, station house officer at Daba police station, said that the body is too decomposed and mutilated and is not easy to identify.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-murder-case-man-s-mutilated-body-recovered-from-canal/story-YAI6aCyqV2rURLSYOTxW7H.html
19-10-2020||City||Three purse-snatchers nabbed in Panchkula||The crime branch of Panchkula police on Monday arrested three snatchers hailing from Himachal Pradesh for snatching a purse in Tapriya, Pinjore on October 2. The accused were identified as Aditya of Solan, currently staying in Sector 24, Chandigarh, Varun Chaudhary of Hamirpur, and Kuldeep Singh of Una, both staying on rent in Nayagoan, Mohali. Amit Dhiman of Una, in his complaint, said that he was going to Baddi with his wife and daughter on his motorcycle when the accused tried snatching his wife’s purse. She was holding on to it tightly because of which they pulled the purse so hard that they all fell, he said.The accused left the motorcycle behind but took away the purse. The purse contained Rs 8,000 cash, a mobile phone, a debit card, important documents, and a gold nose pin. A case under Section 379-A (theft) of the IPC was registered against the accused in Pinjore. They will be produced in the court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-purse-snatchers-nabbed-in-panchkula/story-dmL0qmKNLnmEmmVMo198mJ.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||CLU row: Councillor, Ludhiana mayor attempt to woo shopkeepers||Amid the row over change of land use notices being served by the municipal corporation to shopkeepers in the city, a battle of one upmanship was witnessed between Gurpreet Gogi, Congress councillor from ward number 76, and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, to gain political mileage. While the mayor asked shopkeepers to reap benefits of the change of land use scheme being offered by the civic body, Gogi met municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal with a delegation of shopkeepers and demanded that officials stop the sealing drive at Ghumar Mandi. Gogi said that his ward was being targeted deliberately due to political agenda. He said that few days ago, shopkeepers at Ghumar Mandi received notices in which the civic body had asked them to submit CLU charges within three days, failing which their establishments will be sealed. This led to a protest which further intensified when the MC sealed a few shops. “There is a hidden agenda to target my area and dent my reputation. Ward number 76 has been chosen deliberately to harass me and the shopkeepers. But, we will continue fighting against this draconian step of the mayor,” said Gogi. While condemning the move of sealing of shops in Ghumar Mandi, he said that two notifications were issued by local bodies department in 1995 and 2006 respectively, pertaining to CLU charges being levied on shopkeepers with establishments in eight scheduled road of the city. The charges were nominal but there was no follow-up recover the amount. “All these years, the civic body was sleeping. Today, they are forcing shopkeepers to submit the fees of change of land use. One can understand that this is a desperate attempt by the civil body to fill its coffer, but harassing shopkeepers is not justified,” said Gogi. On the other hand, mayor Sandhu said that shopkeepers had protested initially as they did not understand the scheme. “But now, when the shopkeepers came to know about its benefits, many have submitted cheques for regularisation or change of land use for their shops,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/clu-row-councillor-ludhiana-mayor-attempt-to-woo-shopkeepers/story-4yj3OwzR4dyr499uH5VxOL.html
19-10-2020||City||Ambala: Rs 30 lakh insurance relief for cop’s widow||Superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia and officials of a private bank handed over a cheque for Rs 30 lakh as accidental insurance to the wife of slain police officer exempted assistant sub-inspector (EASI), Suresh Kumar, on Monday.The officer from Naraingarh police station was shot dead by three motorcycle-born men in June last year, in the line of duty, protecting the life of a key witness in a murder case.The SP, in a statement, said, “The Haryana Police and HDFC Bank officials together had taken care of the family of Haryana Police employees and opened a salary account with the bank that provides life insurance with it.”“Under this, in case of natural death, family members of a police officer get the assistance of Rs 3 lakh and, if a police employee dies in any kind of accident, then his family members get Rs 30 lakh as accidental insurance. Under this accident insurance scheme, Suresh’s wife Sunita Rani was given the cheque today,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-rs-30-lakh-insurance-relief-for-cop-s-widow/story-zVPnFddPHv5YbXJGrp3SII.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid shadow: No Navratri rush at Ludhiana temples||Despite all safety measures put in place by managements of temples to curb the spread of Covid-19, few devotees are turning up to offer prayers during the ongoing Navratri festival. Earlier, during the nine-day celebrations, devotees used to throng temples to pray on each day. Majority of them visited in the evening when “aarti” is performed. This year, all visitors can be seen strictly adhering to safety norms by wearing masks and following social distancing norms. The temple managements have made it mandatory for all visitors to wear masks and they are not allowed to sit in the premises for long hours. Employees have been deployed at the entrances of temples to check temperature of those entering the premises. Visitors are asked to sanitise their hands by using foot-operated hand dispensers. In the previous years, Durga Mata Mandir, near Jagraon Bridge, used to receive a footfall of more than 2,000 devotees every day during Navratri. But this time, only 250 to 300 devotees are turning up daily. During a visit to the temple, it was seen that more people visit early in the morning to avoid overcrowding; few offer prayers in the evening while adhering to social distancing norms. The situation is no different in other temples of the city. Shri Krishna Mandir, Shastri Nagar, witnesses a footfall of around 100 devotees daily compared to 500 in previous years. No rush was witnessed at the temple at 5pm. Shri Nav Durga Mandir, Sarabha Nagar, used to receive a footfall of 500 people daily during Navratri in the previous years, but this time, only 50 to 80 visitors are seen at the temple. Chander Shekhar Shastri, the priest said, “We have decorated the temple and made all necessary safety arrangements so that social distancing can be maintained. But, due to the pandemic, people prefer praying at home rather than visiting the temple.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-temples-receives-low-footfall-during-navratri/story-SBm8IGAPFUOznEgPzniqeK.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||French delegation visits PU, discusses future collaborative programmes with V-C||A French delegation visited Panjab University on Monday with the objective of joint future collaborative programmes with the varsity.The delegation that included Emmanuel Lebrun-Damiens, counselor for education, science, and culture at the embassy of France in India (COCAC), and Ophelie Belin, director, Alliance Francaise Le Corbusier, Chandigarh, met PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.The V-C said that India and France are both enthusiastic about joint degree programmes, collaborative research, and setting up of joint labs. “It is the need of the hour that the faculty and students get an opportunity for exchange,” he said.Emmanuel Lebrun-Damiens said that with the new economic development in the country, France would like to collaborate on artificial intelligence (AI), medicine, environment engineering, and science.“The universities in France want to have major hubs of excellence in India and especially with PU,” he said.He added that we need to work on solutions keeping in mind the huge political momentum in both the governments with a lot of bilateral agreements being signed.PU’s dean research VR Sinha said that there are already two existing memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/french-delegation-visits-pu-discusses-future-collaborative-programmes-with-v-c/story-Jgx092VBq1XmTpmM8lfxZI.html
19-10-2020||City||Ludhiana hospital to conduct study on impact of Covid on cardiovascular health||While the cases of Covid- 19 are on a steady decline, the health department is in a fix as many city residents who have recovered from the virus are suffering from myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) after testing negative.A significant number of patients are also succumbing to myocarditis, after testing negative.Among such patients, a sizable section, falling between 40 years and above age group, of patients are those suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Hero Dayanand Medical College and Heart Institute (HDHI), which is currently handling such patients, is part of the 10 hospitals from across the world which is slated to conduct a study about the impact of the virus on the heart.The study is being done in coordination with the World Health Federation (WHF).Confirming this senior cardiologist of DMC, Dr Bishav Mohan said that an extensive study is being conducted to assess the impact of the virus on the heart.“Many patients, who had suffered from Covid-19, are coming back to the hospital with complaints of breathlessness. Such issues are being reported in other countries as well. Currently, the study is underway,” he said.Civil Surgeon Dr Bagga said that it has been noticed that once a patient tests negative for the virus, one of the major organs that are affected is the heart, where patients are developing myocarditis (inflammation of the heart tissue). The degree varies from mild to moderate.While senior vice president of Indian Medical Association, (Ludhiana) Dr Gaurav Sachdeva said, “After suffering from Covid-19 precaution is really important. In some cases, after recovery, patients have reportedly gone back to hospitals with reduced heart functions, heart attack and strokes. There have also been patients who returned to the hospital emergency ward with complaints of variable heart rates, breathlessness, and chest pain.”Covid recovered patient died of cardiac issuesThe death of Ashok Sethi, 67, owner of famous Friends Dhaba of the town, on Sunday has brought to fore the impact of the deadly virus on the heart. Sethi, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at DMC&H had recovered from the virus, but he suffered from a cardiac issue and couldn’t survive.Earlier, Darshan Lal Sharma, 72, managing director of Vardhman Yarns and Threads Limited, who was battling with Covid-19, had died after suffering from a massive heart attack. However, he was still undergoing treatment for the virus. What is myocarditisMyocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle (myocardium). Myocarditis can affect your heart muscle and your heart’s electrical system, reducing your heart’s ability to pump and causing rapid or abnormal heart rhythms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hospital-to-conduct-study-on-impact-of-covid-on-cardiovascular-health/story-yXFoz2PrIGnwZbGs7EPEoM.html
19-10-2020||City||Habit-forming drugs worth ₹3 crore seized from house in Ludhiana||Two days after a drug supplier was arrested on the disclosure of his aide, the Jalandhar police with the help of a drug inspector of Ludhiana seized habit-forming medicines worth ₹3 crores from the house of Vikas Bansal alias Bunty of Chet Singh Nagar at Gill road on Monday. On Saturday, the Ludhiana Police arrested Vikas Bansal, alias Bunty after his accomplice Piyush, who was nabbed by the Jalandhar police on October 14, revealed that Bansal was his supplier.Police had recovered 27,000 intoxicants and capsules from Bansal’s aide in Jalandhar.Zonal license authority Kulwinder Singh said that the drug inspectors along with the police have seized 13.04 lakh intoxicant pills, 1.17 lakh capsules and 1,149 syrups from Bansal’s house and handed over to the police for further procedure.Singh added that apart from this, drug inspector Gurpreet Singh Sodhi has recovered 11.79 lakh tablets, 10,800 injections, 6,120 syrups and, capsules from the accused’s house.These medicines don’t come under the scheduled-H category, but no one is allowed to store the medicines in such huge quantities.The health department will lodge a separate case against Vikas Bansal in the court for storing medicines without a license.Kulwinder Singh added that Bansal used to possess a license of storing drugs, but in 2015 he was caught selling habit-forming drugs following which his license was cancelled. Now, the accused is possessing a license in Delhi but was operating from Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/habit-forming-drugs-worth-3-crore-seized-from-house-in-ludhiana/story-FyQLsRlmfJEvwSyw4tXwjN.html
19-10-2020||City||CM flying squad busts illegal liquor vends in Ambala, six arrested||As many as 11 persons were booked in separate cases as teams of Haryana chief minister’s (CM) flying squad conducted raids at various illegal liquor vends on Sunday night. Six of the accused were arrested on the spot.The accused were identified as Mahinder, Sudesh, Ashok, Gaurav, Sunny, Mahinder Singh, Harish Kumar, Sukhdev Singh, Subhash, Vinod Gupta, and Sahil.In the first case, a team, on a tip-off about the sale of illegal liquor by contractor Mahinder, raided a shop and a house near the old sabzi mandi near Subhash Chowk. They seized various quantities of foreign and countrymade liquor and arrested an employee, Sudesh.Another team of the squad raided an electronics shop near MM College and found two men, Ashok and Gaurav, selling illicit liquor. Ashok told police that the vend was run by contractors Sunny and Mahinder Singh.In the third case, a mobile shop on Tangel road was raided where three men, Harish Kumar, Sukhdev Singh, and Subhash, were found selling illicit liquor. The vend was owned by Vinod Gupta and his son Sahil.Narender Singh, station in-charge, Mullana police station, said, “The FIRs were lodged under Sections 120B and 420 of the IPC besides the Punjab Excise Act. Six employees who were arrested from the spot were presented before a court and were sent to judicial custody. Efforts are on to arrest the contractors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-flying-squad-busts-illegal-liquor-vends-in-ambala-six-arrested/story-h2u6ikuRFXD4tVd1YzR3xM.html
19-10-2020||City||World Food Programme India director: Agri universities making a lot of efforts to develop new crop varieties||The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the World Food Programme for feeding millions of people and its efforts to combat hunger.United Nations World Food Programme representative and country director to India Bishow Parajuli, who is an alumnus of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has brought huge honour to his alma mater with the World Food Programme winning the Nobel Peace Prize 2020.“The Norwegian Nobel Committee has decided to award the Nobel Peace Prize for 2020 to the World Food Programme (WFP) for its effort to combat hunger, for its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas and for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict,” said Berit Reiss-Andersen, chair of the Norwegian Nobel Committee. Parajuli did his BSc in agriculture, agriculture operations and related sciences from PAU during 1975-78; MBA in marketing and personnel management from Kurukshetra University, Haryana, during 1979-81 and master’s degree in rural development from Imperial College, London.He has experience of 35 years in development, humanitarian affairs, diplomacy, fundraising and management in over 10 countries in Asia, the Middle East and Africa including WFP headquarters in Rome.Parajuli while praising PAU said: “In the last few decades, India has made commendable progress in agricultural development. I recall my time at an agricultural university in Punjab in the 1970s; the efforts these universities put in and the thirst of farmers in the state to access new crop breeds were inspiring. Since then, there has been commendable progress leading up to self-sufficiency in food production.”Dr Harjit Singh, one of the team members of WFP, is also an alumnus of PAU.Established in 1961, the United Nations World Food Programme is providing assistance to 97 million people across 88 countries. Being the world’s largest humanitarian organisation, it is contributing tremendously by saving the lives of the millions, who are the victims of hunger and poverty. It is working in India for the last 50 years.PAU vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon congratulated Parajuli and his team for their outstanding contribution to food security, thus, enabling the WFP to win the highest prestigious honour of the world.KS Thind, dean, College of Agriculture, while congratulating Parajuli and his team, said: “PAU is proud of its alumnus, who is the representative of WFP that has won the prestigious award.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-food-programme-india-director-agri-universities-making-a-lot-of-efforts-to-develop-new-crop-varieties/story-Pvk1NsF8PpFkBnoEhVdW7M.html
19-10-2020||City||Cops need to be more sensitive in rape cases: Experts||Expressing deep anguish over the increasing number of cases of violence against women, the experts while addressing a webinar organised by the Social Thinkers Forum Ludhiana strongly opined that there is an urgent need to change the feudal psychology and patriarchal value system in the society so as to give appropriate respect to women. They said that the role of the state government is very important in such situations for speedy justice to the victim. Therefore, the police have to act professionally without any duress from the political masters, they added.Mitter Sen Meet, the former district attorney said that there are several laws pertaining to violence against women. “But their implementation is very faulty. As a result, the accused go scot-free and the conviction rate is very less. The investigation done by the police is centered on the victim including her medical examination and questioning. Ironically, no medical examination is done of the accused which is very important to ascertain the truth in case of sexual violence,” he said.Dr Param Saini while speaking on the psychological impact of such crimes said, “Our police are highly insensitive in such cases.” She found that their training to question the victim is totally faulty and biased in most of the cases. “They move with the presumption that the woman is not speaking truth particularly if she is from a socially, culturally, and economically backward community. This hurts the victim hard and she is further pushed into extreme mental trauma which sometimes forces her to commit suicide,” she said.Gurcharan Kaur Kocher, president of Punjab Istri Sabha Ludhana expressed deep concern at the rising violence against women and wished for a societal upsurge against such elements. Deepak Kumar, general secretary of All India Students Federation Ludhiana (AISF) said that they are trying to organise students on such issues with positive inclination. Arun Mitra convener of the forum said that they will try to take this issue to the ground level. Co-convenor MS Bhatia said that it is not a women’s issue but an issue of the whole society and all have to work in unison to address it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-need-to-be-more-sensitive-in-rape-cases-experts/story-duS8IsRC5vABgk2ENpHL3H.html
19-10-2020||City||Ludhiana Police team attacked during raid to arrest men found betting on IPL match||A police party was allegedly attacked by family members and aides of a man accused of betting on an IPL match, whose house they were going to raid at LIG flats in Dugri, police said on Monday.In-charge at Basant Park Police post, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjit Singh was also held captive by the accused. The Dugri police reached the spot and rescued the ASI.The police lodged an FIR against 38 persons including two women. The identified accused are Sumit, Himanshu, Jassi, Arjun, Ramu, Tiger, Sonu, Gulati, Manpreet, Sumit’s father Narinder Singh, sister Gurcharan Kaur Renn and his mother. Others are yet to be identified. The police have arrested Sumit, Jassi, and Himanshu from the spot.SHO at Dugri police station, Inspector Surinder Chopra said that the Sadar police had received a tip-off that some persons are accepting bets on the IPL match between Mumbai Indians and Kings Eleven Punjab at LIG flats in Dugri area. A team led by ASI Ranjit Singh reached there to conduct a raid and found that the main accused Sumit along with his accomplices Himanshu, Jassi, Arjun, and Ramu were accepting bets on the IPL match. However, when the police tried to arrest Sumit, his family members obstructed the cops and took away their laptops and mobiles being used for betting.Sumit then called his 25 accomplices who attacked the police party. Sumit’s father Narinder Singh, sister Gurcharan Kaur Renu, mother, and some neighbours held the ASI captive in their house and also thrashed him. The Dugri police reached the spot and rescued the ASI.The SHO added that Sumit is already facing trial in several cases including illegal lottery and gambling.A video of the raid went viral in which Sumit’s family is seen thrashing the ASI. In the video, the family is also alleging that the ASI thrashed Sumit’s family in an inebriated condition.The inspector has, however, refuted the allegations.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-team-attacked-during-raid-to-arrest-men-found-betting-on-ipl-match/story-1yEj4P25EbAuKEJLa6m3zH.html
19-10-2020||Jaipur||Gehlot urges PM Modi to withdraw amendments made to Banking Regulation Act||Expressing concern over the irregularities in Cooperative Societies, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to direct the central registrar to authorise state cooperatives department to take action against societies against whom complaints have been received.In a series of tweets, Gehlot said, “A large number of common people have invested in Multi-State Cooperative Societies. In Rajasthan, we have received complaints from around 73,000 investors regarding irregularities amounting to Rs 1419.77 crore.”“As Multi-State Cooperative Societies are under the administrative control of GoI, I have written a letter to PM Narendra Modi seeking remedial measures including directing Central Registrar to authorize the state’s cooperative department to take action in matter in order to save interests of common people,” he tweeted. Also read: Rahul keeps his word, gifts house to girls who lost everything in landslideA large number of common people have invested in Multi State Cooperative Societies. In Rajasthan, we have received complaints from around 73 thousand investors regarding irregularities amounting to 1419.77 crore Rupees.“Central Government has recently amended the provisions of Banking Regulation Act, which are against the basic principles of cooperatives and would have a negative impact on the functioning of State Cooperative Banks. I have written to PM Narendra Modi asking him that these amendments be withdrawn.”The chief minister stated that the new provisions grant all administrative power of the co-operative banks to the RBI and described it as an “encroachment on the principle of cooperatives”. Gehlot demanded the previous structure and provisions to be restored “in the interest of cooperatives”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gehlot-urges-pm-modi-to-withdraw-amendments-made-to-banking-regulation-act/story-1Yz77Oe9FDSdlq3TlfRnlO.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s new cultural policy will transform mindset of society: Manish Sisodia||Delhi’s new cultural policy will be an instrument in transforming the society’s mindset and would not be limited to cultural events only, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday.Speaking at the first virtual meeting of the Delhi Cultural Policy Advisory Committee, Sisodia said Delhi belongs to everyone and it should reflect the diverse culture and heritage of the nation.He said art and culture should play a part in enabling the society to stand against hatred and violence.“Violence and hatred is increasing and an all-round collapse of the moral fabric is evident these days. In such a situation, the government of Delhi is formulating a comprehensive cultural policy to ensure meaningful contribution of art and culture towards transforming the mindset of the society,” he said.The Delhi government wants to create a cultural atmosphere in the city. Just like people go to cinemas and restaurants, now they will have many options to choose from in terms of cultural events as plenty of them will organised in the city, he said.Participating in the meeting, actor and member of the committee Manoj Vajpayee said children from the slums should be introduced to theatre education to help them join the mainstream.Citing the example of French capital of Paris where street artists performing in public spaces is a common sight, he suggested that the Delhi government provide spaces where artists can showcase their talent so that the city can be projected as a cultural capital.Sisodia said the cultural policy is being formulated by a 15-member advisory committee and it will submit its report within two months. In addition to Bajpayee, the advisory committee consists of personalities and experts from the field of art and culture including actor Javed Jaffrey, JNU’s School of Arts and Aesthetics Professor Ira Bhaskar among others. Sisodia said that the Delhi government has taken many steps to advance arts and culture but until now, there was no clear structure of these activities.“This is the reason why we want to create a holistic cultural policy so that it is possible to create a better cultural environment in a systematic way,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-new-cultural-policy-will-transform-mindset-of-society-manish-sisodia/story-EOKNS0Q10jeiFgrT087sjM.html
19-10-2020||City||Sikh man whose turban came off during scuffle with police at Bengal BJP rally gets bail||Howrah A court here on Monday granted bail to Balwinder Singh, whose arrest at the BJP’s ‘Nabanna Chalo’ rally earlier this month led to an uproar as his turban came off during a scuffle with the police over his firearm, officials said.Singh, a resident of Bathinda in Punjab, has been in the custody of the Howrah police since his arrest from the rally on October 8.“He was granted conditional bail by a court in Howrah,” a senior officer of the Howrah City Police told PTI.Singh, a private security officer hired by a BJP leader, was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act for carrying a firearm, the licence of which is valid only in the Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, police claimed.Controversy had erupted after clips of the police beating up Singh, 43, during the BJP’s march to the state secretariat amid widespread vandalism went viral on social media.A section of people claimed on social media that the police had pulled his turban during the scuffle, following which it came off. However, the police have denied the charge. He was arrested with a loaded pistol.The turban controversy emerged as a major political flashpoint between the TMC and the BJP, with the opposition party accusing the state government of hurting religious sentiments.The state government had said that “communal colour” was deliberately being given to the incident to serve “narrow partisan interest”.Singh’s wife and son had come to Kolkata on Tuesday and met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan, seeking his intervention in the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-man-whose-turban-came-off-during-scuffle-with-police-at-bengal-bjp-rally-gets-bail/story-dOvuxFsVBJnnMvn95zbUaM.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||SSR death case: ‘Why no action against media trial?’ HC asks I&B ministry||The Bombay High Court has asked the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) to inform it as to why it has not initiated any action concerning complaints related to media trial in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. This comes as the News Broadcaster Association (NBA) implored the Bombay High Court to not give in to the requests of the petitioners who sought directions for the formation of a statutory authority to regulate the electronic media. The NBA said it would lead to an end to the independence of the media. It submitted that the self-regulatory mechanism which is in place has been very effective in redressing complaints against channels and all members have strictly adhered to its regulations except for Republic TV. The NBA informed the court that Republic TV did not want to abide by the NBA regulations and hence left the association and went on to form its own self-regulating authority. The submissions were made in the public interest litigations filed against the media trial by news channels in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by individuals, NGOs and a group of former top police officials seeking a restraint on media trials, was informed by senior counsel Arvind Datar representing the NBA and News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) that the self-regulatory mechanism for channels was working diligently. Also read: Global pandemic made us realise importance of teamwork, says PM ModiThe two authorities were responding to allegations by the petitioners that the electronic media was conducting media trials wherein they resorted to police bashing, disclosing vital details of ongoing investigations and trying to influence the opinion of viewers. The petitioners had stated that the independent self-regulating authorities, in the form of the NBA and the NBSA, were not taking sufficient steps to curb channels from conducting media trials. Datar, however, refuted the allegations and submitted that they had, time and again, taken disciplinary and sometimes stringent action against errant channels by banning its airing for three days to three months. He submitted that though the two authorities did not have any statutory powers, it was adjudicating complaints based on the programme code as directed by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB). He added that all member channels adhered to the self-regulatory norms and decisions passed by the authorities. Datar further submitted that it was only recently that an English and a regional language channel had refused to abide by a decision of the NBA and had left it to form another self-regulating authority. Datar concluded by coaxing the court not to grant the requests of the petitioners to have a statutory body to regulate the electronic media as it would become difficult for the media to function independently. He also cited Supreme Court judgements wherein the apex court had refused to interfere or direct the legislative to form a statutory mechanism to regulate the electronic media. In light of this, Datar requested the court to not exercise its discretionary authority. After hearing the submissions of the NBA and the NBSA, the bench sought to know from the MIB whether the two independent authorities were formed without any statutory powers so that channels could afford an escape route by invoking article 19(2) of the Constitution and approaching the courts when they were pulled up for irresponsible and objectionable reporting. Also read: Summon Arnab Goswami if he is named as accused in TRP scam FIR: Bombay HCDatar, however, clarified that though the two independent authorities were allowed to address complaints against errant channels, the MIB was not restricted from taking action simultaneously as per the Cable TV Regulation Act. The court then asked the MIB to inform it on Wednesday as to why no action had been initiated by the ministry in respect of complaints related to media trial in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-why-no-action-against-media-trial-hc-asks-i-b-ministry/story-ZSJaa6BVGxiWUOvMafj1CO.html
19-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand products to have an umbrella brand to connect as ‘Himalayan’||Uttarakhand’s local products will soon have an umbrella brand for better branding and to boost the products’ ‘Himalayan’ connect outside the state, said chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday in Dehradun. The chief minister talked about it while reviewing the working of the growth centres in the state which are involved in producing various products including agricultural and others. “The products being produced by the growth centres involving locals would soon have an umbrella brand under which other brands would continue to operate,” said Rawat. He said, “The brand would be developed with the help of experts. It would be such that one will get a feeling of Uttarakhand and the Himalayas. This would help the products to be sold in a much better way.”During the meeting, he also directed the district magistrates to visit the growth centres operating in their districts to address their issues. “The DMs should visit themselves to solve the issues faced by the growth centres to facilitate their smooth functioning,” said Rawat. Also read: ‘No political vendetta, Farooq questioned as per law’ - J-K BJP chiefHe also directed the authorities to make arrangements for online marketing of the products. “The products of these growth centres should also be marketed online for increasing their outreach. Also, arrangements should be made for their sale throughout the year over their seasonal sale,” he said.“A mini-truck could also be provided to several growth centres operating in the same areas for easy transport of products to markets with a focus on local ones.”The CM also emphasised the need to provide skill development to the locals working in the growth centres. “It is necessary to develop their skills which would further help in improving the quality of the products they are producing. This move would also be effective to push the cause of ‘Aatmnirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Vocal for Local’,” he said adding, “the growth centres should work by fixing a target for sales and profits.”Later, during the meeting, Manisha Panwar, additional chief secretary, MSME, informed that at present a total of 104 growth centres are approved by the government out of which 72 are active. “The remaining ones will soon be operational. Among the growth centres, 38 are agri-based, four related to bakery, five dairy-based, 11 tied to fisheries, 10 to organic wool, five to prasad making, four related to spices, among others,” said Panwar. On the profit earned by the growth centres, she said, “Till September, the total sales of these growth centres amounted to Rs 6.09 crore and the profit was Rs 60 lakhs.”The concept of growth centres was suggested by the state commission for migration and rural development to curb the migration from the hilly areas of the state. Under the initiative, the commission had suggested the government to open centres in blocks where people of the area are mainly involved in one occupation like poultry, agriculture or dairy. For an area where people are involved in poultry, the government opened a poultry-based growth centre and similarly for other areas. A few days ago, CM Rawat during a meeting with the state’s entrepreneurs also urged them to use locally available resources for production to promote the initiative of ‘Aatmnirbhar Bharat’ or self-dependent India. Rawat had said that the state-based entrepreneurs should make the locally available resources as the basis for their products which in turn will help in making the country self-dependent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-products-to-have-an-umbrella-brand-to-connect-as-himalayan/story-fhVVQptGhDEra0khvzgf4N.html
19-10-2020||City||24x7 water project: Bapat warns corporators who are causing delays||PUNE: BJP’s Girish Bapat, Pune’s member of Parliament, on Monday, warned elected members against hindering the 24x7 water project in the city, particularly, work on a water pipeline which is part of the mega project. Bapat said, “It is expected that, till date, a total of 700km of water pipeline needs to be completed, but on the ground only 300km has been laid. Elected members from various parties are not allowing contractors to carry out the work and are creating hurdles for the same.” Bapat added, “Under this project, the PMC is going to erect 82 water tanks and lay 1,670km of new pipeline. The main aim of the project is to provide round-the-clock water supply to the city. It is wrong, if PMC elected members are threatening contractors. If such complaints are made henceforth, I, personally will look into it and take action against such elected members.”On Monday, Bapat along with mayor Murlidhar Mohol, and PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, met municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to review various development works in the city.Cong holds party meet after many years The Congress reverted to an age-old strategy on Sunday, holding a meeting of its elected members and party leaders, to decide on a common platform for all major issues in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Such a meeting has not been held since Suresh Kalmadi was member of Parliament (2004-2014) in Pune . Now, Congress leader Aba Bagul restarted the process to discuss various proposals facing the general body and decide the party’s stand. All senior city Congress leaders were present at the meeting which was held at the PMC headquarters. While no details have yet emerged on what was discussed or decided, one party insider, on condition of anonymity, said overall, the party has decided to become more aggressive against the ruling BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24x7-water-project-bapat-warns-corporators-who-are-causing-delays/story-F4gnywVJgSjhm68epgDGjK.html
19-10-2020||City||Punjab assembly special session: Fiery start as oppn slams govt for not tabling Bill against farm laws||Chandigarh The two-day special session of the Punjab assembly got off to a fiery start on Monday even as the state government maintained a veil of secrecy over the Bill to be introduced to counter the Centre’s agriculture marketing laws. The members of the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) protested, both inside and outside the state assembly, to press for the Bill against the farm laws for which the special session has been convened. The AAP, the principal opposition party in the Punjab assembly, sought copies of the Bill drafted by the Congress government to negate the effect of the new farm laws on the state, whereas the SAD legislators demanded that it should be tabled and discussed on the first day of the special session. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said they should be provided copies of the Bill. “Will we get copies of the Bill after the session is over,” he asked. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal told members that the government is already in consultation with legal and constitutional experts on the issue and copies of various Bills to be tabled during the session will be given to the opposition parties by the evening. SAD legislator Gurpartap Singh Wadala said the special session has been summoned to counter the farm laws but it seems they (state government) have no clarity. “The main Bill should have been tabled and discussed first in the House. This should have been the first business. The entire Punjab is watching what the government is doing,” he said. The opposition members were not satisfied with the response, and continued their protests for several hours, raising slogans against the state government. While the AAP MLAs squatted in the well of House for five hours for copies of the Bills, Akali legislators led by Bikram Singh Majithia protested outside the gates of Punjab Bhawan, a government guest house here, where they had gone to brief the media, but were denied entry. “Is this Congress Bhawan,” asked Majithia before four of his colleagues scaled the gates and entered the complex. The legislative business, including the one to counter the Centre’s new laws, will be taken up on Tuesday even as several cabinet ministers and MLAs of the Congress denied having any knowledge about the contents of the Bill to be introduced by the government in the House. The day’s proceedings began with obituary references and the House was adjourned for an hour by speaker Rana KP Singh thereafter. The House reassembled for nearly 15 minutes before being adjourned till Tuesday. Earlier, the AAP members, who came wearing black capes, tore and burnt copies of the new farm laws. “This was done to show our anger and register our protest against these laws,” AAP MLA Aman Arora said. Several Akali legislators rode tractors in protest against the farm laws, but they were stopped by police. Homage to farmers The Punjab assembly on Monday paid homage to all farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing protests against the three agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Centre recently, freedom fighters and other eminent personalities. As soon as the day’s proceedings began, speaker Rana KP Singh listed names of lance naik Karnail Singh and freedom fighters Mahinder Singh, Sardar Singh, Rai Singh Patanga, Mahinder Singh and Hemraj Mittal in the obituary references. On the request of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the speaker also consented to include the name of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu. The House also paid tributes to former Punjabi University vice-chancellor Joginder Singh Puar, Punjabi writer Kuldeep Singh Dhir and noted musician Kesar Singh Narula. A two-minute silence was observed in the memory of departed souls as a mark of respect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-assembly-special-session-fiery-start-as-oppn-slams-govt-for-not-tabling-bill-against-farm-laws/story-Pz5wTkZ44VIA6NPXVYo2AO.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||‘Awareness campaign, no penalty’: All you need to know about Delhi government’s ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will launch ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign from October 21 to November 15. He added that ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ will be an awareness campaign and no enforcement will take place, adding that the environment marshals will give red roses to the violators at the traffic signal to create awareness. A government release quoted Rai as saying that the Delhi police has identified 100 key traffic signals and the government will deploy a total of 2,500 environment marshals to carry out this campaign. The minister informed that local SDM and traffic police ACP will monitor this campaign and if required transport department’s deputy commissioner (enforcement) will also oversee the campaign. Rai also said that the Delhi government will write to all MPs, MLAs, councillors, resident welfare associations (RWAs), industrial and other social agencies to take part in this campaign. At a press conference on Monday afternoon, Rai briefed the media on the impending dangers of pollution to the environment and the measures being taken to combat the same.  “Very recently, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi, Shri Arvind Kejriwal launched a multifold campaign against pollution in the city, titled “Yudh Pradushan ke Virudh”. The first phase under this umbrella campaign was targeted at reducing dust pollution. The Delhi Government has taken stringent measures against those who were found violating rules,” Rai said.“On behalf of the Environment department, DPCC, DDA, irrigation and flood department, PWD, MCD, I appeal to all ongoing construction works, public or private that Delhi is yours as much as it is ours. We should all take responsibility. We are not in favour of taking harsh steps however, in order to save lives during this pandemic, we are bound to take stringent measures,” he added.Rai said that the decomposer produced by Pusa Research Institute which can turn straw and stubble into manure for further use, has been produced at a large scale and is being sprayed in various parts of the city to cease pollution caused by stubble burning and at the same time providing an effective alternative to the same.He said, “As part of the next phase, ‘Red light on; Gaadi off’ campaign was launched by the Hon’ble Chief Minister to curb pollution caused by fuel burning. On Friday, a detailed and strategic meeting was called to discuss the planning of the same. The meeting saw the participation of all the concerned departments including officers from Environment, DPCC, Transport, Traffic Police, and Revenue. Orders were issued to them to submit a detailed action plan today. After detailed discussions and deliberations, it has been decided that this campaign will be launched on the ground on October 21, 2020, and will go on till November 15, 2020.” Rai said that this campaign is targeted at initiating a behavioural change, adding that it is an awareness campaign and not enforcement. “It is the campaign of the 2 crore people in Delhi. People, who are concerned about the catastrophic consequences pollution can have amidst the ongoing pandemic. This campaign is about taking ownership,” he further said.He said, “This campaign will be effective from morning 8 am till evening 8 pm. For this, Transport and Traffic police have identified and submitted a list of a select group of 100 major traffic points, from 11 districts. This campaign has been decided to run by way of these Marshals.”The minister said that around 2,500 environmental marshals have been deployed In these crossroads and t“They will be working in 2 shifts, and 10 Marshals will be positioned at each traffic point. The first shift will be from 8 am to 2 pm. And the other will be from 2pm to 8pm.  Apart from this, places like ITO, which are slightly bigger in size will see civil defence officers in double quantity. 10 such places have been identified. Around 2000 Marshalls for 100 crossroads. Extra 200 for the 10 slightly greater in size. 300 marshals have been kept as reserve in case of need,” he said.Rai said that these Marshals have undergone extensive training and this training was executed under the guidance and surveillance of the district magistrates, officers from traffic police and vehicle department.  Their activities will be monitored by SDM, ACP of traffic police and in case of need, DC of the Transport Department will also be deployed there.  All 2500 Marshall’s will wear T-shirts, cap placards and will have stands to create maximum awareness. Following Gandhian principles, In the initial 3 days, these marshals will give a rose flower to those not turning off their car at the red light. And will appeal to them to participate in this quest to bring about a change. Your 2 mins are vital to save the lives of many,” he said.He said, “This campaign is touted to be a mass movement. Therefore, a letter will be written to all counsellors, MLAs, MPs and officers to participate and create awareness in their regions.  All political parties in Delhi will be requested by way of a formal letter to participate in this campaign. In addition, all RWA, market associations, eco-club, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, NGOs, officer association and trade unions will receive letters from the AAP government to be a part of this campaign.” The minister said that this campaign calls for a collaborative effort for the betterment of the citizens of Delhi. “As mentioned earlier, 15-20% vehicle pollution can be reduced by way of mass participation.  We will also request teachers to educate students in ongoing online classes about this. Children played an important role when we launched the odd even campaign. They would remind adults to follow the rules. Advertisements, FM will be a part of this execution. We believe this campaign will be a role model for this nation. Without causing any major hindrance, only by behavioural change, we can bring down the share of vehicle pollution in PM2.5,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/awareness-campaign-no-penalty-all-you-need-to-know-about-delhi-government-s-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign/story-qRoIgNnxIihhbDs7WbjWDJ.html
19-10-2020||Ranchi||‘Last match’: Jharkhand boys returning from hockey tournament get killed, CM orders probe||Bodies of two youths, who were reportedly returning after playing a hockey tournament, were found on Monday morning in Khursuta village under Raidih police station in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, around 100 kilometres from capital city Ranchi, the police said. The police said the duo was killed with a sharp weapon and there were injury marks on their faces and heads. Taking note of the incident, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, in a tweet, directed the Gumla deputy commissioner and superintendent of police to carry out a thorough probe and ensure stringent punishment to the people involved in the crime. The villagers of Khursuta spotted the bodies on a road on Monday morning. However, they could not identify them. The villagers informed the police. Later, the boys were identified as Vinod Ekka, resident of Natapol village, and Rahul Tirkey, resident of Bendora village under Chainpur block of the district. Their bodies were found in Raidih block. The sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Kuldeep Kumar said, “We have started an investigation into the case and the people involved in the murder would be nabbed soon.” Also read: Shashi Tharoor praises ‘brilliantly appropriate’ coronavirus-themed Durga PujaHe said the boys left their houses on Sunday morning and were killed on Sunday night. “Rahul left the house telling his family that he was going to a party with friends in Heeradah. Vinod said he was going for a hockey tournament. We are investigating both the stories,” Kumar said. Both the boys worked as migrant workers. They returned during the lockdown. Vinod’s father Victor Ekka said, “Vinod worked in a cashew nut plant in Goa. He returned from there in February this year and stayed in the village since then.” Vinod’s younger sister Veronica Ekka said, “My brother was a very good hockey player. He was a very good goalkeeper and participated in the hockey tournament. My brother and Rahul went to play hockey in Kanchora village, around five kilometres from the village.” Rahul’s brother Rohit Tirkey said, “His brother worked in Delhi and returned in March this year after the announcement of the lockdown.” He said his brother left home on Saturday saying he was going for a party with friends but he did not return on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/last-match-jharkhand-boys-returning-from-hockey-tournament-get-killed-cm-orders-probe/story-bNAtn3QzS6BNj77g8CusMI.html
19-10-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Thousands flout social distancing norms to throng Durga puja pandals in Kolkata||Braving intermittent rain, hordes of people were seen flocking big-ticket Durga puja pandals in the city on Monday morning with little or no regard for social distancing norms.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had last week announced that revellers can go pandal hopping from ‘Tritiya’ - three days before the rituals begin -- to avoid crowding on the last four days of the annual extravaganza.At some of the popular marquees in the city, such as Ekdalia Evergreen, Singhi Park, Sribhumi Sporting and Badamtala Asar Sangha, people were not allowed to step inside without masks.Crowd management, however, remained a challenge as swarms of revellers gathered outside the pandals, despite repeated warnings by the puja committees.At Sribhumi Sporting, in the northern part of the city, many were seen huddling at different corners to click photographs of the deity, bedecked in gold jewellery.Subham Das, a pandal-hopper from Dumdum, said outside the Sribhumi pandal, “This pujo is a must-see for me, Covid or no Covid. What is the point if I can’t stay back a little after coming all way from my place, which is some 8km away?” Partha Ghosh, an office-bearer of Shivmandir Durga Puja in south Kolkata, said volunteers at the exit and the entry points are ensuring that people do not take off masks or push and shove one another.Thousands of people also thronged the city’s shopping hubs for last-minute purchases.Rita Debnath, when asked why she wasn’t covering her nose, hit back saying she was finding it difficult to breathe with the mask on.“Why just me, there are so many others who are not following protocols. This is the only time of the year I shop for my children and grandchildren...I can’t break that tradition, the woman, in her mid-60s, said outside a shop in Gariahat.The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal went past the 6,000-mark on Sunday with 64 more fatalities, even as a record number of 3,983 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3,21,036.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-thousands-flout-social-distancing-norms-to-throng-durga-puja-pandals-in-kolkata/story-92cfaOXpgX7rj44oGdbMpO.html
19-10-2020||City||SC asks Maharashtra SDMA to decide on Nanded gurdwara Dussehra procession||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) to decide on the representation by Nanded gurdwara management board seeking to hold Dussehra procession amid Covid-19 pandemic.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, which assembled during the Dussehra vacation of the apex court to hear the matter, said the decision will have to be taken on the basis of ground situation.The bench, also comprising Justices Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi, asked the gurudwara management to file its representation with the SDMA by Tuesday.The gurudwara management board can move the Bombay High Court if it is not satisfied with the decision of the SDMA, it said.The top court was hearing a plea by ‘Nanded Sikh Gurdwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib Board’ seeking permission to carry out the customary procession on account of the 300-year old event — ‘Dussehra, Takht Isnan, Deepmala and Gurta Gaddi’ — with certain conditions. During the hearing on Monday, the advocate appearing for the petitioner said that the Centre has issued guidelines on the issue and the state too has not raised objection to limited gatherings.Referring to the guidelines, he said for marriage, 50 people are allowed and the gurdwara management board is not asking for “public participation” and there will be only as many people and on a limited route.“Your contention that the state government is not opposing the procession is wrong,” the bench said, adding that 40-50 people in the procession is okay but who will control the crowds if the gathering becomes bigger on the road.The petitioner’s counsel said the management has reduced the procession route to 1.5 km and its timing can be fixed in the evening to ensure a small congregation; moreover, the proceedings would be telecast.“State is saying there is a health risk,” the bench said. Senior advocate Devdutt Kamat, who appeared for Maharashtra along with state’s standing counsel Sachin Patil, referred to the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state as well as in Nanded area and said that authorities have not allowed any kind of religious gatherings amid the pandemic.The state government said if this procession will be allowed, then the authorities may have to permit other religious gatherings.“State is genuinely concerned regarding health. Public health is a state subject. Despite whatever the Centre says that functions can go on, public health is something which state has to consider,” Kamat said.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, referred to the recent guideline of the ministry of home affairs and said it allows gatherings of up to 100 people subject to conditions. “The petitioner could consider doing the procession early in the Morning so only those who are participating in the religious function will join. Otherwise other people will be on the road,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-asks-maharashtra-sdma-to-decide-on-nanded-gurdwara-dussehra-procession/story-Jq6kQCaNFrhPKPmL5vrokL.html
19-10-2020||City||Week on, remaining 12 inmates who fled Hisar observation home remain untraceable||A week after 17 juvenile inmates escaped from an observation home in Hisar, 12 of them remain untraceable so far despite intensive searches, police officials said.Hisar superintendent of police Balwan Rana said, “The 15 police teams which were formed to look for the inmates are working round-the-clock to ensure the arrest of remaining inmates, who are still at large. We have shared their details with other district superintendents and neighbouring states. We are making continuous efforts to nab them at the earliest,” the SP said.A senior police official said a manhunt is on to look for the inmates and they are likely to be declared proclaimed offenders, if not apprehended in the coming days.While nine of the 17 inmates face murder charges, three are booked for attempt to murder, two were booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and two others face theft and a rioting case.An official, who is part of the three-member probe team led by Hisar additional deputy commissioner Aneesh Yadav, said the ADC had submitted the report to Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni two days ago.“We found lapses in security in the observation home. The security guidelines were not followed and both the entry gates were not locked when the inmates fled the home. The security was not tightened and the guards deployed outside the observation home were less than the required number. The CCTV footage clearly shows that the inmates had hatched a plan to flee in advance and the authorities failed to notice their activities. Any action against authorities of the observation home will be taken by the jail department. However, we can say that they failed on all fronts,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.Earlier, the Haryana state commission for protection of child rights chairperson Jyoti Bainda had also pointed to ‘grave lapses’ on part of the staff and management the observation home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/week-on-remaining-12-inmates-who-fled-hisar-observation-home-remain-untraceable/story-b1wPXEzQTxNYwh2uoPxEjM.html
19-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll results will pave way for mid-term elections in Haryana: OP Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) chief OP Chautala on Monday said the results of Baroda bypoll will pave way for the possibility of mid-term elections in Haryana.Out on parole from Tihar jail, Chautala said, “Since the BJP-JJP government has failed on all fronts and people have lost faith in them, there is a strong possibility of mid-term elections in Haryana and results of the Baroda bypoll will further pave way for it.”He accused the state government of harassing farmers by imposing several conditions to deprive them of getting minimum support price. “The three laws will affect the farmers and ruin the mandi system. There is no space in the mandis and farmers are being forced to unload their produce on roads,” he said, while interacting with mediapersons at Pipli grain market in Kurukshetra.Chautala also accused the state government of using force on farmers at Pipli and misusing power to register FIRs against them. He said the Union government has enacted these laws to benefit some big corporate houses. “The INLD will revert all wrong decisions of this anti-people government if voted to power,” he added.Chautala also visited Yamunanagar where he met party workers and relatives. He said the INLD candidate is in a good position for the Baroda bypoll and there is a possibility that the result will be against the ruling dispensation.Later, the INLD leader also met BJP MLA Ghanshyam Das Arora at his residence to offer condolences on the demise of his brother last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-results-will-pave-way-for-mid-term-elections-in-haryana-op-chautala/story-lSg1nRhyveXwrXbgNsSyHJ.html
19-10-2020||Jaipur||One arrested in gang-rape of 2 minors in Jalore, child rights panel takes note||The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSPCCR) on Monday took cognisance of an alleged gang-rape of two minors in Jalore district on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. A team of the child rights body, including its chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal, met the family members of the survivors. “Police officials of Jalore district have been directed to take necessary action quickly and arrest the accused. The district administration has also been directed to provide legal aid to the family members within a few days under the State Victim Compensation Scheme,” said Beniwal. “We have assured the family members that the commission is with them to provide all support they need.” “The two minors, who are 14 and 15 years old, were abducted from their home on Sunday around 1 am by four men and were gang-raped in the mountains near Rajpura,” said a Jalore police official. The girls are cousins. Also read: ‘Odd-even last resort’ - Delhi environment minister on air pollutionWhen the parents found them missing, they started looking for them in nearby areas and lodged a police complaint. The survivors were later found in the mountains of Rajpura village. They were taken to the hospital and a first information report (FIR) was lodged against the accused under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the police said. “So far, one accused has been arrested in this case and three others have been detained,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Jalore. “The medical examinations of both the girls have been conducted and their condition is stable. Also, their statements have been recorded in front of the judicial magistrate,” he said. When asked about the background of the accused, Singh said, “Once we arrest the remaining accused, we will be able to divulge more details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/one-arrested-in-gang-rape-of-two-minors-in-jalore-child-rights-panel-takes-note/story-XR5qknDiN5oMYLJEHO1VBL.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Atal Tunnel brings tourist influx to HP’s Lahaul, locals brace to preserve culture, ecology||The influx of tourists to tribal Lahaul and Spiti district since the inauguration of Atal Tunnel across Rohtang Pass on October 3 has prompted calls for tighter controls to preserve the cultural heritage and fragile ecology of one of Himachal Pradesh’s remotest regions. With limited infrastructure, it is becoming a challenge to check littering by tourists along the road stretch between Manali and Keylong. Since there are no dustbins on the route, the garbage on the roadside slides down the hills with rain, polluting the rivers. As a first step, the Sissu panchayat near the north portal of the tunnel has imposed a fine of Rs 1,000 for littering. It has put up boards warning visitors against littering the area. With no public toilets in the remote valley, tourists defecate in the open. The extent of the problem can be gauged from the fact that more than 8,000 vehicles cross the tunnel daily since Prime Minister Narendra Modi threw it open to the public on October 3. ‘FOLLOW BHUTAN MODEL OF TOURISM’ “While the tunnel has opened doors to visitors, there is no planned tourist activity in the region. As a result, it is commonplace to find trash along roads and the pollution level has gone up, threatening the fragile ecology,” says Chander Mohan Parsheera, 54, a social activist who heads of the Institute of Vocational (Tourism) Studies at Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla. “There is a need to adopt the Bhutan model of tourism in the Lahaul valley,” he says. Bhutan adheres to a policy of high value, low impact and volume tourism. Its government has set a limit of 3.5 lakh tourists to the Himalayan kingdom a year each of who are charged $250 (Rs 18,328) daily. This money is used to develop tourism in the country. “Our fears have come true. We had been concerned about the impact on lifestyle of tribals due to the opening of the tunnel, hydel projects and tourism,” says Parsheera, who also heads the Lahaul-Spiti Janjatiya Kalyan Samiti. He says there is a need to regulate tourism and focus on waste management, including setting up more toilets, to check environmental degradation. ‘DON’T WANT TO GO KULLU-MANALI WAY’ Lahaul and Spiti district is home to many a Buddhist monastery, including the ancient Tabo monastery built in 996 BC at an altitude of 13,500 feet. Of the estimated 32,000 residents of the tribal district, 85% are Buddhist. Kungri Gompa and Dhankar Gompa at Kibber at 14,200 feet are popular monasteries, too, while Pin valley follows the Nyingma sect of Buddhism. “The tourist boom is a threat to the culture of Lahaul and Spiti. Kullu and Manali are examples of how the influx of visitors changed the local culture. The tourists brought drug culture to these valleys and today they are infamous for narcotic trade,” says Shimla-based historian OC Handa. YOUNGSTERS TAKE INITIATIVE TO PRESERVE CULTURE Before the tunnel’s opening, Lahaul valley was closed for tourism during winter when most cultural festivities took place. “Since there was no interference, most weddings were solemnised in winter months,” says Sonam Zangpo, 36, who heads the Young Drupka Association. Zangpo fears that with tourists getting access to the valley all-round the year, their presence could influence youngsters in Lahaul who would end up aping them. The association, comprising 700 members, has been conducting awareness meetings and social media initiatives in the tribal region, urging locals to preserve and take pride in their culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atal-tunnel-brings-tourist-influx-to-hp-s-lahaul-locals-brace-to-preserve-culture-ecology/story-ds3baIM9n2ATufgtHlGlUL.html
19-10-2020||City||Ludhiana police chief bans protests, rallies in city||Amid ongoing protests against the recently enacted farm laws, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has extended the ban on assembly of five or more people at a spot, for two more months.Besides, holding of protests, rallies and marches have also been prohibited under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The police chief has also barred residents from carrying weapons, including firearms, axes, sticks and inflammable material, to public places.He said that according to intelligence inputs, anti-social elements may try to disturb the law and order situation in the city. In view of this, he has extended the ban on assembly of five or more people.Agrawal added that the Puda ground in Sector 38-A, Chandigarh Road, has been marked as the designated place for holding protests, rallies and marches.Spa, massage centre owners told to maintain proper recordsTo deter illegal activities at spa and massage centres in the city, the police commissioner has asked its owners to keep proper records and a copy of photo identity cards of all customers.Agarwal also said that all foreign staff working at such centres must be on work-visa and not tourist-visa. Besides, closed-circuit television cameras are mandatory at entry, exit and reception points and the recordings must be kept for 30 days. The police commissioner has also asked spa and massage centre owners to get police verification of their employees done at the nearest police station.Action will taken against centres where liquor, drugs, hookah and other intoxicants are served to the customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-bans-protests-rallies-in-city/story-7RJo2rQRci0Sox8aLxTpmN.html
19-10-2020||City||Three gangs involved in stealing copper wires from transformers busted in Karnal||Police have busted three gangs of thieves allegedly involved in stealing copper wires from electric transformers installed on agriculture feeders in Karnal, officials said.Police said they have arrested 12 members of these gangs involved in the theft so far. Of the arrested accused, 10 belong to Uttar Pradesh and were living in rented accommodations in Karnal and nearby districts.Harjinder Singh, head of detective staff of Karnal police, said acting on a tip off, three accused identified as Mohammad Hanif, Khalil Khan and Pappan, all residents of UP, were arrested from Ghogripur village of Karnal earlier this month for allegedly stealing copper and other material from transformers.During the interrogation, they disclosed the names of members of other gangs including Mahender Singh of Delhi and Surender Singh of Gaziabad, who were then arrested from Delhi. He said after tracking their contacts, Banti and Farman Ali of Bulandshar in UP, Joni of Badli in Sonepat and Munna Kabadi of Gonda in UP were also arrested.Later, the third gang of transformer thieves was busted with the arrest of Pawan Kumar from Gautambudh Nagar of UP, Salinder Kumar from Barsalu village of Karnal and Mukeem Ansar from Badau of UP.The head of detective staff said police have also recovered around 60kg copper wires and five Maruti Eeco cars and three kits used to open transformers from their possession. He said the arrests will help police in solving over 200 cases of transformer thefts in Karnal district alone as complaints of 360 transformer thefts have been registered so far. The accused confessed that they used to steal copper and other material from 4 to 5 transformers every night and then sell it to junk dealers in Delhi. Police said the accused will be produced in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-gangs-involved-in-stealing-copper-wires-from-transformers-busted-in-karnal/story-xWlAnB4hSXpR0EFLks8FbI.html
19-10-2020||Patna||Bihar medicos miss exam due to election rally, SP says ‘baseless’ allegations||Political parties in Bihar seem to have thrown Covid-19 precautionary norms to the wind as people turn up in large numbers for election rallies following little etiquettes on social distancing. One such election rally, conducted on October 16, has jeopardised the career of an entire batch of 100 medicos who were caught in a heavy traffic snarl-up and could not appear in time at the examination centre. The 2017-batch of medicos of the state-run Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Pawapuri, have requested the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) for a re-examination of the pharmacology paper II of the MBBS second professional exams. “We have received the students’ representation, along with a recommendation from the examination centre superintendent. We will sympathetically consider their case but any decision in this regard has to be taken by the university examination board. We will place the matter before it,” said Rajeev Ranjan, AKU examination controller. “The superintendent of the examination centre disallowed the medicos to appear for the exam after they arrived 90 minutes late,” he said. Also read: Declare Durga Puja pandals no-entry zone in Bengal: Calcutta High CourtThe college administration had arranged four buses for the examinees to travel to the examination centre at the Nalanda College of Engineering, Chandi. “The students left well in advance at noon, keeping a margin of two-and-a-half hours to reach the examination centre which was located some 40-50 kilometres away. However, our students were stuck in a bad traffic jam as candidates of some political parties were filing their nomination papers for the legislative assembly elections,” said Dr Pawan Kumar Choudhary, principal, VIMS. The medicos and their sympathisers posted about their ordeal on social media. Nalanda superintendent of police (SP) Nilesh Kumar, however, had a different take on the incident. “The allegation is baseless. No political procession is taken out at the time of filing of nomination by candidates. Nomination papers are not filed on national highways but at sub-division offices. Nomination for Nalanda, Islampur and Hilsa constituencies are filed in the opposite direction to Chandi where the medicos had their examination centre,” said Kumar. Kumar said the students were using the traffic jam as an alibi to cover up their delay in leaving for the examination centre. “The students have been staying here for quite some time and should know about the congestion given the poor condition of national highway (NH) 31. On top of that, people do not have any traffic sense, which occasionally leads to traffic snarls at different locations. It’s nothing new. Even if all the police personnel are used, it still takes time to clear traffic snarls. Sometimes, such problems do arise,” he added. “This is no issue at all. However, it doesn’t bother us if, for a handful of acquaintances, you want to make an issue out of it,” Kumar signed off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-medicos-miss-exam-due-to-election-rally-sp-says-baseless-allegations/story-ZkMnWc1knEjt4LqknPJDaO.html
19-10-2020||City||Pink-stem borer infestation: PAU asks farmers to avoid early sowing of wheat in affected areas||In areas where pink-stem borer infestation was detected on paddy crops, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) scientists have advised farmers to avoid early sowing of wheat as the infestation can be carried on to the next crop.However, in areas where no infestation was observed, sowing can be started after October 25 when the maximum temperature falls below 30°C and minimum temperature below 16°C.“The pink-stem borer attack is generally observed in the months of September and October on paddy crop. Its larva bores into the stem of a young plant and kills the central shoot,” the scientists said.PAU has also asked farmers to remain vigilant and regularly monitor their paddy crop, especially in fields where long-duration varieties of paddy such as Pusa 44 and Peeli Pusa etc. are grown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pink-stem-borer-infestation-pau-asks-farmers-to-avoid-early-sowing-of-wheat-in-affected-areas/story-hQZDhD3GnE1P24H8SNQS2K.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Less than 20% students turn up to attend opening day of school in Punjab’s Amritsar, Jalandhar||Barely 20% of the total students of Classes 9 to 12 attended school in Amritsar district on Monday after the Punjab government implemented a graded return to normalcy following a seven-month lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The students were permitted to attend school with parental consent and by following the Covid-19 safety guidelines, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using hand sanitisers. The schools have been directed not to make attendance of students compulsory and to continue online classes along with offline. Mandeep Kaur, the principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, Amritsar, said, “1,600 students are enrolled in Classes 9-12 but less than 20% of them attended school on Monday. Since we were not aware about the number of students coming, all faculty members were called on Monday but we will soon restrict the number of teachers according to the turnout.” Dr Anita Bhalla, the principal of Bhavan’s SL Public School, said, “Less than 15% of the students came to school but more students are expected in the coming days. The school is following safety measures. Since the turnout is low, only one-third of the faculty members will be coming to school.” social ONLINE OPTION REMAINS OPEN About 10% parents submitted the consent letter, enabling their children to attend school in Jalandhar district on Monday. District education officer (secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said many parents had come to school to review arrangements and the authorities hoped to see the strength grow in the coming days. “In each school, five to eight students of Classes 9-12 were present. We ensured all precautions. The district has over 53,000 registered students in Classes 9-12 in 273 schools. Of them, only 5,000 attended class on Monday,” the DEO said. The situation was similar in private schools. Montgomery Guru Nanak Teachers Association president Kranti Ghuman said that 45 students attended class at the MGN Adarsh Nagar school on Monday. A private school teacher said as the option of online classes for students is still open and almost all students have a gadget to attend the class, so most parents chose to play it safe. Manjeet Kaur, a resident of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh, said that the state government and schools had put all responsibility on parents by asking them to fill a form, saying in case a child tests positive, they will be responsible. (With inputs by Jatinder Mahal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/less-than-20-students-turn-up-to-attend-opening-day-of-school-in-punjab-s-amritsar-jalandhar/story-lIJ64oG5oa8ikdBuagKbbL.html
19-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand received two film shoot requests per day once lockdown restrictions were lifted||The Trivendra Singh Rawat-led Uttarakhand government has received requests for two film shootings daily on an average since permission was allowed in the hill state after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions were lifted, officials said.KS Chauhan, the nodal officer of Uttarakhand Film Development Council (UFDC), said, “We have approved 98 requests for different kinds of shoots since the end of June, when shooting was allowed in the state. We are receiving more requests that are being processed on a daily basis.”State government officials said Uttarakhand has emerged as a preferred choice for filmmakers because of subsidies in shooting, lodging and also rebates in the payment of State Goods and Services Tax (SGST). Also Read: Uttarakhand adds 376 new Covid-19 cases; state tally crosses 58,000-mark“Uttarakhand is blessed with natural scenic beauty, which offers filmmakers breathtaking locales for shoots. There are several other benefits as well such as no additional charges for shooting, 100% online process for approvals, which reduces red tapism, and a 50% discount on lodging of film crew if they stay in government guest houses. There is a 30% refund on SGST on prices of tickets for films that are shot in Uttarakhand among others,” said Chauhan. “The state government gives an additional security of up to five police personnel without any charges to any film unit on request,” he added.The Uttarakhand Film Policy aims “to popularise the state as a major tourist destination. The Uttarakhand government has exempted all films shot in the state from shooting charges.” “Based on merit, films having more than 50% or more outdoor shooting in Uttarakhand will be made tax-free,” it added. Altogether, 475 films have been shot in the state since the policy was initiated in 2015.So far, 148 films have been shot this year, including 98 after the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions were lifted. On Sunday, Bollywood actors Shahid Kapoor and Mrunal Thakur thanked the state government and tweeted for the latter’s support during the shoot of their upcoming film, Jersey. “It’s a wrap on this schedule of Jersey. I would like to thank the Uttarakhand government for supporting and putting in place efficient policies that enabled us to safely shoot and wrap the schedule of our film in many beautiful locations of the state,” Kapoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-received-two-film-shoot-requests-per-day-once-lockdown-restrictions-were-lifted/story-oAYi5KmGAwHhPluLEJK2YP.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 labourers dead, 5 injured on electrocution while fixing water pipeline leak in Kurla||Two labourers of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) died and five were injured on being electrocuted while fixing leakage in a water pipeline in Kurla on Monday, according to the civic body’s disaster management cell.The incident was reported at around 8 am and all the injured were rushed to Rajawadi Hospital where Amol Kale (40) and Ganesh Ugale (45) were declared dead; the condition of the other five is said to be stable.Ajay Rathore, chief engineer, hydraulics department, BMC, said, “We are investigating what caused the incident. It was our in-house labour.”Electrical equipment, including dewatering pump, was being used in the repair work. Also read: Foul smell, akin to gas leak, reported from Mumbai’s eastern suburbsAccording to Vilas Shinde, senior police inspector of Nehru Nagar Police Station, “We have registered an accidental death report (ADR) for the incident and are investigating the matter. We will seek details from the BMC on the incident. We are yet to take statements of the victims. We will take any further action for investigation only after we have recorded their statements.”The labour union, on the other hand, has alleged that an enquiry should be conducted into the incident as the labourers were forced to do the work of an electrician too while on field to fix water pipelines.Mahendra Zankar, secretary of Municipal Kamgar Sangh, said, “We are demanding that an enquiry be ordered into the incident. Time and again, we have requested that electrician should also be sent wherever electrical work is involved, but here, labourers are forced to do electrical work.”He added, “Labourers have to do repair work and also handle the generator, and this is unfair. We are demanding monetary compensation for the families of the deceased and also a job for a family member.”BMC’s reaction to the Union’s allegations is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-labourers-dead-5-injured-on-electrocution-while-fixing-water-pipeline-leak-in-kurla/story-O5feOsyKHObbiEY3aElLmO.html
19-10-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court: No pandal-hopper to be allowed inside pandals||The Calcutta high court (HC) on Monday directed that no revellers would be allowed inside Durga Puja pandals in West Bengal because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the state.The court has ordered that pandals would be treated as “no entry zones”, as Bengal gears to celebrate Durga Puja that starts from Thursday (October 22). The court’s direction came amid warnings by doctors that Covid-19 cases could increase up to four-fold after the festive season, if restrictions are relaxed by the state authorities. “A division bench of the Calcutta HC while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) has directed that barricades need to be put up outside puja pandals. In big pandals, the barricade will be installed at least at a distance of 10 metres (m). While for smaller pandals, the barricades will be put up at a distance of five metres. No visitors will be allowed inside the no-entry zone, except for club members,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the petitioner’s lawyer. Also Read: West Bengal: Night-long Durga Puja pandal-hopping to start today amid sharp spike in Covid-19 casesClub members, who are organising a puja, are only allowed to enter a pandal. The HC has also imposed restrictions on the number of puja committee members, who can be allowed to enter a pandal. “In smaller pandals, 15 members will be allowed. While in the case of bigger pandals, a maximum of 25 members will be allowed. The names of the entrants will have to be decided in advance and cannot be changed daily. The puja organisers have been directed to display the list of entrants,” Chatterjee said. The HC’s direction comes on a day, when overnight pandal hopping was slated to start. Though the annual Durga puja starts on Maha Sasthi on Thursday, pandal hopping started since Sunday. “We have not seen the order yet. We will implement the order, as it has been issued by the HC. However, the order has come as a big shock for us. Many organisers have done elaborate decorations of pandals for revellers. Their efforts will go in vain. We had made arrangements for masks and hand sanitisers for visitors,” said a member of the Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organisation of over 350 prominent puja committees in Kolkata. Bengal is organising over 37,000 community pujas, including more than 2500 in and around Kolkata , this year. Around 1,700 pujas are being organised by women in the state. However, the list doesn’t include pujas, which are being held in housing societies and individual households. The HC also observed that reports published in the media about growing Covid-19 cases are scary and questioned how only 30,000-odd police personnel could tackle up to four lakh pandal hoppers. However, the state government assured that it would increase the deployment of police personnel.Bengal has reported a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases after puja shopping started and the public started thronging market places. On Sunday, the state reported 3,983 new Covid-19 cases, including 813 fresh viral outbreaks in Kolkata alone. This was the highest number of cases of the contagion in Bengal on a single day. The positivity rate in the state has shot up from 6.6% on September 5 to 9.1% on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-high-court-no-pandal-hopper-to-be-allowed-inside-pandals/story-GZrhx6drd91BnhRP3U2ONK.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistan invites Indian Sikhs for Guru Nanak’s 551st birth anniversary at Nankana Sahib on November 27||Pakistan has invited Indian Sikhs to attend the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, an official said on Monday. The three-day celebrations, known as Guru Nanak Gurpurb, will begin at Nankana Sahib on November 27. Every year, a large number of Sikh pilgrims from India and different parts of the world gather at Gurdwara Janamasthan Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Nanak, in Pakistan’s Punjab province to mark his birth anniversary. However, the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to affect festivities this year. VISA WILL EXPIRE ON DECEMBER 2 Indian pilgrims will be offered a five-day visa to enter the country upon the proof of a mandatory Covid-19 negative test, The Express Tribune reported. The Waqf Property Board and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) have also sent regular invitations and itineraries to Sikh societies, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, for attending the festivities. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, Sikhs from India will be allowed to stay in the country only for a limited period of time, with no extensions. The special five-day Nankana Sahib visa will effectively expire on December 2. “All pilgrims coming to partake in the festivities of Baba Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary will required to observe and abide by all Covid-19 standard operating procedures throughout their stay, even after showing the mandatory negative Covid-19 test,” an official of the country’s Waqf board said. 3,000 INDIAN SIKH PILGRIMS TO BE ALLOWED According to PSGPC head Satwant Singh, the schedule of their stay in Pakistan had to be revised in consideration of “closed borders and the rising coronavirus tally in India”. “There will be no new restrictions placed on the number of Indian Sikh pilgrims making the journey,” he said. According to the Pakistan-India bilateral agreement, 3,000 Indian Sikh pilgrims will be allowed entry into the country for the Gurpurb celebrations. However, this time around, visitors will only have the option of the Nankana Sahib visa, unlike last year when they had the option of a 10-day visa to visit multiple gurdwaras in Lahore, Nankana Sahib, Hassan Abdal, Kartarpur, Rohri Sahib and Farooqbad. NO STAY OR SHOPPING IN LAHORE For the first time, Sikh pilgrims visiting the country will also not have the option to stay or shop in Lahore and be required to exit the country upon conclusion of religious festivities. According to Satwant Singh, Indian pilgrims will be welcomed at the Wagah border on November 27, from where they will be taken to Nankana Sahib through a special bus service. “The pilgrims will have access to gurdwaras in Nankana Sahib and will also get to participate in the nagar kirtan (religious procession). At the end of which, they will be shuttled back to Wagah on December 1, to head back to India,” he said. CONNECTION THROUGH THE CORRIDOR Last week, addressing a media briefing here, foreign office spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri said that Pakistan reopened the Kartarpur Corridor on July 29, but India has not yet opened its side. The corridor – which allows Indian pilgrims to undertake visa-free travel to the historic Kartarpur Sahib gurudwara – was closed on March 16 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. India has said a decision to re-open the Kartarpur Corridor would be taken in accordance with the Covid-19 protocols and easing of restrictions. The corridor links Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Guru Nanak. Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the Ravi river, 4 km from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine. In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor in a historic people-to-people initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pakistan-invites-indian-sikhs-for-guru-nanak-s-551st-birth-anniversary-at-nankana-sahib-on-november-27/story-BqrW4COMjaHDjkoEebKqbM.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Pest infestation in Mumbai’s mangrove depends on rain intensity; attack highest along MMR: Study offers solutions||Scientists have found a direct correlation between the intensity of rainfall over the city and annual pest attacks on mangroves, while indicating that the infestation was highest at mangrove forests in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), for any coastal area.The Institute of Wood Sciences and Technology (IWST), Bengaluru, submitted its final report suggesting solutions for the annual invasion to the state mangrove cell last week after studying the phenomenon for the past three years.“We found the intensity of the infestation varies every year and depends directly on the amount of rainfall received by the city during monsoon. Heavier the rains, worse the infestation,” said R Raja Rishi, principal investigator of the project, IWST.The study documented that the city received 2,239.6mm rain in 2018, lesser than the annual average, which saw isolated incidents of the pest attack. In comparison, 3,670.4mm in 2019 (46% excess rain than the annual average) led to very high incidents of infestation.“Pest attacks have been reported from mangrove forests across the Indian coastline, but the intensity and scale have been the highest in the MMR region. This is because the attack starts in the teak trees at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) and surrounding territorial forests during summer and pre-monsoon, which is the primary host area. Whenever the climate is ideal [more rainfall], these pests move to mangrove forests within the region. By late October-November, they go back to the teak trees at SGNP, completing their lifecycle,” said Rishi, adding that availability of more moisture and rain makes conditions favourable for their movement to mangrove trees. “However, a more in-depth study is needed to understand their movement vis-à-vis climate parameters,” he said.The report listed organic solutions as well as a pesticide to ensure mangrove trees are rid of five major pests among 20, led by the Hyblaea Purea moth.“We have suggested the use of a botanical bio-pesticide Hy-Act that has been successful in reducing infestation of the identified pests. It has been developed by the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding in Coimbatore and is not commercially available. Other natural measures include using neem-based solutions [neem oil] to control these defoliating pests,” said Rishi.However, the study concluded with a caveat that more research was needed, whether to control this annual pest outbreak or leave it as is. “Owing to several beneficial and positive impacts on the ecosystem through contribution to the nutrient cycle and food chain [enhance fishery resources or food source for birds], we must examine whether this natural process should be interfered with or conserved,” said Rishi.To get a better idea about this phenomenon, the state mangrove cell in 2017 appointed IWST to study this phenomenon and suggest measures to control the infestation. With 25 field surveys conducted between 2017 and 2019, scientists collected samples of affected leaves, barks and the pest species from four mangrove forests in Airoli, Ghansoli, Gothivali, and Gorai. They conducted local experiments and assessed damages through laboratory studies. In all, six species of caterpillars, five species of grasshoppers, two species each of semi loopers, snails and weevils, and one each of leaf miner, skeletonizer and bagworm were identified as defoliating pests affecting five different mangrove species. “Of these, the Hyblaea Purea moth was most threatening to mangrove trees, along with two similar moths and two snails,” said Rishi.The mangrove cell said that some mangrove areas are already witnessing fresh green cover since rainfall reduced during the first week of October.“Implementing the bio-pesticide on such a large scale is very difficult and may not be cost-effective at this moment,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). “Even in the teak trees in forest areas in interior Maharashtra where Hyblaea Purea infestation is there, pesticide spraying is not done. To spray the entire mangrove forests is not practical,” he added.However, Tiwari explained that if some mangroves showed extremely poor survival rate or their immune system had weakened and pest attacks were happening too frequently, the cell may consider experimenting with this solution in small patches. “At least now we know this is happening and in most cases, mangroves mostly recover,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pest-infestation-in-mumbai-s-mangrove-depends-on-rain-intensity-attack-highest-along-mmr-study-offers-solutions/story-fvqKn99Mf3HmoXi1qUXutM.html
19-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to conduct leopard population estimation from December||After a gap of 12 years, Uttarakhand forest department is gearing up to conduct an estimation of the leopard population in the state beginning this December. The state forest department has started identifying grids where leopards are usually found after which camera traps are likely to be placed. Also read: Injured leopard rescued by forest department officials in J&K’s UdhampurUttarakhand forest department chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said, “Till now, estimation of leopards has taken place in the state in tiger landscapes as it was done along with tiger estimation. But now, we are working to conduct a state-wide estimation of leopard population as they are found almost everywhere in the state.” “We are identifying grids where leopards are found, after which we will decide whether to deploy camera traps or to follow some other strategy for the process. Given the topography of Uttarakhand, camera trapping will be a problem for us as leopards are found in hilly regions, and also near human habitations,” added Suhag. He added that the state forest department will carry out the project along with the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). The last state0wide estimation of the leopard population was done in 2008 when the state reported 2,335 leopards. In 2014, WII had conducted an estimation for leopards in tiger landscapes (along with tiger estimation), when the state had reported over 700 leopards, said Suhag. “Leopards in the state have adapted themselves and can live near human habitations. Once we know the grids where there is heavy leopard presence, we can formulate policies according to the area to reduce conflict,” added the senior forest official. Meanwhile, 15 leopards are being radio-collared, predominantly Rajaji Tiger Reserve area, to study the nature of leopard, the areas its moves around, how much time it spends in what type of an area, around what time it moves and the habitat that the animal prefers. In the last week of September, a leopard which strayed in human settlements was captured and radio-collared at the Chidiyapur rescue centre in Haridwar district. It was monitored for around 10-12 hours before being released in the wild.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-conduct-leopard-population-estimation-from-december/story-wG5eX0jOfUtPvH6rahkJ6N.html
19-10-2020||Pune||Pandharpur traders facing a loss of Rs 500cr due to Covid-19, floods this year||Though rainfall activity has reduced, some areas remained flooded and several were still reeling under the losses, financially and socially, in Maharashtra’s Solapur district where more than 17,000 people have been shifted to safer places due to the heavy rains and release of water from the Ujani Dam.In Pandharpur tehsil alone, at least 10,000 people from 46 flood-hit villages have been shifted to safer places, while 14 people have died in rain-related incidents since Wednesday in the western Maharashtra district, officials had said. “Things are not good for us this year. The city had already been affected financially when the wari (annual pilgrimage) was cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic and now the floods have hampered our business. Most of the traders and shop owners had started preparations for Diwali and filled up goods at their shops. The rain water damaged all the stored goods. Every year, the Ashadhi Wari turnover in Pandharpur is around Rs 400 crore and due to the floods, traders have suffered a loss of Rs 100 crore due to damaged goods. So, till now the Pandharpur traders are staring at a loss of Rs 500 crore this year,” said Rajgopal Bhattad, president of Pandharpur Traders’ Association. On October 13, Solapur district received over 138mm rain which lead to waterlogging and flood-like situation in several parts of the district. After this, water was released from the Ujani Dam due to which the Chandrabhaga river in Pandharpur flooded and water entered various parts of the city. “The water level reduced on Saturday and the cleaning process by the Pandharpur Nagar Parishad has now started and even at the individual levels. It will take at least a week to clean all the flood-affected areas. The traders had started buying goods in bulk for Navratri and Diwali festivals due to which there was lot of stock in their shops. Now most of the shops and traders have been affected due to the floods and the goods have been damaged,” added Bhattad. Meanwhile, residents of Pune have come forward to help the flood-affected Pandharpur city. Sagar More, an IT professional originally from Pandharpur and currently staying at Pune, said, “When I got to know about the flood situation back in our Pandharpur city, I was frightened as my relatives are staying there. I was in continuous touch with them. The common people are facing huge losses. The wari pilgrimage, which was a source of generating revenue for the city, was also cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic. So, my friends and I have decided to help the flood victims. We have already started collecting contribution from friends and relatives so that we can send some help to the flood-affected people in Pandharpur.” Demand to start Vitthal Rukmini Temple in Pandharpur Pandharpur city majorly depends on pilgrims coming to take visit the temple of Lord Vitthal in Pandharpur, for finances. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the temple has been closed since the last seven months, but now the local public and traders are demanding the government to reopen the temple. “There is hardly any business going on within Pandharpur, right from street hawkers to big shop owners all are dependent on people coming from outside Pandharpur for Lord Vitthal darshan. Now the rain has relented, cleaning process has started and so our demand is that the state government should immediately reopen the temple for devotees. The visits can start and all safety precautions and social distancing norms will be followed and it will help boost the economy of the city,” said Rajgopal Bhattad, president of Pandharpur Traders’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pandharpur-traders-facing-a-loss-of-rs-500cr-due-to-covid-19-floods-this-year/story-GENZu9KZVR2DbD7MwmJF3L.html
19-10-2020||Pune||IMD forecasts more rains for Pune city this week||The city on Sunday recorded 8.8mm of rainfall, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The weather department also said that more rain is in store for the city as a low pressure belt is building in the Bay of Bengal, as a result of which parts of Central and western Maharashtra may receive heavy rainfall between October 20 and 22. The city has seen severe flooding and massive loss to property as heavy rains lashed Pune and its surrounding areas over the last couple of days throwing normal life out of gear. The city received rainfall on Sunday afternoon.IMD director Anupam Kashyapi, said, “There are chances of likely rainfall between October 20 and 21. There will be moderate rain in and around the city and there are warnings for isolated heavy rainfall in the ghat areas. The IMD is keeping a close and careful watch on the emerging weather situation. After October 23, the withdrawal of southwest monsoon will be initiated and will be completed in a couple of days over the whole state of Maharashtra.”The IMD further stated that low pressure areas were likely to be formed over central Bay of Bengal from October 19 and the expected monsoon movement will be towards the west-northwestwardly direction. It would lead to increase in the moisture intensity in the region and lead to formation of cumulonimbus clouds leading to thunder activity especially during afternoon and evening hours resulting in intense spells of rain. Central Maharashtra, Marathwada, Goa and isolated places in Vidharbha are likely to rains accompanied by thundershower, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/imd-forecasts-more-rains-for-pune-city-this-week/story-QHMX1f2bXJr55EGIHM1m0I.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||DS Dhesi appointed chief principal secretary to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar||Former Haryana chief secretary DS Dhesi was on Monday appointed the chief principal secretary to the chief minister replacing Rajesh Khullar, the incumbent principal secretary to CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Dhesi resigned on Sunday as the chairman of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC). Khullar is headed for a World Bank assignment in the United States by the month-end. Dhesi retired from the service in 2019 after spending four years as chief secretary during Khattar’s first tenure as the chief minister. The move to appoint a retired IAS officer is on the lines of the appointment of former Punjab IAS officer, Suresh Kumar, as chief principal secretary to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Sources said that Khattar may also appoint another officer as principal secretary to the chief minister who will be junior to Dhesi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ds-dhesi-appointed-chief-principal-secretary-to-haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar/story-fH2eXKaR351KVilVJICaUJ.html
19-10-2020||Pune||Marriage registrations improve after easing lockdown restrictions||The lockdown imposed by the state and central government has impacted every sector including the ‘official wedlock’ registration in Pune. As many as 3,284 marriage registrations took place from January 1 to September 30 this year as compared to 5,163 registrations in the same period during 2019, according to officials of the marriage registrar.Bhalchandra Pol, marriage registrar official, Pune, said, “Many weddings and marriage registrations had to be postponed due to the lockdown restrictions and inter-district and inter-state travel ban.”“The number of marriage registrations is increasing as the restrictions are easing and the numbers are likely to go up in Diwali due to the auspicious ‘muhurat’ ,” he said.The ‘official wedlock’ registration number came down to merely 12 per cent in the ‘peak season’ of April and May. During May only 84 marriage registrations took place as compared with 751 in 2019. In June, 199 registrations were done as compared with 648 last year.There were four important ‘muhurats’ in April, but those timing slots could not be utilised by the couples and their families due to the lockdown restrictions. The marriage registration offices in Pune region were also shut from April 1 to May 18, as a result, no marriage registrations were done during this period, said officials.The lockdown which was imposed in the last week of March saw 336 registrations as compared to 541 in 2019.In September 429 registrations were done as compared to 598 last year. While till October 10, 2020, as many as 75 registrations were done this year, said officials.The marriage registration process requires the mandatory presence of three witnesses along with the bride and groom at the registrar’s office. The inter-district travel ban too added to the travel woes which made it difficult for people to travel. Many couples prefer to perform the marriage ceremony traditionally and then opt for the registration process which enables them to get the marriage certificate.Mukesh Kumar Saxena who postponed his marriage due to lockdown restrictions, said, “The lockdown orders affected my marriage plans and the date had to be postponed. As the restrictions started easing the marriage ceremony was held with only a few relatives and friends.”Marriage registrations in Pune region2020/2019January 686/ 610February 736/ 350March 336/ 541April 00/ 550May 84/ 751June 199/ 648July 383/ 800August 431/ 315September 429/ 598Total3,284 in 20205,163 in 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/marriage-registrations-improve-after-easing-lockdown-restrictions/story-vmMk8ua0cnDRnIHROaty8M.html
19-10-2020||Pune||Doctors: Exercises help improve breathing, mobility post Covid-19||A three-year-old girl who suffered burn injuries and tested positive for Covid-19 got an extra helping hand from physiotherapists at the Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) for regular exercise. The district administration had started offering physiotherapy treatment focusing on post-Covid-19 treatment including respiratory physiotherapy. Doctors in the city have stated that the therapy helps people to improve oxygen uptake and are keeping them mobile. The girl was admitted to Sassoon hospital’s Covid ward and was also suffering from burns on her abdomen. “Last week when she was admitted to Sassoon, we started the treatment on both her burns and Covid-19. We had to keep her mobile. Our exercises helped her to improve her breathing and mobility exercises helped her in overcoming the disability that she might have got because of burns,” said Dr Raziya Nagarwala who was her treating doctor and is also the cardiovascular and pulmonary physiotherapist from Sancheti hospital. Dr Pawan Shirsath, head of the physiotherapy department from Sassoon Hospital said, “We have started the involvement of physiotherapy for a long time in Sassoon. We are rehabilitating people with mild symptoms and with severe symptoms for Covid-19. Also, in critical patients like pregnant women, children and, patients with other complications. Patients in ICU are completely immobile. In many patients, we have seen that they did not die because of Covid-19 but because of immobility which caused deep vein thrombosis (DVT). So, mobility exercises for critical Covid patients are pivotal. For mild patients, we are improving their lung capacity by taking exercises like climbing stairs. For those who are interested, post-discharge, we are even giving them online physiotherapy sessions.” Doctors also say that in some of the critical Covid patients, it is seen that the patients are developing something called ‘post-intensive care syndrome’. This syndrome is characterised by the hampering of physical abilities, cognitive functions, and psychological well-being. Experts mention that physiotherapists are assisting people even post-discharge. Nagarwala added that physiotherapy is helping patients to improve their oxygen uptake and they are keeping them mobile with exercises. “We are working in close association with other specialists too. Our exercises help them to expel the mucus out of their body through cough in such a way that they don’t have to be dependent on external procedures. But in some critically ill patients, we are working alongside ENT specialists to suction out the mucus out of the patient’s body by using the catheter,” said Nagarwala. In the protocol prepared by the administration for post-Covid management, physiotherapy is said essential to avoid complications by assisting them to wean off by doing early rehabilitation. Almost all Covid facilities in the city have appointed physiotherapists in ICU’s and Covid special wards. The protocol states, “Physiotherapy is needed for all patients with Covid-19 disease. Respiratory physiotherapy with respiratory exercise should be taught to all. Patients should continue to do it for a period of six weeks to three months. Details to be provided by a physiotherapist.” Dr Sourabh Sane, a city-based physiotherapist said, “Our physiotherapists are visiting many hospitals and Covid centres regularly. With the aid of physiotherapy, the high oxygen requirement goes down. We have cases where ICU patients used to see breathlessness by walking two steps. But, with physiotherapy, they are learning techniques for getting the strength to become mobile again. Our progressive exercise protocol is helping these patients to overcome the weakness and fatigue post-discharge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doctors-exercises-help-improve-breathing-mobility-post-covid-19/story-0t86bT88TLsJVZWAcTGeXJ.html
19-10-2020||City||SC asks Maharashtra SDMA to decide on Nanded gurdwara’s Dussehra celebrations||The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday directed the Nanded Sikh Gurudwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib Board authorities in Maharashtra to approach the secretary of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) for permission to conduct Dussehra celebrations on Sunday (October 25).The order was passed by a special bench of the apex court that held a sitting on a day, when the SC was closed because of the Dussehra vacation. The gurdwara Board authorities had approached the apex court last week and sought an urgent hearing of their plea. The petition sought permission to conduct their centuries-old tradition of programmes on the occasion of the Dussehra, followed by Takhat Isnan on November 13, Nagar Kirtan procession on Diwali on November 14, and Gurtagaddi – an exaltation of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs -- on November 16. Also read: Supreme Court reserves order on plea seeking top court monitored probe in Hathras caseThe Nanded gurdwara is one of the five high seats of authority of the Sikhs, where Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th and the last Sikh Guru, had breathed his last in 1708.The Maharashtra government had opposed the petition, as it feared that the procession will attract a large crowd, which will be detrimental to the state’s efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Senior advocate Devdutt Kamat along with standing counsel for Maharashtra Sachin Patil informed the SC that Maharashtra ranked among the worst-hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic and severe restrictions were still in place as far as public gatherings were concerned.A three-member SC bench, comprising Justices LN Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi, asked the state government: “The latest standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the Centre allows 200 people to gather in an open space. You have already reopened Metro Rail and many other services. You may consider their request in this light.”The state government suggested that the petitioner can approach the secretary of the SDMA with their request. The bench acceded to the petitioner’s plea and asked the latter that in the event their request is rejected, an appeal could be moved before the Bombay high court (HC). The petitioner agreed to approach the secretary of the SDMA within a day.The gurdwara Board stated in their petition that due to the hostile political environment in Maharashtra, their request was not answered by the state government authorities, despite repeated representations. Advocate Praveen Chaturvedi, who appeared for the Board, stated in the petition, “Having the hostile political environment in Maharashtra, ample religious discontent has been spread due to political interests and the petitioner believe that they will be made to grapple with situation without recourse.”The gurdwara authorities stated in their petition that no more than 50 people would attend the religious functions and all the participants would undergo Covid-19 tests before taking part in the rituals. The plea also pledged that all other necessary precautionary measures against the viral outbreak would be adhered to. The participants’ medical record and identities would be maintained for a month and the public would not be permitted at the religious events, the plea added. Arrangements have been made for a live telecast of the events for the benefit of devotees from across the world. Besides, the procession has been reduced from 2.5 kilometres (km) to 1.5 km.Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib is considered a holy place by Sikhs across the globe. Its Board has 17 distinguished members of the community. Amritsar; Anandpur; Patna Sahib in Bihar; Damdama Sahib in Bathinda, Punjab; and Nanded, Maharashtra, are the five high seats of authority of the Sikh religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-asks-maharashtra-sdma-to-decide-on-nanded-gurdwara-s-dussehra-celebrations/story-8SidVeIfzZObxkzXmllSeI.html
19-10-2020||Kolkata||As Covid-19 cases surge in West Bengal, high court makes Durga Puja pandals no entry zones for visitors||All Durga Puja pandals in West Bengal have virtually been declared no-entry zones by Calcutta High Court which ordered a ban on pandal hopping on Monday due to the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Only organisers can enter the pandals and names of people allowed to enter have to be displayed outside it, the order from the high court said.The order comes amid heightened fervour and enthusiasm among people to celebrate the five-day long Durga Puja festival, starting Tuesday.Also read | Durga Puja: No pandals this year at CR Park, other areas in south DelhiThe state’s death toll went past the 6,000-mark on Sunday with 64 more fatalities, even as a record number of 3,983 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3.21 lakh.In West Bengal, Durga Puja is celebrated in a grand manner with increased participation from the state government. Every year, nearly 37,000 pandals are set up and bring an economic boom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/declare-durga-puja-pandals-no-entry-zone-in-west-bengal-orders-calcutta-high-court/story-9Srf5Tvz07t0JUIjvKjhoM.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Summon Arnab Goswami if he is named as accused in TRP scam FIR: Bombay HC||Mumbai police on Monday agreed to first issue summons to Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, if he is arraigned as accused in the television rating point (TRP) scam unearthed by the crime branch.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who represented the Mumbai police, agreed to the suggestion of the bench comprising justices SS Shinde and Makarand Karnik that the police should first summon Goswami—as has been the case for eight Republic TV employees—if the officer investigating the TRP scam decides to name him as an accused in the case.The court was hearing a petition filed by ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which owns the Republic TV and R Bharat news channels, for quashing of the first information report (FIR) registered at Kandivali police station in connection with TRP scam, and also seeking a transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Also Read: Cooperating with Mumbai Police in TRP scam probe: BARCA first information report was registered with Kandivali police on October 7, 2020, after the crime branch busted a racket involving the fraudulent increase of TRPs of certain channels, by payment to households where barometers were placed for the purpose of measuring TRPs.In a press conference held the next day, Mumbai Police commissioner (CP) Param Bir Singh informed the media that one of the arrested accused had revealed that he was working for Republic TV and was paying households to fraudulently increase TRPs of the English news channel.ARG Outlier Media has, however, claimed that the “Mumbai Police, including Param Bir Singh, harbour malice and ill-will against the petitioners as Republic TV and R Bharat have lately been at the forefront in questioning the tardy investigation by Mumbai Police in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and the Palghar lynching incident.”“As a counterblast, a plethora of false and frivolous legal proceedings have been initiated against the petitioners at the behest of the political dispensation in the state of Maharashtra,” the petition read , adding that the TRP scam case was a part of the design to harass the news channel and its editor.The petitioner firm has sought a transfer of the case to the central bureau of investigation (CBI) contending that the investigation will have a pan-India effect on various stakeholders, including cable TV operators, broadcasters, media agencies and advertisers. It said criminal culpability of this magnitude required a pan-India investigation by a reputed agency like the CBI to unearth the real conspiracy and alleged malpractices of any stakeholder.Its counsel, senior advocate Harish Salve, submitted the entire investigation was “a disguise and excuse to target ARG and Republic TV. He said the FIR was liable to be quashed as the police were being entirely and completely biased, after the news channel had questioned their investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and the Palghar lynching case, and urged the Bombay high court to restrain the police from taking any coercive steps against Goswami.Sibal responded to the petition saying the investigation into TRP scam had nothing to with the Palghar case. “What we are investigating is the aspect of money paid to rig television ratings, the practice of paying money to increase TRP for commercial profit,” said the senior advocate.Sibal added that the probe is on and investigation is at a nascent stage, and the FIR cannot be quashed at Goswami’s instance, as the FIR does not even mention his name. Responding to Goswami’s apprehension of arrest, he said that eight Republic TV employees have been summoned by the police in connection with the investigation and none of them has been arrested.The judges opined that there was no need to pass any interim order, as prayed by Salve, for extending protection from coercive steps, as Goswami’s name was not even included in the FIR. But, they suggested that the police should issue summons, as in case of eight Republic TV employees, in case the investigating officer decides to add Goswami’s name as an accused in the case.Sibal agreed to the suggestion. Salve said Goswami would “honour the summons, if any, issued by the Mumbai police crime branch... and cooperate with the investigation”.The Bombay high court has now posted the ARG Outlier Media’s petition for further hearing on November 5, with a direction to the crime branch to submit the TRP scam case papers in a sealed cover for perusal of the court. “We will like to go through the case papers and see what progress has been made in the investigation,” said the court.During the hearing, the high court expressed displeasure over police disclosures to the media. “We don’t think that it is the correct method or procedure to give interviews to media... not just in this case but in many sensitive matters,” said the bench. “Police officers are not supposed to reveal incriminating material to the media, when investigation is going on.”“Media is the fourth pillar of democracy... they also need to behave responsibly,” the bench said after Sibal pointed out that the petitioner’s channels, Republic TV and R Bharat had been holding a media trial and vilifying the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-scam-arnab-goswami-will-first-be-summoned-if-accused-mumbai-police-informs-bombay-hc/story-OlNWeJ0wl9WiETF0QwgE7J.html
19-10-2020||City||Kerala high court rejects state government’s plea against airport lease to Adani group||The Kerala high court on Monday rejected the state government’s plea questioning the Centre’s decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the Adani Enterprises.While rejecting the plea of the state government and five others, the court said it did not want to interfere with what it called a policy decision of the Centre. The division bench also observed that the government had participated in the bidding earlier and lost and it was not proper on its part to question the decision now.In August, the state assembly had passed a unanimous resolution urging the Centre to withhold its decision. Later, the government had moved the high court for a second time. In the petition, the state said the Centre showed undue preference in leasing out the airport to Adani Enterprises which has no experience in running airports. But the Centre opposed it saying it was unfair to oppose the decision after losing the bid. Reacting to the high court’s decision, the state government said it will move the Supreme Court soon. “The Union Government’s move to ‘sell’ the airport is nothing short of a daylight robbery. We will move the apex court,” said state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran. Last year also, the high court had rejected the government’s plea so it approached the Supreme Court which had referred the issue back to the high court with a direction to hear it again.In February 2019, government-owned Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) had participated in the open bidding for the airport but Adani Enterprises won it _ Adani group had quoted Rs 168 per passenger fee, KSIDC at Rs 135 followed by GMR at Rs 63. After losing the bid, the CM had written to the prime minister, asking him not to hand over the airport to a private entity citing the successful PPP model of the Cochin International Limited (CIAL) and Kannur airports. He said the state deserved preferential consideration, taking into account its experience in running two airports. One of the oldest airports of the country (built in 1932), the Thiruvananthapuram airport was operated by the Airport Authority of India (AAI). Situated in the middle of the city on 638 acres of land donated by the erstwhile rulers of Travancore, only 40 acres were added to the airport later, crippling its further expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-high-court-rejects-state-government-s-plea-against-airport-lease-to-adani-group/story-6XJBSU5fD9zdCCAVPBHbcN.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||‘Red Light On, Gaadi off’ campaign to start on October 21, says Delhi environment minister||From October 21, at over 100 traffic signals across Delhi, environment marshals and traffic police officials will urge drivers to turn off their ignition as they wait for the traffic signal to turn green.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday announced that the government’s, ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off (red light on, ignition off)’ campaign will be kick-started from October 21 to educate drivers about the benefits of turning off their engines while waiting at signals. This is a step towards controlling vehicular pollution in the city, the minister said. The campaign was first announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week. Last Friday, Rai chaired a high-level meeting which was attended by officials of the environment department, Delhi traffic police and the transport department to chalk out a detailed plan for its implementation.“This will be an awareness campaign and drivers will not be penalised for it. We will urge drivers, who care about the growing pollution in the city, the health of their children and their elderly parents, to do their bit in controlling vehicular emissions. Doing so will be completely voluntary. The awareness campaign will continue till November 15,” said Rai while addressing a press conference on Monday. For the campaign, around 2,500 environment marshals will be stationed at 100 traffic signals across the city with placards, posters and roses to offer to drivers. The government has also chosen 10 major traffic signals of the total 100, where the stoppage time is more than two minutes. At these signals, the deployment of marshals will be more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-to-start-on-october-21-says-delhi-environment-minister/story-6tWUncygyO885KU8YVdLlJ.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||‘Can think about implementing odd-even if other measures fail’: Delhi environment minister on air pollution||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Monday that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government can think about implementing the odd-even scheme in the national capital if other measures to control pollution fail.“We have implemented the odd-even scheme many times in Delhi. It would be our last resort and we’ll think about its implementation if rest of the methods to curb the air pollution fail,” Rai told reporters.Delhi’s air quality has already plunged to poor category ahead of the winter season. On Sunday, the air quality index (AQI) - a measure of the suspended PM2.5 and PM10 ultra-fine particle in the air - was 254, in the poor category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Delhi’s AQI was recorded at 287 on Saturday.The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) had last week announced a ban on the use of fuel-powered generators from October 15 under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), a set of anti-pollution restrictions that include pre-emptive measures to stop the air quality from deteriorating to emergency levels.GRAP lays down sets of curbs that are enforced when AQI crosses certain thresholds - the most serious of these include a ban on trucks, odd-even road restrictions, curbs on construction work, and an advisory to shut schools.The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), a Supreme Court-appointed body tasked with overseeing the implementation of the pollution control action plan in the National Capital Region (NCR), has said that GRAP will be enforced “with no concessions” to any state.Farm fires and emissions from firecrackers during Diwali result in heavy concentrations of PM2.5 particles, which can lead to major health problems since they can enter the bloodstream after penetrating deep into the lungs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-think-about-implementing-odd-even-if-other-measures-fail-delhi-environment-minister-on-air-pollution/story-bDXvVPBfF3NzDgAqXyhfOP.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Durga Puja: No pandals this year at CR Park, other areas in south Delhi||Chittaranjan Park and its adjoining areas in South Delhi, which host around 50 Durga Puja pandals every year, will not do so this year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, area MLA and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said Monday.The decision was taken in a meeting held Monday morning at CR Park’s Kali Mandir with various puja committees, the area’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), police personnel and representatives of the south Delhi municipal corporation (SDMC). To ensure citizens do not crowd outside the temple, police will also place barricades. Also Read: Durga puja in the time of Covid-19“I convened a meeting today [Monday], which was attended by representatives of around 12 Durga Puja committees from Chittaranjan Park, GK2, GK1, Alaknanda and Kalkaji, apart from officers from various enforcement agencies. It has been unanimously decided that Durga Puja celebrations will be suspended this year due to the pandemic,” Bhardwaj said.The AAP MLA said that most of the population of CR Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important that they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals.“Only for religious reasons, a small Kalash Puja/ Ghat Puja will be attended by 10-15 Committee members. This will ensure the continuity of puja by these samitis. I have also requested the district administration and local police to help the puja committees in stopping any outsiders entering these areas,” he said.The police will barricade the areas so that the public does not attend these pujas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/durga-puja-no-pandals-this-year-at-cr-park-other-areas-in-south-delhi/story-uTyrZwWa1DNPnyvvl6WWfP.html
19-10-2020||Lucknow||Wanted for blast in illegal factory 2 years ago, man arrested with 20 kg explosives in Bahraich||A man (35), who was wanted for a blast at an illegal cracker factory two years ago, was arrested in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Bahraich district on Sunday night on charges of carrying over 20 kilograms (kg) of explosives used for making crackers, the police said.Three persons, including his brother, were killed in the explosion two years ago and six others were critically injured, the police said.“Khairighat police station authorities arrested Mohammed Arif on Sunday night. Over 20 kg of explosives, which is used to make crackers, and another 50 kg of other cracker-manufacturing materials were seized from his possession. He was wanted in a previous case of explosion at an illegal cracker manufacturing plant two years ago,” said Vipin Mishra, superintendent of police (SP), Bahraich.The accused was allegedly planning to set up an illegal cracker plant at a rented accommodation at Khairighat in Bahraich. He had also smuggled explosives into Bahraich from adjoining districts, the police said.A first information report (FIR) has been lodged against him for possession of explosives without licence.The accused had converted a mobile phone shop into an illegal cracker manufacturing plant, where the explosion took place two years ago, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/wanted-for-blast-in-illegal-factory-2-years-ago-up-man-arrested-with-20-kg-explosives-in-bahraich/story-w6XwLIWgXcMN2w0RZjYzgP.html
19-10-2020||Gurugram||An exhibition for an artistic festive season ahead||Art can evoke myriad emotions, and hope is what one needs in these trying times amid the Covid-19 pandemic. And this exhibition in Delhi-NCR promises to do just that. “This year’s collection is ‘happy collection’,” says artist and sculptor Anju Kumar, whose annual show promises just that. All your festive needs are sorted at this exhibition that encompasses a vast range of artworks including paintings, murals, planters, urns, table bases, pillars, Ganeshas, Buddhas, chowkis, Tulsi chauras, mandir, floor lamps and more. “It’s about expressing yourself from the core space, in tandem with the universe. I feel the bottom line of life is Sat Chit Anand. The underlying concept for this art show is that one has to celebrate life and be at their creative best to be happy,” says Kumar, who has experimented with bright hues for the exhibition as “bright artworks change the configuration of the living space dramatically and bring life to mundane walls”.Due to the long lockdown, artists across India are facing a financial crunch. The festive season is the ray of hope one needs at this point in time, and people should support them, feels Kumar. “These are trying times for everyone, be it craftsmen or artists but we need to be connected, and have faith that this too shall pass. Everyone should make a conscious effort to support the indigenous crafts as it is so important to encourage our traditional art,” she says. Ask her the measures she had to take this year to ensure safety, vis-à-vis previous years, and she shares: “This year’s art show is going to be different as we request our valuable clients to come with an appointment.”Catch It LiveWhat: Festive Collection by Anju KumarWhere: Studio Anmol, C-55A, South City-1, Gurgaon 122002On Till: October 25Timing: 11am to 8pmNearest Metro Station: Phase 1 on Rapid MetroContact: 9810033305Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/an-exhibition-for-an-artistic-festive-season-ahead/story-ZOqAUYP550lAXSQiHvPqrO.html
19-10-2020||Lucknow||Ballia shooting case: After party leadership’s snub, BJP MLA to stay out of district for a few days||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) controversial lawmaker Surendra Singh would stay away from eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Ballia district for a couple of days amid reports that the top brass in the party’s state unit has asked him to steer clear following the murder of a villager last Thursday.Surendra’s aide and a BJP member, Dheerendra Pratap Singh, is the main accused in the murder case. “I shall stay in Lucknow for a couple of days,” Surendra said without ascribing any reason for his absence from Ballia district. Surendra was summoned to Lucknow on Sunday by Swatantra Dev Singh, the chief of the BJP’s UP unit, and Sunil Bansal, general secretary (organisation), UP. Also read: ‘I’m being framed,’ alleges main accused in Ballia shooting case“The legislator (Surendra) has been told to stay away from the case and not to make any statements,” a BJP leader said. The outspoken lawmaker admitted that he was asked to lie low by the party’s state unit leadership.“I was asked not to make any statements in the case. I only wanted to ensure that both sides are heard,” he said.“I also told the leadership that I wanted the accused to be punished,” he added. The BJP didn’t issue any statement about him.“He (Surendra) was summoned and snubbed by the party leadership,” said a BJP leader, who is privy to the developments in the case. The snub came hours after the UP Special Task Force (STF) arrested Dheerendra from Lucknow. On Monday, Dheerendra was sent to a 14-day judicial custody in Ballia district. Surendra had admitted that Dheerendra was his aide and a BJP member. He had also approached the police claiming that a counter first information report (FIR) be filed by Dheerendra’s family members in the murder case. Dheerendra had allegedly shot a villager (46) dead during a meeting in the presence of state government officials following a dispute over an allocation of two fair price shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia district on Thursday. On Friday, Surendra, who represents Bairia assembly constituency in Ballia district, had said that Dheerendra was compelled to open fire in self-defence. He had claimed that had Dheerendra not opened fire, several of his family members, including women, would have been killed in a stone-pelting incident by angry villagers on Thursday. On Saturday, Surendra visited Revati police station in Ballia and demanded that an FIR be lodged based on the plea moved by Dheerendra’s female relatives who, he alleged, had sustained injuries due to stone-pelting. “I am carrying medical reports of five of Dheerendra’s relatives, who were injured in the stone-pelting incident,” the MLA said before his meeting with the UP BJP’s top brass on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ballia-shooting-case-after-party-leadership-s-snub-bjp-mla-to-stay-out-of-district-for-a-few-days/story-i3BikHY5Oq229V40Xqn4ZK.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Does Danve mean the country is run by incompetent people: Shiv Sena attacks BJP on country’s economy||The Shiv Sena on Monday targeted the Central government over the state of the country’s economy and backed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Union minister of state Raosaheb Danve’s statement that running a government is not an “incompetent” person’s job. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana asked if Danve meant the country is run by incompetent people.The editorial outlined the poor economic situation in the country, including unemployment, poverty and India’s slipping rank in the Global Hunger Index 2020: it ranks lower than Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar. It added that India’s GDP is lower than Bangladesh’s, and India is now in the bottom-three among South Asian countries.Also Read: Maharashtra Governor’s ‘Secular’ taunt: Issue has ended for us after Amit Shah’s stand, says Sanjay Raut“Raosaheb Danve remarked that running a government is not an incompetent person’s job. He a Union minister and therefore his statement must be viewed at the national level because on the issues of hunger and nourishment India’s situation is quite serious. On one hand, we are beating the drums about being a $5 trillion economy while on the other hand, 14%-15% of the population is undernourished,” the editorial read. India now ranks 94th among 107 countries in terms of hunger, and continues to be in the ‘severe’ hunger category according to the Global Hunger Index 2020. According to the study, 14% of India’s population is undernourished. “What Danve said is indeed true. There is hunger, poverty and malnutrition in the country and what is the Modi government doing about it?” it asked.Continuing its sharp attack on the BJP-led government, the Sena mouthpiece said, “Running a government does not mean spreading hatred. When issues are about hunger and unemployment, topics such as Hindu-Muslim or India-Pakistan are created. Demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax has weakened India’s financial strength. Thousands of people have lost employment; instead of providing them jobs, topics such as surgical strike and Rafale are brought out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/does-danve-mean-the-country-is-run-by-incompetent-people-shiv-sena-attacks-bjp-on-country-s-economy/story-y37bFNytIH1BeZYbfieN6H.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Independent candidate Kapoor Singh Narwal withdraws nomination for Haryana’s Baroda byelection||Giving in to Haryana Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s appeal to put up a united show, rebel leader Kapoor Singh Narwal withdrew his nomination as an independent candidate on Monday, the last day to do so, for the November 3 Baroda by election.Hooda had earlier been pushing for BJP rebel Narwal’s nomination as Congress candidate but state unit president Kumari Selja prevailed by calling him an ‘outsider’ and Indu Raj Narwal was nominated instead. Kapoor Singh Narwal said he withdrew his nomination after khap representatives and Hooda urged him to do so in the interest of “brotherhood and for the farmers’ concern”. “This election is being fought to teach the BJP a lesson after it enacted the three farm laws. Both Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Deepender Singh Hooda assured me of respect. Now, I am dedicating myself to senior Hooda sahab,” he said.Narwal is game changer: HoodaWhile addressing a gathering at Kapoor Narwal’s house in Sonepat’s Gohana, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said Narwal is the game changer of the election and he has a lot of respect for him.“In the last six years, BJP damaged everything in the state. I assure you that no one can snatch the steering wheel (terming himself as tallest leader of Haryana Congress) from me. If you will ensure my candidate’s win from Baroda, the government’s countdown will begin. You know me, the power steering will remain in my hand,” he added.Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu also extended support to Hooda. Kundu said he can support anyone to ensure BJP candidate’s win in this bypoll for the sake of farmer’s interest.“The BJP’s defeat will be a great tribute to our agitating farmers’, who are sitting on a stir against farm laws,” he added.Two days ago, residents of Congress nominee Indu Raj’s native village Rindhana visited Kathura, the native village of Kapoor Singh Narwal, to request him to take back his nomination. However, his supporters turned down the request. Finally, the khaps and Hooda convinced him. Two others withdraw nominationTwo other independent candidates have also withdrawn their nomination for the bypoll. Loktantra Suraksha Party chief Raj Kumar Saini, who could potentially dent the chances of BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt by eating into the backward class votes, asked his party nominee Rajinder Singh to withdraw the papers. However, Saini will contest the bypoll. He said the saffron party had managed to convince his party candidate in the Jind bypoll but this time he is leaving no stone unturned by pitching himself in the fray.“Both the BJP and the Congress have been creating a gap between the rich and poor. The deprived section is still waiting for their rights. All sections of the society will show their resentment against these parties by electing me as their MLA,” Saini said.BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt, an Olympian wrestler, Indu Raj Narwal, a former Sonepat zila parishad member, of the Congress, , Joginder Singh Malik of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and LSP chief Raj Kumar Saini are in the fray for the Baroda byelections.The Baroda assembly seat had fallen vacant in April after the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/independent-candidate-kapoor-singh-narwal-withdraws-nomination-for-haryana-s-baroda-byelection/story-BiNH5dLcIgtSLu4vUvCCYO.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Anyone with self-respect would quit after Amit Shah’s rebuke: Pawar on Governor Koshyari||Sharad Pawar, the chief of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), on Monday upped the ante against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his “secular” jibe to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week. Pawar said any person, who has self-respect, would have resigned from the position of the Governor after being publicly rebuked by the Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah. He said that he has never seen such a Governor in his long political career.“What can I say about the Governor? The Union Minister for Home Affairs has spoken about him. Was the dignity of the office (of the Governor) exalted because of his remark? I have come across several Governors in my long political career, but none has taken such a stand. A Governor must uphold the dignity of the office. He is also expected to maintain the dignity of a CM’s office,” Pawar said.Also read: Shiv Sena welcomes Amit Shah’s stance on CM-Governor row“It is good that Shah rebuked him. I personally believe that a person, who has self-respect, will not continue in the post after being publicly reprimanded by the Union Minister for Home Affairs,” said the veteran leader.In an interview to a TV news channel last week, Shah reacted to the raging controversy and said that Governor Koshyari could have chosen his words better. “I have gone through the letter. He has made a passing reference. However, I feel he should have been more restrained in his choice of words,” Shah has said.Koshyari recently wrote to the CM about reopening places of worship in the state amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and asked if Thackeray, who is also the president of the ruling Shiv Sena, had “suddenly turned secular”.His remark triggered a war of words with the CM, as the latter reminded him that secularism was one of tenets of the Constitution that he swore upon while taking oath as Maharashtra Governor. The NCP is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, which also comprises the Sena and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anyone-with-self-respect-would-quit-after-amit-shah-s-rebuke-pawar-says-of-governor-koshyari/story-kiMZEwnfLuyR5Vx22wjvCL.html
19-10-2020||Pune||Maharashtra floods: Fadnavis says Centre will help; Wouldn’t need it if state got dues on time, says CM||During his visit to flood-affected areas, Maharashtra Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said while the Centre will help farmers, the state government cannot pass on its responsibility. “It is state government’s primary responsibility to assist farmers. However, what we see today is the growing tendency within this state government to pass on every responsibility to Centre,” said Fadnavis on NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s remarks. Pawar had earlier said the Union government should help the flood affected farmers as the state has its limitations. Pawar also said he will be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the next 10 days. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, responding to Fadnavis’ allegation that the state government was passing on its responsibility to the Centre, said that if the latter gives dues to the state on time, there will not be need to ask for its help. “I do not want to bring in politics here. However, if the Centre gives our dues on time, there will not be a need to ask for anything from the Centre,” he said. Both Thackeray and Fadnavis are touring the flood-affected areas of the state as heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 48 lives in Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions last week while crops on lakhs of hectares of land have been damaged, leading to farmers demanding immediate relief. At many places in Pune and Solapur district, farmers have complained that despite four days, the administration has not started assessment of cross damage, resulting in a delay in help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-floods-fadnavis-says-centre-will-help-wouldn-t-need-it-if-state-got-dues-on-time-says-cm/story-YuhH04cvhvzGV4pS1lu6BK.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Durga Puja in the time of Covid-19||In the past few months, with the Covid-19 scare, the fact that public gatherings of any nature would be dangerous became quite clear. However, it is commendable that with the festive season approaching, devotees, instead of being disappointed have come up with new ideas and noble causes to celebrate festivals. This remains true for Durga Puja as well. As it was with Ganesh Chaturthi, many have come together and decided to help those in need as we go through this distressing period.In Mumbai, too, the Bombay Durgabari Samiti has decided to tone down celebrations. Susmita Mitra, president of the women-led organisation says that “arrangements have been made to webcast the Puja this year”. Mitra adds that the organisation, that dates back to 1930s, will follow every norm set by the BMC. “Instead of the idol, we have opted for Ghat Puja, observing appropriate rituals. Also, have chosen a smaller venue, which is Sangam Hall in Marine Drive. All the BMC norms of social distancing will be observed,” she says.The same will be true for North Bombay Sarbojanin Durga Puja Samiti. The members, this year, have decided to take their puja to the people through live streaming. “We organise the festival for hundreds and thousands of devotees across India every year, however the celebration will be virtual this time. We are happy to reach millions of people through our virtual celebration. We have set certain rules which are mandatory for every member who will visit the pandal to follow,” says Deb Mukherjee.For devotees, too, this year will be a bit disappointing. Krishna Kumar, a 24-year-old student, who always makes it a point to visit the pandals, says, “Although, it is sad that there will be no gatherings, it is great to see people using the funds and resources to help those affected by the lockdown.” The feeling is mutual for Sreeyash Suresh, a 30-year-old IT professional. “I think online pujas are a great initiative. Many senior citizens will be able to attend it with their families,” he says.Moreover, Jayati Dasgupta, the chairman of the organisation adds that the charitable endeavours that run all through the year, have continued. She says among many other initiatives, “the Samiti actively undertakes various charitable initiatives throughout the year including granting scholarships to underprivileged and deserving students, bhog is distributed to a large number of underprivileged and less fortunate persons.” However, there will be no bhog distribution this year “keeping in mind government regulations and the safety of our devotees in mind,” adds Dasgupta.(Corrigendum: Please note the print version that appeared on October 19 mentions ‘bhog will be distributed this year’. However, this is an error and not true. Due to the Covid-19 restrictions, Bombay Durgabari Samiti wants to make sure that everyone remains safe.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/durga-puja-in-the-time-of-covid-19/story-q7vJqEbBhl2HbWioJVTWOO.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Urban areas of Maharashtra mark rise in cases again||Covid-19 cases in urban parts of Maharashtra have again started rising, in comparison with its rural areas.The caseload share of the urban parts of the state risen to 57.98% on October 18 from 51.6% a month ago.The urban parts, which are governed by 27 municipal corporations, recorded a major share of the caseload since the first case of Covid-19 was registered in the state on March 9. The urban areas accounted for 94.2% of the total cases (35,058) on June 18, though the share kept decreasing to mark 71.19% on July 18, 61.22% on August 18 and 51.59% on September 18. At the same time, the rural areas recorded a spike in the number of cases. By September, the urban parts came at par with the rural areas in terms of cases . Also read: Mumbai Metro to restart operations today; here’s all you need to knowMaharashtra’s population is almost equally distributed in urban and rural parts and the urban-rural population ratio during 2011 census was 45:55. However, this month, the cases in urban parts have started increasing in comparison to the rural areas of the state. “For the first couple of months of the outbreak, most of the cases were from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) comprising 11 big cities. Gradually, the virus started spreading to other big cities, like Nagpur, Nashik,Aurangabad as people started moving from places recording more cases. By July, the rural part of the state witnessed a massive spread. In some districts, like Jalgaon and Ahmednagar, cases were more in rural parts than in the cities. The rural parts have lived their peak now and have started moving towards the baseline of the infection curve,” said an official from the health department. Dr Gautam Bhansali, a consulting physician, said, “The peak in the rural areas has ended and the cases there are expected to keep reducing. Whereas the mobility in urban areas has increased after unlock and reverse migration to cities has begun. There is also an added confidence in the infrastructure in the cities that has led to more crowding there. On the contrary, in rural parts, there is fear among the people about the infection due to poor health facilities.”However, the state authorities have expressed concerns over the complacency among people in cities. “Citizens are not following the protocol of social distancing and personal hygiene carefully. This is also a reason for high number of cases in MMR, which has gone up to 35% of state cases from 25% over last few months,” an official from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-in-urban-areas-of-maharashtra-on-rise-again/story-ICBkGS7cpOzcgIZk4pby5K.html
19-10-2020||Pune||Maharashtra: After criticism, CM Uddhav Thackeray starts touring flood-affected areas||Maharastra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray began his two-day tour of flood-affected districts in western and central Maharashtra on Monday. Thackeray, along with other senior ministers from his cabinet, is visiting villages that were hit by heavy rainfall in Solapur and will meet with district officials on Monday evening to take stock of the situation.Harvest-ready crops on hectares of land were destroyed in the torrential rainfall and flooding that occurred for over four days last week in many districts of central and western Maharashtra. Farmers have been demanding immediate financial relief.Thackeray, along with revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse and local ruling party MLAs began the tour from Sangvi Khurd village in Solapur district. After visiting a few more villages in Akkalkot tehsil, he will hold a meeting with officers at the district collectorate before returning to Mumbai.Also Read: Agri loss unprecedented, says Pawar as he promises to meet PM for Centre’s help for rain-affected areasAt Sangvi Khurd, farmers expressed disappointment at the chief minister’s decision to review losses to crops from the bridge on Bhori river instead of visiting the fields.“Rain in our village was unprecedented. We want the entire village to be rehabilitated with immediate assistance to farmers,” said Aftab Shaikh, the village head of Sangvi Khurd.The chief minister’s tour began after criticism from opposition parties that Thackeray should step out and assess the loss from the ground instead of evaluating the situation through video conferencing.The CM will visit flood-hit villages in Osmanabad on Wednesday.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, too, began his three-day tour of flood-hit districts on Monday. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar visited villages in Solapur and Nanded on Sunday as part of his two-day tour. Pawar, on Sunday, said the Union government should help flood-affected farmers as the state had limited resources. Pawar also said he would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard in the next 10 days. “The Centre will, of course, help, but the state government cannot shrug off its responsibility. It is the state government’s primary responsibility to assist,” Fadnavis said while reacting to Sharad Pawar’s remarks. Fadnavis, during his visit to flood-affected areas in Daund tehsil of Pune district, said there was a “growing tendency” among the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to pass on every responsibility to the Centre.Due to the rain and floods, in western Maharashtra alone, 29 people lost their lives while 16 persons died in central Maharashtra’s Aurangabad division and three in coastal Konkan.(With inputs from Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-after-criticism-cm-uddhav-thackeray-starts-touring-flood-affected-areas/story-cQJXWG7TlGrt4CHgyB5BfN.html
19-10-2020||Education||DU to begin admissions under second cut-off list today||Following a record-breaking number of admissions under the first cut-off list this year, 61 Delhi University colleges are set to begin the second round of merit-based admissions to its undergraduate courses from Monday. Over 34, 800 students had taken admissions under the first cut-off for the 70,000 undergraduate seats offered by the varsity. Last year, this figure stood at around 23,000. At over 354,000 applications, the university had also received its highest-ever number of applications this year. Admissions under second cut-off will begin on Monday, 10am, and will continue till Wednesday, 5 pm. Applicants can, however, pay the fee till Friday night. Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai said, “We had anticipated a higher number of students taking admissions this year due to several factors. This is why we have extended the hours for the admission and payment process.” The university’s admission team has advised students to pay the fee early so that errors in the payment process, if any, can be rectified before the deadline is over. HT had earlier reported on how students had reported errors while trying to pay the fee through the university portal till the last day of payment under the first cut-off list. Many principals said that following the second cut-off list, many applicants may switch colleges or cancel their admissions since the results of all entrance examination, including National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), had also been declared.Executive council member Rajesh Jha, who teaches at Rajdhani College, had told HT, “Carrying out admissions under the first cut-off list is relatively less complex. In the subsequent lists, students would want to cancel their admission in one college and take admission in another and doing all that within a three-day window is more of a challenge.” While the second list saw a marginal drop in cut-offs, several popular courses are still available in multiple colleges. For instance, students wishing to study BA (Honours) in English can apply in Lady Shri Ram College (98.75%), Miranda House (98.75%), Hansraj College (97.75%), Ramjas (97.25%) and Kirori Mal College (97%). Similarly, BA (Honours) in Economics is available in LSR at 99%, Hindu (98.75%), Miranda (98.5%), and Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) (99%). Students wishing to pursue BCom (Honours) can still apply in Hindu College (98.25%), LSR (99.5%), Hansraj College (98%), Ramjas (98.75%), and SRCC at 98.5%. BA (Honours) in Political Science is still available in LSR (99.75%), Ramjas (98.75%), Kirori Mal College (98.75%), and off-campus colleges including Gargi College (97), Rajdhani College (93.75%), and Aryabhatta College (94.5%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-to-begin-admissions-under-second-cut-off-list-today/story-sIrixMKh6Mixsv2So3IlAP.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 2 die, 4 hospitalised after inhaling toxic gases while cleaning underground tank||Two workers died and four needed to be hospitalised after they inhaled toxic gases while cleaning an underground tank at a jewellery manufacturing unit in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar on Sunday evening, the police said.Of the four hospitalised, three were discharged after treatment while the fourth continues to receive treatment.Vijayanta Arya, the deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said that a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been registered and two persons have been arrested. “We have arrested the factory owner Rajender Soni and the cleaning contractor Pramod Dangi,” the DCP said.The two dead men, Idris and Salim—both 45 years old, were among a group of seven daily wage labourers who had arrived from Khurja in Uttar Pradesh to find work in the national capital.The DCP said that they found work at a jewellery manufacturing unit in an industrial area in Adarsh Nagar.Also Read: Delhi: Jewellery store employee fakes attack to pass it off as a robbery attempt“The unit makes golf and silver chains. They store chemicals and water for cleaning the precious metals in a safety tank. It was this tank that needed to be cleaned,” said the DCP.The factory owner had allegedly outsourced the work to the contractor, Dangi.The police received a call about the mishap around 6.45pm on Sunday. They arrived at the spot to find two workers unconscious and four others in need of treatment. Only the seventh worker was unaffected, the DCP said.They were all rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital, where Idris and Salim died.The police are investigating the owner and contractor’s negligence brought about the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-2-die-4-hospitalised-after-inhaling-toxic-gases-while-cleaning-underground-tank/story-mbyk7WOJmKUx95IN6vJyHP.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains: Decision on SOPs, increasing services to allow more women to be taken this week||Decisions on the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) to be followed and the increase in the number of suburban train services to allow women commuters to travel are likely to be taken this week. The Maharashtra government, on Friday, had already asked the Railways to allow all women commuters to travel from Saturday. Before this, only women working in essential services and government offices and those who are disabled could travel. In a telephonic conversation between senior railway authorities and the state government on Sunday, state officials told the former that they will be provided with modalities and SOPs for allowing an increased number of passengers.Also Read: Mumbai Metro starts today: Here’s how to travel safely“Discussions on allowing women commuters in local trains took place between state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and railway authorities. Increased passenger count will be provided. We are ready and prepared to allow women commuters and also operate additional local train services,” a senior railway official said.The railway authorities and the state government also discussed the issue with officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Sunday. Discussions regarding the increased number of passengers and train services took place between Kumar and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Sunday As part of its Mission Begin Again, the state government on Friday wrote to railway authorities to allow women commuters to travel by local trains during stipulated hours from Saturday. Women commuters were allowed to travel in local trains in stipulated time from between 11am and 3pm and 7pm till midnight. In Mumbai, about one fourth of a 12-coach suburban train is reserved for women commuters. A few special trains only for women commuters are also run by both western and central railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-decision-on-sops-increasing-services-to-allow-more-women-to-be-taken-this-week/story-ihmEpTie4ZWw2HLpwdoPYP.html
19-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Night-long Durga Puja pandal-hopping to start today amid sharp spike in Covid-19 cases||Overnight Durga Puja pandal-hopping is expected to start from Monday amid warning by doctors that the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases could spike up to four times after the festive season, if restrictions are relaxed by the West Bengal government. “Revellers can visit puja pandals in the evening from Tritiya to Ekadashi,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said while urging pandal-hoppers and puja organisers to avoid crowding. While Tritiya falls on Monday, Ekadashi will be observed on October 27. Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state, starts from Friday (October 23).However, most of the big pujas in Kolkata and its suburbs have been inaugurated by CM Banerjee herself. The festivities come amid West Bengal reporting a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases since people started shopping for the festive season and crowding around marketplaces. Also Read: Bengal governor Dhankhar gives ‘last warning’ to officials, CM Mamata on law and orderOn Sunday, 3,983 new Covid-19 cases were reported from across the state, including 813 in Kolkata alone. This is the maximum number of viral outbreak cases recorded in the state and the city on a single day. The positivity rate has increased from 6.6% on September 5 to 9.1% on October 18 in Bengal. Social media is flooded with pictures and videos of pandal hoppers in Kolkata and its suburbs.Earlier, the members of Joint Platform of Doctors had expressed concern about an uptick in Covid-19 cases, which could lead to a “tsunami of the viral infection” and might see a four-fold rise in the contagion, and had drawn CM Banerjee’s attention to the disconcerting trend. They had cited the examples of Kerala, where Covid-19 cases had increased after the annual Onam festival, which was celebrated at the end of August.A similar situation was also reported from Spain following the International Women’s Day celebrations and the staging of a football match. Over 37,000 community pujas are being held across Bengal, including more than 2,500 in Kolkata. Around 1,700 pujas are being organised by women in the state. However, the list doesn’t include pujas that are being held in housing societies and individual households. The Calcutta high court (HC) has asked the state government to submit a plan on Monday about how the authorities would plan to curb overcrowding during Durga puja festivities. The HC asked for the plan while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL). The state government has assured the court that the police were working on strategies to control overcrowding at puja pandals and public places. “Face masks have been made mandatory and pandal hoppers are being given hand sanitisers. Volunteers are ensuring that social distancing is being complied with at puja pandals,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary, Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organisation of some of the biggest Durga pujas in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-night-long-durga-puja-pandal-hopping-to-start-today-amid-sharp-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-0i4fHa1xHwbr5OR3TDDQaO.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro starts today: Here’s how to travel safely||Mumbai Metro-1 is set to be back on track from 8.30 am Monday. Metro services in the city had been shut for seven months due to the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown. Initially, Metro-1 will provide passengers with services between 8.30am and 8.30pm at a frequency of 6.30 minutes during peak hours. Metro authorities will study commuter patterns for a week or fortnight before increasing services. Also Read: Monorail services resume in Mumbai after pandemic; ridership continues to be lowHere are a few steps you can follow to stay safe as listed by the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor Before you begin the journey1. Ensure you have downloaded the Aarogya Setu App.2. Avoid peak hours.3. Carry a bottle of sanitiser at all times. At the entry 1. Use earmarked gates (not all gates will be open for entry/exit).2. Ensure you are wearing your mask. 3. Follow health screening protocols.Inside the station 1. Follow social distancing norms.2. Use mobile ticketing options and smart cards.In the train 1. Do not sit on seats marked with a cross.2. If standing, ensure you are on designating spots marked with an X.3. Wear a mask at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-starts-today-here-s-how-to-travel-safely/story-oAa1OKvyMMyAYobxIiCJZN.html
19-10-2020||Lucknow||‘Rotiwali Amma’ in Agra awaits similar support like Delhi’s ‘Baba ka Dhaba’||Not every roadside stall can turn into sought after “Baba ka Dhabha”, and not every octogenarian can garner support after a video of her empty eatery goes viral.In stark contrast to the now-famous “Baba ka Dhabha” in Delhi, a roadside stall of “Rotiwali Amma” in Agra is still awaiting customers.Also an 80-year-old, she too serves roti, dal, vegetables, and rice for Rs 20 a plate. Running her stall near St John’s College in Agra for the last 15 years, Bhagwan Devi, a widow, has been catering to mostly rickshawallas and labourers. But, like all other businesses, small or big, her’s too saw a downfall after the COVID-induced lockdown. Even her usual customers are scarce due to the coronavirus threat. Moreover, her’s being a roadside stall, she always faces a threat of being removed from the footpath from where she runs her eatery.Amma says her two sons don’t look after her and that’s why she runs this small eatery to earn a livelihood. “Nobody is helping me. Had somebody been there with me, I won’t have faced this situation. Most of the time, I am asked to leave this place. Where will I go? My only hope is if I get a permanent shop,” she says.Her video too went viral on social media like “Baba ka Dhabha”, but as luck or public sympathy would have it, her story didn’t turn out to be a Cinderella story. She is still waiting for the supporting shoes to step in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rotiwali-amma-in-agra-awaits-similar-support-like-delhi-s-baba-ka-dhaba/story-xsOv1aJebpgHcLQeFT7M5K.html
19-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan says ex-CM Digvijaya Singh is Mahabharata’s ‘Shakuni’||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday launched a scathing attack on Congress leader Digvijaya Singh calling him “Shakuni” who will be relieved only when his party gets destroyed.“Digvijaya Singh is Mahabharata’s Shakuni and will be relieved only when he destroys his party,” Shivraj said while addressing a public rally here.Chouhan further said that in one and a quarter years, the Congress pot of sins was filled up which was burst by Jyotiraditya Scindia.Rajgarh district’s Biaora Assembly constituency will witness a by-poll on November 3. Shivraj Singh Chouhan held the public rally here to support BJP candidate Narayan Singh Panwar.Twenty-eight assembly seats will go for by-polls in Madhya Pradesh on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-ex-cm-digvijaya-singh-is-mahabharata-s-shakuni/story-fnwPjLpeqcR6oQ1pqCg9tO.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||No rethink on farm laws, but will reach out to farmers again for talks: Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma||Three farm laws, enacted by the Centre, are facing an unprecedented opposition in Punjab. The BJP is the target of both farmers and major political parties. What is your reading of the situation? Our party is absolutely sure that these laws will ensure protection and freedom to farmers to sell their crops and, thus, strengthen their financial position. Moreover, this new system will not, in any way, is tamper with the minimum support price (MSP) and mandis under the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. Every party in Punjab is opposing these laws due to their personal reasons and political goals. The ruling Congress’s rant is a diversionary tactic on its failure on the lofty promises --- farm debt waiver, jobs to every household, and drug-free Punjab --- it had made before coming to power in 2017. That is why the Capt Amarinder Singh government latched onto the farm laws as a deflector and started instigating the farmers to oppose it. Our former alliance partner (Shiromani Akali Dal) batted for the bills for three months. Their claim they were never consulted is a blatant lie. The core group of both parties in Punjab had threadbare discussions. They (Akalis) praised the draft bills but asked for assurance from the Centre on the MSP and procurement through APMCs. This conversation happened between me and chotte Badal Sahib (Sukhbir Singh Badal). On their insistence, I spoke to Union agriculture minister who sent a letter on assurances within 12 hours. Ideally, both alliance partners should have gone public on this together. But, the SAD chief, in a bid to take the credit, rushed to hold the press conference and revealed the letter. The real problem of Akalis was that they were desperately looking to reclaim the political ground they had lost since the Bargari sacrilege episode. In a bid to bounce back in perception game, Akali Dal did a U-turn on farm laws and pulled out of the National Democratic Alliance ( NDA). The Aam Aadmi Party’s opposition (to farm laws) is also dictated by the realisation that their Punjab base has been shrinking. But, BJP has a firm belief that satya ko pahunchane main der lag sakti hai,par satya kabhi parajit nahin hota (truth can be delayed but it cannot be defeated). Was the state BJP consulted during the discussion on framing of these laws at the Centre? Usually, the Centre consults only the elected stakeholders, and chief ministers of many states were taken on board. Punjab finance minister was also part of that process. Punjab BJP unit was consulted before the Union government brought the ordinances on farm reforms. Since this carried nothing against farmers, there was no reason to raise doubt. Opposition parties are telling farmers that the Adanis and Ambanis will take over their lands and they will be turned labourers. This is a patently false propaganda. Despite assurances by Prime Minister and agriculture minister, farmers are not convinced and are unrelenting on their agitation. Is that a sign of trust deficit between both the sides? I don’t think so. But when three or four people start talking lies and only one person is defending it, doubts are bound to be raised. I’ve no hesitation in accepting we lacked --- I won’t say we failed --- in convincing the farmers on these laws. But I am fully confident that farmers will ultimately see the benefits of the new laws. Right now, our only task is to convince the farmers. Once that is done, those (political parties) opposing it will be knocked out. Right now, it seems like BJP versus farmers. Last week, your cavalcade was attacked. There are reports of ban on entry of your party leaders to villages. I don’t want to make any comment on the farmers’ agitation. Farmer is our anndata, and the Centre is also very serious about his welfare. Many forces and factors are at play in these agitations. ‘Kisan ka tau sirf naam hai, khel rajneeti ka ho raha hai’ (politics is being played in the name of farmers). On their mind are the 2022 assembly elections. Three or four parties are blocking our entries into villages because they see us as a political threat. It’s a big game involving anti-BJP political parties and those linked to Communist ideology. Those obstructing our outreach are the people who want to disturb the hard-earned peace and communal harmony of Punjab. This is very disturbing. Farmers went to meet the Union agriculture secretary for talks. But they walked out as no central minister met them especially when eight of them were holding virtual meetings in Punjab on the issue. Was it not an opportunity lost? Farmers were called by the agriculture secretary, not the minister. The meeting went on for two hours. Farmer bodies submitted two memorandums and issues were discussed in detail. How can this be called a boycott? The secretary even assured to forward their demands to the agriculture minister and seek his response. The Centre’s doors are open. As far as meeting the agriculture minister, we shall make that happen, too. So farmers may be invited again for talks? Why not? Our channels with farmers and the Union government are open. We will again be reaching out to farmers. A seven-member committee of the state BJP led by former minister Surjit Jyani is in touch with farmer unions. How would you pacify the farmers? Sampark aur samvaad se (through contact and dialogue). Some quarters say that national BJP leadership doesn’t appreciate the sensitivities of Punjab. A prominent Sikh face of your Punjab unit who resigned alleged that the party is anti-Punjab. Those who are saying all this want to make Punjab a state what it used to be 30 years ago. They label us not just as anti-Punjab, but even anti-Sikh. But, look at what the BJP government has done to understand how it understands the Punjab psyche: Opening up of the Kartarpur sahib corridor, justice for the 1984 anti-Sikh violence, abolition of the black list of Sikh NRIs, special package for Sultanpur Lodhi, celebration of 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. Does all this show the BJP as anti-Punjab or anti-Sikhs? The fact is that only the BJP thinks pro-Sikhs, not the Congress. Is there any scope for rethink on farm laws? Rethink will be there if there is anything against the farmers in these laws. There is nothing like that. Yes, if farmers want some addition or deletion, it will also be done on the table, but not on the roads. Farmers should continue their channels of negotiation. The key demand of protesting farmers is that MSP be made a legal right? That has never been so before. The MSP has all along been an administrative order. No political party can dare to end or even touch it. The Punjab assembly will hold a special session tomorrow apparently to pass a bill to nullify the central farm laws. What will be the BJP MLAs stand in the House? The BJP stand firmly in favour of the laws. We don’t have any doubt. How will the end of 24-year-old SAD-BJP alliance impact your party in Punjab? Jo hota hai achhe ke liye hota hai. At one time, BJP used to contest 66 of 117 seats in Punjab. In 1996, for the sake of communal harmony and peace, BJP formed an alliance with Akalis and agreed to contest only 23 seats. Today, the BJP is not what it used to be 10 years back. We have organisation structure in every assembly segment. There is a talk in political circles about that BJP aligning with breakaway Akali factions, including one led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa ? Hum samajik sanstha ya bhajan mandali nahin hain (we are not a charity organisation or a religious group). We are into politics and will welcome any one keen to ally with us. Are you open to Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘ghar wapsi’ to the BJP? Sidhu at present is Congress’s problem. It is up to them how to deal with it. Whosoever wants to come is welcome. Let’s wait for an appropriate time. ‘Ye halke halke badal hain, jo thode dino main chhatt jayenge (These small clouds would disappear in coming days). Then, the sun will rise and the lotus will bloom. Chief minister Amarinder Singh apprehends that the tumult over farm laws may be exploited by Pakistan? If the head of any state, who is constitutionally responsible to uphold law and order and peace in the state, will start giving such statements, it only incites people. He should act as a chief minister. Barring a few political parties, nobody wants Punjab’s peace to be disturbed. The central government is alive to the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-rethink-on-farm-laws-but-will-reach-out-to-farmers-again-for-talks-punjab-bjp-chief-ashwani-sharma/story-1e6zieJtt6pDy8BS2nZSvI.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to introduce Bill to counter Centre’s farm laws on Tuesday as special assembly session begins||The two-day special session of the Punjab assembly convened to introduce a Bill to counter the Centre’s farm laws began on Monday morning with obituary references that included farmers who died during the ongoing agitation against liberalising agriculture.The House was adjourned for an hour after paying tributes to Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu of Tarn Taran, former Punjabi University Joginder Singh Puar, lance naik Karnail Singh, besides freedom fighters Mahinder Singh, Sardar Singh, Rai Singh Patanga and Hemraj Mittal, who passed away recently.The session resumed around noon but was adjourned for the day after adopting a resolution to extend the duration of the special session by a day. On Sunday, the state cabinet authorised chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to introduce the Bill to counter the Centre’s three farm laws. It will be presented in the House for approval on Tuesday.Earlier, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema of the Aam Aadmi Party asked for copies of the Bills to be tabled by the Congress government, particularly the one related to the Centre’s farm Bills.Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala also demanded that the Bill on the farm laws should be taken up on Monday itself as the special session had been convened for the purpose. Thereafter, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings for the day.Defiant Akali MLAs insisted that they be allowed inside the Punjab Bhawan to address the media but police prevented them from doing so.DECLARING PUNJAB ‘PRINCIPAL MARKET YARD’ The chief minister had assured representatives of farmer organisations on September 29 of the Bill to counter the Centre’s laws. The SAD asked the state government to declare Punjab as “principal market yard” for agricultural produce so that the Centre’s laws do not apply in the state, terming it as the quickest and the most effective counter measure. FACTORIES ORDINANCE TO BE TABLED To improve investment and generate employment, the cabinet on Sunday gave its nod for converting the Factories (Punjab Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 into a Bill, to be tabled for enactment in the Vidhan Sabha to amend the Factories Act, 1948. The Bill will facilitate faster settlement of cases and reduction in court action, besides changing the existing threshold limit for small units from 10 and 20 to 20 and 40, respectively. The change has been necessitated with the increase in manufacturing by small units in the state. FARMERS TO MEET ON TUESDAY TO DISCUSS FUTURE COURSE Meanwhile, farmers continued their protest against the farms laws across the state. Devinder Singh, the Amritsar district president of the Kishan Sangharsh Committee, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had introduce the farm laws to benefit corporates but the farmers would not allow the laws to be implemented in Punjab.“The Prime Minister has brought such laws to benefit his friends Ambani and Adani, but the farmers of Punjab will not let anyone control their land and these laws will not be allowed to be implemented in Punjab. We have expressed our opposition against the laws and have burnt the effigies of Ambani, Adani and PM,” he said. Farmers are meeting on October 20 to discuss the future strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/special-punjab-assembly-session-to-counter-centre-s-farm-laws-begins-today/story-p8m4IdE9Q1d2Ljk0OwIdTM.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI continues to improve, drops to 231 this morning||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) continued to improve on Monday morning and at 7 am the reading showed 231.The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin on Sunday evening said that the national capital’s AQI was 254, which fell in the poor category. Also read: Share of farm fires in PM2.5 forecast to riseOn Saturday, the AQI was even worse at 287. “The predominant surface wind was coming from the west of Delhi. On Sunday, the wind was up to 12 kilometres per hour (kmph) and the sky was mainly clear. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the south-east and north-west direction of the national capital on Monday. The wind speed is likely to be up to 10 kmph on Monday morning accompanied by a clear sky and mist,” said a statement from the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality early warning system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-continues-to-improve-drops-to-231-this-morning/story-EEBRXtE0l68B9RlGLiOl1H.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Thin attendance as government schools reopen in Punjab’s Malwa amid Covid-19 pandemic||Government schools in Punjab reopened for students of Classes 9 to 12 on Monday after seven months of lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Thin attendance was reported from schools in Bathinda, Mansa, Ferozepur and adjoining districts of south Malwa. Most parents are concerned about the safety of their wards and are not keen to send them to school just yet. “Parents are not eager to submit consent letters immediately. Schools lack infrastructure to ensure a seating plan with social distancing. We are waiting and watching. Stakeholders need time to build confidence though preparations are being made to resume school,” said a Bathinda-based parent, requesting anonymity. OPEN ONLY FOR THREE HOURS Of the 1,527 students at Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Bathinda’s Model Town, only 53 students turned up on Monday. Principal Saveen Kiran said parents are slowly approaching the school with consent letters. “Parents have to make plans to drop and pick up their wards as educational institutions are open for only three hours. Students are keen on resuming classes and hopeful that the situation will improve soon,” she said. Another government school at Gobindpur village has 317 students in Classes 9 to 12 but only 52 children attended class on Monday. In Mansa’s Girl’s Senior Secondary School, only 60 of the 1,200 students attended class. SCHOOLS CAN START AT 9AM District education officer Iqbal Singh said that all schools have been sanitised and Covid-19 standard operating protocol (SOPs) are being followed. “Schools are scheduled to open for three hours only after 8.30 am. However, the headquarters has given school heads the relaxation to start school from 9am, depending on the requirement of students,” he said. ATTENDANCE TO PICK UP AFTER HARVEST SEASON School managements in the rural areas of the state’s Malwa region expect to see an improvement in attendance from October-end as students, mainly boys, are engaged in the harvesting of paddy and cotton at present. A principal from a rural school said: “We are not expecting an improvement in attendance for at least two more weeks.” A teacher in Mansa said like parents, teachers also have apprehensions of safety at schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thin-attendance-as-government-schools-reopen-in-punjab-s-malwa-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-JgYQS55w9iWlX3vAumy2LM.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Sex workers take to art to survive Covid-19 pandemic||With her wailing toddler in her arms, a 35-year-old woman watches keenly as another woman in a large hall of a school displays how to make bags out of designer paper. “If you pack well, you sell well. You receive a better price for the product,” the trainer tells a dozen women surrounding her.Once these women learn the process, they will fill these paper packets with clay lamps they have artistically painted over the past couple of days.The woman holding the child is desperate to learn this work -- or any work for that matter.Click here for full Covid-19 pandemic“This could be the opportunity I am looking for a way out for the past 12 years. I have to think of an alternative future for my daughter,” says the woman. She is among scores of sex workers from Delhi’s GB Road who are looking for an escape route from the profession, or at least an alternative career until business picks up after the pandemic.And the opportunity may have arrived, thanks to ‘Hunar Jyoti’ -- a joint initiative of the Delhi Police, the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLA) and NGO Naina Activity Educational Society (NAES).“In the first three days, the sex workers are being trained in painting designer clay lamps and making paper packets. Over the next few days and weeks, they’ll be trained to make incense sticks, key rings and work with fabrics,” said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central district).This is not the first time the Delhi Police have attempted to impart vocational training to GB Road’s sex workers. When they did that way back in 2012, only about two dozen sex workers showed interest.This time, Bhatia said, about 200 of them have registered and half of them have showed up for the training. “This time it is also different because the pandemic has left them financially broken and looking for other jobs. They know that due to the threat of infection, the sex work may not be as feasible as before. We are trying to use it as an opportunity to wean them away from sex work,” said Bhatia.The sex workers agreed that this time it is different.During the nationwide lockdown, about 20% of the about 2,000 sex workers employed at the 30 brothels of GB Road had left for their native places, the police estimate. The others were left without any work and had to rely on the police and NGOs even for their daily meals. Customers began coming in from late August and early September, but they are far fewer in number.“Earlier, I would have five-six customers. Now, I feel lucky if I can find one or two. The money I am making right now is barely enough to keep my children going,” said another sex worker who has been working on GB Road for a decade. Even after customers had begun walking in, she had tried to avoid work for fear of getting infected by the coronavirus, but she soon gave in as the need to feed her children took priority over her health.This situation is what prompted her to make it to the training centre that is temporarily operating out of a school at a walking distance from the brothels.The initiative was the brainchild of sub-inspector Kiran Sethi, who according to the DCP, is the first woman officer in-charge of the GB Road police post. “Initially, I got the women to do yoga at a common place. Then we requested a bunch of doctors from AIIMS to carry out a health check-up for them,” said Sethi.But as she gradually made her future intentions clear, she faced resistance, particularly from the brothel-in-charges. “Few of them called me to say that the sex workers wouldn’t be allowed to interact with me. But I was stern and they had no options,” said Sethi.Soon, a make-shift workplace was set up at a nearby school and the NGO NAES pooled in raw resources and trainers. “Training sex workers is a work not many want to touch. Once they are trained, they can do it from the place where they work itself,” said Shiv Kumar Kohli, the director of the NGO.The DSLA, meanwhile, entered the initiative to help the sex workers open bank accounts, procure ration and Aadhar cards, etc.“Since this opportunity may actually prompt some women to give up sex work, we have appointed a legal aide council to cater to them if they face any trouble,” said Neeti Suri Mishra, a metropolitan magistrate and the secretary of DSLA’s central district unit.While the training has been sorted, challenges of selling the products made by the sex workers remain.Sethi said while the lamps will be purchased by the police and the legal community members to begin with, the police are reaching out to the Khadi Gram Udyog, the Dilli Haat and even Tihar Jail whose inmates make and sell such products.The sex workers, meanwhile, saw a ray of hope at a time when they are among the worst hit. “I agreed to attend the first day of the training just out of curiosity. But now I may have some work to do while sitting on the stairs (of the brothel),” said a third sex worker, a 52-year-old woman who has been working here for three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sex-workers-take-to-art-to-survive-covid-19-pandemic/story-iSpneaqDgHZKvCyJRQdFrJ.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||‘Digital’ the buzzword for police in Covid-19 era||In March, when the Capital went into shutdown mode to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi Police suddenly found itself enforcing not just law and order, but also lockdown restrictions, social distancing norms, and the wearing of masks, while trying to ensure its own personnel did not fall prey to the raging virus. It turned, tentatively, to technology to navigate the unknown territory. Six months on, “digital” is the buzzword in Delhi Police. What started with Zoom calls for law-and-order meetings and WhatsApp for sending notices and summons to minimize touch and physical contact, has had a transformative effect on the Capital’s police, with many of its legacy processes and procedures going online.The most significant of them is the replacement of the traditional beat book (a paper diary where a beat officer kept all information and data about his beat) with the e-beat book -- a mobile application, integrated with the existing online data systems such as Zipnet, Dossier, CCTNS (the Crime and Criminal Tracking Networks and Systems), and ICJS (Interoperable Criminal Justice System) that aligns various pillars of the criminal justice system such as e-courts and e-prisons databases. The e- beat book will allow a beat officer to carry out a host of tasks remotely. Also Read | Good cop, bad cop online: Interrogations go digital“The beat is the primary unit of policing, and the e-beat book will empower the beat officer like never before. He can now access the criminal record of a suspect on the spot, without having to take him to the police station. This new tool has face recognition software and all a beat officer needs to do is click his picture and search the database,” said SN Shrivastava, commissioner of Delhi Police. “It will help detect, map and prevent crime more effectively.” According to the latest National Crimes Records Bureau (NCRB) report, overall crime in Delhi went up by 20 percent in 2019, compared to the previous year, including crimes against women. The e-beat book, says Prem Nath, Additional CP, technology and cybercrime, will help record the crime, the criminal, and other relevant data for the beat; provide real-time location of all 1,752 beat officers in the city; and allow online tasks to be allocated to them; apart from enabling them to file various verification reports online.“The moment you fill a form for a tenant or servant verification online, it will come to the beat constable, who can file his report on e-beat book,” said Nath. Delhi Police have rolled out the e-beat book initiative in all districts, having distributed new mobile devices among all beat officers Many of Delhi Police’s registers and diaries -- a legacy of the Raj – also went digital in June. Take for example “roznamcha” (police diary), which is a record of all happenings at a police station, including all the registered FIRs, complaints, arrests, attendance, among other things. It is now digital. Similarly, the Police Control Room ( PCR) register, which maintains the record of all information regarding distress calls marked to that police station as well as complaints and missing person registers, have gone online. “All of this is now being done in digital format on CCTNS, a centralised integrated system of the Union home ministry. During the pandemic, we started sending even court files online,” said Rajan Bhagat, a retired DCP of Delhi Police who is now a consultant in-charge of technology projects. Delhi Police have also introduced an Integrated Complaint Management System (ICMS), which allows people to get a complaint number and track the status of their complaint. “This is to ensure that the public grievance redressal is faster, more transparent, accountable and paperless,” said Shrivastava. Delhi Police, he adds, will soon start online delivery of many other citizen services such as permissions for processions, events, rallies, licensing NOCs, among others. “We will do so through our Tatpar app, where we have amalgamated all citizen services,” said Shrivastava. Most of these digital procedures Delhi Police adopted during the pandemic -- sending summons and bailable warrants on WhatsApp, video conferencing for meetings, virtual examination of witnesses, interrogation of accused, and interactions with victims -- will continue to be an integral part of policing in the Capital, says Shrivastava. “Some of these digital tools have turned out to be very effective, ensuring that the police personnel spend more time on crime prevention duties than travelling to deliver documents,” he said. “Video conferencing has allowed me to personally intervene in many cases. I take both complainants and concerned police officers on the call. We will continue to use it.” Retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Prakash Singh, who served as the chief of Uttar Pradesh and Assam police in 1991-1993 and whose public interest litigation led to the SC passing landmark police reforms in 2006, said, “The pandemic made us look at ways of living/working, we had not thought before. Delhi Police seem to have turned a challenge into an opportunity. Digitisation is the need of the hour. I am not aware about the concept of e-beat book but if what you have said is true then it looks promising. Others should also replicate it. It is a step forwards towards modernisation. A general diary, which is a register that documents every thing at the police station is a nuisance. It came into being because of the mistrust of the police when it was started. It was unnecessary paper work. Moving to virtual summon/interrogation, granting permission online is the best solution today this but one must not forget the importance of meeting complainants in person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/digital-the-buzzword-for-police-in-covid-19-era/story-ug7GIZ4lj9EepVFNXUChgI.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The quaint circles of Shakti Nagar||It is commonly assumed that nothing exciting ever happens in small towns and villages. At best, the threadbare public life centres around a tree in the square, under which folks might stop to trade some mild gossip.With their malls and multi-storeys, big cities are denied of such charms — rather, dig out your dog-eared copy of R K Narayan’s short stories, set in the small town of Malgudi, to experience the pleasures of such quaint settings.Or, you can make a tour of the circles of Shakti Nagar. The sleepy north Delhi neighbourhood is an enclave of private houses interspersed with teenie-weenie boutiques, one-man tailoring shops and boxy groceries that give “flat 10 percent discount on MRP”. The locality lanes are marked with three roundabouts, each distinguished by a tree, and marooned in the uniqueness of its setting.Start the walk with Alam Chand Chowk that boasts one of the tallest trees in this part of the city. The majestic banyan shoots up far beyond the altitudes of the surrounding residences, as if wanting to slam into the very surface of the sky. Its huge trunk is extensively creased, like hundred of streams running down a mountainside. Portraits of Gods lie by the tree, indicating the veneration it commands in the area. The circle has a small rain shelter, the kind seen in parks. It is decked up with dozens of mooras. A rickshaw puller is drinking water from a filter installed beside the tree. The roundabout faces a couple of shops. Among them, Banga Studio displays romantic portraits of smiling couples, while an elderly man is sitting quietly in Sparsh Confectioners & Stationers.A minute-long wall away lies Dhariwal Chowk. It is more subdued, though with a carefully cultivated wildish look consisting of a central tree surrounded by minor ones—-a board is painted with the gardener’s mobile number. Two cows are loitering beside the fence. On the adjacent Nanku Paan Corner, a sign warns against spitting. An elderly couple in their balcony are intently gazing at Shri Hari Drycleaners, which claims to be an expert in “European Dryclean Service.”The third circle, Choudhury Deepchand Ruhil Chowk, has a graceful peepal. A passerby informs that neighbourhood folks offer prayers under the tree during the early morning hours. A flier slapped on the circle’s metal signage is advertising “PG for boys” with benefits like “RO Water, Friendly Environment, and Walking Distance from Delhi University.”A small maternity hospital lies next to the circle. A woman is sitting at the gate, looking bored, as if nothing ever happens in this part of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-quaint-circles-of-shakti-nagar/story-51tUbPQOijBiYA4HI6rRkN.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi man bleeds to death after liquor bottle pierces thigh||A 25-year-old man was killed after he fell on the ground while being assaulted allegedly by a group of people and a liquor bottle tucked in his trouser’s pocket broke and pierced his thigh in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar on Friday night, police said. Police said the man was attacked after he allegedly used a toilet in a building without permission. The incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed in the lane where the man died, they said.A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of Indian Penal Code was registered at the New Ashok Nagar police station, said deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh.“We are scanning the CCTV footage to identify the people who assaulted the man,” said DCP Singh, adding that the victim has been identified as Manish Yadav who worked in a vehicle washing agency in Noida.Senior police officer said that on Friday night, Yadav had come to a building to meet his friend, Manish Thakur, who lives there as a tenant. They consumed liquor on the building’s terrace. Around 9.30 pm, Yadav was leaving the building when he saw a toilet on the ground floor and went inside to urinate without asking for permission, they said.A woman living on the ground floor as a tenant raised an alarm after seeing Yadav. Hearing her scream, the building’s owner and some locals reached there and thrashed Yadav following an altercation, said a police officer associated with the probe.According to the officer, the CCTV footage shows four-five men quarrelling and thrashing Yadav, who is seen walking in the lane. The footage shows Yadav coming back and getting involved in a scuffle with them.“During the melee, he fell on the ground on his back. A liquor bottle tucked in the rear pocket of his trouser broke and it pierced his left thigh right above the back side of his knee. It led to excessive bleeding. Yadav was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead,” the officer added.DCP Singh said Yadav’s family was informed about the incident and his body had been preserved in Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital’s mortuary for autopsy. “The autopsy will be conducted on Monday because Yadav’s Covid-19 report is awaited,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-bleeds-to-death-after-bottle-in-pocket-breaks/story-y0GRpRPkI5yOV0PKU0zvqJ.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Learnings from polio on how to vaccinate 50 million||With several promising experimental coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines likely to be available by early next year, India has begun preparing to immunise 200-250 million people by July 2021. “In the next few months at the most we should have a vaccine and in the next six months we should be in the process of delivering the vaccine to the people of India,” said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in his comments at the Annual General Meeting of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and St. John’s Ambulance last week. Most of the potential Covid-19 vaccines will have to be given in two doses to offer protection against infection or reduction in disease severity, which would mean that 400-500 million jabs of the vaccine will have to be given within six months. Is this possible? Deepak Kapur, who is Rotary’s National PolioPlus chair for India, said it is achievable. Kapoor, who took over this role in 2001, led a team of volunteers who advocated and supported government to reach marginalized and migrant populations where many children were being missed, which was leading to the wild poliovirus surviving in India. The mammoth effort led to 170 million children getting vaccinated against polio on every national immunization day. “When the polio eradication initiative began, and even towards the end, experts from across the world thought that India may not be able to do it at all, and if it did, it would be the last country in the world to actually do so. But we defied all odds, and despite a huge population, insanitary conditions and a whole lot of other factors like malnutrition, India delivered,” said Kapur. The last polio case was recorded in India on January 13, 2011. And on 27 March 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared India polio free, since then no cases of wild polio have been reported for five years. In the week leading up to World Polio Day on October 24, Kapur, who is also a member of India Expert Advisory Group that advises the health ministry on keeping India polio free, is optimistic. “It is possible, it will require a great deal of training in vaccine delivery because the cold-chain has to be adequate, and from what I understand, there are those (Covid-19 vaccines) that are okay at about minus 30-degrees Celsius and those that are okay at minus 70-degrees Celsius. Quite obviously, India will have to go with the ones that can be maintained at minus 30-degrees Celsius because our cold chain is geared to that,” he said. A cold chain is a temperature-controlled supply chain to ensure no vaccine spoilage. Work has already begun in India, which is identifying warehouses and deploying its indigenously developed Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) that digitizes vaccine stocks and monitors cold-chain temperatures to ensure quality and efficacy are not lost to temperature variations. Health centres are geo-tagged and sensors in refrigerators and freezers storing vaccines automatically inform a central database when temperatures change, signalling that the equipment needs to be repaired or replaced. A major learning from polio is to be prepared to rapidly dispel misinformation and rumours that may lead to people refusing to get vaccinated. With misinformation spreading within seconds on social media, quashing rumours must be swift. “Even one or two unfortunate side effects, like fever and pain in injection site, can feed rumours about vaccine safety, leading to refusals in some regions. It happened during the pulse polio programme, and more recently, with measles immunization. We have begun tracking people’s concerns about safety and preparing campaigns to counter false information,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity. Unlike polio drops that were given by volunteers, Covid19 vaccines are injectable and can be administered only by health workers. The public sector cannot do it alone, we need partnerships, like the ones that played a role in polio eradications, tandem to reach vaccination goals. “I believe it must become a people’s movement, with community involvement and door to door outreach. The supply may be there, but unless the beneficiaries are willing and ready to accept immunization, the reach will not be possible. I don’t believe any of these are insurmountable if we go into an emergency preparedness mode right now and lay the groundwork,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/learnings-from-polio-on-how-to-vaccinate-50-million/story-GiGUvLJ4MCtC2Vngc2bvaO.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Death of Cox & Kings general manager: Family suspects foul play; Kalyan GRP to probe case||The Kalyan government railway police (GRP) are probing if there is any foul play in the death of Sagar Deshpande, the general manager of travel company Cox & Kings. On October 11, Deshpande left his Thane home in his car. When he did not return, his father filed a missing person’s complaint with the police. The next day, around 6.30am, an injured man was found on the tracks between Titwala and Khadavli stations. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Kalyan GRP circulated his description among police personnel groups and on Saturday, Naupada police identified him as Deshpande. The police first filed an accidental death report after suspecting it to be a case of suicide. However, Deshpande’s family has raised suspicions over his death. “We sent the body for post-mortem as the family is suspecting a foul play in the case,” said Valmiki Shardul, senior police inspector, Kalyan GRP. The investigating officers have dusted Deshpande’s car for fingerprints to ascertain if he was alone on the day he went missing or if he was accompanied by someone. The four-wheeler was found metres away from the tracks at the railway crossing. “As we have not found any eyewitness in the case, we are leaving no stone unturned,” said a police officer, adding that they are going through the CCTV footage of the cameras installed around the nearby areas. The GRP officers would also take help of the traffic police to obtain the CCTV footage to track the movement of Deshpande’s car after he had left his home on October 11. Deshpande had worked with Cox and Kings for 10 years and had been asked to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED). There are allegations that the company had carried out fraud of approximately ₹20,000 crore. Earlier this month, ED had arrested Cox and Kings’s former chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/death-of-cox-kings-general-manager-family-suspects-foul-play-kalyan-grp-to-probe-case/story-ghHwfNeSNRYwjPRcjQ7yTJ.html
19-10-2020||City||University of Mumbai’s distance education institute releases new dates for online exams||University of Mumbai’s (MU) Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) released the exam schedule for the upcoming online exams on Sunday.These exams had to be rescheduled after the first session was marred by technical glitches that left around 9,000 third-year Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) and Bachelor of Arts (BA) students unable to appear for the tests online.“Backlog exams will commence from October 19 and the first three papers will be conducted on Google forms, with the help of all IDOL teaching staff,” read a statement released by the institute late on Sunday. The statement further read that all fresh third-year BCom and BA exams, scheduled to start from October 26, will be conducted online. The second-year Master of Arts (MA) exam will commence from November 2, while the Master of Commerce (MCom) exams will start on November 6. “Practice exams for the same will be held soon,” added the statement.On October 7, close to 9,000 TYBCom and TYBA of IDOL and other MU departments could not attempt their exams owing to “technical glitches”. The contract with the original exam service provider, LittleMORE Innovation Labs, was cancelled after the incident. The university approved a new service provider, Pune-based Splashgain Technology Solutions, on Saturday to conduct the online exams henceforth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/university-of-mumbai-s-distance-education-institute-releases-new-dates-for-online-exams/story-eMJgOcAyiVw0IFNDHUkbDI.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Medical officers in 18 institutes across Maharashtra protest, seek permanent posts||At a time when Maharashtra government is willing to pay lakhs of rupees to private practitioners for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the medical officers (MO) who are already employed with the state government said that despite working round-the-clock, their demand for permanent posts has fallen on deaf ears. There are 453 MOs across 18 medical colleges in the state who have been renewing their contracts every 120 days for basic employment benefits from the past 10 years.On October 15, members of the Medical College Medical Officers Association (MCMOA) held a silent protest by wearing black ribbons at the 18 institutes, seeking the status of permanency. They also wrote a letter (a copy of which is with HT) to the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) on October 14 on their demands. “There are MOs working on these posts for the past eight to 10 years. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, these MOs work day and night to take care of patients and to help in the administration. If the doctors are regularised, there will be no additional financial burdens but the step will help in strengthening the administration of the government hospitals,” reads the letter.Despite repeated attempts, Saurabh Vijay, secretary, MEDD, did not respond to HT’s calls and messages.An MO with a south Mumbai hospital that despite working round-the-clock since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, he had to request the hospital twice in seven months to renew his employment contract. With 13 years of experience in medicine, he continues to work as a contractual employee. While his colleagues on permanent payroll receive more than ₹1 lakh a month, his salary has stayed stagnant at ₹65,000 as he is not qualified for increments at par with permanent employees.After dean and medical superintendents, MOs hold the most important position in hospitals. Along with the administrative work, they are also responsible for medico-legal cases and provide the first line of treatment to emergency patients in casualty wards. MOs also have to handle Covid-19 and non-Covid patients along with VIP duties.“We don’t have provident funds and pensions as we are on contract. As per rules, we have to stay near our respective hospitals but we are technically not qualified to be lodged in hospital quarters. Every 120 days, we have to request the hospital to renew our contracts, which is quite unfair as we work as much as the permanent employees,” said another MO of the south Mumbai hospital.The state is paying over ₹1 lakh to private practitioners a month for treating Covid-19 patients in government hospitals but are not paying any heed to the demands of their own employees, owing to which MOs are opting for private practice.“Many doctors have been waiting for years to get permanent. In the process, several have quit their jobs, leading to a further dearth in the number of doctors, especially in rural areas. And there are some doctors who have waited so long that due to age limitations, they can’t apply anywhere else,” said a MO with Grant Medical College (GMC), Aurangabad.Until 2010, the health service in the state was run as the department of public medical education. Later, it was bifurcated into public health and medical education departments. Since then, all new MOs who joined in the medical education departments have not been employed permanently. “All the 18 medical colleges and their attached hospitals are tertiary care medical centres. We get the highest number of patients. So many MOs have contracted Covid-19 infections on duty. Despite working 24.7, we aren’t even qualified for the Seventh Pay Commission,” said another MO from Latur GMC. “I have no option but to join private hospitals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-officers-in-18-institutes-across-maharashtra-protest-seek-permanent-posts/story-kNSfnMW7FVRtdEA7URhWFM.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||First fortnight of October saw 25% rise in Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases, say officials||The city has seen a spike of 25% in Covid-19 cases recorded in the first 15 days of October, as compared to the first fortnight of September. Authorities have attributed the surge to more testing in the city, even as experts have warned that infections could balloon in the upcoming festive season.According to data by the state health department, Mumbai recorded 25,888 cases between September 1 and September 15 but in the first 15 days of this month, it added 32,371 cases. The city’s testing also went up by 20% during the same period. While around 1.62 lakh tests were conducted in the first half of September, the city conducted 1.95 lakh tests in the first half of this month.“The Covid-19 situation in Mumbai is under control, despite relaxing more restrictions and the festival season. However, a large number of citizens do not wear face masks and this can lead to the situation getting difficult in future,” municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Sunday.Earlier this week, Chahal also said that although the number of daily cases has increased, other factors such as mortality, bed availability, recoveries and active cases ratio have improved in October as compared to that in September.“Cases are going up only because we are testing more. In the coming days, BMC plans to augment capacity for testing around 20,000 samples daily,” he had said last month. Currently, Mumbai conducts 15,000 tests everyday. Experts too, have stressed on the need for increased testing. Private health consultant Dr Siddarth Paliwal said, “Within the next one month, there will hardly be any restriction. But as we unlock, the testing has to go up significantly. In a city like Mumbai, we should be testing around 30,000 samples everyday.”Another expert Dr Shashank Joshi, who is the member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, recently wrote in a medical journal, “In order to close the Covid-19 tap, we need to test aggressively and early at the first suspicion or symptom to limit further exposure and transmission by isolation. Only way to truly contain the virus is aggressive tracking and tracing every single contact and ensuring they are supervised and tested.”In September, BMC had said that the Covid-19 situation is unlikely to improve until the end of this year owing to the festivals lined up in the next three months (Navratri in October, Diwali in November and Christmas in December). In August, an increase in the number of cases was witnessed after thousands of citizens thronged to markets ahead of the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. Meanwhile on Sunday, the city reported 1,600 cases, taking the tally to 241,935, while the toll surged to 9,739 after 46 new deaths were recorded. The fatality rate in the city is of 4.02%.Until Sunday, 210,782 patients have been discharged from Covid-19 facilities after treatment, taking the city’s recovery rate to 87.12%. Currently, there are 20,907 active cases. Dharavi, that was previously a Covid-19 hotspot, recorded 17 new cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 3,417. Of these, 2,967 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-fortnight-of-october-saw-25-rise-in-mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-say-officials/story-w7e3XZQYtXY2rEZJH4Lc1O.html
19-10-2020||City||Monorail rides into new normal, Mumbai Metro to start its journey today||Seven months after the services were halted owing to the lockdown to control the spread of Covid, Mumbai monorail started the services on Sunday in a graded manner, with 170 commuters travelling on it. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which operates the monorail, started 30 services, with trains running between 7.03am and 11.24am and 4.03pm and 9.24pm. According to officials, at least five passengers were also asked to go back as they were not wearing a mask. Monorail has made it mandatory for commuters to wear a mask at all times at the stations and in the train. “While one train used to carry 562 people at a time, we are now limiting it to 120 people with alternate seating. We expect the number of commuters to increase from Monday,” said an official from MMRDA. The 19-km line operates between Chembur and Sant Gadge Maharaj Chowk. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) will start services from 8.30am on Monday. MMOPL will be running 200+ services between Ghatkopar and Versova till 8.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monorail-rides-into-new-normal-mumbai-metro-to-start-its-journey-today/story-GM5B8qDTGOcIp5Tbf4R7LK.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees lowest one-day Covid toll since July 18; tally 1,595,381||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally inched closer to the 1.6 million mark as 9,060 new infections took the count to 1,595,381, even as the state reported its lowest one-day toll in 92 days with 150 deaths. The state on July 18 had reported 144 deaths.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll on Sunday reached 42,115, as the average number of daily deaths in October went down to 303, from 403 in September and 309 in August. Of the 150 fatalities reported on Sunday, 46 were in Mumbai, taking the city’s toll to 9,785; 14 in Nagpur; nine each in Pune and Satara. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.64%. Mumbai on Sunday reported 1,600 new cases, taking its tally to 241,935.With the drop in daily caseload over the past four weeks, the last 100,000 cases are expected to be reported in 10 days. The previous 100,000 cases were reported in eight days. In September, 100,000 cases were reported in just five days on two occasions. However, the state machinery is wary of a surge in cases by the end of November amid the onset of winter coinciding with more curbs lifted and the ongoing festival season.Following Mumbai, the state’s second capital Nagpur clocked 1,315 new cases, Pune 824 (369 in city, 279 in rural parts and 176 in Pimpri-Chinchwad) and Ahmednagar added 344 infections. While cases in the rest of the state were on a decline, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) kept to its high share of cases in the total state tally by adding 34.56% or 3,132 cases on Sunday.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned citizens about a potential second wave if social distancing and personal hygiene protocols were not strictly followed. Thackeray said on Sunday that the battle against Covid-19 is at a turning point and Covid-appropriate behaviour by citizens will play a crucial role in avoiding a potential second wave. “It is up to the people of the state to decide whether they want the second wave or they adopt the protocol of mask, physical distancing and sanitisation. The mask will play the role of vaccine until it is available to fight the coronavirus,” he said, while inaugurating an apheresis unit for plasma therapy at a district hospital in Ratnagiri.On the state expecting a surge in cases by November-end, a senior official from the health department said, “Two weeks after major activities have been opened up in the state, we have witnessed a surge in cases. We expect a similar rise in the next few weeks as a result of the unlocking rolled out in the first week of the month. The surge, however, would not be as high as in the first two weeks of September, when we saw daily cases at an average of 20,354. The virus is very unpredictable and the projections about its behaviour and infection curve have gone wrong across the globe. The surge, however, depends upon how seriously Covid precautions are followed by citizens.” Maharashtra tested 70,336 samples in the last 24 hours with a positivity rate of 12.88%, though the overall positivity rate of the state stands at 19.6%. The recovery rate is reported to have touched 85.86%, after the number of recovered patients touched 1,369,810 on Sunday. There are 1,82,973 active patients, including 39,845 in Pune.State has 2,412,921 people under home quarantine, while 23,384 are institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-lowest-one-day-covid-toll-since-july-18-tally-1-595-381/story-9dcuLMsh1HSfIcimn6m6yO.html
19-10-2020||City||Parents booked for harbouring fugitive on the run in rape case||Police have booked the parents of a proclaimed offender for sheltering him at their house while he came to India from Australia to apply for bail in a rape and cheating case.Parminderjit Singh was declared a proclaimed offender by a court in November 15, 2016, following which police had issued a look-out circular to all international airports for his arrest.This was after he was booked for rape and cheating on the complaint of a 39-year-old woman from Satguru Nagar, Lohara Road.The woman on May 30, 2019, notified the police that Parminderjit came to India from Australia in 2019 and applied for bail in court through his counsel. But, his application was dismissed and he returned to Australia via Nepal.“During investigation, we found that the accused came to India via Nepal due to the look-out circular. He stayed at the house of his parents in Sangrur and returned to Australia after his bail plea was denied by court,” said ASI Hardev Singh, who is investigating the case. Therefore, his parents, Jugraj Singh and Charanjit Kaur, residents of Mehrana Khurd village, Sangrur, were booked under Section 212 (harbouring offender) of the Indian Penal Code.In her rape complaint, the woman had alleged that she met Parminderjit in 2015. He had raped her after promising to marry her and also duped her of Rs 20 lakh on the pretext of taking her to Australia. Later, he got married to someone else and left for Australia. A case in this regard was registered at the Daba police station in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-booked-for-harbouring-fugitive-on-the-run-in-rape-case/story-RrQ1cTyWY40SxxY1BkDeGP.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||No labs, innovation best tool for science teachers in Mumbai||Teaching basic and conceptual science without access to laboratories has emerged as a challenge for teachers in schools and colleges across the country as classes move online. As the Covid-19 pandemic forced a nationwide lockdown, schools and colleges moved to an online mode of instruction. However, explaining concepts in science without stepping into an actual laboratory has become equally difficult for teachers and students. “The initial few days of online teaching was tough for all of us. The science teachers were tried to figure out ways and means of teaching concepts to students in a manner that they could understand,” said Kshama Valanjoo, assistant headmistress, VPM’s Vidya Mandir High School in Dahisar. The challenge has pushed teachers to innovate in their teachings by using visual aids. For example, science teachers at Valanjoo’s school used videos and diagrams. “While some laws in physics were explained with the help of videos and diagrammatic representations, teachers also used available resources like dry cells to demonstrate some simple experiments from their homes,” said Valanjoo. The school has also allowed teachers to carry a few science apparatus at home for teaching purposes. At Kandivli’s Children’s Academy school, teachers have started using simulation platforms to demonstrate experiments to students. “We had started exploring the idea even before the pandemic. There are several simulation-based resources that explain concepts in science in a very interesting manner. These platforms can be used by teachers in online classes and students can be asked to try out the experiments post class,” said Nikita Mukhopadhyay, research associate (physics) at Children’s Academy. The school has also delivered STEM kits to students of Grade 3 to 10. “The kit consists of some ‘do it yourself’ activities for students to understand the concepts in science easily,” said Sheela Mallya, school principal. While private schools managed to innovate, municipal schools in Mumbai, which are struggling to get students to attend online classes, have a different set of troubles. “Every three months or so, we take our students on field trips to Vidnyan Bhavan in Sion to show them various models in science. Students also get hands-on learning experience as there are several interactive models. This year, however, we could not do any of that. Some of our students are unavailable for online classes too. So, our teachers try to send them short videos of basic experiments which they can watch. We have also distributed them worksheets through their parents,” said Suman Patil, principal at Ayodhya Nagar Municipal School in Chembur. Meanwhile, engineering and technology institutes, including Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), have adjusted their curriculum and deferred all laboratory courses that require physical presence to the next semester. Only computer-based practical classes are being conducted but with limited success, said teachers. Engineering colleges are adopting animations and virtual lab simulations as teaching aids. “In some cases (very few), animations or demonstrations are being used [to teach concepts]. In a regular semester, these animations are used in addition to hardware laboratories with live experiments. While these videos help, they are not very effective for learning remotely, especially if students are not getting hands-on experience,” said Shantanu Roy, dean, academics, IIT-Delhi. Virtual labs is an initiative of the ministry of education, government of India, to provide remote-access to labs in various disciplines of science and engineering. Teachers said that while the labs have aided instruction, they could not replicate actual experience of a lab. “In general, in engineering and sciences, a lot of learning happens in laboratories by physically doing experiments. It is difficult to replicate that experience online,” said Roy. Connectivity is just one of the challenges in teaching online, said Varun Bhalerao, assistant professor at the department of Physics at IIT-Bombay. “It’s important to have a good rapport with the students and understand their situation, and decide how busy to keep them,” he said. Bhalerao heads a team of researchers working on Growth India—the country’s first fully-robotic telescope. “There was no point pining for a lab that you could not visit. The only solution to this was to redefine our goals,” wrote Bhalerao in a recent article in a series titled ‘Academics Post Covid-19’ hosted by the Indian Academy of Sciences. The solution was to shift focus to long-term activities such as wrapping up ‘almost complete’ papers and reading review articles. “We shifted the focus of every group member from their primary project to a closely aligned data analysis project,” said Bhalerao in the article. While teachers are rising up to the challenge, students face a myriad of difficulties ranging from lack of connectivity, poor infrastructure and absence of peer groups. Usually, videos, animations and simulations are used as auxiliary tools to live teaching, which is the primary mode of instruction. “This semester, the primary mode of instruction is missing and only auxiliary tools are available to us. Lectures are pre-recorded and circulated,” said Pranav Jeevan P, a PhD scholar from IIT-Bombay. “For researchers, it is the environment around us that matters the most while doing research work. Usually, we work in isolated academic spaces with very little distractions. That safe space is missing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-labs-innovation-best-tool-for-science-teachers-in-mumbai/story-a4GNju5VtbQI0whADJ31uO.html
19-10-2020||City||Three brothers, auto driver murder Ludhiana man, dump body in canal||Police have booked three brothers and their aide for allegedly murdering a 45-year-old disabled man whom one of them owed Rs 20,000.One of the brothers and their aide have been arrested, and have confessed to killing the victim, Charanjit Singh, and dumping his body in a canal near Khanpur village, Dehlon, on October 2.Divers have been pressed into service to locate the victim’s body that has been missing for 16 days.The arrested accused have been identified as Veeram Singh, alias Bittu, of Mohalla Basant Nagar and Simran Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver, who lives in the same locality. Veeram’s brothers Gurdit Singh, alias Panchi, and Dapinder Singh, alias Gagan, remain at large. The matter came to fore after Baljit Singh Malra, a Congress worker and resident of Mohalla Guru Nanak Nagar, approached the police, stating that Charanjit, a resident of Gian Chand Nagar, Lohara, was missing since October 2.Baljit stated that he went to Charanjit’s house on October 7, but found it locked from outside. Later, Narinder Singh, a friend of Charanjit, told him that he had met the latter on October 2. He had dropped him at Veeram’s house, where Veeram and his brothers thrashed Charanjit over some monetary issue. Later, they took him somewhere in Simran’s three-wheeler.“When I confronted Veeram, he refused to have met Charanjit on October 2, following which I filed a police complaint,” he added.Baljit alleged that Veeram had borrowed Rs 20,000 from Charanjit on September 20 and promised to return the money in 10 days. But, he refused to pay back later.“On being apprehended, Veeram confessed to having thrashed Charanjit when he came to his house to recover his money on October 2. Later, Veeram and his brothers took Charanjit to the canal near Khanpur village in Simran’s auto-rickshaw. There, the four accused stabbed him with sharp-edged weapons and bludgeoned him with bricks to ensure his death,” said inspector Pavittar Singh, SHO, Daba police station. They dumped the body in the canal and fled the spot. Divers are trying to locate the body. The Daba police have also contacted other police stations to find out if any body was fished out from the canal after October 2.“All four accused have been booked under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. We will add murder charges in the FIR after recovering the body,” the inspector added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-brothers-auto-driver-murder-ludhiana-man-dump-body-in-canal/story-NV4UBgUxZr8KfKI1LcgjEN.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||JoSAA’s first seat allotment list out: Computer science in IIT-Bombay remains toppers’ first choice||The Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay has once again attracted a large chunk of top rankers, according to the first seat allotment list released by Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) on Saturday. Information shared by IIT-Delhi, the admissions authority this year, shows top ranks in most categories chose the four-year computer science and engineering course at IIT-Bombay (IIT-B). The total intake capacity of 23 IITs stands at 16,053, up from 13,583 in 2019. Officials have attributed the increase in seats to the supernumerary seats added across institutes in order to accommodate women students as well as those under the 10% economically weaker section (EWS) quota. Apart from IITs, JoSAA also looks into admissions to National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) and other Government Funded Technology Institutes (GFTIs), so the total intake capacity for all these institutes stands at 50,822 this year. “All seats, except 128 seats across IITs, NITs, IIITs and GFTIs, have been allotted in the first round itself. These remaining 128 seats too will be allotted in the upcoming rounds and the aim is to ensure zero vacancy across institutes,” said professor Sidhartha Pandey, organising chairman, JEE Advanced 2020. This year, JoSAA will conduct six seat allotment rounds instead of seven, in order to complete the admissions process before Diwali. Similarly, due to Covid-19, students will be virtually reporting to their allotted IITs to complete the admission process this year. “We have received quite a few queries from students confirming admission online and we are helping everyone possible,” added Pandey. This is the third year that all institutes have kept aside supernumerary seats for women students and IIT-Bombay alone has 156 seats under this category this year, as opposed to 96 last year, that have been allotted to excess number of students, in case some students don’t opt for the seat. Admissions to IITs depend on the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced (JEE-Adv) scores of students, results for which were declared on October 5. Of the 1.50 lakh students who had appeared for the exam, 43,204 were declared eligible for admissions through JoSAA this year. IIT-Delhi lowered the bar to allow more students from all categories to make it to the ranking list and eventually avoid seat vacancy across institutes. The cut-off for the general category has been reduced to 17.5% from last year’s 25%, while that for scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) is 8.75%, down from last year’s 12.5%. The qualifying score for the general-EWS and OBC-NCL categories is at 15.75% this year, lower than the 22.5% last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/josaa-s-first-seat-allotment-list-out-computer-science-in-iit-bombay-remains-toppers-first-choice/story-QDe9x3Ie2mo6sGBPx5kM2O.html
19-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra leaders survey districts hit by floods||While Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar toured some of the flood-affected districts from western and central Maharashtra on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, leaders of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar will start tour of the districts from Monday. Harvest ready crops of soybean, sugarcane, cotton and pulses on more than seven lakh hectares have sustained massive losses due to the heavy rain and flooding in Osmanabad, Solapur, Parbhani, Latur, Sangli and Satara from October 13. The incessant rain has also claimed lives and damaged houses as well as other structures. Pawar visited a few villages in Solapur and Latur, the two districts which saw substantial crop losses due to the heavy rain over the past few days. The NCP chief also announced he would lead a delegation of members of parliament (MPs) from ruling parties in Maharashtra to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a relief package for the farmers who suffered losses. “A drought affects crops, but torrential rain hits crops and the agricultural land as the surface run-off leads to soil erosion. It is a long-lasting loss for farmers and will take years for the soil quality to be restored. The crisis will have effect on the agricultural economy of the state. The state will help farmers, but it has its own limitations. The Centre can lend a helping hand,” he said. Wadettiwar faced the wrath of the farmers during his tour of Nanded district, as they shouted slogans demanding immediate relief. Former MP and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti too has demanded immediate relief from the state. He has also written to PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah to deploy NDRF teams to survey the losses. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde too visited villages in Nanded and Beed, respectively. The Bharatiya Janata Party, whose MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati toured Osmanabad district, slammed the state. “The leaders from the ruling parties have been demanding a relief package from the Central government. The first responsibility of immediate financial aid lies with the state government. While in power, our government had released relief funds immediately in case of such calamities,” said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil. He also taunted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray saying it is because of their criticism that the CM stepped out of his house for the first time, to visit the flood-affected villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-leaders-survey-districts-hit-by-floods/story-mUPsHQnBF23tcEcGD9BAcN.html
19-10-2020||Bhopal||Police arrest 3 for kidnapping and murder of Jabalpur transporter’s son, one dies||Jabalpur Police arrested three people for allegedly kidnapping and murdering a transporter’s 13-year-old son whose dead body was found in a canal on Sunday morning. One of the accused died in a hospital during treatment on Sunday night within hours of being paraded on streets in Jabalpur, the police said.The accused murdered the boy on Friday, within 24 hours of the kidnapping. The kidnappers claimed part of the Rs 2-crore ransom after playing the boy’s recorded voice over the phone during a call for ransom made to the transporter, said the police. The arrested accused include Rahul alias Monu Vishwakarma, 30, who died during treatment at the hospital; Malay Rao, 25, and Karan Jaggi, 24 - all residents of Maharajapur locality under Adhartal police station in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. They looted a mobile phone from a man before executing their kidnapping plan. The accused told the police that they killed the boy as he had identified one of them. Additional superintendent of police Gopal Khandel confirmed the death of accused Rahul alias Monu Vishwakarma. However, he didn’t give details.Also read: Delhi doctors defer strike over salary, cite inconvenience to patientsAditya, son of Jabalpur transporter Mukhesh Lamba, was a class 7 student and was kidnapped when he went out on Thursday evening to purchase chips from a nearby shop. His dead body was found in a canal near Bichhua village under Panagar police station, about 15 kilometres from the district headquarters, on Sunday morning. Superintendent of Police, Jabalpur, Siddharth Bahuguna said, “The accused, Rahul alias Monu Vishwakarma, Malay Rao and Karan Jaggi, told the police during the interrogation that they committed the crime to repay loans and get rid of financial constraints. Rahul and Karan both face several criminal cases including theft, loot, attack, among others.”The police officer said, “After identifying their target, the accused started with the recce of the transporter’s house which continued for several days. When they spotted the boy alone returning from the grocery shop on Thursday evening, they stopped their car and asked him about his father’s address as plan of their crime. They asked the boy to accompany them to his father’s house. After kidnapping the boy, they first made a call to the boy’s mother and then to his father to demand a ransom of Rs 2 crore.”The officer said, “The kidnappers drove around in Panagar area the whole night and even stayed at a dhaba where they had dinner and also offered food to the boy. On Friday morning, they stayed in a vacant house near Rahul’s house in Maharajpur locality. In the afternoon, they hired a car and took the boy to Kundam Badhraji locality in rural area. When they stopped at a dhaba to have some snacks, the boy recognized Rahul and told him that he had been to his (boy’s) place whereupon the accused hatched a plan to kill him.”“Before killing the boy at Jalgaon under Panagar police station, they asked the boy to say “papa jaldi aa jao (papa, come soon)” and recorded his voice on a mobile phone which they later played over the phone when they demanded the ransom again at 8 pm on Friday. When Mukesh Lamba said he could have arranged only Rs 8 lakh, the kidnapper who made the call asked him to keep the money in a bag and drop it on Sihora bypass road near Khajari-Khiriya village by 9.30 pm to get his son back safely. Mukesh did the same but boy was not to return as he had been murdered by then.”The police officer said, “the accused were arrested on Sunday on a tip-off from informers and with the help of technology. It was on their information during the interrogation that the dead body of the boy was recovered from the canal and Rs 7.66 lakh of the ransom money was recovered. They have been booked under various sections of the India Penal Code (IPC) for charges including kidnapping and murder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/police-arrest-3-for-kidnapping-and-murder-of-jabalpur-transporter-s-son-one-dies/story-QD2hDcv9w9aJkyfiPSUunL.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Allottees of CHB’s Sector-51 flats can now get conveyance deeds||The allottees of the Sector-51 Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flats can now get their conveyance deeds made.The decision will benefit owners who bought the flats from original allottees. They will now be able to get the property registered in their names, a CHB official said.The process for the 160 two-bedroom flats, allotted under the self-finance scheme of 2010, has begun, and forms, checklists and applications can be downloaded from the CHB website.The lock-in period for the scheme is five years and the conveyance deed is done only after that. The two-bedroom flats in Sector 51 were allotted by the CHB in 2015, which means the lock-in period ended in February 2020. “The work was delayed due to the pandemic. Apart from this, most of the CHB staffers were also engaged in pandemic-related duties,” the official said.“CHB has already approved two such deeds,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allottees-of-chb-s-sector-51-flats-can-now-get-conveyance-deeds/story-4jIlMjU7zOOVayYLvhK6WK.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||After a delay of seven months, north MCD sends ‘incomplete’ sets of textbooks to schools||Seven months into the academic session, a large number of students enrolled in schools run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation are still waiting for their textbooks, senior officials have told HT, a delay that has further disrupted a session where several students are struggling to access classes online. Further, officials at some schools, where textbooks arrived last week — after more than half the academic session is over — alleged that they have received incomplete sets of books. The south and the east municipal corporations have already distributed books among students enrolled in their schools. However, schools run by the north civic body are still found wanting in this regard.The north MCD runs over 700 schools, where around 350,000 students are enrolled.The principal of a north MCD school in Kirari said a majority of their students do not have access to online education, and in the absence of textbooks, have largely been left out of the learning entirely this session. “Parents of most of our students are daily wage workers, which is why they do not regularly collect worksheets for their children from the school. If these students have textbooks, they will at least read or write something at home. If this continues, I fear it will be really difficult to get them back to the classrooms when schools reopen,” said the principal, who asked not to be named.To bridge the existing digital divide, schools run by the state government and civic bodies have been providing hard copies of assignment sheets to students who do not own the requisite electronic devices.Several principals said their schools received textbooks last week, but not for all classes. The principal at a north MCD school in Jahangirpuri said they have not received books for classes 4 and 5. “How are you supposed to teach students using just worksheets? They need books. The books for classes 1 to 3 arrived after seven months, and now we don’t know how much time it will take to get the renaming sets of books,” the principal said.Despite several attempts, north MCD Commissioner Gyanesh Bharti did not respond to texts and calls requesting comment. North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said the delay was down to the prevailing situation and a lack of funds. “We have now started sending textbooks to the schools. We have already sent some books to schools of at least five zones. The schools who received half the books will get the remaining sets in the coming weeks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-a-delay-of-seven-months-north-mcd-sends-incomplete-sets-of-textbooks-to-schools/story-AzMgCpSbGbqP8OgeXiKjTO.html
19-10-2020||City||Admissions under second cut-off to begin today, students can now withdraw or cancel their admission||New Delhi: Delhi University colleges will begin the process for admissions to seats vacant across several undergraduate courses under the second set of cut-offs from Monday. The university on Sunday said students, who did not take admission despite applying and meeting the eligibility criteria in the first list, will no longer be able to apply for the same course in the same college. While addressing students’ queries during a webinar on Sunday, dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said, “Students who applied and did not take admission despite meeting the eligibility criteria in the first cut-off will not be allowed to enrol in the same course and college under the second cut-off list. The second cut-off list is for those who could not meet the eligibility criteria in the first list, or did not apply in the first list due to any reason.” However, she added that this condition wouldn’t apply in case the second cut-off percentage in a particular course in a college is the same as it was in the first cut-off.The second cut-off list released on Saturday saw eligibility scores drop marginally, between 0.2 and 1 percentage points, with seats in several popular courses like English (Hons), BCom (Hons), and Economics (Hons) still up for grabs in several colleges.Applicants who applied in the first cut-off and had their admission approved by the principal of the respective college, but did not pay the fees and now want to get admitted under the second list, will first have to withdraw their admission, varsity officials said. “They will have to pay the withdrawal fee of ₹1,000 to confirm the withdrawal and then re-apply. Similarly, applicants, who applied in the first cut-off and paid the fees but now want to take admission in another course or college in the second cut-off, will have to cancel their admission and restart the process,” Bagai said on Sunday, adding that a cancellation fee of ₹1,000 will be applicable in the latter situation.“The option for cancellation or withdrawal is now available on the candidate’s admission portal and they won’t be allowed to select it more than once. Applicants who had applied in the first list but their application not approved by the principal will be considered as fresh applicants,” she added.Suman Kumar, a member of the University’s admission branch, reminded the students not to visit the university or any college in person, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “They can call or send their queries on the numbers or email addresses as given on the university website,” he said. Of 70,000 available undergraduate seats in colleges across the varsity, 35,500 have been filled under the first cut-off list this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admissions-under-second-cut-off-to-begin-today-students-can-now-withdraw-or-cancel-their-admission/story-Yd7Uclkw9LlqlKVBVvEE5N.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves, but stays poor||Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Sunday, but remained in the ‘poor’ category, with the overall air quality index value of 254, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) daily bulletin. Delhi’s AQI on Saturday was recorded at 287 on Saturday. Levels of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) and PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) also saw a downward trend during the day. Also Read: Share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution likely to increaseCPCB data showed that the PM 2.5 level went down from 127.5ug/m3 at 4am on Sunday to 108ug/m3 at 7pm. A similar trend was seen in the levels of PM 10, which dipped from 280ug/m3 at 4am to 243ug/m3 at 7pm. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said air pollution has remained “in control” over the last few days because of high wind speed over the city. “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the west with wind speed of up to 12 kmph with the skies remaining mostly clear on Sunday. On Monday, the predominant surface wind is likely to blow from from southeast/northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed of up to 10 kmph, sky may remain clear and mist is likely in the morning,” read the bulletin by ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system, Safar. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) recordings also showed that 1,230 farm fires were spotted over the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday. However, the impact of this mass burning on PM 2.5 levels over Delhi was 17%. “Wind speed is likely to marginally improve for the next two days leading to relatively better dispersion. But, AQI is predicted to stay in the higher-end of ‘poor’ to the lower end of ‘very poor’ categories for the next two days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-air-quality-improves-but-stays-poor/story-SgeY0usPtHNDhyntHR40yN.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Puja festivities already muted, immersion one more concern||The clay idols are done, but something else has been keeping Subir Pal busy for the past week — consulting his clients on how to immerse the idols once rituals are over. Pits of various sizes need to be dug, depending on how large the idols are, and with space at a premium, Pal, who sculpted the idols, is the best person for the job.A professional idol-maker, Pal said he has helped several organisers create artificial ponds – with tank volumes ranging from 400 cubic-feet for Sarojini Nagar Kali Mandir to 1,960 cubic-feet for the organisers in the Uttara Swamimalai Mandir in RK Puram.With Durga Puja celebrations allowed in the Capital, but subject to a strict set of safety protocols in the light of Covid-19, most organisers in the city have decided to keep the fanfare to a minimum. The riders put in place by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) include prohibition on all kinds of fairs, food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and processions. Additionally, masks must be worn mandatorily, gatherings have been limited to ensure social distancing. All visitors must also be thermally scanned before entering the venue, and all proceedings will be recorded on video, and reports submitted to a nodal officer appointed to check potential violations.Several organisers have decided against idols of deities at their venues this year. However, the ones who decide to place idols, they will have to arrange for immersion on their own, the district administrations have said — as a precondition for issuing no-objection certificates (NOC), several organisers and government officials told HT.The idol immersion ritual is scheduled for Friday.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “The decisions were taken considering safety protocols concerning the Covid-19 pandemic. Durga Puja celebrations have been allowed with the precondition of certain safety precautions, and those have to be adhered to. People’s safety is our priority.”In Delhi, idol immersion in the Yamuna and natural water bodies is prohibited, under recommendations of a committee set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). “It should not be much of a problem, because most organisers who are celebrating with idols have limited it’s height to five feet. A limited space in the localities for immersion will do,” said Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of the Durga Puja committee at Matri Mandir in Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave.There are over 500 Durga Puja celebrations in the Capital every year, according to records of the government’s revenue department, which conducts inspection of venues and arrangements jointly with the police before an NOC is issued. In 2019, Delhi had recorded all idol immersions in artificial ponds for the first time. While around 50 prominent organisers in the city had arranged for idol immersions in their own venue or open spaces in close proximity, the other 550-odd organiser had immersed the clay idols in 115 artificial ponds of different sizes created by the government across the city.“Own arrangement for artificial ponds has been set as a pre-condition for an NOC this year. Those organisers who do not have ample space are likely to face difficulty in case they have decided to have idols,” said Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate.The idol immersion process often includes a procession involving trucks, cars, two wheelers and around 50-100 people, depending on the scale and prominence of the organiser. “Immersion rituals can lead to gatherings and violation of the DDMA conditions. So, organisers will have to do it in their own venue or locality and ensure proper social distancing,” said a government official who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/puja-festivities-already-muted-immersion-one-more-concern/story-YngsgteAnfAVDJM56xOolO.html
19-10-2020||City||Zirakpur SHO sent to police lines over ‘false’ rape case||Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) Gurwant Singh has been shunted to the police lines following a complaint that he falsely implicated two Mumbai-based men in a rape case. An inquiry has also been marked against him by Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh.Superintendent of police (SP, rural), Ravjot Kaur Grewal, who has been entrusted with the inquiry, said, “The SHO has been shifted to the police lines so that he does not hamper the probe. I will be submitting my report to the SSP in the next two days.” As per information, the FIR against the two Mumbai-based men was registered at the Zirakpur police station on September 27. The complainant in this case had told the police that she was fond of acting and was informed by a friend that two people had come from Mumbai for casting in a TV serial. She was also reportedly told that one of them had even done editing for the popular show, ‘Bigg Boss’. Following this, the woman, along with her friend, allegedly went to meet the duo at a hotel. She claimed that after her friend left, the duo served her drinks laced with sedatives and raped her. The men named in the FIR, however, alleged that they do not know the victim and have never met her.When contacted, the investigating officer in the case, sub inspector Vandana Rani said, “I was told to take the victim’s statement and register an FIR but I handed over the case to some other person.” As per sources, SHO Gurwant Singh had asked the IO to register the case as he had got directions from the SP (detective) to register the case.When contacted Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “A probe is underway and I will let you know soon.” Another senior police officer in Mohali said, “All rape cases registered during the tenure of SHO Gurwant Singh need to be verified, so that, no innocent is implicated in any false case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-sho-sent-to-police-lines-over-false-in-rape-case/story-p5FdxyqpZzgpXzI7m7Y8LL.html
19-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi struggles to control garbage burning||Every winter, residents of Kirari in northwest Delhi wake up to a think blanket of smoke enveloping the entire area. It is mostly because of open burning of piles of waste every evening. This year too, complaints have already started pouring in and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has slapped the North Delhi Municipal Corporation with a fine of Rs 1 crore for its failure to control these fires, which are one of the major local contributors to air pollution in Delhi. “During a surprise inspection we found that the garbage was being burned beside the main road since morning and no official action was taken by the local municipality against the burning,” said Gopal Rai, Delhi environment minister. Local residents said many open spaces along the main road have become a dumping site for local waste and every now and then someone lights these piles on fire, enveloping the entire area in a grey blanket. Rekha Rani, a resident of Kirari Harijan Colony, said that sometimes the fire rages so wild that the flames and the resultant smoke can be seen from several kilometres away. “You will see garbage dumped in any open space that is available here and every other day you find it lit up. During winters, eyes start burning and it becomes difficult to breathe,” Rani said. Experts have also pointed out that as Delhi faces its annual winter air pollution emergency, curbing open waste burning could prove to be proverbial Achilles’ heel. Data provided by Delhi Fire Services (DFS) control room shows that between September 15 and October 15, 127 complaints of open waste burning were received from across the city. Officials attending these calls said that some of these fires had turned unmanageable. In fact, over the last ten days five major garbage fires were put off by fire fighters. On Sunday, the DFS received calls about 28 such fires. On October 11, a vacant plot near the Ashram intersection saw a major fire, which took over two hours to control. Similarly, on October 15, a fire was also reported from northeast Delhi’s Bhajanpura, DFS officials said. DFS chief, Atul Garg said, “DFS teams have been actively contributing to pollution control measures in the city. Apart from controlling the frequent garbage fires, our teams have also been sprinkling water on the roadside and open spaces to control dust.” Kripal Singh Ranawat, a shop owner near Bhajanpura police station, said waste collection and management is a major problem in these areas and some of the privately employed waste collectors often dump waste on road sides and on open plots and set it on fire. “Pillars of flyovers and boundary walls are coated with soot, so if the agencies do not believe us they can see this as proof of how frequently burning happens in these areas,” Ranawat said. DPCC control room data also shows that over the last 10 days, teams had to intervened at 52 places where open garbage burning was spotted. Officials said that while monitoring teams are on-ground monitoring such burnings, they are also relying heavily on complaints being received from resident welfare associations (RWAs) and the general public. “Our teams are also patrolling areas in the night because waste is usually burnt at night,” said a senior DPCC official. In Dwarka, residents complained that vacant plots have been turned into dumping grounds and despite repeated complaints to the pollution control agencies and the local municipalities, waste burning continues. “Garbage burning is common in Dwarka and in its surrounding areas. The (Winter) season has begun and the government must set up a 24×7 helpline for reporting garbage burning to control pollution. It normally happens in vacant DDA (Delhi Development Authority) plots,” Karamvir Anil Parashar, activist and resident of Dwarka tweeted, along with pictures of smoke emanating from garbage fires. Experts agreed that waste management is an area where authorities need to work harder. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said waste management can be tackled with strict enforcement. “Waste burning is an offshoot of the larger problem of waste disposal and management. Agencies will need to step-up action not just during winters but all year long in order to control this,” said Roychowdhury. A senior official of the north corporation said that the agency is doing its best to control cases of open burning in their areas. “While you can take prompt action against other polluting sources, preventing waste burning is difficult. The action in such a case is taken afterwards when the damage is done. What we can do is douse such fires immediately to prevent any further damage. Complete control can only come with awareness and cooperation from the public,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-struggles-to-control-garbage-burning/story-wfqsN68ODsoRi8SzlzT1UM.html
19-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Property sales record steady rise since May||Noida: Property sales in Gautam Budh Nagar have started gaining momentum as the district stamps and registration department generated a revenue of ₹130 crore last month. However, the department is far behind its revenue target for the current financial year, officials said.While the department had not registered any property in April due to the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown, it has witnessed a steady rise in its revenue since then.“The department’s revenue was zero in April. In May, June and July, we collected ₹12 crore, ₹60 crore and ₹110 crore, respectively as stamp duty. The trend indicates that the property registration is improving. In August and September, we collected ₹116 crore and ₹130 crore, respectively, which shows an upward trend,” said SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general (registration), Gautam Budh Nagar. Tripathi said that the department has collected ₹80 crore from October 1-16. “We hope to generate a revenue of ₹150 crore in October,” he said. However, the officials said that people mostly come for sale and purchase of small properties these days. “We have not got any application for registration from significant developers,” Tripathi said.The UP government has given ₹3,148-crore revenue target to the GB Nagar registration department for the financial year 2020-21. The target appears difficult to meet as the department has so far collected only ₹508 crore till Mid-October, the officials said.Tripathi said that there are six sub-registrars’ offices in GB Nagar. “The number of property registrations has increased in the past two months. All the six registration offices usually perform around 8,000 registries per month,” he said. The officials said that 73 e-stamp vendors have been given licence to sell stamps in the district. “We have found that so far only 58 stamp vendors are actively involved in the work. We have asked the other vendors to sell the stamps or their licence may be cancelled,” Tripathi said.PPS Nagar, a city-based lawyer who facilitates property registration, said that the lockdown had affected the property sales in the district. “There were some instances in March-April when sale and purchase deals were fixed, but registry could not be done due to the lockdown. Now, these people are coming for registration of their properties,” Nagar said.For the past four years, the department has not been able to meet the target due to slump in the real estate industry. In 2019-20, the department had collected ₹1,856.48 crore against the annual target of ₹2,597 crore, while in 2018-19, it had collected ₹1,879 crore against a target of ₹2,552 crore. Similarly, in 2017-18, the department had collected ₹1,685 crore as stamp duty, falling short of its target of ₹2,232 crore, while in 2016-17, the revenue collected was ₹1,761 crore against a target of ₹2,222 crore, as per the official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-property-sales-record-steady-rise-since-may/story-s94nfomxMYsnQaVG42AGUJ.html
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||No financial aid for Covid measures, Ludhiana govt schools left in the lurch||As government schools have been directed to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from October 19, the school heads have been forced to spend from their pocket or use the institution's funds to sanitise the school premises in absence of financial aid from the state education department.Principals of several government schools have contacted the municipal corporation officials to sanitise the school premises and have purchased thermal guns, sanitisers, masks and soaps by spending Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 from their own pocket.They have also purchased foot-operated sanitiser dispenser, refills and spray machines keeping in mind the safety of students and staff. Many principals have decided to reopen schools in two shifts and the same room will not be used for both shifts. Also, benches, tables, window and door handles will be sanitised everyday after the end of each shift.Principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Dhandari Khurd, Ujjalveer Singh, said, “The school will be sanitised tomorrow. We have received no funds from the state education department and if required, we will utilise amalgamated funds to purchase thermal guns and sanitisers. Students have been asked to report in two shifts and soaps have been kept in washrooms. Sanitisers will also be put outside classrooms. The teachers of Classes 6 to 8 will make sure students follow all safety norms and teachers of Classes 9 to 12 will take classes.”Principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, Sanjeev Thapar, said, “We have purchased 10 hand sanitisers and soaps have been kept in washrooms. The school has been properly sanitised twice by municipal corporation staff. We have received no financial aid and are managing with welfare funds as safety of students and staff is our top priority.” Schools can use amalgamated funds to purchase items, follow SOPsDistrict education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “The schools have received no funds specially to sanitise the premises or follow other Covid safety norms. But, they can utilise amalgamated funds to purchase sanitisers, soaps and thermal guns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-financial-aid-ludhiana-govt-schools-left-in-the-lurch/story-dduh8LD40t18dMsIXjBulO.html
