20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Animal activists accuse Chandigarh MC of botching up dog sterilisations||After a second community dog was returned by the municipal corporation with its entrails spilling out of his body, the animal lovers in the city have accused the municipal corporation (MC) of botching up sterilisation surgeries.A complaint has been made to the police regarding this and the animal activists say they will write to the higher authorities about this.The sterilisation drive or animal birth control (ABC) programme began on October 1 this year after nearly a year of inactivity. A fresh tender for the project was recently allotted.Nandini Kakkar who runs the city-based Animal Lovers Association said, “The dog which is around 10 months old was picked up by the MC last week from Sector 16 and returned on Sunday. The surgery to spay the dog had been botched and its intestines were hanging out. We have lodged a complaint with the police and I have taken the dog home with me to get it treated by a private vet.”City-based animal activist Neeru Saharan said this was the second such incident this month. “Another dog was found with its intestines hanging out in the first week of October. The authorities say that the dogs fight among themselves, but it happens because they are releasing the dogs too soon,” she said, adding that the activists had complained to Maneka Gandhi about this.Another city-based animal activist Simran Bani added that the authorities were not sterilising the dogs properly: “Last year, five dogs died of similarly botched-up surgeries. The MC is careless when they pick up the dogs. Many times they end up displacing them and we have to look for them.”District animal welfare officer, who works with the Animal Welfare Board of India, Inder Sandhu, said, “Transparency is needed to ensure such incidents don’t happen again. The sterilisation programme hasn’t been successful, which is why the population of stray dogs has increased in the past few years. Animal volunteers need to be involved for picking up and dropping off the dogs. The age of the dog has to be checked before it is operated upon.”Police officers of the Maloya police station, where the complaint was made, said they had taken the statements of the doctors and the animal activists involved and had lodged a DDR which had been forwarded to the MC.MC slaughterhouse in-charge, Dr MS Kamboj, who is also in-charge of the sterilisation drive, said, “When stray dogs are kept in the shelter after surgery, sometimes they fight with each other, which can cause injuries. Our doctors had examined the wounds of the dog in question and it appears that a human has hurt it.”“We want to work in tandem with animal activists. If any such incident happens, we wish they would inform us and let us take care of the dog,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/animal-activists-accuse-chandigarh-mc-of-botching-up-dog-sterilisations/story-u1vFZ3k2o4wnL7NlWF7cxL.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC hears over 40k cases virtually since March, popular mode among advocates||The Delhi High Court has heard 42,377 matters from March 24 to October 17 through video conferencing amid Covid-19 pandemic. In more than 96.2 percent of the cases, the advocates have preferred to appear through virtual mode. Even in those cases which were listed for physical hearing before this court, the majority of the advocates requested for holding hearing through video conferencing, officials of the HC registry said.In the High Court, 12,244 cases were mentioned out of which 11,784 advocates wanted virtual hearings (96.2 percent) and only 456 (3.7 percent) preferred physical hearing. Also read: ‘Largest and toughest to clinch’ - AAP now sets eyes on Uttar PradeshThe HC has also heard 1,929 cases through physical hearing which started on a partial basis since September 1 of which 124 cases have been disposed. While 2,534 cases were disposed through video conferencing, 24,165 miscellaneous applications were also disposed through the same mode.In Delhi District Courts also, around 262,167 cases were taken up through video-conferencing between March 24 to August 31.“Till date, more than 6 lakhs cases have been taken up through video conferencing and around 1 lakh through physical mode by the Delhi District Courts. Approximately 50,000 cases and 85,000 applications have been disposed of,” senior officials of the HC registry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-hears-over-40k-cases-virtually-since-march-popular-mode-among-advocates-amid-pandemic/story-NIFlyDH5cLK2f27B6myb9J.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 8,151 new Covid cases, caps prices of masks||A day after reporting its lowest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases (5,984) in 104 days, Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded a slightly higher 8,151 infections, pushing the count to 1,609,516. After a steady fall for over a month, active cases have also slightly increased to 174,265. It comes to 10.82% of the total cases reported so far. On Monday, active cases reported were 173,759.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has fixed rates for masks — double and triple layer one would be available between ₹3 and ₹4, while N95 masks can be sold between ₹19 and ₹49, according to an announcement by state health minister Rajesh Tope. Maharashtra will be the first state to cap prices of masks in the country.On Tuesday, the Covid-19 death toll went up to 42,453 after 213 casualties were reported. Of them, 144 were in the past 48 hours and the rest 69 deaths were from the period before last week, health officials said. Maharashtra has continued to get relatively fewer fresh infections compared to last month. This has resulted in a drop of 127,487 active cases over a month. On September 17, the state’s figure of active cases had reached 301,752. Tope recently said the state has hit a plateau, in terms of cases, and they were looking at positive outcomes. However, officials are wary about the festival season of Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali. If basic precautions are not followed by the people then the situation may reverse, officials felt.“The situation is definitely improving and it is a positive sign. Despite projections of a surge in cases, the infection rate of the state is on decline since the last four weeks. But maintaining this trend is more important, considering the festive season. If people become careless while celebrating festivals and don’t follow social- distancing norms, then the situation will overturn in no time. It’s all up to the people on what they want,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.In terms of Covid-19 cases, the current situation is quite similar to what it was in August. In the first 20 days of August, the state clocked 221,610 cases, which is close to 226,224 cases recorded in October so far. However, compared to the number of casualties, the state is in a much better position at present. Between August 1 and 20, 6,365 deaths were reported, whereas this month’s tally is 5,578 casualties.Public health expert Sanjay Pattiwar, too, was of the view that festive season may push the state back. “Lockdown will have to go and that’s where the problem lies. Now, discipline by the people at large is going to play a significant role as the state is relaxing most of the restrictions and many festivals are also lined up. All these are likely to contribute, which could ultimately lead to a rise in Covid-19 cases,” Pattiwar said.“For now, we have to keep our fingers crossed. We have to monitor the situation at least for two incubation periods (each of 14 days), which comes to around one month. In my view, if the trend of low count continues till November end then only we can say that things have come under control,” he added.Mumbai recorded 1,091 fresh cases and 45 deaths, taking the total number of cases in the city to 244,260 and total deaths to 9,864. The number of active cases in the city has come down to 19,553.On Tuesday, Nagpur city recorded 874, second-highest number of cases across the state, pushing its case count to 74,427.Pune district contributed third-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 605 cases, taking its tally to 73,882.Along with fresh cases, the state is also experiencing a decline in Covid-19 casualties. However, Maharashtra still has the highest number of casualties across the country.State’s CFR was recorded at 2.64% and is at second position after Punjab in the country. The CFR of Punjab was 3.15% (with 4,029 deaths) till Monday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.On Tuesday, the state has conducted 65,456 tests and total tests conducted till date are 8,251,234. The state’s overall positivity rate stood at 19.51%.The number of recovered patients also reached close to the 14-lakh mark as 7,429 recoveries were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the tally up to 1,392,308. The recovery rate was recorded at 86.5%.On the capping of mask prices, the determined prices will be applicable to all manufacturing companies, distributors, and retail sellers till Epidemic Diseases Act is enforced in the state. They also have been mandated to put up a board specifying minimum prices of the masks, Tope said.The state has already made wearing of a mask mandatory at public places and has also found that mask manufacturing companies are charging much higher than the regular prices.Following this, the state has formed a four-member committee headed by Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer, state health assurance society, to determine prices of various types of masks and give its recommendations. The committee has submitted its report recently.The state has also mandated manufacturers to supply masks at 70% rate of the maximum prices fixed by the state to all the government and private hospitals, nursing homes, Covid centres, dedicated Covid centres etc. Private hospitals have also been barred to charge 110% the procured price from patients.Maharashtra has already capped rates of all types of Covid-19 tests, Covid treatment at private hospitals and ambulances run by private operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-8-151-new-covid-cases-caps-prices-of-masks/story-N8umA34Vh6wJMo3sDMpIqJ.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC contractor stabbed to death in Mumbai||Nirmal Nagar police on Tuesday booked unknown persons for allegedly stabbing a 45-year-old Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) contractor. The victim’s body was found near a public toilet in Khar.According to the police, the victim Tajel Abdul Shaikh stayed at Khar (East) with his wife and son. The BMC had assigned him a contract of public toilet maintenance.Shaikh was missing since Sunday night and was being searched by his family and others. On Monday evening, police received a call from an onlooker who informed them about a body lying near a public toilet at JP Road, Khar. A team from Nirmal Nagar police station then reached the spot and ascertained the identity of the victim.“Police then rushed him to Bhabha Hospital where he was declared dead at the arrival. The post-mortem report revealed that he was stabbed with some sharp-edged weapon, after which a murder case was registered,” the officer added.Police said Shaikh brought two men from Kolkata to work as cleaners at the public toilet and after the incident, both of them have fled the area. Police suspect their involvement in the murder. The police are looking out for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-contractor-stabbed-to-death-in-mumbai/story-hMtMYF09gfk660VrTi5jQM.html
20-10-2020||City||PAU inks pact to commercialise sugarcane juice bottling technology||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) inked a pact with a Gujarat-based company for the commercialization of sugarcane juice bottling technology.PAU’s director of research NS Bains and owner of the firm Gopal Jadav signed an agreement, according to which the university has offered non-exclusive rights to the company for the bottling of sugarcane juice by PAU within the country.Bains congratulated Poonam Aggarwal Sachdev, principal scientist and head of the department of food science and technology; and Karanvir Gill, business manager, Punjab Agri-Business Incubator, for developing the technology of shelf-stable, preservative-free, ready to serve bottled sugar cane juice.Giving details about the technology, Poonam revealed that the sugarcane juice is thermally processed to kill microorganisms and increase shelf life, thereby, offering a completely healthy and hygienic product in comparison to the roadside vendors.Consultant (Scientific), technology marketing and IPR Cell, SS Chahal said that PAU has signed 236 MoAs and commercialised 57 technologies. The university has signed eight MoAs with various companies across the nation for sugarcane juice bottling technology.PAU signs agreement with pune-based firmFor the commercialization of chilli hybrid CH 27, PAU entered into an agreement with Truegenic Seeds LLP, Pune, Maharashtra.NS Bains said the pact would go a long way in disseminating PAU developed technologies to farmers.The firm’s chief executive officer Suhas Barge said that Truegenic Seeds LLP is an upcoming hybrid seed company dealing in tropical vegetables.Assistant vegetable breeder Salesh Jindal said: “CH 27 is a high yielding hybrid with multiple resistance to leaf curl virus, fruit rot and root-knot nematodes.The plants are spreading and continue to bear fruits for a long time. Its fruits are light green, long, and medium in pungency.The hybrid is suitable for powder making and processing purposes.” Jindal added that CH 27, developed by PAU, has been widely accepted by farmers in the North-Western parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-inks-pact-to-commercialise-sugarcane-juice-bottling-technology/story-rPjKAliGXzOQg847IWMOsK.html
20-10-2020||City||Ludhiana farmers hail farm bills passed in Punjab assembly||A section of city-based farmers on Tuesday hailed the three amendment bills passed by the state government during its assembly session. They said that these bills would not only safeguard the rights of farmers but would also send a positive message among them.Appreciating this development, Mankirat Singh from Ayali Khurd village said that the Farmers’ (empowerment and protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (special provisions and Punjab amendment) Bill, 2020; The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (promotion and facilitation) (special provisions and Punjab amendment) Bill, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (special provisions and Punjab amendment) Bill, 2020, had been passed by the state government to protect its farmers and agriculture by restoring various safeguards aimed at preventing damage apprehended by the farming community.Kanwarjot Singh Punia from Threeke village said that this development will send a positive message to the farmers and will also protect the consumers from hoarding and black marketing of agricultural produce.Similarly, Surinder Singh of Pamal village said that Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab government has always stood for safeguarding the rights of the farmers and thanked the state government for standing rock solid with the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-farmers-hail-farm-bills-passed-in-punjab-assembly/story-1o2uNfqiKp0cFd22lzkENP.html
20-10-2020||City||14 booked for murder bid on hosiery owner in Ludhiana||The division number 5 police arrested one and booked 13 others on Monday for a murder bid on a hosiery owner and his friend following a road rage. The arrested accused was identified as Vijay Kumar of Azad Nagar and the accused who are yet to be arrested include Hitesh Mittal, Abhishek Garg, DC Garg, and their 10 unidentified accomplices.An FIR was lodged on the complaint of Sahil Malhotra, 24, of Harbanspura. He stated that he along with his friends had gone to the Sarabha Nagar main market for dinner on Sunday night when four of the accused turned up in the area and ran their car over his foot.When Ayush and his friends raised objection, the accused attacked them. They called 10 of their accomplices and thrashed Ayush with sticks and rods.The accused fled the spot as passersby started gathering around.ASI Gursewak Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under sections 307, 324, 341, 148, 149, and 506 of the IPC had been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on to arrest the rest of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-booked-for-murder-bid-on-hosiery-owner-in-ludhiana/story-VwKMGxGjgeWgVQEIb8GhxI.html
20-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC team studies Mohali’s sweeping mechanism||With the municipal corporation (MC) contemplating re-introduction of mechanical sweeping of roads in the city, a five member committee formed by MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited Mohali on Monday to look at the mechanical sweeping project being taken up by the Mohali civic body. Earlier the project was put to halt in Ludhiana in 2018 after objections were raised on the working of the company and payment of bills. The MC was spending over Rs 70 lakh per month on mechanical sweeping at that time and had spent around Rs 16.5 crores in the past, which was a heavy financial burden on the fund starved civic body. One of the committee members chief sanitary inspector and nodal officer for Swachh Survekshan Ashwani Sahota said that the company that was earlier allotted the contract of mechanical sweeping in the city, was working in Mohali. The company needs to improve its functioning and meet the demands of the industrial hub, he added. A report regarding the same will be submitted with mayor Balkar Sandhu and the MC commissioner on Wednesday, who will take the final decision. The mayor said that a meeting had been scheduled for Wednesday wherein the project will be discussed and all aspects would be considered before reintroducing mechanical sweeping in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-team-visits-mohali-to-learn-about-mechanical-sweeping/story-nJKGncGMXwRjXYl5dBIgSI.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||At 100% cut-off, no admission in Eco (hons) at LSR college||Delhi University’s (DU) Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College, which had announced a 100% cut-off for admissions to three courses this year, has got zero enrolment in one of these programmes --- BA (Hons) in Economics--- under the first cut-off list, as per the data uploaded on the college’s official website on Tuesday. According to the data, till October 17---when admissions were closed for the first cut-off list and the second list was announced ---- there were zero admissions in BA (Hons) in Economics. The other two courses for which college had set 100% cut-off in the first list -- BA (Hons) in Political Science and Psychology--- have witnessed 20 and three admissions, respectively. As many as 35,500 of the 70,000 seats have been filled under the first cut-off list across DU colleges this year. In the second list, all colleges, including LSR, have dropped their cut-offs marginally by 0.5 to 1 percentage points. The college has dropped one percentage points for admission in Economics, and 0.5 percentage points in Political Science and Psychology in the second cut-off. An official, who wished not to be named, said, “The college set the 100% cut-off keeping the past record in mind when we had witnessed over admissions in the same course.” College principal Suman Sharma said, “We had received around 25 applications under the first cut-off list for Economics (Hons). But we had to reject them all as they did not meet the cut-off. It’s really surprising since every year, we see a rush for Economics.” Meanwhile, admissions across DU colleges picked up pace under the second cut-off list on Tuesday, with around 6,024 new applications being approved and 8,422 students having paid their fees to complete the process. With this, around 46,000 out of 70,000 undergraduate seats available across DU colleges have already been filled. The admission process proceeded slowly on the first day of the second cut-off list on Monday, when only 2,602 students managed to complete the formalities. The admission process under the second list will conclude by 5pm on Wednesday, with the third cut-off set to be released on Saturday. According to the data provided by the university, as many as 4,882 students had applied on the second day of admission in the second cut-off across 61 colleges (excluding St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary) by 8pm on Tuesday. Of them, 6024 applications were approved by the colleges. At least 8,433 aspirants, including those whose applications were approved on Monday, completed the admission process by paying their fees. Many colleges have witnessed withdrawals and cancellation of admissions as well in the last two days. In Aurobindo College, around 400 students have taken admissions and 235 have withdrawn admissions between Monday and Tuesday evening. In Ramjas College, while around 60-70 have withdrawn admissions in the last two days, over 240 new students have enrolled. In Aryabhatta College, 40 students have withdrawn admissions and 192 new students have enrolled in the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-100-cut-off-no-admission-in-eco-hons-at-lsr-college/story-4W1NFalM49vdT0CUdT5cCK.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Hydrogen-enriched CNG plant opens at Raj Ghat depot, Delhi soon to get 50 hydrogen-powered buses||Soon, the national capital will have 50 buses running on hydrogen-enriched CNG(HCNG), a fuel that experts claim is more cleaner and efficient. The announcement was made at the inauguration of India’s first semi commercial HCNG plant and dispensing centre at the Raj Ghat bus depot on Tuesday. The facility was inaugurated opened by Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan and Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot. During the ceremony, officials said a pilot project will be launched soon to run 50 HCNG buses for six months to test the latest eco-friendly fuel technology in terms of economy and emissions. Pradhan said the central government is looking to scale up HCNG commercially so that its price eventually comes down. According to a preliminary assessment by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), which has developed and patented the technology for the efficient and cost effective production of the fuel, the cost escalation for shifting to HCNG buses will be about 72 paise per kilometre. The IOCL hopes would this rate would come down once the fuel is used on a large scale. “I will not call this a pilot project. I am certain that we will scale up HCNG to such a level that all state-run buses in Delhi will soon be powered by this cleaner fuel. The trial run of 50 HCNG buses will be a major breakthrough in India’s journey towards hydrogen economy. This will be a major leap also in tackling air pollution in the national capital,” Pradhan said. In the pilot project, IOCL plans to test the performance of buses and reduction in emissions after using CNG mixed with 18% hydrogen in each bus. Senior transport officials said the best thing about HCNG is that it does not require any modification of the engine or retro fitments -- only some recalibration is required. The plant at the Raj Ghat depot has a capacity to produce four tonnes of HCNG daily. Gahlot said the Delhi government has provided ₹15 crore for setting up the Raj Ghat plant and are conducting a study of the new fuel. “The good thing is that the ministry of road transport has also notified HCNG as a fuel starting from September 2020. When tested by the Automotive Research Association of India, the blended fuel showed a 70% reduction in carbon monoxide and a 25% reduction in hydrocarbon emissions as compared to baseline CNG. Scaling this up will majorly reduce pollution in a city which has over 10 million registered vehicles,” he said. Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) chief Bhure Lal said the cost of HCNG production by IOCL is about 22% cheaper than conventional physical blending. “Initial trials have also shown that it increases the vehicle’s fuel economy by 4%-5%. Completion of trial is expected by April 2021. International Centre for Automative technologies (iCAT), Manesar, an independent certifying lab, will be undertaking periodic assessment of the select buses’ performance on HCNG fuel. On completion of the trial, a detailed performance report will be submitted to the Supreme Court through EPCA,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hydrogen-enriched-cng-plant-opens-at-raj-ghat-depot-delhi-soon-to-get-50-hydrogen-powered-buses/story-tYzOdCcEvFfRfOAWQlBM9K.html
20-10-2020||City||Potato, onion prices leave Ludhiana residents jittery, no respite till next month||Skyrocketing vegetable prices have left Ludhiana residents teary-eyed this festive season. While the humble potato is priced at Rs 55 to 60 per kg in the retail market, onions are being sold at Rs 70 per kg. The wholesale rates of these vegetables are Rs 28 per kg for potato and Rs 60 a kg for onion.Vegetable market arhtiyas say that the onion rates have shot up due to shortage caused by crop damage in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra following incessant rains. Area under veggie cultivation dipsMeanwhile, vegetable farmers are also bringing down area under cultivation. Mohd Gafoor, who cultivates vegetables on 63 acres in Patiala, said that he had suffered a loss of nearly Rs 30 lakh as the mushrooms, cucumber, baby corns and pumpkins which used to sell like hot cakes perished in his field during the lockdown. But this summer, he cultivated vegetables only on 12 acres and used the rest for paddy farming.“Vegetables used to be in huge demand. But the market window for these is limited. And in the absence of proper mechanisms for refrigeration and storage, we had no choice but to switch to paddy. But now that the vegetable prices are hitting the roof, I am receiving rich returns for my produce,” he added.Manpreet Singh Grewal, president of crop residue management wing of PAU Kisan Club, said that currently hoarding of potato and onion is leading to price rise. “As fresh crops are yet to arrive, the prices of potatoes will further rise in the coming weeks. The prices will crash by the end of the year or in the beginning of next year. With the passing of new farm laws, the central government has lifted government restrictions on hoarding, and such price variation will be common in the coming days,” said Manpreet.Gurkanwal Singh, president of Sabzi Mandi Vegetable Arhtiya Association, said that prices of both onion and potato are set to rise. “We are expecting the next set of onions crop by the next month. This will likely bring some respite to residents. However, the prices of other vegetables are also going to rise due to less cultivation,” said Gurkawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/potato-onion-prices-leave-ludhiana-residents-jittery-no-respite-till-next-month/story-dK7llfUYoDpRHHWDJ1BvuO.html
20-10-2020||City||Action against 74 farmers in Ludhiana for setting their fields on fire||The revenue department has taken action against 74 farmers in the district for setting their fields afire.Action has also been taken against two combine harvester operators for operating their machines without using a super straw management system. Besides, four farmers have been under Section 39 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act for causing pollution. Additional deputy commissioner (general) AS Bains, said, “We have received information on 166 fire spots in the district. Out of these, farm fire was also detected at 74 locations. Red entry has been marked in the land record of all these farmers.” A few days ago, the district administration had stated that over 90% of the gram panchayats in the district had passed resolutions and vowed to not set the paddy residue on fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/action-against-74-farmers-in-ludhiana-for-setting-their-fields-on-fire/story-FM0yxmDFRf1Hr62b1JYMsI.html
20-10-2020||City||Covid update: 1 dead, 46 infected in Ludhiana||One person died while 46 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Ludhiana, health officials said on Tuesday.The deceased is a 60-year-old woman from Kullewal village in Samrala.In positive news, however, the fatality rate has seen a considerable dip this month.While 80 persons have lost their life due to the virus between October 1 and 20, as many as 252 and 192 persons had died during the corresponding period in September and August. The district’s total death count stands at 821. Besides, 18, 654 patients have recovered from the virus so far. Awareness drive ahead of festive seasonIn wake of the festive season, the health department has started conducting awareness drives and advised residents to not get complacent. Sharing details, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “With the festive season kicking in, residents have started venturing out for shopping and other activities. I would urge them to not become complacent and continue maintaining social distancing, wear masks and keep washing hands frequently.” He added that people are starting to take the pandemic lightly, the consequences of which will be very bad. The teams carrying out awareness drives went to Haibowal area, Ghumar Mandi, Dandi Swami Mandir and some other temples on Tuesday. There they requested people to carry out Navratri pujas at their home, in order to avoid rush in temples. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that the district’s recovery rate is fast improving under Punjab government’s ‘Mission Fateh’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-update-1-dead-46-infected-in-ludhiana/story-rDsFbvOCJ0kXIaMmPkAFwM.html
20-10-2020||Bhopal||Ujjain illicit hooch tragedy: 12 booked under NSA, 9 police personnel suspended||At least 12 of about 150 accused arrested in Ujjain, 190 kilometres west of Bhopal, in connection with illicit hooch tragedy were booked under the National Security Act (NSA). The arrested accused also included those booked in the past one week during a drive against illegal sale of liquor and spirit. As many as 9 police personnel have been suspended since Wednesday of whom three were booked for their involvement in sale of hooch in the city, said police.The tragedy claimed at least 12 lives of labourers and beggars in the city on Wednesday and Thursday last week, the police said.The victims lost their lives after consuming illicit hooch known as ‘Potali’ and ‘ginger liquor’ in Ujjain city on Wednesday and Thursday. The victims were found in different localities of the city within a radius of about 2 kilometres, most of them died. Two of them died during treatment in the district hospital. Also read: ‘Largest and toughest to clinch’ - AAP now sets eyes on Uttar PradeshThe police officers suspended include a police station in-charge, two sub-inspectors and six constables. Of them, three police constables - Sheikh Anwar, Nawaz and Sudesh Khode - were found involved in the nexus that ran the racket of illicit hooch. Two of them were arrested and the third is absconding. Their involvement in the crime came to light on scrutiny of their calls details records (CDRs) done by police officials, said Satyendra Shukla, superintendent of police (SP), Ujjain.Assistant commissioner of Ujjain Municipal Corporation (UMC) Subodh Jain was also suspended as two of the main accused - Sikandar and Gabbar - worked in the corporation under his supervision on a contractual basis, the district administration’s official release stated.The SP said, “The 12 accused booked under the NSA include the main accused of hooch tragedy - Sikandar, Yunus and Gabbar - who made and sold the illicit hooch, a constable Sheikh Anwar’s brother Farukh Sheikh and eight others.” While Yunus was arrested from Indore on Thursday, two other main accused were nabbed on Friday and Saturday. Before their arrest, Sikandar and Gabbar were sacked from the corporation.Manager of a spirit factory Sanjay Sharma, who made the spirit available to the accused, was also arrested. During an interrogation, he told the police that the accused took spirit from him in the name of making sanitiser, said the SP.Earlier, on Sunday, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordered shifting of the superintendent of police (SP) and additional superintendent of police and suspension of city superintendent of police (CSP) of the district, as per the state government’s spokesperson. As many as 150 people, including the three main accused of the tragedy, have been arrested so far in connection with the tragedy and illegal sale of liquor and spirit in various parts of the city. Half a dozen shops and chemist stores have been sealed by the district administration for illegal sale of methanol, said a district administration official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ujjain-illicit-hooch-tragedy-12-booked-under-nsa-9-police-personnel-suspended/story-d0ftSWnGOvTIm7r11LjlVM.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Extortion racket being run by gangster from Rohini jail busted; nine arrested, juvenile detained||Police Tuesday claimed to have busted an extortion racket, allegedly being run from Rohini jail by jailed gangster Saddam Gauri, and arrested him and eight others in connection with an extortion case lodged by a businessman last month. Apart from the nine, a juvenile has also been apprehended in the case, police said.Police identified the arrested persons as Deepak alias Boonda, Surender alias Sheru, Saddam Gauri, who is lodged in Rohini Jail, Deepak’s wife Neha Kakkar, Surender’s wife Sonia, Kuldeep alias Sonu, Raj Kumar, Shiva alias Bholu, and Satish aka Kallu.A motorcycle, three pistols, three cellphones used for making the extortion calls and a car were recovered from them, deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said. According to the West Delhi-based businessman’s complaint, on September 2, three persons had opened fire at his office in an attempt to intimidate him into paying up protection money, police said. Two of the suspects, Deepak alias Boonda and Surender alias Sheru, were arrested by a special cell team following an encounter in Vikaspuri a fortnight ago. The juvenile suspect was later detained in connection with the shooting, police said.Police said the juvenile and the other seven persons were apprehended over the past 20 days by the Rajouri Garden police station team, which has been probing the extortion case lodged on the businessman’s complaint. The same team was also probing a similar case, in which Deepak and Surender, on September 21, had allegedly shot at their rival, Raju Khan, after he refused to pay “protection money” to them, said a senior police officer associated with both cases. “The mastermind of this extortion syndicate is Gauri, who is currently lodged in Rohini Jail in connection with a MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) case and on charges of murder and attempt to murder. He was running the racket from inside the jail. This gang has created terror among traders in west Delhi. They made extortion calls through the internet and various mobile applications to avoid detection,” said DCP Purohit.Director general, Delhi prisons, Sandeep Goel said, “Search operations and surprise searches are being carried out in the barracks to confiscate cellphones whenever any information regarding the use of phones is brought to our notice. We take strict actions against inmates from whose possession the phones are recovered. Also, action is taken against jail officials who smuggle in phones and other banned items to inmates.”The west Delhi businessman, in his complaint, had said that was not present in his office when around 6.30pm on September 2, Deepak and Surender arrived and fired three shots at his office, shattering the glass door. Three people who were inside at the time escaped unhurt as they had rushed out of the office. The duo then picked up the digital video recorder of the CCTV cameras and fled, said an investigator, quoting from the complaint. Police said the following day, the wives of the two suspects reached the businessman’s office and threatened that they would kill him if he did not pay ₹70 lakh as protection money. The businessman went to the Rajouri Garden police station on September 4 and filed a complaint. “While the special cell team arrested Deepak and Surender, the local police caught the remaining suspects,” added the officer. Interrogation of the arrested persons, the officer said, revealed that Deepak and Surender fired the shots and demanded extortion money on the directions of Gauri, who had been making the extortion calls from jail. The other arrested persons provided logistical support and safe hideouts to Deepak and Surender, DCP Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/extortion-racket-being-run-by-gangster-from-rohini-jail-busted-nine-arrested-juvenile-detained/story-1qMvBGKw9UJmV4HsUAzMNM.html
20-10-2020||City||Labourer found murdered in Ludhiana hours before he was to leave city||A factory worker was found murdered at a vacant plot near Gurnam Nagar on Tuesday morning. Police have also found a sharp-edged weapon near the body.The victim has been identified as Uday Bhan Rao, 50, of Gurnam Nagar. He hails from Deoria of Uttar Pradesh and had been living in a rented accommodation with a distant relative here.Rajesh Kumar, his relative, said that Uday worked at a woolen factory in Ludhiana and had planned to leave the city on Tuesday. He was to leave for Ambala on Tuesday morning and then catch a train to UP.However, on Monday evening, he went missing. He had left home, stating that he was going for shopping but did not return. On Tuesday morning, Rajesh went to look for him and found his body in the vacant plot and immediately sounded the police. Salem Tabri station house officer (SHO) Gopal Krishan said that there were injury marks on the victim’s head and chin. The police have also found Rs 1,800 in the victim’s pocket, besides a packet of detergent, dry fruits and tobacco near the body. Police suspect that an old rivalry may have been the reason behind the murder.Cops are now questioning the employees of the woolen mill where the victim used to work, but so far, they have found nothing suspicious. Police have also learnt that Uday Bhan had been spotted with an unidentified woman on Monday evening. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified persons and police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras in the area to find more clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-found-murdered-in-ludhiana-hours-before-he-was-to-leave-city/story-bVhB96OmNvx1MPuXEgAblI.html
20-10-2020||City||Orissa HC gives nod to Durga Puja celebrations in Puri mandap||Recognising the importance of the rituals of Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri, the Orissa High Court on Tuesday allowed the Satasahi Puja Committee of the holy town to go ahead with the Durga puja even though the idol is taller than the stipulated size fixed by the government.The state government in September this year had restricted among others, the idol sizes of the deities to only four feet as part of its Covid-19 guidelines.“As a one-time measure, if the idol of the committee has already been constructed beyond four feet and having a connection with the rituals of Shree Jagannath Temple, which has got special status in Odisha, this Court does not want to disturb the same and allow the petitioner (Satasahi Puja Committee) to go ahead with puja”, said an order delivered by the Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq.The high court also directed the Puri district administration to make separate arrangements for immersion of Satasahi puja Committee deity by following the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union and the state government.“The arrangement is only for this Durga puja but not for any future pujas to be held in Puri,” the HC said declining to extend this relief to other puja mandaps of Puri, as was also requested by the petitioners counsel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/orissa-hc-gives-nod-to-durga-puja-celebrations-in-puri-mandap/story-ijLGhDEAClHwnFTBIjk88O.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||Health department to install digital temperature data loggers for vaccines||To preserve the quality of the vaccines administered under immunisation programme, the district health department has started the process of installing temperature data loggers — digital devices for accurate monitoring of temperature of vaccines at cold chain points. Studies conducted by World Health Organisation (WHO) in India show that vaccines are exposed to different temperatures in the cold chain supply, affecting their quality. Generally, vaccines are supplied from the medical depots to primary and community health centres. In this process, temperature at which a particular vaccine has to be kept varies. On Tuesday, a temperature logger was installed at the Primary Health Centre, Daulatabad, by the district health department. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “There are 38 cold chain points in the district, where temperature loggers are to be installed by November 1. There are always chances of vaccine quality to be affected due to variation in temperature. With the help of loggers, health department officials will be informed about any change in the temperature on their mobile phones or mails.”The task was earlier performed a pharmacist twice in a day. “The exercise was earlier manual; now it is digital,” said Yadav. According to him, the temperature will be recorded every hour by the machine. “If due to some circumstances, temperature fluctuates, officials will be alerted through SMS or email,” he said.In Haryana, 661 cold chain points are functional in 22 districts. In all the cold chain points, temperature loggers will have to be installed by November 12. According to the statement issued by the health department, the project is funded under United Nations Development Programme. In 2015 Electronic Vaccine Intelligent Network was launched in 508 districts of 21 states for proper management of supply and storage of vaccine to streamline immunisation. It provides real time information on vaccine stocks, storage temperature across all cold chain points.Earlier, HT had reported that in anticipation of a possible vaccine for Covid-19, the district health department will be also conducting a thorough assessment of the available ‘cold chain’ infrastructure. The exercise is meant to take stock of available cold chain equipment (CCE), such as walk-in freezers, walk-in coolers, ice-lined refrigerators and temperature-monitoring devices, which are used in the storage and transportation of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-to-install-digital-temperature-data-loggers-for-vaccines/story-rji4Nu9qDj8GFshH8Qo4BK.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||Traffic diversions at Kanhai crossing to ensure smoother flow||In a bid to solve traffic congestion on city’s main roads, the Gurugram traffic police have blocked a major exit at the Kanhai crossing, around 500 metres before the Huda City Centre (HCC). The Kanhai crossing is one of the most congested junctions in the city and it takes commuters 15-20 minutes to cross during peak hours.The junction was identified as a major bottleneck as it leads to major road networks — the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, Golf Course Road (GCR), St Thomas Marg, Golf Course Extension Road (GCER), Vikas Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg.As per the new plan, the stretch leading from Vikas Marg/Netaji Subhash Marg through Kanhai village towards GCR and GCER has now been permanently blocked. The Gurugram traffic police, earlier this week, placed jersey barriers and boulders at the spot.Commuters travelling on this road can no longer head straight towards GCR or take a right to head towards GCER. Instead, they have to take a mandatory left turn, and then take a U-turn opposite Shani Mandir to head towards any of these directions.Traffic police officials said that the rationale behind this move was to cut off the need for a traffic signal at the junction, thereby reducing the waiting time for vehicles on other traffic signals as well as decreasing the traffic build-up at these points.Prior to the coronavirus outbreak, in January and February, traffic police officials used to block this exit during peak traffic hours whenever the congestion at the junction started spilling over to the nearby HCC junction. However, the route used to remain open at other times.Traffic police officials said that with the volume of vehicles once again returning towards normalcy and the junction witnessing heavy congestion again, they decided to make the feature a permanent one.“In a bid to reduce traffic congestion, we keep undertaking makeshift trials at various intersections. These are mainly temporary in nature so that we can revert to the original design if the experiment doesn’t work. In the case of Kanhai crossing, the experiment has worked after several successful trials on the stretch and hence, we have made it a semi-permanent feature. We’ll be undertaking more such changes across the city if the need arises,” said DK Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram.Commuters who travel through the junction on a regular basis said the move has helped them save around 10 minutes of daily travel time.“It was only after the traffic signals turned green on the third or fourth occasion would I manage to cross the junction during peak hours. It used to take me around 15 minutes to cross the stretch. With the changes, I am able to make my way through after a maximum of two signals, in under five minutes,” said Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF-5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/traffic-diversions-at-kanhai-crossing-to-ensure-smoother-flow/story-fJaFN3Nw5TB93rovq8zaxN.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||Air quality picks up, experts say respite temporary||The air quality in Gurugram improved to ‘moderate’ level, clocking an air quality index (AQI) of 192 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin, after languishing in the ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ levels over the last week. The city had last reported a ‘moderate’ AQI, of 187 on October 11. Experts, however, said that the improvement is a temporary relief, with the air quality likely to deteriorate in the last week of October. The air quality had improved on Monday as well, recording an AQI of 245 (‘poor’) in comparison to the AQI of 273 (‘poor’) recorded on Sunday.The three air monitoring stations set by the Haryana Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) recorded ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ air quality. The monitor at Sector 51 recorded an AQI of 246 (‘poor’), while the monitor at Vikas Sadan (within the Mini Secretariat complex) recorded an AQI of 234 (‘poor’). A third monitor at Teri Gram on Gurugram-Faridabad Road, however, recorded an AQI of 131 (‘moderate’). An air quality monitor set up by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) at the National Institute of Solar Energy in Gwal Phari recorded an AQI of 169. As per the CPCB’s categorization of air pollution, an AQI between 0-50 is considered ‘good’. From 51-100, it is ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 is ‘moderate’, 201-300 is ‘poor’, 301-400 is ‘very poor’ and 401-500 is ‘severe’. Prolonged exposure to ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ air quality leads to breathing discomfort and respiratory illness.Sachin Panwar, a city-based air pollution consultant, said that Tuesday marked the beginning of winter, as the minimum temperature dropped to 11 degrees Celsius. “North-westerly winds are blowing at the speed of 6-10 km/hour, which is not allowing particulate matter to stick to the fog, except the particles which are released through stubble burning or sugarcane thrashing. It is a temporary relief till October 25. PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter) concentration will, though, remain high from 4am till proper sunrise.”According to IMD’s weekly forecast, the minimum temperature will fluctuate between 11-13 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature will remain in the 29-33 degrees Celsius range. To tackle poor air quality in the city, various government agencies are focusing on the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). On Tuesday, nearly Rs 75,000 was imposed as fines for dust from construction and demolition waste from three defaulters, following inspections at 15 different inspection sites. Fines of Rs 1 lakh have been collected from polluting vehicles, while Rs 20,000 has been collected from those burning waste in the open. The prosecution in only one of these cases is related to unauthorised brick kilns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-picks-up-experts-say-respite-temporary/story-PLpQYP3fIgJW3vA80DgP4H.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||10% of recovered Covid-19 patients report secondary infections as air quality worsens||A 48-year old resident of Manesar, who recovered from Covid-19 in August after undergoing treatment in a hospital, recently developed symptoms like breathlessness, which made him visit the Medeor Hospital on Tuesday. He was prescribed medicines by the doctors, who told him that the choking sensation has been due to an increased exposure to fine particulate matter due to the poor air quality in Gurugram.According to doctors, quite a few people who have recovered from Covid-19 are being negatively impacted due to poor air quality in the city that is aggravating chest infection. “Nearly 5-10% of recovered Covid-19 patients are visiting OPDs, reporting shortness of breath and secondary infection over the coronavirus pneumonia,” said Sanjay Gupta, senior consultant and head of department, internal medicine, Medeor Hospital — a dedicated Covid-19 hospital for tertiary care in Manesar.“The secondary infection is mostly allergic bronchitis or bacterial infection. This is due to the high level of particulate matter, dust in the air, and the change in temperature. These are particularly impacting patients, who have recovered from Covid-19,” said Gupta, who asked his 48-year-old patient to avoid going out until necessary.Since last week, the air quality in Gurugram has entered the ‘poor’ category with high levels of PM2.5 and PM10 in the air. Since they are concentrated in the atmosphere at a level where it is easily breathable, doctors suggest those with compromised lungs due to Covid-19 are vulnerable to the pollution. In the district at least, 25,872 people have been tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Of these 2,370 are active, 193 have succumbed to the illness, while 23,309 have recovered till now. “Overall patients complaining of chest infection have almost increased by over 40% with nearly 5% of them being recovered Covid-19 patient,” said Manoj Goel, director, pulmonology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute.“During winters, there is usually an uptick in patients with severe asthma, bronchitis and chest infection. Seasonal variations and pollutants in the air increase the severity of the infection. Exposure to particulate matter for long time and the presence of bacterial and fungal infection leads to a choking sensation in patients. This is also seen in the recovered patients of coronavirus disease,” said Goel.“It is being seen in the patients who had moderate or severe symptoms of Covid-19 and were admitted to hospitals. Covid-19 primarily impacts the lungs, the condition of which can be worsened by high pollution levels. Even Covid-19 patients who have recovered six months back are coming with secondary chest infections,” said Goel, who said that the increased footfall is also due to the unlock measures, which are enabling people to visit hospitals.According to doctors, recovered patients, who are reporting of symptoms like breathlessness, heavy cough, sore throat and fever should visit a doctor for consultation. Other hospitals like Paras Hospital and Columbia Asia Hospital are also witnessing a spike in the footfall of patients with lung infections. Dr Arunesh Kumar, senior consultant and head respiratory medicine/pulmonology, Paras Hospital said, “Most of the chronic respiratory diseases like asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) tend to get worse with lowering temperature and rise in pollution. We are seeing a rise in COPD and asthma patients by up to 15 % over the last 10 days. Rise of PM2.5 level is clearly associated with lung health. This year, we are dealing with both Covid-19 and pollution-related illnesses”Doctors also said there is also a tendency for an underlying allergy to flare up in this season. Dr Nevin Kishore, head of bronchology and senior consultant, respiratory medicine, Max Hospital, Gurugram, said these patients face increased sneezing and coughing during at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/10-of-recovered-covid-19-patients-report-secondary-infections-as-air-quality-worsens/story-nF2hnL2MffrxDvIrEpg7sJ.html
20-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata plans live streaming Dussehra amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Dussehra festival in the city and the burning of Ravana effigy will be live-streamed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions against public gathering, an organising committee member said.The 20-feet Ravana effigy will be set aflame at Salt Lakes Central Park on October 26 evening in the presence of only executive members of the Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad Committee and Sanmarg.A committee spokesman said on Tuesday, unlike past years when thousands would have congregated at the sprawling ground to watch the setting ablaze of the demon king, this year the event is expected to draw thousands of people virtually by clicking on the link.“We have been allowed to hold celebrations but have been asked to do it in a simple manner. Only executive members of the committee will remain present and for the public, there will be live streaming of the entire function.”“We will burn the effigy of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakaran and pray to God that coronavirus also gets burnt in the fire. This time Dussehra will mark the victory of good over evil as well as this deadly disease,” he said.Celebrated on the last day of Durga puja festivities, Dussehra is held on Bijoya Dashami to mark the triumph of good over evil.The Calcutta High Court on Monday declared all community puja pandals as no entry zones and said revellers can have a glimpse of the deity at a distance of 10 metre from pandal in case of a big puja and at a distance of 5 metre from pandal in case of a small puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-plans-live-streaming-dussehra-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-GVpNb6cVMcRXngmYWjJiEL.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||Residential societies in dark over diesel genset exemption||A lack of clarity over exemption on diesel genset ban in Gurugram has left many residential societies that do not have power connections in the lurch, with developers reluctant to operate gensets in view of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). Ramprastha City in Sector 37 is one such residential society that suffered a power outage on Tuesday as the developer, citing anti-pollution measures, turned off the diesel gensets. around 1,000 families residing here have been affected.Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) on Tuesday confirmed that there was still no direction from the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca) on the ban, as a result of which they are now seeking undertakings from developers to get exemptions on a case-to-case basis.The Epca’s directions earlier in October stated that diesel genset ban would be enforced, without exemption for residential societies, from October 15. However, the Haryana government had sought an exemption for condominiums that do not have regular power connections.The Epca, however, is reluctant to give any relief to the violators this year. Dr Bhure Lal, chairman, Epca, said on Tuesday that no exemption has been granted and their order in this regard is clear. “We will not give any relief as exemption has already been granted to essential services. We have asked the state government to explain the matter,” he said.TC Gupta, additional chief secretary, power department, Haryana, did not respond to phone calls and messages seeking a response on this matter. According to the DHBVN, 23 residential societies in the city have been impacted by the ban on diesel gensets. Officials also said that around 60 residential societies in total, particularly in developing sectors, are partially affected by this genset ban.Manoj Yadav, superintending engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram, said that an application for seeking exemption from Epca would take place on case to case basis. “If the developer completes formalities and infrastructure, DHBVN a give regular connection within a month,” said Yadav.Vinita Singh, chief engineer, Smartgrid, also confirmed that exemption on the operation of gensets has not been announced yet. “We have not received any direction in this matter,” she said.DHBVN had said that 20 of the 23 societies have submitted undertakings to Epca so far. However, none of these societies has been granted an exemption so far, as the Epca awaits a response from the state government in this regard.Ramprastha CityAfter the developer of Ramprastha City cut off power supply, delegations of residents approached the DHBVN, Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) and the district administration to find a solution to the issue.Ramprastha City in Sector 37 does not have a regular power connection and is dependent on a temporary connection, taken for construction purposes, and diesel gensets to meet the electricity shortage.In order to defuse the crisis, DHBVN officials said that they are seeking an updated undertaking from the developer of Ramprastha City on the timeline for installing the power infrastructure so that a regular connection can be issued to them. “The developer has been asked to submit an undertaking in this matter and this will be submitted to the Epca for seeking exemption on genset ban within next one or two days. I have also directed officials to ensure minimum power is curtailed on temporary lines so that power cuts don’t take place,” said Yadav.Officials of the DTCP, meanwhile, said that they have taken asked the developer to work with the residents’ welfare association (RWA) and DHBVN so that exemption is granted in the short term and electricity infrastructure is also upgraded at the earliest. “All efforts are being made to help the residents,” Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said.A senior official of the pollution department, on the condition of anonymity, said that with no clear directions from Epca on the exemption, residents should directly file an application with Epca and seek relief from the authority. “The relief in this matter can be granted by Epca alone,” the official said.Residents of Ramprastha City said that they would call on the Epca to seek help in this matter. “We met the authorities on Tuesday and apprised them of the problems being faced by over 1,000 families due to lack of clarity on this matter. A large number of people are working from home, students are taking classes online and senior citizens living in the colony. We are all suffering due to power cut, as supply from gensets has been stopped,” said Pradeep Rahi, president, Ramprastha City RWA.Nikhil Jain, chief executive officer of Ramprastha Developers, did not respond to calls and messages from HT, seeking a response in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residential-societies-in-dark-over-diesel-genset-exemption/story-ZgRsYiTSTv2PwUUH80LSrN.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||Sonipat-based gangster arrested after a shoot-out in Palam Vihar||A 22-year-old man, suspected to be a member of a Sonipat-based gang, was arrested after a shoot-out by the police in Palam Vihar in the early hours of Tuesday. The police said the suspect suffered a gunshot injury in his leg and was admitted to Civil Hospital for treatment, the police said. According to the police the suspect has been identified as Somber alias Chand alias David — a resident of village Kamas Khedi in Jind. He was wanted in over two dozen of cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, posession of illegal weapons, theft, robbery, and loot cases in Biwani, Jind, Gurugram, Sonipat and Rohtak. Joginder Singh, inspector, crime investigation agency of Palam Vihar, said that they had received a tip-off at about 2am on Tuesday that a criminal was soon likely to cross Carterpuri Road towards Dharam colony near Palam Vihar area. “We immediately formed teams and barricades were put up at suspected areas. We then zeroed in on those areas and a trap was laid to arrest him,” he said. Around 2.40am, a motorbike was seen coming towards the checkpost. When the police teams asked him to stop, he allegedly started firing at police teams and tried to flee from the spot. “The suspect then started firing. When the police team rushed towards him, he again opened fire. In retaliation, the police shot at him and the suspect suffered a bullet injury in his leg. He lost control and rammed the motorbike into the police control room vehicle and fell down. He tried to run into the fields but the police teams surrounded him. More police personnel were called in who surrounded and arrested him,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). According to Sangwan, a total of 30 rounds were fired. The suspect fired five rounds and the police fired the remaining in self-defence. The police have allegedly recovered one countrymade pistol, two live cartridges and one motorbike from his possession. He allegedly confessed to the crime and is currently undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital. The suspect is allegedly a member of Sandeep Badwasni gang. “In 2017, one inspector Sonu Malik’s uncle, Satyawan, was shot dead by some gangsters in Rohtak in retaliation to the killing of a gangster Badwasni in Sonepat. Malik’s uncle was one of the accused persons in Badwasni’s murder and after his murder they wanted to take revenge by killing Malik,” said Sangwan.On September 6, inspector Sonu Malik, who is presently posted at the Commando Complex at Newal in Karnal, was walking to his car after meeting a relative in Palam Vihar area. The police said as he reached near his car, at least two armed suspects intercepted him and fired at him. The police officer suffered a gunshot wound in his right shoulder and in retaliation, he fired at the alleged shooters, who managed to escape. A case of attempt to murder was registered at Palam Vihar police station on September 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sonipat-based-gangster-arrested-after-a-shoot-out-in-palam-vihar/story-nLNVIPj4mNiwD7aBFMUycM.html
20-10-2020||Gurugram||Auto driver held for murder, dismembering body||The police on Monday night arrested a 40-year-old autorickshaw driver from Bajghera for allegedly murdering a dhaba owner on October 15 and dismembering his body before disposing of it.The police said the suspect, Naresh Kumar, suspected the dhaba owner, identified as Sandeep Kumar, of having a relationship with his wife. Naresh invited Sandeep to his room for drinks and dinner, allegedly killed him with a sharp object and disposed of his body in two polybags at a construction site in Sector 5.The police control room received a call about the foul smell from a local, who then found a hand hanging out of one of the bags. Despite finding the body on October 15, the police were only able to establish the victim’s identity four days later.Rajender Kumar, station house officer, Sector 5 police station, said, “Samples were taken, pictures were clicked and sent to nearest police stations. Also, all missing reports were checked to identify the deceased.”Kumar said they had found two words — Sandeep and Om written in Hindi — tattooed to his right hand, which helped them establish his identity.A case under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 5 police station.The victim used to run a roadside eatery at Bajghera Chowk. His body was identified by his family members and handed over to them after a post-mortem examination.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the murder came to light when a transporter’s employees spotted two polybags lying at the room of the construction site and raised the alarm.A few locals reached there and opened the bags. The locals panicked after seeing a body and one of them called the police control room.A police team arrived and cordoned off the site immediately. Officials said that no bloodstains were found around the spot where the bags were dumped. “It means that the man was murdered elsewhere. However, the murder weapon was recovered from the spot,” said Sangwan.The police said that Naresh a resident of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh and has been living at a rented accommodation in Sector 5 area for the last five years.The police zeroed in on the suspect after identifying his autorickshaw in two separate CCTV footages. When questioned, he confessed to his role in the incident, the police said.The police said the suspect lived with his three children and his wife. Suspecting his wife and Sandeep of having a relationship, he is alleged to have murdered the victim around 1am on October 15. He washed his room when he returned after dumping the body.Kumar said that the family members did not suspect anything as they slept on the other side of the building. The victim was first drugged and then murdered, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/auto-driver-held-for-murder-dismembering-body/story-dIcoQKjw4lpBogswaKj3mO.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra State Commission to hold suo motu hearing on Mumbai power outage on Wednesday||The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) will on Wednesday conduct a suo motu hearing on the Mumbai power outage. The rare power outage brought the city to a grinding halt on October 12, delaying suburban train services and crippling work-from-home set up adopted by people amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The hearing, slated to begin on Wednesday morning, will be via electronic method, the MERC said in a statement.The areas affected by the October 12 power outage included Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The suburban train services were completely stopped with Central and Western Railway suspending services. Additionally, the train services on the Central Railway were also suspended.According to a preliminary report received by the state commission, Maharashtra State Load Dispatch Center (MSLDC) has explained the antecedent conditions, sequence of events, affected load and status of recovery of the system leading to grid failure. The outage were attributed to tripping at a sub-station of state-run transmission company MSETCL.An enquiry was ordered by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray into the incident, which happened when one of the lines was undergoing planned maintenance.The city had last seen a massive power outage in June 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-state-commission-to-hold-suo-motu-hearing-on-mumbai-power-outage-on-wednesday/story-kw7rppYjDoIRgolRCQbNDK.html
20-10-2020||Bhopal||‘Ramdev’s institute won’t get Covid centre for clinical trial’: Madhya Pradesh health dept||Madhya Pradesh health department has directed the district health offices not to allow Ayurvedic drug for Covid-19 patients ‘in view of the absence of any fact on inter-related effect and side-effects of Ayurvedic and allopathic medicines on such patients” without its approval.AYUSH department of Madhya Pradesh has been conducting a trial on Covid-19 patients at Ayurveda medical college in Bhopal and various district hospitals for several months, as per the department. The first casualty of the order, issued on October 16 and made public on Tuesday by the directorate of health, imposing a ban on Ayurvedic drugs trial, was Swami Ramdev’s Haridwar based Patanjali Research Foundation Trust. The institute was making efforts to conduct such a trial in Madhya Pradesh. The Trust has not been able to get any hospital in the state to conduct a trial on Covid-19 patients through its institute even after four months of having got the permission from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government. The health directorate initiated a process to allot just one centre to the Trust in the state for the trial and instructed chief medical and health officer (CMHO) in Indore Dr Praveen Jadia on October 3, 2020, to allot a Covid Care Centre in Indore to the Trust for the trial. Also read: ‘Lockdown may be over but Covid-19 is still around’ - PM Modi in address to nation“I have received the order from the directorate of health regarding the ban. We have not allotted any Covid Care Centre to Patanjali Research Institute so far. In light of the latest order from the directorate, we will now not allot any centre to the institute”, said chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Indore, Dr Praveen Jadia. The order issued by additional director (Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme) Dr Veena Sinha states, “Trial of Ayurvedic medicines on hospitalised Covid-19 patients not TO BE conducted in view of non-availability of any fact regarding inter-related effect/side-effect of Ayurvedic and Allopathy medicines.” The order, based on the state technical advisory committee’s recommendations that came during its October 7, 2020 meeting, was issued to all the district collectors, chief medical and health officers across districts, civil surgeons at all the district hospitals and deans of all the medical colleges in the state. Deputy director, department of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy), Dr PC Sharma said, “We are yet to receive the order. However, we are a conducting clinical trial at Pt. Khushilal Sharma Government (Autonomous) Ayurveda College & Institute, Bhopal and government allopathy district hospitals in at least 31 districts of the total 52 districts.” Vice-president, Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, Dr Anurag Varshney said, “We are not aware of this particular order. However, no Covid Care Centre has been allotted to us till now. We have been told the process is going on.” When contacted, additional director (Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme) Dr Veena Sinha said, “The order was based on the recommendations by the state technical advisory committee but it was meant for ensuring that any permission for any such drug trial is not granted at the district level. We will clarify if there is any confusion in any district due to want of an elaborate order in this regard.”However, a health official who didn’t want to be named said, “The health department authorities would have to issue an amended order if Patanjali Research Institute has to be allowed a clinical trial in the state if the government really wishes so. For any individual or organisation can challenge the government’s decision in the court of law in view of the latest order if the government and the institute go ahead with the clinical trial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ramdev-s-institute-won-t-get-covid-centre-for-clinical-trial-madhya-pradesh-health-dept/story-jDDs4NKsYNFBVbN5LBQY7I.html
20-10-2020||City||Assessment notices: Ludhiana traders seek govt intervention, warn of agitation||Three days after the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal staged a protest against the serving of VAT assessment notices to traders pertaining to the year 2013-14, the industrial sector has now sought relief from the state government.Members of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association (APMA-India) rued that the industry which is already reeling under losses is struggling to get back on track post-lockdown period. They demanded that the government should postpone the entire process of disposing of cases pending since 2013-14 as arranging the required documents is a lengthy process.President APMA, Gurpargat Singh Kahlon said, “The industry is the backbone of the economy and efforts should be made to revive the industrial activity in the state. Arranging the documents being demanded by the department is a lengthy process. The government should not create hurdles and instead allow the industry to focus on production. We are not demanding that the sales tax department should roll back the notices, but the process should be postponed for at least three months.”Earlier on October 17, members of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had staged a protest over the issue and demanded that the state government should roll back the notices.They also gave an ultimatum to the state government to roll back the notices by October 25 or face intensified agitation.State general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra said, “Traders are already reeling under losses and the government, rather than helping them, is harassing them by issuing notices. Around 70,000 notices have been issued in the state pertaining to the year 2013-14 and of those over 23,000 have been issued in Ludhiana. We will raise an agitation against the government if the sales tax department fails to roll back the notices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assessment-notices-ludhiana-traders-seek-govt-intervention-warn-of-agitation/story-Hp73Wh28XtNBE9aGzoXZhJ.html
20-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Modern abattoir yet to be made functional despite completion||With the modern abattoir at the Haibowal dairy complex yet to be made operational despite its completion, illegal slaughtering of animals being carried out near residential areas in the city continues to irk residents.The construction of the ₹19.5-crore project, hanging fire for over a decade, was completed in January. The finance and contracts committee (F and CC) of the municipal corporation (MC) had also approved a resolution to appoint the only contractor, who had offered ₹35 lakh to the MC per annum for a 10-year contract in June. Officials had then claimed that it would be inaugurated in January but it is yet to be made functional.Meanwhile, residents and councillors have been raising a hue and cry over the illegal slaughtering of animals in different parts of the city including Shivpuri, Khud Mohalla, Metro road, Vijay Nagar, Haibowal, Dugri among other areas. Leader of BJP councillors in the MC general house, Sunita Rani said, “Illegal slaughtering of animals and a fish market near Shivpuri puli of Buddha Nullah emit foul smell which is creating a lot of nuisance for residents. The civic body had also removed the vendors recently, but some have again established their vends. Making the slaughterhouse functional is the only solution as the MC would then be able to stop illegal slaughtering completely.”A resident of Shivpuri area, Deepak said that the illegal fish market emanates a foul smell and it is difficult to pass through the area. “The MC should take strict against violators or at least shift the illegal markets away from residential areas till the time, the slaughterhouse is made operational,” he said.Requesting anonymity, an MC official said that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also directed the civic body to make the slaughterhouse operational and stop illegal slaughtering. He said that illegal slaughtering results in unhygienic conditions and the waste, including blood, is also dumped in the sewers.In August, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had also directed the MC to install a rendering plant at the site for disposal of waste, but the officials said that the plant can be set up side by side and temporary arrangements can be done to deal with the waste. MC senior veterinary officer, Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The process got delayed as the demand for meat nosedived during the lockdown. I have recently assumed the charge and a final decision regarding allotment of contract has to be taken by Mayor Balkar Sandhu, but it is expected that the facility would be made operational soon.”Despite repeated attempts, Mayor Balkar Sandhu was not available for comment. The facility is capable of slaughtering 2,000 poultry birds per hour in two shifts of eight hours each; and 1,000 goats, sheep and pigs. The MC House has fixed ₹150 for slaughtering a goat/sheep, ₹10 for a poultry bird and ₹100 for a pig.The officials said the facility also has an effluent treatment plant, preservation and chilling facility, and a blood processing unit.The MC would also provide five shops to the contractor for selling the slaughtered meat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-modern-abattoir-yet-to-be-made-functional-despite-completion/story-7989q8ttaFDbyrSs88SfyM.html
20-10-2020||City||Rs 3.42 lakh robbery solved with arrest of three in Ludhiana||Ten days after the manager of a fabric trader was robbed of Rs 3.42 lakh, police have solved the case with the arrest of three persons, including an employee of the firm from where the victim had collected the payment. Two others involved in the case are yet to be arrested.Police have also recovered Rs. 1.40 lakh cash, a Hyundai Verna car used in the crime and the victim’s scooter, which the accused had taken away along with the cash.The accused who have landed in police net have been identified as Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi, 23, of Bawa Colony, Sanjiv Kumar alias Sanju, 25, of Anandpuri, and Mohit Sharma, 28, of Vishwakarma Colony. Police are on the lookout for Toti of Samrala road and Shubham alias Gopi of Kakowal road.Gurpreet Singh, who is an employee of Jindal Textiles, is said to be the mastermind behind the crime. He knew that Sandeep Jain, 50, the manager of Ratan Fabrics, was coming to collect payment from his employer on October 9 and called his aides to carry out the crime. As soon as Sandeep left the premises of Jindal textiles after collecting the payment, the accused started chasing him in Mohit’s Hyundai Verna car. “When they reached near the Advanced Training Institute on Gill Road, the accused bumped their car into Sandeep’s scooter following which he fell down on the road. Before he could get up, the accused started attacking him with sharp-edged weapons and also threatened him with a gun,” said joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur.The Joint CP further added, “Shubham alias Gopi then drove away the victim’s scooter, containing cash. The accused then reassembled at a grain market near Jalandhar Bypass and distributed the cash among themselves. Gurpreet Singh took Rs 58,000 as his share.” She further added that at the time of the incident, Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi was not present in the office, which raised suspicion. Police started keeping tabs on him and on Monday, arrested him, along with his two accomplices, from Kakowal road.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that Sanjiv Kumar alias Sanju is facing trial in at least four cases, including conspiring a robbery, assault and trespassing. He had got out on bail a month ago.The ADCP added that Mohit runs a general store and is also a financier.The case is registered under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-3-42-lakh-robbery-solved-with-arrest-of-three-in-ludhiana/story-9ilacEFEQ5OPbAthHbttdP.html
20-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Year after marriage, woman found dead; family alleges murder by in-laws over dowry||A woman died in mysterious circumstances at Bahadurke village, Sidhwan Bet on Tuesday. Sidhwan Bet police have booked her husband and in-laws for dowry death. The accused are on the run.The deceased was identified as Prachi Sikka. Her parents have alleged that she was killed by her in-laws for dowry.The accused have been identified as the victim’s husband Mandeep Singh, brother-in-law Sandeep Singh, mother-in-law Balwinder Kaur and father-in-law Veer Singh.The FIR has been lodged following the complaint of the victim’s father Gulshan Kumar of Dwarka, New Delhi. In his complaint, Kumar stated that his daughter Prachi Sikka had solemnized a love marriage with Mandeep on October 16, 2019.Kumar alleged that soon after marriage, the accused had started harassing his daughter for dowry. On March 19, the accused had brutally thrashed his daughter after which she started living with her parents.He added that on September 14, Mandeep had taken Prachi back to his house and again started harassing her for dowry. On October 11, he came to know through Mandeep’s neighbour that he had given poison to Prachi and she was admitted to a private hospital in Ludhiana. After battling for life for eight days, she died at the hospital on Monday.Sub-Inspector Hardeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 304-B, 34 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Sidhwan Bet police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-year-after-marriage-woman-found-dead-family-alleges-murder-by-in-laws-over-dowry/story-7DHxeUCvlaqcraTGQXkvIP.html
20-10-2020||City||Multani disappearance case: Arrest warrants issued against former Chandigarh inspector||Mohali A Mohali court on Tuesday issued non-bailable arrest warrants against former station house officer (SHO) of Sector 17, Chandigarh, the then inspector Kanwal Inder Pal Singh, in connection with the disappearance-cum-murder of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The court has directed the Special Investigating Team (SIT) to arrest the accused and produce him before the court by October 19, acting on the application submitted by Mataur SHO Rajiv Kumar for issuance of open warrants against the accused. The special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula stated that the accused was nominated in the May 6 FIR and it has been established that the accused is right now in Canada. The counsel placed on record, the travelling details of the accused as per which he boarded a flight to Canada on October 9, demanding that for the purposes of extradition proceedings, open warrants be issued against him. The court observed that as per the arguments addressed and documents placed on record, it is apparent that the accused inspite of an FIR against him chose to leave India without any intimation to the investigating agency or taking permission from the court. “In the present case, the investigating agency will not be able to execute arrest of the accused without getting his extradition. Therefore, non-bailable warrants (open) of the accused be issued,” the court said. KIP Singh is accused of executing the orders of then SSP Sumedh Singh Saini, leading to disappearance and elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, the public prosecutor said. Multani was allegedly picked up by two police officials in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, in which four policemen deputed in his security were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from its custody in Qadian, Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-arrest-warrants-issued-against-former-chandigarh-inspector/story-14ikhEEQiy03q3CZMq9XzH.html
20-10-2020||City||Sanjeev Dhanda unanimously elected as general secretary of Ludhiana’s Sutlej Club||With the nomination filing process for Sutlej Club elections coming to an end on Tuesday, five executive committee members including the general secretary, have been elected unanimously as no other member filed nominations against them.The members which have been elected unanimously include Jatinder Marwaha as vice-president, Sanjeev Dhanda as general secretary, Sachin Kapoor as Bar secretary, Anil Goel as sports secretary, and Ginni Bawa Moudgill as executive members (reserved seat for a woman). Soon, after the nominations were announced, celebrations began with elected members and their supporters dancing on dhol beats.Now, the elections would be held for six posts (out of 11) on October 24 from 9 am to 5 pm and the results will be announced on the same day. The DC-cum-president of the club Varinder Sharma had earlier announced the election schedule. Gurmeet Singh and Sachin Gupta will contest for the post of joint secretary, while KPS Walia and Jasdeep Singh Navla are in the fray for the post of finance secretary.For the post of mess secretary, Maninder Singh Bedi and Sanjeev Gupta will contest against each other. Rattandeep Singh (Latti Bawa) and Harkesh Mittal will fight for the post of cultural secretary. Four members have filed nominations for two posts of executive members (general category) including Arun Dhawan, Subodh Batish, Balwinder Bhanwra and Baljeet Kaur Chawla. The nominations can be withdrawn on October 21 (from 5 pm to 9 pm). The list of contesting candidates will be published on October 22 and they will be allowed to give a presentation to the members at the club premises on the same day (from 5 pm onwards).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanjeev-dhanda-unanimously-elected-as-general-secretary-of-ludhiana-s-sutlej-club/story-DhqWXMm9crpUCfjhiitgsI.html
20-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Trader held for ‘stealing his own car’ to claim insurance||Police on Tuesday arrested a 43-year-old businessman for ‘stealing his own Brezza car’. The police believe he staged a carjacking to claim the insurance amount.The accused’s driver was also involved in the crime and a search is on to nab him.On October 16, the accused, identified as Aman Aggarwal of Bhamiyan, told the police that he was carjacked when he was going to Kadian village at around 8 pm to purchase a machine.Inspector Gopal Krishan said that the police became suspicious when Aman gave different statements during questioning.On Tuesday, the police arrested the accused and also recovered his Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza car from his possession.During the investigation, Aman told the police that he wanted to claim the insurance amount, so he hatched the conspiracy of car-jacking. According to his plan, he would sell the car in some other state after getting the insurance money. The police said that on Friday, Aman had handed over his car’s key to his driver and asked him to go out of town for a few days.He concocted a story of carjacking and told the police that while he was going to Kadian village, five men riding two motorcycles intercepted him and started hurling abuses at him. This prompted him to step out of the car and as he opened the car’s door, the men pulled him out and started assaulting him. In no time, two of the assailants sped off in his car towards Laddowal, while the other three followed them on their motorcycles, said Aman in his police complaint.The police had then lodged a case against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-trader-held-for-stealing-his-own-car-to-claim-insurance/story-l2OJWBgJO8pwPHEQuu0uJM.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Civic body’s ‘dust bags’ help clean up 75 tonnes of dust from Ghaziabad roads||In its four-day dust-collection drive, Ghaziabad corporation has collected about 75,216 kg of dust in its ‘dust bags’. On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Ghaziabad municipal corporation provided at least 100 dust bags to each of its 100 residential wards. Cleaning staff were deployed in each ward with vehicles and tasked with collecting dust in the bag. According to the official records duly verified at its construction and demolition (C&D) plant, the corporation has so far received 12,536 dust bags each with 6kg dust. The records showed that 2,647 dust bags were collected from Vasundhara zone, 3,123 from the city zone, 2,152 from Mohan Nagar zone, 2,349 from Vijay Nagar zone and another 2,265 from the Kavi Nagar zone. “Overall, we have so far collected about 12536 dust bags with about 75 tonnes of dust lifted from various city roads through collection drives on October 2, 9, 16 and 23. Each of the bag was shifted to the C&D plant where proper entries of bags received from different zones was recorded after verification,” said MS Tanwar, Ghaziabad municipal commissioner. “In February/March next year, we will also start with green paving of roadsides with grass so that dust emission is considerably reduced. The collected dust is now being used for making mud bricks and other items.”According to officials, the corporation maintains about 3200km of road network in Ghaziabad and includes lanes in localities, city roads and major roads. Tanwar said that results from the four-day drive were “encouraging” and that now they will conduct the drive on Monday, Wednesday and Friday of ever week, while the RWAs have also been asked to pitch in on Saturdays. “We will collect dust in our ward from Saturday as reducing polluted surroundings is a collective responsibility,” said SK Maheshwari, councillor of ward 94 of Surya Nagar. The UP-pollution control board (UPPCB) officials said that they have no quantifiable percentage of contribution of dust to city’s air pollution. “But, the component of road dust and also dust from construction sites contributes majorly to PM10 levels which remain on higher side throughout the year,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP pollution control board. A recent study by UP pollution control board also found high levels of dust mass on 18 city roads and also found major proportion of dust particles up to 75 microns which have lesser tendency to settle down. Medical experts said that the dust on roads, which may result due to unpaved roads, construction/demolition sites etc, contain PM10, PM5 and even PM2.5 pollutants. “Out of these PM2.5 is a respirable material which has the highest potential to penetrate into the lungs while breathing. Entering through the airway, it can lead to nasal allergies, have long term effects in the lungs, like COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), fibrosis etc. Apart from the respiratory tract, eyes are the second vulnerable organs, and the dust may cause conjunctivitis, irritation and redness,” said Dr. Sharad Joshi, principal consultant (Pulmonology), Max Hospital at Vaishali. “Dust particles that do not settle on the road are a huge contributor to air pollution. Not only that they increase breathlessness and asthmatic attacks in some people, it can affect the elderly and the new-born more. In times of Covid-19, particles around an infected person not wearing a mask can act as a carrier of the virus,” said Dr. Gyan Bharti, pulmonologist from Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/civic-body-s-dust-bags-help-clean-up-75-tonnes-of-dust-from-ghaziabad-roads/story-kqu86gcZFeKsWLr8GbEbcN.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Bills pose new challenge for Khattar govt||Punjab government’s political push against the Centre’s contentious farm laws is sure to embolden the critics of the Haryana government in the run-up to the November-3 Baroda assembly bypoll. The Congress-ruled Punjab government’s move of passing Farm Amendment Bills, which pledge minimum support price (MSP) to farmers and stipulate that those found selling and purchasing paddy below MSP can be jailed for three years, has the potential to put the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government on the back foot. Since the Bills counter the Union government’s farm laws,they will have to cross numerous hurdles before becoming a law. Thus, it is uncertain whether the Bills will see the light of the day. Dismissing the Punjab Bills and dubbing them a ‘political drama’, Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the Congress government in Punjab was ‘misleading innocent farmers.’ “Congress should stop playing politics over MSP,” said Dalal, who has been canvassing in the Baroda segment, adding, “The Haryana government procures a range of crops, even bajra, on MSP. Even Rajasthan does not procure bajra on MSP. Punjab is resorting to political gimmicks.” ‘Pressure to mount on JJP’ Political watchers in the region say the pressure will intensify on BJP’s coalition partner JJP, which banks on the support of the farming community. Panjab University, Chandigarh, political science professor Ashutosh Kumar agrees that in light of the developments in Punjab, pressure will mount on deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. “Right now, I don’t see any immediate problem for the BJP in Haryana due to farm laws,” said Kumar, pointing out that the farmers’ protests had already lost momentum in Haryana. On the other hand, a veteran political journalist observed that the anti- BJP-JJP discourse will get louder in the state, which could hurt the BJP during the Baroda bypoll, while pushing the JJP into a corner as the farm laws are an emotive issue for farmers. “The Baroda by poll outcome will settle the debate on whether Haryana farmers are against or in favour of these farm laws,” he said. Khattar should follow Punjab’s lead, say farmers It is evident that BJP-JJP troubleshooters have their work cut out for them as farmer unions that were on the forefront of recent agitations in Haryana were quick to demand that Haryana follow Punjab’s footsteps. Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s ) Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni said non-BJP state governments across the country should follow ‘the path shown by the Punjab government.’ Ratan Mann, state president of BKU (Tikait), said the Haryana government should mount pressure on the Union government to withdraw the controversial laws and upon failing to do so should follow Punjab’s lead. Endorsing Mannn’s views, another farmer leader, Sewa Singh Arya, said, “The Punjab chief minister has taken a bold step. Khattar should follow him.” As per reports, the discourse of the Opposition while canvassing in the Baroda assembly segment also revolves around the farm bills. Even as agitations against the Centre’s farm laws dissipated in Haryana, Punjab’s move has given ammunition to peasants and the Opposition to target the BJP-JJP government. Thus, the Punjab Bills could be bad news for Haryana ahead of the Baroda bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-bills-pose-new-challenge-for-khattar-govt/story-020IFnQUXw0D2UQPpNWxpN.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Study identifies CISF Road as major pollution spot, pollution control board fines contractor ₹50,000||The CISF Road in Indirapuram that serves as lifeline for thousands to connect to NH-9 is turning out to be a major source of air pollution due to work for a pipeline laying project. So much so that the UP pollution watchdog has recommended a fine of ₹50,000 on the project contractor.In a recent study by the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB), the road emerged to be the stretch with the most concentration of dust in the city. It also had the highest concentration of dust that are up to 75 microns in size -- these remain suspended in air for a longer time than larger particles.The pipeline project being executed by the UP Jal Nigam will channel of water treated by three sewage treatment plants (STPs) to the river Hindon. The work was initiated in February and was scheduled to get completed in July, but was delayed due to lockdown. “As part of the project, 2.5 km on one side of the CISF-Road from Kanawani to NH-9 was dug up and it has turned out to be major source of dust pollution for residents who are living in about 20-25 highrises located in vicinity of the road. It has also become a traffic choke point,” said Kapil Tyagi, secretary of Divyansh Pratham highrise, adjacent to the CISF-Road near Ahimsa Khand-2 in Indirapuram. He claimed that authorities failed to respond to their requests to deal with the situation.“The vehicles which move on one side of the road cross to the other dug up side and bring in lot of dust to our internal roads. The internal roads of Ahimsa Khand II are also broken due to high movement of vehicles including the commercial vehicles. So, there is a lot of pollution in our area,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners and resident of Ahimsa Khand II. The UPPCB decided to act against the contractor of the project.“On account of the dusty conditions prevailing at the CISF-Road, we recommended a penalty of ₹50,000 on Monday against the contractor,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. “The contractor has been given 24 hours to comply with dust control norms, else we will be forced to levy an even heftier fine of ₹5 lakh.” The pipeline project is under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. “We have already directed for water sprinkling at the site and if there is any laxity on part of our contractor we will issue appropriate directions and also check up the penalty issue with pollution board. About 80% of the work is complete and we are likely to finish it by November next month. We have to complete work at at least five points where the drainage, sewer and Ganga water pipelines are crossing the CISF-Road,” said GS Srivastava, chief engineer of UP Jal Nigam. He added that once the work is complete, the dug up road will be relaid by the Jal Nigam and will be handed over to GDA. “The other side of the CISF-Road is also broken as it is presently catering to both sides of traffic. But we will issue its tenders for repair once the Jal Nigam completes their work. Otherwise, the road will again get damaged. We have also issued tenders for reapir of other internal roads in Indirapuram and the works will start soon,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of the Ghaziabad development authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/study-identifies-cisf-road-as-major-pollution-spot-pollution-control-board-fines-contractor-50-000/story-zJ5p4Sg1VqdSLST3J5DwpO.html
20-10-2020||Noida||One more arrested in Bike Bot scheme||The Noida special task force (STF) and the economic offences wing (EOW) on Tuesday arrested a man wanted in connection with the ₹3,500 crore Bike Bot scheme case.The suspect 32-year-old Lalit Bhati, a resident of Mawana in Meerut, was wanted in 56 cases of financial fraud and police had announced ₹ 50,000 reward on his arrest. With his arrest, the total number of people arrested in the case is now 17. Lalit Bhati is unrelated to alleged mastermind of the scheme 40-year-old Sanjay BhatiRaj Kumar Mishra, additional SP Noida STF, said, “A join team of Noida STF and EOW received information about movement of suspect near a private university in Dadri. The police team conducted a search and arrested the suspect from the spot.” During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he had joined Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited (GIPL), which ran the Bike Bot scheme, as director in 2017. “He was actively involved in networking and duping scores of customers,” Mishra said. Lalit Bhati has been absconding since cases were filed against the company and the racket was busted in June 2019.One of the first complaints about the fraud was filed by Kitab Kaur, a resident of Hisar in Haryana in March 2019. She said that a neighbour had introduced Bike Bot mastermind Sanjay Bhati to her. “I had paid ₹ 34 lakh in multiple transactions to Bhati and did not get returns. On repeated request, they had sent a bank cheque of ₹ 50 lakh which bounced,” Kaur said in the complaint. She suspected foul play and filed a complaint in Dadri police station. Alleged mastermind Sanjay Bhati, his two brothers 35-year-old Sachin Bhati and 33-year-old Pawan Bhati were arrested in the case. Sanjay Bhati had allegedly set up the company in 2010, and floated Bike Bot scheme in 2017. The suspects would seek ₹ 62,000 investment per bike from people. The investors were promised ₹9,765 monthly return from their investment. This accumulated to ₹1.17 lakh per annum income. The offer was so lucrative that soon over 2.25 lakh people made payments for multiple bikes and were cheated to the tune of ₹ 3,500 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-more-arrested-in-bike-bot-scheme/story-nvftElWwoY6qp3p30rp0aO.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Over 40 narcotics gangs active in Noida, shows data||More than 40 gangs involved in peddling narcotics are active in Gautam Budh Nagar, while about 6.5 kg drugs are seized every day in the district, shows the police data. According to the data, between January 1 and September 30, as many as 377 people have been arrested in the district under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.“There have been 361 registered cases against offenders who were involved in either smuggling or peddling narcotics. Most of the products are brought from the eastern belt of the country that includes states like Bihar, Orissa and Jharkhand,” said Luv Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order).Police officials said that the demand is more in the rural parts of the district as compared to the city areas.“We are working on identifying narcotics hot spots. So far, we have found that drugs are easily available in and around educational institutions, slum areas, industrial belts and various bus and auto stands,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.Singh said that the movement of narcotics suppliers has gone up following the easing of lockdown norms and every day peddlers are being nabbed. The officials are seizing nearly 6.5 kg drugs every day while as many as three peddlers are being arrested every second day. Till October 15 this year, about 1,750 kg narcotics have been seized by the department, they said.However, the police believe that the amount of drugs in circulation will be much higher than the estimated figures.“Noida acts as a transit point for drugs like marijuana and cannabis to be smuggled to Delhi. We have as much peddling as smuggling happening in our district. The police department is also working on creating guidelines for parents and educational institutions to break the chain to some extent. A few months ago, a family filed a case against classmates of their son alleging that they had got him hooked up to serious drugs under the Sector 20 police jurisdiction. We need to tackle the situation before it worsens,” said the additional DCP.The police officials said that there are 40-50 small and big gangs operating in the district. Some of them are repeat offenders who are then booked under the Gangster Act, they said, adding that the department is working on eradicating as many of these gangs as possible.Marijuana is the most widely circulated narcotic in the district and about 1,490 kg of marijuana has been seized so far. However, the officials said that hard drugs like heroin and cocaine and are not prominent in the district.On September 11, the Noida police nabbed five people for supplying narcotics through online orders to exclusive clients and drugs worth Rs 27 lakh were seized from them. On June 27, one of the largest drug hauls of 300 kg worth Rs 36 lakh was seized in Jewar which was being smuggled from Vishakhapatnam to be taken to Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-40-narcotics-gangs-active-in-noida-shows-data/story-sIdd87DfjLozHQQmGyaG2L.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Six armed men rob two houses in Jarcha after holding families hostage||Six armed men allegedly barged into two houses in Jarcha on Sunday night, held the families at gunpoint and decamped with the cash and valuables. The first incident took place at mechanic Anil Kumar’s house in Jamshedpura village at 2:30 am. The masked men held Kumar’s family hostage and robbed ₹44,000 cash, 50 grams of gold, 300 grams of silver. Kumar said that the men entered the house through the terrace where his brother Amit was sleeping. “They held him at gunpoint, tied his hands behind and came in. They held my elderly parents at gunpoint and snatched my mother’s earrings,” he said. “They captured me and my wife and threatened to hurt our six-month-old son. They had also snatched our two mobile phones. The criminals slapped me multiple times, when I put up resistance.” The suspects later locked the family in a room and fled with the valuables. Kumar said they informed police later. Half an hour after hitting Kumar’s house, the same group of men alleged looted another house, 500 metres away, belonging to Bhupendra Singh alias Kalu, a tent house operator, in Jarcha town. They robbed the family Rs 7,000 in cash and some gold and silver jewellery and fled the spot. Shyam Sunder, SHO Jarcha police station, said that the police are investigating the matter. “We have received complaints from both the victims and have registered FIRs. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-armed-men-rob-two-houses-in-jarcha-after-holding-families-hostage/story-5wGztiYaUk3m5aQr7Tl3BJ.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Homebuyers set to take over Sampada Livia project as tribunal rules against promoter||The Uttar Pradesh real estate appellate tribunal on Tuesday rejected PSA Impex Private Limited’s appeal against the UP real estate regulatory authority’s (UP-Rera’s) order of September 30, 2019 deregistering its Greater Noida housing project -- Sampada Livia -- and handing it over to the homebuyers’ association to finish construction and deliver the project. Homebuyers said they are happy with the verdict and said they will begin the process of hiring a contractor for the project. PSA Impex had launched the project in 2011 with assurances that the flats would be delivered in 2014-15. The project was launched on 5 acres land and had planned for 10 towers with 24 floors each and a total of 726 units in Greater Noida’s sector Chi V. When the developer failed to deliver, completing only 10% of the project till date, homebuyers under the Sampada Livia buyers’ (SLB) welfare association banner filed a plea in the UP-Rera in June, 2018. The same year, the developer’s chief executive officer (CEO) Diwakar Sharma, who was booked in several cases for cheating and fraud, among other, was jailed.On September 30, 2019 the RERA put the developer into defaulters’ category and cancelled the registration of the project. On June 6, 2020 it allowed SLB welfare association to take over the project so that they could finish it. However, this could not take off as, on June 26, 2020, PSA Impex filed an appeal against the Rera order in the tribunal.“... we don’t find any substance in the submissions of learned counsel for the appellant (promoter) on issue no. 5, hence rejected and issue is decided against the appellant,” read the order issued by the tribunal’s three-member bench headed by tribunal chairperson justice D K Arora. “In view of the aforesaid analysis, we are of the considered view that the impugned order dated 30.09.2019 passed by the regulatory authority under section 7 of the act of 2016 is well reasoned and speaking order. We further found that regulatory authority followed due procedure of law while passing the same and there is no illegality, infirmity or perversity in the impugned order. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.”Homebuyers hope that they will finally get the justice after a long fight.“It was our hard earn money; a few buyers had taken out money from their provident funds for their home. SLB welfare association will fight for justice till the end. We are ready to start the construction on site as soon as possible,” said Dr Akanksha Aggarwal president of Sampada Livia buyers’ welfare association.As per the Greater Noida authority audit, the developer had sold 355 of the 726 units. It estimated that the unsold flats would go for ₹233.50 and unsold commercial space could rake in ₹6.4 crore. Representatives of the promoter could not be reached for comment despite several attempts. “We allowed homebuyers to take over the project because they can arrange funds and deliver the project. The reason is all buyers trust them and will pay remaining flat cost,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/homebuyers-set-to-take-over-sampada-livia-project-as-tribunal-rules-against-promoter/story-nbDqlqFMbcFgiHgOaIIM0J.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Noida authority to open underground parking facilities at Film City and Sector 3 soon||The Noida authority on Tuesday said that it will open underground parking at the film city in sector 16A and sector 3 at the earliest, including other side works such as a foot over bridge for pedestrians.The authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari inspected many projects.“We have asked the staff to finish cleaning, painting, horticulture and electrical work in next 15 days and start operations in sector 3 underground parking. The small cleaning works at the Film City Parking will also be completed at earliest and operations will be started,” said Maheshwari.The facility in F Block of sector 3 has an area of 13822 sqm and work started in January 2016. It was supposed to be ready by July 2017. It will accommodate 564 vehicles and ₹61 crore for kept aside for the project. The three storey car parking proposed on an area of 19,202 square metres was started in July, 2015 with a target to complete in December, 2016. But the work was delayed as the contractor had not started work due to changes in the design and changes in budget, said officials. The design was to accommodate 1,400 vehicles. The authority has spent ₹110 crore on the facility. The authority is building a foot over bridge to connect nearby areas with this newly built parking before opening the same for the visitors. The authority has built this parking to address the parking woes of the film city that is home to many state-owned companies, media houses and NTPC office.CEO also inspected work of Chilla elevated road, underpass work at 71/51 intersection and other projects, which are going on in different sectors.The authority has been repairing central verge, drains and repairing roads in sector 19, 20, 49, 50 and 67 among others.CEO also asked the traffic cell to restart parking on internal roads of sector 67, where industrial unit and office owners had been demanding for the parking to be started on roadsides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-to-open-underground-parking-facilities-at-film-city-and-sector-3-soon/story-h4nOUDG1fk5Sf5dQDY1ElL.html
20-10-2020||Noida||30-year-old man held for rape, murder of 2-year-old girl in Ghaziabad||A two-and-half-year old girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Ghaziabad’s Kavi Nagar area late on Monday night, with police booking and nabbing a 30-year-old man as the prime suspect in the case based on a complaint by the minor victim’s family.Investigators identified the suspect as Chandan Pandey, who worked in factory with the minor’s father. Police claimed that the minor’s father, Pandey and one other person were consuming alcohol before the incident, after which the suspect went to the house of the victim. “The man came to our house and went upstairs. He then came down with my niece sitting on his shoulders around 8.51pm (this was captured in a CCTV). He then took the girl out saying that he wanted t buy her some treats from a local shop. later, when they failed to return for a few hours, the family launched a search. After searching for them for a while, we informed the police. During the search late at night, my mother finally spotted the man lying on a bed in a shop,” said cousin of the minor. The family immediately nabbed the suspect and handed him over to the police. “We kept asking him about the whereabouts of the girl, but he steadfastly refused to reply. He was then taken away by the police. Around 11.30am on Tuesday, the police baited him by telling him that he would be let off if he told them the whereabouts of the girl. At this, he told the police that he had left the girl in a nearby industrial area in a forested area,” she, added. Family said that there were a bunch of huge iron sheets, used as raw materials in factories, that were stacked on the roadside in the industrial area, where the suspect allegedly violated the minor. The crime spot is around a kilometre away from the minor’s house.“The suspect took the girl to the spot and allegedly raped and murdered her there. The spot is isolated and shielded from the gaze of passersby, thanks to the iron sheets that are stacked in the area. The body of the minor was sent for post mortem,” said the uncle of the victim.Investigators said that they found three packets of namkeen and some currency coins, with which Pandey allegedly lured the minor. The suspect is a colleague of my brother-in-law (girl’s father) and they have both worked together at the same factory for past 10-12 years. Pandey used to often visit our house and was known to the girl,” he added. The police said that based on the complaint given by the family, they registered an FIR under IPC section 376ab (for rape of woman under twelve years of age) and 302 (murder), besides levying provisions under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Kavi Nagar police station. Investigators suspect that the rape, murder might be linked to an altercation that the man had with the minor’s father around two years ago.“We have registered an FIR based on complaint given by the family and are awaiting the post mortem reports of the victim. We have arrested the suspect and deployed teams for collection of forensic evidences,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/30-year-old-man-held-for-rape-murder-of-2-year-old-girl-in-ghaziabad/story-73MEQ1B3RBeNGLUqeKayVO.html
20-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand man stabs sister over family dispute, surrenders at local police station||After allegedly stabbing his 25-year-old sister, a 30-year-old Uttarakhand man surrendered before the Ramnagar police on Tuesday, said police.The police arrested the accused and recovered the weapon from him. His injured sister has been admitted in the nearby government hospital.Ravi Saini, in-charge Ramnagar police station said one Nizam, 30, resident of Bambagher village in Ramanagar, who is vegetable seller, surrendered at the police station after stabbing his sisterAccording to police, Nizam had some family dispute with his sister Shakeena.Also read: Slippers hurled at Tejashwi Yadav during poll rally in Bihar“There was a dispute between the siblings on Tuesday over some issue. The fight escalated and Nizam stabbed his sister,” he said.Saini said, “After stabbing his sister, he reached the police station and surrendered.”Police rushed to the spot on information and sent the injured girl to the government hospital from where she has been referred to Susheela Tiwari government hospital in Haldwani.“We have registered a case against the brother under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 307 (attempt to murder),” said Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-man-stabs-sister-over-family-dispute-surrenders-at-local-police-station/story-1iGKfgdbB6yRfHN2RXSWGJ.html
20-10-2020||Kolkata||Amid festive season, Kolkata Police seize huge amount of cash, illegal firearms||Kolkata Police’s Special Task Force (STF) seized huge amounts of cash and illegal firearms in two separate incidents on Monday. In one incident, acting on a tip-off, the police raided a house on Eliot Road in south Kolkata and seized cash amounting Rs 1.6 crore. Gold ornaments, two laptops and two smartphones were also seized. “The prime suspect, Md Emraan, was not present in the house. Family members could not provide any satisfactory answer as to why Emraan had stored such a huge amount of cash in his house,” said a senior STF official. A search has been initiated to nab the accused and investigation is on to ascertain why did he store the cash in his house. Also read: Kolkata Durga Puja organisers move HC with review petitionIn another incident, two illegal firearms-dealer were arrested from Strand Road in central Kolkata, police said. The accused have been identified as Sujato Goswami and Md Sahid. Both are residents of Hooghly district near Kolkata. “Eight improvised firearms were seized. The duo was produced in a court on Tuesday. They have been sent to police custody. Further investigation is going on,” said a senior official of the STF. The incident has raised eyebrows as the festive season is going on and the 2021 assembly election is also approaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amid-festive-season-kolkata-police-seize-huge-amount-of-cash-illegal-firearms/story-BqjobIl5FUn461xgJdXy7M.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Teachers relieved from service: Colleges asked to appear before Panjab University panel||Two private colleges in Ludhiana district that are affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh, have been asked to appear before a varsity panel for relieving their teachers from service during lockdown.In the case of a third college, which is located in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ludhiana, the panel has recommended that it should revoke the relieving orders.The panel, which has been constituted by the vice-chancellor to take up matters pertaining to PU-affiliated colleges, met for the second time this month on Tuesday to discuss the issue.As per sources, the three colleges have relieved at least four staffers from service, including a principal. The panel has also directed the colleges to submit on what grounds the teachers were relieved from service. A member of the panel, seeking anonymity, said, “We have asked complainants and the college managements to appear before the committee.”Non-payment of salaries in collegesThe panel will take up the issue of non-payment of salaries to teachers in several affiliated colleges of the university in its next meeting. A member of the panel said some colleges have not paid salaries to teachers for over a year and are now delaying payment on pretext of the Covid pandemic.In May, a PU senator had also written to the university seeking action against colleges who have not paid salaries to teachers. The complaint also stated that some college managements have unreasonably reduced teachers’ salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teachers-relieved-from-service-colleges-asked-to-appear-before-panjab-university-panel/story-W9rkk5PurMTWgp2G0vimkN.html
20-10-2020||Lucknow||‘Largest and toughest to clinch’: Aam Aadmi Party now sets eyes on Uttar Pradesh||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is all set to take a plunge in Uttar Pradesh’s, which is already an overcrowded political arena, after testing turbulent waters in the northern state of Punjab after winning Delhi. The assembly elections in the state are scheduled in early 2022 but AAP has already launched public campaigns on various burning issues in different parts of the state and had also made its presence felt in Hathras. However, they have a year’s time to form and galvanize teams in a state with 403 assembly constituencies.Senior AAP leader Sanjay Singh said, “We have ambitious plans for Uttar Pradesh but the national leadership will make the announcement at the right time.” Singh has been spearheading the party’s connect with the masses and had earned the wrath of the chief minister Yogi Adityanath by getting a survey done to prove caste bias in the governance of the state. About a dozen of FIR’s have been lodged against him.Singh says they had won Delhi within a year’s time after the formation of the party in 2012 and that people, by now, are familiar with its flag, symbol, issues and leadership, the fact remains that UP is not only the largest state but also the toughest to win. Also read: Slippers hurled at Tejashwi Yadav during poll rally in BiharThe AAP started its public outreach programme via panchayats. Coming handy are about 10,000 oximeters provided to the party cadre to test oxygen levels of people during the pandemic. The oximeters are creating curiosity as well as a local connect with the people. As of now, the party has reached 3,500 gram panchayats in 345 assembly constituencies, each having a 25-member committee, according to Vaibhav Maheshwari, state spokesperson of the party. Challenges ahead The BJP had swept the 2017 assembly polls independently winning 312 of the 403 seats, decimating Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party that had dominated the state’s political scene from 1993 to 2017. Second, 302 political parties - including six national, two at the state level, five from other states and 289 registered but unrecognized - had contested the 2017 elections. Only eight parties had managed to open their account amid the BJP wave. The AAP will be thus another recognised party testing its fate in the complex state.While SP leader Akhilesh Yadav has always welcomed parties contesting polls saying “more the merrier,” the BSP and the Congress have maintained a silence with their leaders, perhaps, waiting for the announcement. Akhilesh also shares camaraderie with Kejriwal. The ruling BJP, upset with a telephonic survey done by the AAP on the caste leanings of the chief minister, was quick to retaliate. Secretary Chandra Mohan said, “They neither were able to control tomato prices nor Covid. Yet they have the cheek to indulge in theatrics in UP. They are free to dream but more than their UP entry, they should worry about Delhi which they are set to lose. Yes, but they should come to UP to learn governance from chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji.” Political expert Badri Narayan said, “the AAP is a party in the making and may attract aspirational activists from the opposition parties.” Also read: Chirag Paswan’s LJP to fight on 137 seats, releases 3rd list of candidatesTracing the electoral trajectory of new parties in the state, Narayan said, “It’s a long-drawn battle and requires consistent efforts as the first election is often contested to lose, second to damage others by cutting into their votes and third and fourth to defeat and finally win.”UP’s assembly’s 403 seats are more than five times of Delhi’s (70), which are more urban in character. The state has a huge rural base and each region has distinct issues and complexities. AAP’s movesThe AAP has been making sporadic noises in the past - this is the first time that it will contest the panchayat elections in this vast state. The party has about a year to prepare for the country’s most complex election in the largest state. Sanjay Singh confidently says, “One year is enough. Now we have a governance model to showcase.” Although east UP may be oblivious to the work done by Kejriwal in Delhi - from mohalla clinics to schools - western UP districts, adjoining the country’s capital, are aware of his performance. He will be a face to reckon with but can he win elections? Indeed, elections in UP have been driven either by a personality or caste and religion. The AAP has Kejriwal but its biggest challenge will be to find the right face in the state and correct the caste calculus. Though the opposition is in disarray, AAP has to create its own political space and cultivate vote base. This will be a gigantic task. Amongst the opposition parties that got decimated in 2017, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav still holds a decent amount of goodwill. Much would depend on how it gets converted into votes and how he holds his prime base vote of Yadavs and Muslims in the heat of the BJP’s aggressive Hindutva agenda. He has activated the party organisation, which for the past few months, has been holding demonstrations on unemployment, law and order, poor development work, et cetera. However, he has yet to find a counter to BJP’s growing appeal of Hindutva among the masses. Similarly, Mayawati has a core vote bank of Jatavs but her party has been invisible on the ground although her cadre, though disillusioned, can be activated anytime. After the AAP highlighted caste leanings of the chief minister, Mayawati deployed its veteran leader Satish Mishra once again to win back the disgruntled Brahmins.Mishra has already held about 67 meetings with Brahmins, somewhat on the lines of his about 27,000-kilometre journey in 2007 organising the Dalit-Brahmin ‘bhoj’. It had paid dividends with Mayawati breaking the coalition jinx to become the chief minister without any crutches. As for the Brahmins, they do crib about the neglect by the administration but find solace in the fact that the Ram temple in Ayodhya will be a reality. The BJP still remains their first choice. Coming to the Congress, which of late has been in the forefront of all public movements, it has more leaders than workers. The organisation had weakened in the state decades before the party slumped at the central level. Other national/state parties like RLD, CPI, CPM, NCP and other smaller ones have caste-based or regions of influence. Their outreach is not statewide. On the other hand, the BJP has a robust organisation, energetic cadre and popular face of the Prime Minister besides the RSS network. Mahant Yogi Adityanath has emerged as a hardcore politician after becoming chief minister. He is skilled in the art of elections and is hardworking, now called the 24x7 chief minister. He not only wears saffron but believes in hardcore Hindutva. A known turfOn a smaller scale, the AAP has contested elections in some other states, including Uttar Pradesh. In 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the popular face of the party, Arvind Kejriwal, had thrown down the gauntlet in Varanasi contesting against Narendra Modi, the then prime ministerial candidate of the BJP. Kejriwal saved his deposit, other opposition candidates had lost theirs. The party was then riding high as it had defeated Congress heavyweight chief minister Shiela Dixit in the Delhi polls. The scenario, however, is different today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/largest-and-toughest-to-clinch-aam-aadmi-party-now-sets-eyes-on-uttar-pradesh/story-PhX8YnN7Xa4FGtN5jqwDwM.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER initiates study on persistence of Covid antibodies||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has initiated a study on how long Covid-19 antibodies persist in recovered patients.The study is an extension of the plasma-therapy trial conducted at 39 hospitals across the country. “The study is important so we can find out for long a person is immune to the infection. So, as part of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) trials, we have also collected samples from 60% of the patients who were either donors or recipients of the plasma trials. The aim is to check whether antibodies fall or persist in patients who once surely developed them,” said Pankaj Malhotra from the internal medicine department, PGIMER, and principal investigator of the study said.The samples collected will be sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, to study the effect of antibodies on the live virus.“It will also have an impact on how the vaccine will provide safety. If antibodies persist for a long time, we can safely assume that it will have a long term impact. Also, since a huge population has recovered, it will be better for us to understand for how long they are immune,” Malhotra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-initiates-study-on-persistence-of-covid-antibodies/story-koVQCkSV8QRAubFsp1llLI.html
20-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Durga Puja organisers move HC with review petition, cite ‘practical problems’||Citing practical problems in implementing the Calcutta High Court’s order to put up barricades outside Durga Puja pandals, a section of the most prominent puja organisers in Kolkata filed a review petition in the court on Tuesday. The petition is likely to be heard on Wednesday. On Monday, the Calcutta HC, while hearing a PIL, had banned the entry of visitors inside the pandals declaring them as ‘no entry zones’ to check any gathering which could lead to a surge in Covid-19, as doctors have warned. While pandal-hopping has already started, Durga Puja starts from Thursday. “We have filed a review petition in the court citing some practical problems which may arise if the orders are implemented. The matter is likely to be heard on Wednesday,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab. The forum represents more than 350 pujas in the city, including prominent ones some of which are patronised by ministers and senior leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress.Also read: ‘If a girl goes out in the evening…’ - Jharkhand leader’s shocker on rape“The applicants state that the court may appreciate that the directions, as given in the order dated October 19, may not be workable in view of the variable in-situ issues which the individual organisers are required to address holding the Durga Puja in the locality,” the petition states, adding that Kolkata’s Durga Puja has been nominated for UNESCO’s 2020 list.The HC on Monday had directed that while the city’s big pujas need to put barricade at least 10 metres away from the outer end of the pandal, the smaller ones can barricade at a distance of five metres.“There are some practical problems as nearly 80 percent of the pujas in Kolkata are held in lanes which are not more than 18–24 feet wide. If they put up barricades, there would be no space left for the visitors to pass through and people will virtually have to go back participating in the puja,” said Basu. Puja committees claimed to have made elaborate arrangements for managing the crowd based on the guidelines issued by the Mamata Banerjee administration in September. This year, more than 37,000 community pujas would be organised across the state, including more than 2,500 such pujas in Kolkata. Around 1,700 pujas are organised by women in the state. The list, however, doesn’t include pujas which are held inside housing societies and houses. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had even announced a donation of Rs 50,000 to each of the puja committees. “At all puja pandals, entry and exit gates have been kept separate. Barricades have already been set up accordingly. Now, if we put up new barricades, in some pandals, visitors would have to make a U-turn and go back the same way. It would lead to chaos and crowd would accumulate. Earlier, we had plans to allow a restricted number of visitors in specific time slots,” said Partha Ghosh, an executive committee member of the forum. Instead, the organisers, in their 18-page review petition, have said that security arrangements would be made so that not more than 50 persons remain inside the pandal at a time. There would be a continuous flow of visitors and no crowding. Pandals would be sanitised twice daily among other precautions.“The court has allowed only 25 puja committee members inside the pandals. This means no resident would be able to perform ‘Anjali’ and attend other rituals such as ‘sandhi puja’ except for the 25 members. This would create a rift within the locality amid the festive season,” said Ghosh. Citing examples of Kerala where Covid-19 cases had shot up after Onam festivities, doctors had earlier warned the Mamata Banerjee administration that Covid-19 infection in Bengal could increase up to four-fold if restrictions were relaxed during the festive season. “The only reason behind filing the PIL was to ensure that safety protocols to stop Coronavirus are maintained. The court had observed that the state government has pious intentions to stop the virus but it would be hard to manage the puja crowd. Monday’s order is basically the modalities, which the court has laid down, to manage the crowd,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the lawyer who had filed the original PIL on behalf of Ajay Kumar De.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-durga-puja-organisers-move-hc-with-review-petition-cite-practical-problems/story-dCQKI731OoSCXHHwuu8U6K.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 12 lives in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday reported 940 new coronavirus infections and 12 deaths. The fresh cases pushed the cumulative infections to 1,52,174. National capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram (255) and Faridabad (109) reported the highest number of new infections, followed by Hisar (88), Rewari (61) and Mahendergarh (54). As per the bulletin, 925 patients recovered from the viral illness, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,40,436. Now, there are 10,078 active cases in the state. The recovery rate is 92.29 % and fatality rate is 1.09%. Two people each from Gurugram, Hisar and Yamunanagar and one person each from Panipat, Nuh, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri succumbed to the disease. There are 197 critically-ill patients in the state, of which 28 are on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-12-lives-in-haryana/story-oAwUASvHajZzeNfjSUy5QI.html
20-10-2020||City||Aundh bridge to be shut for over two months as PMC constructs parallel bridge||Pune: The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) will begin construction of a bridge parallel to the existing Aundh-Sangvi bridge. Hence, a closure of the existing bridge till January 6, 2021, has been announced. The PCMC traffic police issued a notification on Monday, which read: “Bridge towards Aundh from the Dhore Patil subway will be completely shut. An alternative route suggested is the Rajiv Gandhi bridge towards Aundh or from Rakshak Nagar chowk towards Pimple Nilakh then Baner”. The closure is likely to cause traffic congestion on the above roads. People traveling towards Sangvi or Wakad from Aundh will now have to take either the Bhale chowk-Parihar chowk-Rishi Malhotra chowk-Rajiv Gandhi bridge route; or the Bhale chowk-Nagras road-Ambedkar Setu Marg route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aundh-bridge-to-be-shut-for-over-two-months-as-pmc-constructs-parallel-bridge/story-PpwoAuCNKmTzNd9nYlALZM.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Soon, travel to Navi Mumbai in under 40 minutes; thanks to Mumbai’s water taxis||The Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) is looking to initiate water taxi services from the city’s domestic cruise terminal (DCT) at Princess Dock from next month. The MbPT is planning to operate water taxis between Mumbai and Belapur, Vashi, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and Manwa initially. Officials said that they had shortlisted around six agencies to operate the water taxis, of which, one or even two operators are likely to start services soon. The water taxis will facilitate reaching Navi Mumbai in around 30-40 minutes instead of close to one and half hour travel by road. Captain Bhabatosh Chand, deputy conservator, marine department, MbPT, said the charges for the services will be determined by the operator. Also read: Well-behaving virus? What’s behind drop in J-K’s Covid-19 numbersIn February 2020, the MbPT had started the roll-on/roll-off (Ro-Ro) passenger services from south Mumbai to Alibaug which proved to be a hit with passengers after it was resumed services in August 20 post the lockdown. According to M2M Ferries Pvt Ltd, which operates the services, more than 5,000 passengers, 1,200 cars, 270 two-wheelers and cyclists took a trip on the ferry between August 20 and the first week of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/soon-travel-to-navi-mumbai-in-under-40-minutes-thanks-to-mumbai-s-water-taxis/story-d8LpKWCCGWUu7rqk16XsCN.html
20-10-2020||Pune||HSC, SSC re-examination in Nov-Dec||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Tuesday announced the dates of Class 10 (SSC) and Class 12 (HSC) re-examination 2020, the notification issued by board stated. According to Board, the HSC and SSC re-examination will be held in November-December instead of October for repeat students. The MSBSHSE also declared the online application process for candidates who want to appear for the exam. The students can fill their form between October 20 and October 29. The application procedure for the Maharashtra board re-examination will be enabled by the respective schools and junior colleges of the students. Therefore, students have been asked to get in touch with schools. Students applying for it must note that the forms would be accepted online, the board stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hsc-ssc-re-examination-in-nov-dec/story-hOpShkzc2bwJtvxfGRbpLP.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Women’s Commission raps Maharashtra govt over cases of sexual harassment at Covid-19 centres||The National Commission for Women (NCW) chief on Tuesday pulled up Maharashtra government over the incidents of rape and sexual harassment at the Covid-19 centres in the state.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma, who is on a three-day visit to Mumbai, wanted the state to implement the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) to ensure the safety of women at Covid-19 centres.“There was mismanagement at these centres due to which such sexual offences took place. These centres did not have female attendants to take care of the women patients. The authorities did not even bother to check the antecedents of the male attendants who were employed to take care of the women patients. This is gross negligence,” said Sharma. “I have asked them to install CCTV cameras and ensure female staff for women,” she added.Sharma met with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari at Raj Bhavan and also met chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. She asked Kumar and Singh to take punitive action against the guilty.Sharma, however, did not personally visit any Covid-19 centre as she said she had just recovered from the virus.Also read: Ex-cop sues Arnab Goswami for defaming Mumbai police, asks court to gag himIn addition, Sharma also pointed to the rising number of cases where women were forcibly converted in Maharashtra. She cited the case of a woman in Aurangabad who she said was kidnapped and forcibly converted. However, she was unable to provide figures for the increase in such incidences to substantiate her claim. “I have asked the authorities to collect figures,” said Sharma.Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik, who had to face the ire of Sharma last month, described it as selective targeting. “We condemn the sexual harassments at the Covid-19 centres but at the same time, we feel that the NCW targets the non-BJP parties. They turn a blind eye to the atrocities on women in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh. The Hathras rape is the biggest example of this,” said Sarnaik.Last month, Sharma had condemned the threat by Sarnaik to actor Kangana Ranaut and asked the Maharashtra DGP to arrest him.However, Sharma denied any bias saying even BJP leaders who made sexual comments had to face the ire of the NCW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-s-commission-raps-maharashtra-govt-over-cases-of-sexual-harassment-at-covid-19-centres/story-ZShCcqSkck4ZaQtUkOHOTO.html
20-10-2020||Pune||No Covid deaths in PCMC on Monday, district reports 15||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported no Covid-19 related deaths on Monday, as per the state health department. Pune city and the rural together accounted for 15 deaths due to the Covid-19 infection. The death toll in the district is now 6,504 and 3.24 lakh Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district, until date. Of the total cases, 2.79 lakh have recovered and currently, 38,335 are active cases. Pune district reported over 625 fresh Covid cases on Monday. Pune city reported 210 new cases taking the total count to 1,68,402. Seven deaths put the death toll at 3,851. PCMC reported 141 new cases on Monday taking the final count to 82,588. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,164. Pune rural reported 274 new cases taking the final count to 73,277. Right deaths took the death toll to 1,488 according to the state health department. The state health department reported also reported that 15,069 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count to 13,84,879. The recovery rate in the state is 86.48 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.64 per cent. Of the 81,85,778 laboratory samples, 16,01,365 have been tested positive (19.56%) for Covid-19 until today. Currently, 24,14,577 people are in home quarantine and 23,285 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-covid-deaths-in-pcmc-on-monday-district-reports-15/story-lCq2hCY102SvpA4EjmMfQJ.html
20-10-2020||Pune||September, deadliest month for Pune in terms of Covid deaths||September was the deadliest month for Pune in terms of deaths related to Covid-19. As per data released by the district health office, as of October 15, 31.4 per cent or 2,306 deahts of the 7,335 Covid-related death toll were reported in the month. August accounted for 29.7 per cent, or 2,177 deaths, in the district. Analysis released by the district health office also shows that the 61-70 age group is the most affected accounting for 30 per cent of the fatalities; followed by the 51-60 age group, which accounts for 22 per cent of the total deaths. As per the state health department, September also saw 1.20 lakh new Covid-19 cases in Pune district, the highest compared to any month since the first case was reported in March Experts say that September was the peak for the city but do not rule out a second wave possibility following the festive season. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, state technical committee on communicable diseases, who heads the committee, said, “We are past the peak, and September was the peak as now we are seeing a drastic drop in new cases and also deaths. However, we can rule out a second wave or a second surge post-Diwali season. If people avoid social distancing norms, careless use of masks or hand hygiene then there would be a second wave. People who believe that Covid-19 is over and might ignore safety norms will become super spreaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/september-deadliest-month-for-pune-in-terms-of-covid-deaths/story-XX2LkA24Q4eiRCMBGwjg0H.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Centre prioritises vaccine for healthcare workers||The Central health ministry has asked states to prepare a list of healthcare workers from all districts in order to prioritise them for the Covid-19 vaccine. The list will be prepared by district collectors who have been appointed as nodal officers for the task. The Central ministry earlier said that healthcare workers to be prioritised for vaccination will include front-line workers, nurses, paramedical staff and also clerical staff. The guidelines suggested by the Central ministry states that all healthcare workers, including those from private facilities, will be prioritised. The letter from the ministry to the state health secretaries states: “The database from the facilities should be uploaded on Covid-19 Vaccination Beneficiary Management System (CVBMS). The database must be uploaded on the system before the end of the month.” The letter includes various healthcare providers and those working in both private and public healthcare facilities, including frontline health workers - auxiliary nurses, midwives, multi-purpose health workers (male and female), Asha supervisors/ facilitators, nurses and supervisors, staff nurses, public health nurse, LHV, CHO, health supervisors, block extension educators, medical officers, Ayush doctors, dentist, paramedical staff, all technicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists, radiographers, other paramedical staff, scientist and research staff, medical, dentist, Ayush students, nursing and paramedical students working in the facility. It also includes class four workers like ward boys, support staff, sanitation workers, ambulance drivers, security staff, outsource agency staff and other support staff, clerical and administrative staff- data entry operators, engineers, clerical staff in the hospital. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, state technical committee on communicable diseases, who heads the committee said, “We have the data for the government staff readily available with us and we will get the data from private hospitals once they send it. We are yet to begin the process, but the machinery is set in motion. Also, there is no clarity on it yet as to whether there would be any further bifurcation within healthcare workers, with regards to vulnerable age groups, or those with comorbidities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/centre-prioritises-vaccine-for-healthcare-workers/story-pWxJnShvsg4Q3p0ZEM1MJO.html
20-10-2020||Jaipur||‘Will adversely affect...’: Rajasthan opposes RBI getting control of cooperative banks||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has opposed the recent amendments in the Banking Regulation Act (BRA) bringing the cooperative banks under the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The chief minister said the move would “adversely” affect the basic spirit of the state’s cooperative banks.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gehlot asked the PM to reconsider the amendments and restore the previous system wherein the state cooperative departments have regulatory control over cooperative banks.“The amendments made in some provisions of the Banking Regulation (BR) Act would adversely affect the basic spirit of the state’s Cooperative Banks and Cooperatives,” Gehlot said in an order.Rajasthan has 29 central cooperative banks which provide banking services across the state and are major contributors for disbursing farm loan. Gehlot said sections 10 and 10A have been inserted in the recently passed banking amendment law which regulate the cooperative banks. “Through these amendments, 51 percent members of the governing board of cooperative banks should have professional experience, which is practically not possible,” Gehlot stated.He added that in view of the majority of the members in cooperative banks coming from a rural background, the Centre should restore the earlier system and the condition of professional experience should be eliminated.He said the amendments overrule the provisions of the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act, 2001, which authorises registrar, co-operative societies to dissolve the Board of Directors if there is an error in the duties and norms set by the committee’s officials.Now, the registrar, co-operative societies can dissolve the board only on the recommendation of the RBI in the case of financial irregularities, he said, adding that it would make the office of registrar cooperative societies redundant. “After the amendment, all these rights have been given to the RBI. Due to the changed system, cooperative banks will not be able to effectively control the cooperative department of the state government,” the CM said.Gehlot said many amendments contradict the basic principles of cooperatives and urged the PM to review the amendments.BJP spokesperson and MLA Ram Lal Sharma said it is a habit of the Congress to oppose any bill introduced by the BJP. They should let it implement and see its result and decided whether it’s in people’s interest or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/will-adversely-affect-rajasthan-opposes-rbi-getting-control-of-cooperative-banks/story-X5BIGnx3USmJO2QOwgbFjN.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Keeping pregnant mothers safe, and ensuring newborns secure||Julie Robinson, 35, was pregnant for the third time in December 2019. However, due to complications, she delivered a preterm baby within eight months of pregnancy and the baby faced breathing issues. To add to her woes she received a piece of shattering news that she had tested positive for Sars-Cov-2-virus which causes the Covid-19 infection and would have to be shifted to a government facility.Robinson is one of the 498 new mothers who tested positive for the virus and sought treatment at various stages of pregnancy and even for post-delivery care at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) Sonawane hospital, Bhavani peth.The hospital is declared as a dedicated Covid-19 maternity hospital since May this year.Julie says that her experience at the hospital completely changed her opinion about government hospitals.“I was sent in our private car from the private hospital on the next day after the C-section operation when I tested positive for the virus. They did not arrange for an ambulance even after such a major operation. We had to go in our car and I didn’t even get to see my child,” she said.“I was admitted at Sonawane hospital for ten days as I was asymptomatic. They took great care of me and other mothers who were admitted at the hospital. We not only received treatment but also emotional support,” she said.The 80 bedded hospital was turned into a 50-bed hospital to make sure all safety norms were strictly followed. Out of the 50 beds, 30 are reserved for pregnant women while 20 for the babies.Dr Madhuri Rokade, resident medical officer, Sonawane hospital, said, “We had mothers who faced pregnancy complications and also tested positive for Covid-19. For such mothers, we have to provide emotional support. We also have post-operative care for mothers and babies who test positive and are sent from private hospitals for maternity care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/keeping-pregnant-mothers-safe-and-ensuring-newborns-secure/story-TzPA8iPwWfdq7UsijQtYFM.html
20-10-2020||City||Chhattisgarh Governor asks state for reasons seeking 2-day special assembly session||Chhattisgarh Governor Anusuiya Uikey has returned the Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government’s proposal seeking to convene a two-day special session of the state legislative assembly on October 27 and 28. She has urged the state government to explicitly spell out the reasons behind holding the special session of the assembly amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. An official posted at Raj Bhawan said that the Governor Uikey wanted to know the topic of the special session of the assembly. “The Governor wanted to know the topic since there was no mention of it in the state government’s proposal,” said the official. Also read: Amit Jogi’s nomination papers for Chhattisgarh bypolls rejectedThe state government has proposed to call the special assembly session after Dussehra on October 27 and 28 in a bid to bring legislations to bypass the newly enacted three Central farm laws and the labour law to protect the interests of farmers and labourers in Chhattisgarh. CM Baghel has taken exception to the Governor’s response. He told media persons on Tuesday that “The Governor cannot prevent a government, which has full majority, to hold a special assembly session in the state…If the Governor has sought any query , we will share our response by this evening.” However, Raj Bhavan authorities tried to downplay the incident and claimed that there was no conflict between the state government and the Governor.“There is no conflict between the state government and the Governor,” added the official posted at Raj Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-governor-asks-state-for-reasons-seeking-2-day-special-assembly-session/story-Ysq2rXRDEZuvJaAnOHN0hO.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||ICICI Bank fraud: Court seeks jail report on Deepak Kochhar’s plea for post-Covid hospitalisation||The special PMLA court on Tuesday sought a report from the prison authorities of Taloja Jail on a plea by former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar. Deepak Kochhar requested to be shifted to a private hospital for post-Covid-19 care. Kochhar is presently lodged in Taloja Jail after being remanded to judicial custody. He had, last week, approached the special court through his lawyers Vijay Agrawal and Aashul Agrawal and requested to be shifted to a private hospital In his plea, Kochhar stated that he “suffered from an extremely severe and prolonged bout of Covid-19 lasting more than three weeks, with many additional complications including prolonged and severe infection which has impacted the entire body, including lungs, muscles, joints and immune system.” Also Read: ICICI Bank money laundering case: Deepak Kochhar remanded to ED custody till October 17“Applicant is still suffering from prolonged effects of Covid infection, has been advised rest for two weeks, and is under medication of various drugs. Going into the jail will not be safe for the health of the Applicant and his life. Covid-19 caused by Sars-CoV-2 is a relatively new disease, with fresh information being known on a dynamic basis about the natural history of the disease, especially in terms of post-recovery. It is submitted that even a mild Covid-19 infection can leave patients sick for months after testing negative,” reads the application. The plea was heard on Tuesday, wherein Enforcement Directorate (ED) responded that the application cannot be decided without a report from the prison department. Considering this, the special court has called for a report from jail. The plea is scheduled for hearing on Wednesday. Kochhar was arrested by ED on September 7 on charges of money laundering. He was later remanded to ED custody till September 19. Meanwhile, Kochchar tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14. Hence his ED custody was suspended and he was sent to judicial custody. Kochhar was discharged on October 13 and was remanded to ED custody. The special court had remanded him to judicial custody on October 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icici-bank-fraud-court-seeks-jail-report-on-deepak-kochhar-s-plea-for-post-covid-hospitalisation/story-wqhxTGyOduKGtq4IX5DkxI.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Maternity ward keeps infection at minimum in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC)dedicated Covid-19 maternity hospital has seen a tremendous recovery among mothers who had tested positive and also a nominal number of babies were found positive. Out of the 123 women who delivered babies at the Sonawane hospital in Bhavani peth, only four babies tested positive for Covid-19 and were successfully discharged without any complications. Out of the 123 deliveries that took place in the hospital 93 were through C-section and 30 were normal deliveries. The hospital also attended to 66 babies born to Covid-19 positive mothers from other hospitals for observation and treatment.Dr Madhuri Rokade, resident medical officer, Sonawane hospital, said, “The hospital was declared a dedicated Covid-19 maternity hospital only in May, but even in March and April we had conducted a few deliveries of Covid-19 pregnant women.”“When the first Covid-19 positive person was detected we sent the patient to Sassoon but she had stayed in the hospital for two days and during those days the staff and the nearby patients also got exposed. Following that incident, the entire hospital had to be shut down and our staff of 53 people had to undergo tests for the virus. The hospital was also shut for 21 days. Since it was a new disease the staff also panicked and the other patients were also sceptical of the situation,” she said.Dr Rokade also added that only four babies out of the 123 deliveries tested positive for the infection. “None of the babies reported any complications related to growth or weight,” she added.“While earlier few international studies did indicate the transfer of infection from mother to baby in the womb or even complications like abortions and preterm deliveries. Sonawane hospital has not reported any such incidents,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maternity-ward-keeps-infection-at-minimum-in-pune/story-MI1VMvLD81Pj8vSjjQntdN.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former Julana MLA Parminder Singh Dhull quits BJP over farm laws||Former two-time Julana MLA Parminder Singh Dhull quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the recently enacted farm legislations on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference at Jind, Dhull said he had resigned from the primary membership of the saffron party:“ I am quitting the BJP as farmers are my top priority. I am a farmer first then a politician. I had joined the BJP, ahead of assembly elections in 2019, hoping that the party would implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and ensure monthly pension to farmers and labourers. However, far from implementing the recommendations, the Union government has passed three laws that are equivalent to death warrants for farmers,” he said.Dhull said he had written an open letter to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar saying that he had failed to stand by farmers and was acting like a ‘clerk’ on the directions of the Centre.“ The CM has no concern for the farmers. I will campaign against the BJP in the Baroda constituency for enacting the laws. This is the time to save our farming community,” he said.Dhull had entered electoral politics as a Congress candidate in 1991 from Julana but had lost his maiden election. He remained unsuccessful in 1996 and 2005 as well. In 2008, Dhull joined the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and became an MLA in 2009 and 2014. He switched to the BJP in 2019 but was defeated in the assembly elections by Jannayak Janta Party’s (JJP’s) Amarjeet Singh.Recently, former Radaur MLA and BJP leader Shyam Singh Rana had also quit the party over the farm laws and switched over to the INLD in the presence of party patriarch Om Prakash Chautala and his son Abhay Singh Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-julana-mla-parminder-singh-dhull-quits-bjp-over-farm-laws/story-4oGlvk0iUbGMeO1PG5FLlO.html
20-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest department rescues 16-foot-long python; video goes viral||The Uttarakhand forest department has rescued a 16-foot-long Burmese Python, weighing 91 kg, from Kashipur town of US Nagar district. The video has gone viral on social media.Himanshu Bagri, the divisional forest officer of Terai west forest division, said that locals spotted the python and informed the officials on Monday evening. “A python was spotted at Gaddha Colony in Kashipur town late Monday evening, when a team from the forest department rushed to the spot and rescued it. The snake was released in the forest of Bijrani zone, Corbett Tiger Reserve,” said the divisional forest officer. Also Read: 8-ft long python found in Uttarakhand roadways bus, gives mechanic frightVipul Mourya, a snake expert from Wildlife Institute of India, said it is a good sign for Uttarakhand’s biodiversity that such big pythons are being spotted. “After finding a rare Red Coral snake, the spotting of a python in the Terai region shows there is a good habitat for snakes in Uttarakhand’s forests.” This is not the first time a python has been found in the state. On September 13, a python was rescued from the Clement Town area in Dehradun. Watch: 16-feet-long Burmese python rescued by Uttarakhand Forest departmentSightings of snakes in the state had increased in the state during monsoons. In the first week of September, Uttarakhand forest department had rescued 12 snakes, including six cobras, from Haldwani area of Nainital district. A copper-headed trinket snake, Forsten’s cat snake, Russell’s viper, two rat snakes and a python, were also among those rescued from different villages of Haldwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-forest-department-rescues-16-foot-long-python/story-Ue4K8Vnh0xpTzo5WoBQLTL.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Allow held-up onion shipment to be exported: Bombay high court to customs||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the customs authorities in Mumbai to allow a consignment of onions—about 108 containers—which was held up after the Central government banned the export of the commodity on September 14, to be exported.The bench of justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Abhay Ahuja directed customs authorities to allow the export of onions for which shipping bills had been generated prior to 10.28pm on September 14—when the notification of the ban was uploaded on the e-gazette portal.The order came after Horticulture Produce Exporters Association filed a petition challenging the “abrupt ban” imposed by the Central government on the export of onions.In the petition, filed through advocate Sujay Kantawala, the association contended that the sudden ban was contrary to the Central government’s Export Policy 2015-2010, and its ‘Ease of Doing Business’ promise clearly stopped the authorities from arbitrarily interfering with the freedom to peacefully export goods.Also Read: Public transport to soon open for more sectors: Maharashtra government to Bombay HCThe petition added that Section 51 of the Customs Act, 1962 mandates customs officers to clear goods for export if satisfied that the items are not prohibited. The customs officers, however, acted arbitrarily on September 14, and refused to process Let Export Orders (LEOs) even before the notification was issued, stated the petition.The counsel for the petitioner association, senior advocate Darius Shroff, had pointed out that the notification was released in the evening of September 14, but the customs officers refused to process LEOs from the morning of September 14, even when the consignments were brought to the parking plaza outside the customs area.The high court found merit in the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioner body. It observed that the generation of shipping bill is not an empty formality. “It has a definite meaning assigned to it under the 2019 Regulations. It sets in motion the process of export of goods. The 2019 Regulations only reinforce the sanctity attached to a shipping bills,” said the bench.The judges also took note of a clarification issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes and Customs, declaring that wherever procedural or policy provisions are modified to the disadvantage of exporters, they shall not be applicable to consignments already handed over to the customs for export till the time the change is notified and published.The high court has admitted the petition for considering the challenge to the ban on export of onions and posted the petition for final hearing in the first week of December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-held-up-onion-shipment-to-be-exported-bombay-high-court-to-customs/story-YEeYMUPHPTMLUJI0MybB2J.html
20-10-2020||Patna||‘Bundle of lies’: Congress dismisses Bihar’s special package announced by PM in 2015||All India Congress Committee general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday dubbed Rs 1.25 lakh crore special package to Bihar, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during 2015 assembly elections, as a ‘bundle of lies’ to take the people for a ride. Talking to media, he said that schemes only worth Rs 1,559 crore of the package could be executed in the last five years and wondered why was the BJP trying to trumpet it as a success story. A media clip, juxtaposing PM Modi’s announcement of the package and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s counter wherein he had then dismissed it as ‘making mountain out of a molehill’, was also displayed during the media conference. Surjewala further alleged that work on 27 out of 44 national highway (NH) projects, which were part of a project worth Rs 54,713 crore under the special package, remained unfinished, while 17 projects were still waiting for the detailed projects report (DPR). The Congress leader also released the list of road projects, worth Rs 27,000 crore, which are still waiting to get a go-ahead. He said that the Union ministry of road transport and highway (MoRTH) had made a submission to this effect in Parliament in February this year. Also read: India’s daily Covid-19 cases less than 50,000 for first time in 3 monthsSurjewala said that work on Rs 2,000 crore Manihari-Sahebganj road bridge over Ganga was yet to begin. “Foundation of the central university in Bhagalpur, costing Rs 1,500, crore, could not be laid as the state government could not allot Rs 500 acre for it. The skill development university, which was to be built in Bihar under the special package, is now being shifted to Varanasi,” said the AICC general secretary. The Congress leader said that Rs 10,000 power project at Buxar, with a capacity to produce 1300 MW, remained a distant dream, even as the memorandum of understating to execute the project was signed during the UPA government in 2013. He claimed that the Centre had put this scheme in the special package. Claiming that the people of Bihar would be giving a befitting reply to the BJP-JDU’s bid to cheat them, Surejewala said that the proposals to build civil airports at Patna, Raxaul and Purnia at the cost of Rs 2,700 crore were still waiting for completion. “Similarly, the ambitious scheme to revive Barauni refinery plant (at the cost of Rs 21,476 crore) and a 22,500 kilometre-long network of rural roads (costing Rs 13,820 crore) could not get completed,” he added. The Congress leader also took a swipe at Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim that Bihar progressed significantly due to the Central package and said that what better could people expect from the BJP-led dispensation which refused to allot even a penny to Bihar out of Rs 100 crore allocated under Ramayan circuit. Referring to the law and order condition in Bihar, Surjewala alleged that the state witnessed the most heinous crimes, such as gang-rapes of minors, since the Independence. “Instead of penalising the perpetrators, the JD(U)-BJP combine has offered a ticket to those involved in the case,” said the Congress leader, alleging that leaders of the ruling dispensation, who thrived on scams, had started burning files in the secretariat after smelling the change. Dismissing the charge that the Congress had become a pillion rider to the RJD, the AICC leader said that he trusts Tejashwi Prasad Yadav because of his youthfulness and energy to work. “The Congress has the experience and the vision for governance to lead the state for a better future,” he added. AICC spokesperson Pawan Khera, AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra also spoke on te occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bundle-of-lies-congress-dismisses-bihar-s-special-package-announced-by-pm-in-2015/story-1Y5IEo0orYAZwLdjnhEWWO.html
20-10-2020||Dehradun||Wildlife board declines Uttarakhand forest dept’s request to modify tiger reserve road||National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), in its 59th standing committee meeting on October 5, declined the Uttarakhand forest department’s request to modify conditions imposed by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) for the road passing through the buffer area of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, an ecologically sensitive area in terms of movement of wildlife. The minutes of the meeting, which were released on Monday, were accessed by HT.After NBWL gave its nod for the construction of Laldhang-Chillarkhal road through the buffer zone of Rajaji Tiger Reserve based on recommendations by NTCA, Uttarakhand forest department wrote to the board in July, requesting modifications like reducing the length of underpass for wild animals and reducing the height of underpass from 8m to 5m. Also Read: Assam’s Kaziranga national park to open for tourists from October 21: Know the guidelinesDuring the meeting, the board sought NTCA’s view on the requests, which declined them as the “area has high density of wildlife.” The minutes of the meeting state, “The Chief Wildlife Warden, Uttarakhand, has now requested to modify three conditions imposed by the NTCA as follows: Forest Clearance not required since road exists prior to 1980 as per the guidelines of Forest Conservation Act. Reduce the length of underpass for wild animals to 470 m at the rate of 100 m per km instead of 705 m as recommended by NTCA. Reduce the height of underpass for wild animals from 8m to 5m due to geological conditions.” The NTCA responses stated it would “obtain views of Forest Conservation Division with respect to applicability of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, but did not agree to the request made by the chief wildlife warden for the other two conditions as the area has high density of wildlife.” Speaking on the issue, JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand said that the work on the road will be done according to the recommendations of NTCA. “We will be building the road as per the norms, following all recommendations of NTCA, but no other state has a cap on the height of underpasses; such a recommendation has been made only for Uttarakhand,” said Suhag. In January, after going through the recommendations of NTCA regarding the building of underpasses for animals and forest land transfer, NBWL had approved the proposed road. The board had then approved the project based on conditions like, “Permission for starting the work on the project shall be granted by the state government only when road design is modified as per animal passage plan prepared by project proponent in consultation with state chief wildlife warden on the basis of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) guidelines named Eco-friendly Measures to Mitigate Impacts on Linear Infrastructures on Wildlife.” The NTCA had recommended that as per the guidelines set by WII, “construction of an elevated road (underpass for animals) with substantial clearance for elephants (8m above ground to provide safe passage) needs to be undertaken for the central stretch of 4.7km from Chamaraia bend to Siggadi-sot.” The recommendations further mentioned that “While planning the elevated road it should be ensured that at least 100m of passage ways per 1km is provided. However, being an elephant dense area, it is suggested to provide one and half time more permeability which entails a permeable space of 705 m.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/wildlife-board-declines-uttarakhand-forest-dept-s-request-to-modify-tiger-reserve-road/story-GFlR6DVF7BWFKzclXUveOP.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot royal dispute: Supreme Court allows caretaker trust to operate bank accounts to pay salaries||The Supreme Court has allowed the Maharawal Khewaji Trust that manages the ₹20,000-crore worth property of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Faridkot, Harinder Singh Brar, to operate its bank accounts for making payments till the final judgment. All bank accounts of the trust were frozen after the Punjab and Haryana high court declared Brar’s will of June 1, 1982, in favour of the trust as forged. On June 1, the high court had upheld a Chandigarh court’s order, awarding a majority share in the ₹20,000-crore property to Brar’s daughters Amrit Kaur, who challenged the will in 1992, and Deepinder Kaur. The trust has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the high court order. The apex court ordered status quo till the judgment, allowing the trust to continue as caretaker. During the hearing on the SLP, the trust filed an interlocutory application praying that during the pendency of petition, it be permitted to operate bank accounts for paying salaries, taxes, utilities and maintenance of the royal properties and towards expenses of the charitable hospital. The application has given details about the expenses that are due for four months from June 1 to September 30, which amount to Rs 2.8 crore, including Rs 80 lakh for monthly salaries of 244 employees in Faridkot, Mashobra, Manimajra, New Delhi and Dhana. The trust has also given details of 12 bank accounts through which the expenses and expenditures are to be met. The trust argued that the banks have frozen its accounts as a result of which the activities undertaken by it are getting affected. However, the defence opposed the application, claiming in the name of expenditure towards fulfilling the objectives of the trust, the amounts are being misused. COURT ORDERS PERIODIC UPDATE ON EXPENSES The double bench of justice Umesh Lalit and justice Ravindra Bhat said since the activities undertaken by the trust are in the nature of running a hospital and philanthropic causes, at this stage, it is permitted to operate the accounts strictly for purposes enumerated in the application. However, the maintenance, repair and upkeep of properties, including the Raja Mahal and the fort at Faridkot, were not included in this. “The details of the expenses incurred and the credits received shall be placed on record periodically. The first report shall be filed on October 30 and the second on November 30,” the double bench ordered The apex court also directed the managers of these banks to send the statement of accounts from June 1 to October 30, which shall be furnished in the court on November 10. The next hearing on the SLP challenging the high court order is on November 4. LONGSTANDING DISPUTE Crowned maharaja at the age of three in 1918, Harinder Singh Brar was the last ruler of the Faridkotestate and was married to Narinder Kaur. The royalcouple had three daughters, Amrit Kaur, Deepinder Kaur and Maheepinder Kaur and a son, Harmohinder Singh. The son died in a road accident in 1981. One of the rulers of the seven Sikh princely states, Harinder died in 1989 and left behind prime properties in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana and Chandigarh. Maheepinder Kaur died a spinster, while Deepinder died while the legal battle was on. Amrit Kaur lives in Chandigarh. The property dispute started soon after Brar died in October 1989 after a will surfaced in which he had bequeathed his properties to the Maharwal Khewaji Trust, with his daughter Deepinder as its head. The property dispute reached the high court in 2018 after a Chandigarh court declared the trust void and gave property to the daughters. In June, the high court upheld the Chandigarh court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/faridkot-royal-dispute-supreme-court-allows-caretaker-trust-to-operate-bank-accounts-to-pay-salaries/story-BEQiy7IALj03yjL1qedIPK.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Seven DCs among 21 IAS officers transferred in Himachal Pradesh||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Himachal Pradesh government has transferred 21 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, including the deputy commissioners of seven districts. Aditya Negi has been transferred as the new deputy commissioner of Shimla in place of Amit Kashyap, who has been transferred as labour commissioner-cum-employment director. Kashyap will hold the additional charge of managing director, HP General Industries Corporation. Hamirpur DC Harikesh Meena has been posted as the director, energy, while Hemraj Bairwa is the new Kinnaur DC. He replaces Gopal Chand, who has been posted as the special secretary, multi-purpose projects and power, non-conventional energy sources, with additional charge of director, youth services and sports. Raghav Sharma is the new Una DC in place of Sandeep Kumar, who has been transferred as director, personnel. Rohit Jamwal, the director, town and country planning, has been posted as the Bilaspur DC, while Lahaul-Spiti DC Kamal Kant Sadoch will now be the director, town and country planning. Shimla Municipal Corporation commissioner Pankaj Rai will be DC, Lahaul-Spiti, at Keylong. Debasweta Banik will be the new Hamirpur DC. DR ASHWANI KUMAR SHARMA IS SPECIAL SECY, HEALTH Dr Ashwani Kumar Sharma has been posted as special secretary, health and family welfare, and will also hold the additional charge of chief executive officer, Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna, while Nipun Jindal, who was special secretary, health and family welfare, will now be member secretary, HP State Pollution Control Board. Jindal will continue to hold the additional charge of the post of state mission director, National Health Mission, till further orders. Anupam Kashyap has been transferred to the post of special secretary, tourism and civil aviation, and will hold the additional charge of director, language art and culture, at Shimla. Environment, science and technology director Duni Chand Rana will now be the Chamba DC in place of Vivek Bhatia, who will now be director, department of empowerment of SCs, OBCs, minorities and specially abled. He will also hold additional charge of the post of managing director, HP Minorities Finance and Development Corporation Limited. Hans Raj Chauhan is now the director, land records, and will hold the additional charge of the post of managing director, HP State Industrial Development Corporation, Shimla. Manasi Sahay Thakur will be the managing director, HP State Civil Supplies Corporation, while Sudesh Kumar Mokhta is the new director, environment science and technology, and will hold the additional charge of director-cum-ex officio special secretary, revenue disaster management. SS GULERIA IS REGISTRAR, CO-OPERATIVES SOCIETIES Dr SS Guleria has been posted as the registrar, co-operative societies, HP, with additional charge of divisional commissioner, Kangra, at Dharamshala. Bilaspur DC Rajeshwar Goel has been posted as the managing director of HPMC, Shimla, with additional charge of project director, HP Horticulture Development Society, managing director, HP Agro Industrial Packaging India Limited, and managing director, HP Agro Industries Corporation Limited, Shimla. Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officer Manoj Kumar will hold the post of executive director, Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC), as soon as he returns from deputation from Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-dcs-among-21-ias-officers-transferred-in-himachal-pradesh/story-Dl8EQz8NwURDkKyiuWcqMK.html
20-10-2020||City||BSF jawans in Malkangiri unearth 7 IEDs planted by suspected Maoists||The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel in Odisha’s Malkangiri district unearthed seven improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from the Communist Party of India (Maoist) hotbed of Swabhiman Anchala area on Tuesday following the seizure of a huge cache of explosives on the border of Malkangiri and Koraput districts on the previous day.Sukumar Sarangi, a public relations officer (PRO) of the BSF, said that acting on intelligence inputs, a team of the paramilitary force’s 9th Battalion was carrying out a combing operation at Tutugumi village under Panasput panchayat at Swabhiman Anchala, which is located close to Odisha-Andhra Pradesh (AP) border, when they stumbled seven IEDs packed in tin and steel containers. “The BSF personnel has been conducting combing operations in the northern parts of the area and has reached Jodambo. It is being suspected that the Maoists have been stockpiling IEDs to target BSF troops,” said Sarangi.Also Read: North-east border disputes: All you need to knowSarangi said the BSF personnel cordoned off the area and detonated the seven IEDs.Earlier on Monday morning, a joint patrol team of BSF and Koraput District Voluntary Force had seized 18 pieces of emulsion explosives, 500 pieces of gelatin, three camera flash guns, 15 metres (m) of wire, 1,200 grams (gm) of splinter and several Maoist literature near the Koraput-Malkangiri border.The Swabhiman Anchala, which comprises 151 villages, was physically cut-off from the rest of Malkangiri district because of water from Balimela reservoir, which is a part of the Machhkund hydroelectric power dam that was built in the 1940s. The Swabhiman Anchala was considered a Maoist bastion and large tracts were inaccessible except by long and dangerous boat rides across the Balimela reservoir until Odisha completed the construction of a 910-m bridge over the Gurupriya river in July 2018.The state government is gradually making its presence felt since July 2018 in the erstwhile Maoist hotbed by building roads, providing healthcare services and constructing telecom towers. Manish Agarwal, district collector (DC), Malkangiri, said the authorities have initiated started healthcare services at Public Health Centre (PHC) Janbai, PHC Jodambo and the sub-divisional hospital at Chitrakonda.In September, a trial run of the mobile network was successfully completed at Pipalapadar, Hantalguda and Jantapai villages in the area. In July, the Odisha State Road Transport Corporation (OSRTC) authorities had started the maiden government bus service between Malkangiri and Jodambo inside the Swabhiman Anchala.The state government has announced a development package worth Rs 100 crore under the Socio-Economic Transformation and Uplift scheme for the backward region in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-jawans-in-malkangiri-unearth-7-ieds-planted-by-suspected-maoists/story-UsL4SgIgzVxxEl37hcRlBL.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: Former cop files suit to restrain Arnab Goswami, Republic TV from airing material related to the case||Former Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Iqbal Shaikh has approached the city civil court seeking a restraining order against the news channel Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from airing any material related to TRP scam. An FIR in the case has been registered at Kandivali police station.Shaikh has moved a suit for defamation against Goswami and the channel for making comments against the police force in connection with the TRP scam. The suit is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday. Shaikh, in the suit filed through advocate Abha Singh, has alleged that “when a case is under investigation under statutory provisions, the Defendant No. 1 (Goswami) cannot be granted the liberty to discuss his own case and arbitrate it in his own TV channels by defaming Mumbai Police.” Also Read: Summon Arnab Goswami if he is named as accused in TRP scam FIR: Bombay HCShaikh has alleged that Goswami has been conducting debates and airing stories in connection with the case which may influence the investigation. “The Plaintiff submits that the Defendant No. 1 has transgressed his limits as an owner of two most popular TV Channels and has started pursuing his own agenda by being the Editor-in-Chief and by blurting out large sermons about his own case which is under probe by a statutory body,” read the suit. Republic TV is one of the three channels accused by Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh of manipulating television ratings. Six people have been arrested by the Mumbai Police in the scam, which allegedly involves bribing homeowners whose TV viewing is monitored to ensure that certain channels get higher ratings. The ratings are a key influencer of advertiser preferences while placing commercials. The police claim this is a “multi-crore” scam. The channel moved the high court seeking quashing of the FIR registered in the case and its transfer from Mumbai Police to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-scam-former-cop-files-suit-to-restrain-arnab-goswami-republic-tv-from-airing-material-related-to-the-case/story-i79Dw0YhbJ5SCFkCXbgn9J.html
20-10-2020||Lifestyle||Mehendi designs in Covid era: Bride and groom in masks||Just bride and groom depicted in a mehendi design is passé in 2020 as to-be brides want a symbol that defines the Covid era masks. Good health and safety of their spouse, is what a wife wishes for her husband, and this thought is being manifested in the latest mehendi designs this wedding season amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Mehendi artists tell us about this new trend. ‘It’s a new design, and also trending’A mehendi artist from Gurugram, Karan Nayak says he’s been making such masked figures in mehendi designs for the brides-to-be of late. “Yeh design maine isi month banaya for a bride; ekdum naya hai aur khoob chal raha hai (I made this design this month itself for a bride. It’s a new design and is trending). We first showed this design to a girl who was to be married, and then dulhan ne kaha bhaiya ‘Mujhe aur mere pati ko mask pehne huye banao’. Karwa Chauth pe yehhi bana ne ki karenge is baar (We’ll be mostly making this new design for Karwa Cahuth this year).”But the prices aren’t fixed, and will depend on the day of Karwa Chauth.“Corona ki wajah se bahut mandi hai. Kaafi dino se khaali baithe hain, bas shaadi ke jo order aaye hai. Ab toh jo customer de de Karwa Chauth ke din,” adds Nayak.‘Mask Wala Design Chahiye’Anil Kumar, another mehendi artist who has made a bridal mehendi where both the bride and groom adorn the mask, says, “Aaj kal ladkiya bolti hain ‘Mask wala design chahiye bhaiya’, aur hum bana dete hai. This one was priced at ₹7,100. Koi bhi design ho customer ko pasand aana chahiye bas. Toh phir hum ussi hisaab se bana dete hai ki unko sundar design bhi mile aur message bhi ho jaaye. Brides want ki acha message jaaye apne mehendi design se (We make mehendi patterns that are beautiful yet send out a positive message).” ‘Corona hain toh masks ban rahe hai’“Jab Raksha Bandhan aata hai toh rakhi ka design bana diya. Ab corona hain toh masks ban rahe hain (For Rakshabandhan we make Rakhi specific designs, and now since there’s corona, masks are taking over mehendi designs). We are in a pandemic and a mask is a must, so women want it in their mehendi designs, too,” says mehendi artist, Mansingh, adding, “Karwa Chauth pe hum customers ko batayenge ki yeh bhi likh sakte hain: Stay Safe.”‘Humari shaadi corona mein hui thi’Anuj Kumar, a mehendi artist from Tilak Nagar feels this trend will continue for months to come. “Shaadi season will pick up from October 23, uske baad se hi start karenge banana. We have put up some designs on our website and that’s where people saw it and have started demanding it. Yeh ek memory ke liye hoti hai; log sochte hain baad me photo dekh ke ki ‘Humari shaadi hui toh corona chal raha tha’. I charge ₹11,000 for bridal mehendi on both hands. Bride and groom ki jo image banegi woh mask ke saath banegi aage aane wale mahino mein (Clients who have made bookings for coming months, have shortlisted designs that have figures of the bride and the groom wearing masks),” she says. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/mehendi-designs-in-covid-era-bride-and-groom-in-masks/story-tCLBhZmn4ZOlKalHrK2TpN.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST bus driver suffers heart attack, bus hits signal, passengers safe||A bus driver working for the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) suffered a heart attack in Mumbai on Tuesday while driving a vehicle.Haridas Patel was driving a single-decker BEST bus, which runs on the Ghatkopar bus depot and Chembur’s Tata Power House route. Patel, who suffered the hear attack, lost control of the vehicle, when the bus was approaching Basant Park Signal in Chembur. The bus hit the traffic signal after he lost control of the vehicle. Fortunately, no passenger in the bus was injured. Patel was rushed to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar.“He has regained consciousness and is feeling better,” said a BEST spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-best-bus-driver-suffers-heart-attack-bus-hits-signal-passengers-safe/story-QifQSlolB2TFaQBITnL5ZP.html
20-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC issues notice to Maharashtra Governor Koshyari over pending dues as former CM||Hearing a contempt petition against some of the state’s former chief ministers for non-payment of dues, the Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday issued a show cause notice to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The court has directed Koshyari to submit his response regarding non-compliance of its earlier order on payment of dues. The former chief minister’s counsel, BD Upadhyay, said, “We will reply to the notice within four weeks.” On May 3, 2019, the court had directed four former CMs to pay within six months the market rent -- amounting to Rs 2.8 crore -- for the buildings occupied by them. It had also directed that all amount payable towards amenities, such as electricity, water and petrol, be recalculated within four months and the same be intimated to the former chief ministers who shall, within six months, pay said amount to the state government. Also read: Former Uttarakhand CM, 250 Congress workers booked for violating Covid-19 normsThe court had delivered the order after hearing a PIL filed by Dehradun-based NGO, Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra, that challenged free residence, car, security and other perks to former chief ministers in 2010. The single bench of Justice Sharad Sharma heard the contempt petition filed against Koshyari on Tuesday. “We apprised the court that the petition is fully maintainable even if the respondent is a sitting Governor. We have completed the requirement provided under Article 361(4) of the Constitution of India and already given sixty days’ notice to Koshyari before filing the present contempt petition. The court heard the matter and issued notice to Koshyari, granting him four weeks to reply to the same,” said the petitioner’s counsel. According to Article 361(4) of Constitution of India, “any civil proceedings in which relief is claimed against the President, or the Governor of a State, shall be instituted during his term of office in any court in respect of any act done or purporting to be done by him in his personal capacity, whether before or after he entered upon his office as President, or as Governor of such State, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing has been delivered to the President or Governor.” The other three former chief ministers from whom the court had sought a response earlier in September this year are Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Vijay Bahuguna and Bhuvan Chand Khanduri. While Nishank’s matter was heard recently, Bahuguna and Khanduri have filed special leave petitions in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-issues-notice-to-former-cm-koshyari-now-maharashtra-governor-over-pending-dues/story-KF6YGKVzgoUN9oM8O0p9oK.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC intends to end interim bail, parole of all prisoners out due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Delhi high court (HC) on Tuesday said that it intends to bring the blanket order of extending the interim bail and emergency parole of prisoners in the national capital to an end after the Delhi government informed the court that only three inmates are infected by coronavirus disease ( Covid 19) and are undergoing treatment in hospitals.Earlier in March, prisoners in Delhi were released on interim bail and emergency parole as one of the first measures to decongest jails and prevent the spread of the contagion. On Tuesday, a three-member HC bench, comprising Chief Justice (CJ) DN Patel, Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, said that the blanket order was passed because of the Covid-19 outbreak.On Tuesday, the Delhi government, through advocate Rahul Mehra, a standing counsel for criminal cases, told the HC that a total of 5,581 inmates were released on interim bail and emergency parole. Also Read: Over 77% non-Covid-19 ICUs in Delhi now occupied, data showsThough the total capacity of jails in the national capital is 10,000, around 16,000 inmates were lodged because of an acute space crunch.The Delhi government told the HC that 216 jail employees had tested Covid-19 positive, of which 206 had recovered from their viral infection.Sandeep Goel, director-general (D-G) of Delhi’s Tihar Prison, informed the HC some of the employees live in jail quarters and others don’t commute to work from outside.“At present, only three inmates are undergoing treatment at hospitals after they had tested Covid-19 positive. The contagion was contained in jails because adequate measures were undertaken by the authorities concerned,” Goel said.Amit Prasad, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP), told the HC that 25 prisoners arrested in different cases of north-east Delhi riots, which had erupted in the end of February, were out on interim bail and emergency parole because of the blanket order.Also Read: Confessions not in public domain cannot be published: Delhi high courtCJ Patel said that the HC intended to end the blanket order and was not concerned with the jails’ lodging capacity. He cited that the order was passed because of the Covid-19 outbreak. “While passing the order, it was not taken into consideration the capacity of the jails. We had only passed the order due to the outbreak of Covid-19,” CJ Patel said.Mehra opposed the move and stated that it would be against the spirit of the orders passed by the Supreme Court (SC) for decongestion of jails and correctional homes. He pointed out that Delhi was still in the grip of Covid-19 pandemic and even a panel of the Delhi government, constituted following the apex court orders to decongest the jails, had also passed guidelines to release the prisoners on interim bails or emergency paroles.However, the HC bench maintained that “Covid-19 order should end now and it should be back to the situation as it was earlier”.Prisoners would be allowed whatever remedies are available to them under law, they added.Justice Singh suggested during the hearing that the order be modified for those accused of heinous crimes. He cited that several inmates had misused the order in their bid to extend interim bail and emergency parole on multiple occasions.CJ Patel weighed in and pointed out that the HC was not concerned about the nature of the crime concerned. He said he would pass the order later on Tuesday afternoon following deliberations with his other two member judges of the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-intends-to-end-interim-bail-parole-of-all-prisoners-out-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-A86NW79WKr4AprryS5ZR3M.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Congress questions BJP over delay in allowing women in local trains in Mumbai||The Congress, which is a part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government that also comprises the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are locked in a tussle over the reopening of temples and suburban trains, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The BJP had tried to corner the MVA coalition government over the reopening of temples in Maharashtra last week, but now the Congress has questioned the railways’ refusal to give entry to women in suburban train services –a lifeline for the densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) – despite the state government’s order that was issued on October 16. Sachin Sawant, general secretary, Maharashtra Congress Committee (MCC) and a party spokesperson, on Tuesday raised the question and alleged that the Railways has deliberately barred women from availing suburban train services at the Centre’s insistence.Also Read: Covid-19: Active cases in Maharashtra drop by 127,000 in over a month“The state government held four meetings with the Railway officials regarding allowing women commuters to travel by suburban trains in the MMR during non-peak hours from October 17. However, on October 16, railway authorities expressed their inability to give permission. There is a standard operating procedure (SOP) in place as far as train services are concerned. Why does Railways want a fresh permission?” Sawant questioned.On October 16, the state government had announced plans to allow all women commuters to travel by suburban trains from the following day. However, both Central and Western Railway authorities intimated the state government at the last moment that permission would not be granted without carrying out an assessment of the additional burden of passengers in train services. The Congress alleged that it was a deliberate attempt to stop women from commuting by trains and blamed the Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal for the “arbitrary decision”.Sawant said women commuters were being forced to use other modes of conveyance, which were not only causing them inconvenience but had also raised safety concerns. He took potshots at the BJP’s state leadership for its radio silence over the issue even though it is vocal about the reopening of temples. He cited the ongoing Navratri festival, as a celebration of women power. Also Read: Expect thunderstorm with lightning today in Mumbai: IMDEarlier last week, the BJP had cornered the state government over the reopening of temples and had staged statewide protests outside shrines. The BJP state unit’s top brass had tried to put the MVA coalition government on the mat by citing that the latter was oblivious to the public’s faith even though it had allowed liquor shops to reopen amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had also written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray taunting him over his intransigence about reopening places of worship. Central Railway authorities have responded to Sawant’s allegations. “Railway is in full preparedness and is running 1,406 special suburban services. We have added 419 services to the existing 987. State government authorities are requested to finalise the modalities because of the Covid-19 pandemic and convey them to us,” Central Railway authorities tweeted.However, Sawant was not assuaged by the Central Railway authorities’ explanation. “There are around four lakh people, who belong to essential services and commute by suburban trains daily. A Covid-19-related SOP is in place. No new directives are needed. Besides, railways has the data about estimated women passengers,” he argued.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar has written a letter to Central and Western railways instructing them to implement the decision at the earliest. “As per the decision taken during joint meetings with all the stakeholders, we have requested you to allow all women commuters to travel during non peak hours from October 17. The decision is yet to be implemented. The women commuters may be allowed to board the trains at the earliest,” the letter read.Keshav Upadhye, BJP spokesperson, said, “The BJP or any of its leaders have nothing to do with the issue. Railway Board will take its decision in due course and following all procedures. We do not take allegations by Sachin Sawant seriously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-questions-bjp-over-delay-in-allowing-women-in-local-trains-in-mumbai/story-63jq6xO1QEoah7zbmPFRYI.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Bulk of Mumbai’s cases aged 30-59 years, 5% are children and teenagers||Over 23% of Mumbai’s total Covid-19 cases are senior citizens above the age of 60, and 5% are children and teens, according to data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The bulk of Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases are in the age group of 50 to 59 years (45,779 cases), followed by 30 to 39 years (42,433 cases), and 40 to 49 years (42,345 cases). These form 53% of Mumbai’s total Covid-19 cases which stood at 241,939, as of October 18. As of Monday, Mumbai has 243,169 cases; 9,819 deaths due to Covid-19, and 19,906 active cases. Though cases in senior citizens are relatively fewer than in the working age group, case fatality rate is the highest in the age group of 70 to 79 years, which has recorded 2,181 deaths in 17,009 cases, and a case fatality rate of 12.8%. This is followed by 60 to 69 years, which have recorded 2,789 deaths in 32,483 cases, with a case fatality rate of 8.5%. The age group of 50 to 59 years has recorded 2,217 deaths in 45,779 cases, and a case fatality rate of 4.8%. Also read: India records 46,790 new Covid-19 cases, 587 deaths; tally close to 7.6 millionMumbai’s average case fatality rate is 4%. In children below 9 years of age, there have been 4,257 cases and 14 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 0.3%, and in children and teenagers below 19 years of age, 8,957 cases and 30 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 0.3% again. A senior civic officer from the public health department said, “Even among this, we have noticed there is a slightly higher percentage of men being infected than women, especially in the age group of 20 to 59 years. Our sero survey results indicated the same. This is because in a working middle class household, men venture out more. Senior citizens are more prone to severe symptoms and already have co-morbidities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bulk-of-mumbai-s-cases-aged-30-59-years-5-are-children-and-teenagers/story-etr3h8J9uvEQamCwAtaaKO.html
20-10-2020||City||Srinagar office of Kashmir Times sealed by Estates department||The Jammu and Kashmir authorities on Monday evening sealed the Srinagar office of Kashmir Times, one of the erstwhile state’s oldest and prominent English language newspapers, triggering outrage in the Valley. Politicians termed the action as the Central government’s effort to silence those speaking out and an attempt to muzzle press freedom in the region.The sealing comes a week after a flat allotted to the newspaper’s editor in Jammu was allotted to the brother of a former legislator by the Jammu and Kashmir’s Estates Department. “Today, Estates Deptt locked our office without any due process of cancellation & eviction, same way as I was evicted from a flat in Jammu, where my belongings including valuables were handed over to ‘new allottee’,” tweeted Anuradha Bhasin, 52, executive editor of the Kashmir Times.“Vendetta for speaking out! No due process followed. How peevish!” she wrote.Today, Estates Deptt locked our office without any due process of cancellation & eviction, same way as I was evicted from a flat in Jammu, where my belongings including valuables were handed over to "new allottee". Vendetta for speaking out! No due process followed. How peevish! pic.twitter.com/J5P0eKxvbxBhasin has been a vocal critic of the government’s over communication curbs when the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was revoked and the region put under lockdown last year on August 5.She had filed a petition in the Supreme Court demanding the restoration of modes of communication and the taking of necessary steps for ensuring free and safe movement of journalists and media personnel. It was because of her petition that the court in January had directed the administration in Jammu and Kashmir to review the curbs on communication every week.The newspaper, on its website, wrote that its office in a government building in Press Enclave that houses several other newspaper offices in similar type of buildings was “sealed without serving any cancellation or eviction notice to Kashmir Times or following any due process of law.”“The Estates Department employees who came to the office to lock it out told the Kashmir Times staffers working inside to move out. When the Kashmir Times management asked for the orders, the Estates Department officials said that they had no orders and asked them to approach the senior officers instead,” it said in a news report.Also Read: Amid stiff opposition, J-K LG Manoj Sinha says no plans of imposing property taxDeputy Director Estates Department Mohammad Aslam said that the newspaper was occupying two quarters in the Press Enclave, of which one was taken over by the department “amicably”.He said that this quarter had actually been allotted to late Ved Bhasin, the founder of Kashmir Times and father of Anuradha Bhasin, in his individual capacity, and after his death its allotment expired and was cancelled.“Their office is running in another quarter while this quarter was not in the name of Kashmir Times. It was being used for residential purposes by its employees and we had requested for its vacation some two-three months back. Yesterday they themselves handed over the facility,” he said.Journalists have come out in solidarity with Kashmir Times and Anuradha Bhasin.A group of 11 journalists has even offered their professional services free to the organisation to support the Kashmir Times editorial team to “sustain the paper in these difficult times”.“We are aware that Kashmir Times, and its editor, has been at the forefront of fighting against government curbs on communications and press freedom in Kashmir, especially post August 5 clampdown last year, when the majority of the local press was found wanting in reportage, choosing silence over speaking truth to power.In view of these government-sponsored intimidation attempts to silence an independent newspaper, we express our solidarity and support to its editors and our colleagues there,” they said in a statement.The sealing prompted Jammu and Kashmir’s political leaders’ harsh reaction against the government.“This explains why some of our ‘esteemed’ publications have decided to become Government mouthpieces, printing only government press handouts. The price of independent reportage is to be evicted without due process,” tweeted former chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah.Anuradha was one of the few local newspaper editors in J&K who stood upto GOIs illegal & disruptive actions in the state. Shutting down her office in Srinagar is straight out of BJPs vendetta playbook to settle scores with those who dare to disagree https://t.co/yyZYlw4Me8Another former chief minister Mehbboba Mufti tweeted: “Anuradha was one of the few local newspaper editors in J&K who stood upto GOIs illegal & disruptive actions in the state. Shutting down her office in Srinagar is straight out of BJPs vendetta playbook to settle scores with those who dare to disagree.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-office-of-kashmir-times-sealed-by-estates-department/story-Ia58dbqaeSKz3nncr5tPRM.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro: 144 passengers fined in last 6 days for violating Covid norms||The Delhi Police has issued 144 challans to metro passengers for violating Covid-19 guidelines in the last six days, officials said on Tuesday.The police personnel at metro stations have been conducting a drive to check the violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Passengers who were not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing were fined, they said.In the last six days, a total of 3,691 trains were checked and 144 challans issued to passengers for violating the guidelines to control the pandemic, said Jitendra Mani, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Metro).He requested all passengers to follow Covid-19 protocols inside metro trains and at other places as well.The Delhi Metro was closed on March 22 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. It resumed services in early September with strict safety and social distancing measures in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-144-passengers-fined-in-last-6-days-for-violating-covid-norms/story-rp0YUin2Hwv1CMpfAk5XgM.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Woman held with 4kg marijuana in Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar||A woman (38) from south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar was arrested for the possession of four kilograms (kg) of marijuana and booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Police said the woman, who has been identified by her first name Noori, had planned to supply the drugs to her local contacts in Madangir, which is part of Ambedkar Nagar.Noori is a resident of Madangir. Atul Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (south), Delhi Police, said on Sunday they had received a tip-off that a woman was involved in supplying drugs at Madangir and adjoining areas. Acting on the tip-off, the police laid a trap at around 4:30 pm and arrested Noori. “We recovered 4 kg marijuana from her possession. A case under the NDPS Act, 1985 was registered against her and the drugs were seized,” Thakur said.Also read: Cannabis plantation busted in Goa, 3 arrestedThe interrogation has revealed that some of Noori’s family members are also facing criminal charges. “Though she has been selling marijuana and illicit liquor for long, she was never arrested before. Her husband Gopi has been booked under the Arms Act, 1959 and Delhi Excise Act, 2009. And her brother-in -law Suraj is a known criminal in Ambedkar Nagar. Her interrogation is in progress and an effort is on to trace her contacts,” the DCP said. Police have seized over 29,000 kg of drugs, including 15,086 kg and 2,042 kg of marijuana and heroin, respectively, which have been stored at the special cell of various police stations in the national capital. Around 4 kg of cocaine, hashish (1,000 kg), packets of other contrabands such as methaqualone, ephedrine, and opium, among others, have also been seized by the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-held-with-4kg-marijuana-in-delhi-s-ambedkar-nagar/story-ujEGSFtIMG60tsk6o3IpIM.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Barely any rain yet Uran village flooded again; Environmentalists blame wetland burial||The village of Kunde in Uran taluka of Maharashtra’s Raigad district was flooded early on Monday. While the area has received just 8.6 mm rain over the past 48 hours, according to the district administration, environmentalists allege that this unseasonal flooding was caused by blocking of tidal waters in other areas of Uran.A similar flooding was reported last year also in Kunde and 19 other villages, affecting 1,236 families between September and October. Local residents said this has happened for the first time this year.Kunde resident Sanman Patil said, “Four homes were completely flooded early Monday morning and it took about five hours to remove the water. Even though our village is located closest to the creek and there have been episodes of heavy rain, this kind of flooding wasn’t witnessed last year or this year. Neither has there been very heavy rain nor did the water gush in during high tide. We are confused about what happened.”Also read: Mumbai’s Aarey flooded for the 1st time, walls blamed for choking floodplainsRaigad sub-divisional officer Dattatray Navale said, “We are investigating the source of flooding and have directed the Uran revenue officer to check and present his submissions.”Environmentalists, however, point at the burial of wetlands and destruction of mangroves by various infrastructure projects being developed in the taluka.Satellite maps of the site show large scale landfilling at adjacent plots that have been marked for development under the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd’s (Cidco) Dronagiri node development plan (DP). Apart from this, Uran-Ulwe is witnessing the development of the Navi Mumbai International Airport, container terminal construction by the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), and other residential and industrial projects.“It is due to the callous attitude of state planning agencies such as Cidco that the Uran villagers have to suffer every year,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head, environment group Shree Ekvira Aai Pratishthan.In February 2019, the Maharashtra Cabinet gave its nod to convert 1,250-hectares (ha) of land, which includes large tracts of mangroves and wetlands, for industrial and residential construction. At least 12 zones, including Kunde, across 1,250-ha have been notified for development under the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ). This constitutes nearly half of the 2,700-ha Dronagiri node. Cidco, the planning agency for the area, holds a 26% stake in NMSEZ while the rest is shared by private companies.“Landfilling has been confirmed by the Raigad collector’s office and the forest department,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation, adding that repeated directions by the wetland and mangrove redressal committee (constituted as per the Bombay high court’s orders) for restoration of areas where construction debris was dumped in Uran have allegedly been neglected .A 2019 report by environment group Vanashakti using satellite images said 1,281-ha of wetlands (the size of 1,740 football fields) had been lost to reclamation, and over 10,000-ha of mangrove forests had either dried up or been destroyed over two years. “Large mangrove and wetland stretches have been recklessly buried. Any further reclamation would spell ecological disaster for the entire Uran taluka,” said Kumar.According to Cidco’s Dronagiri DP, 233-ha area marked as wetlands under the National Wetland Atlas, Maharashtra,has been earmarked as sectors numbered 16 to 28. These include wetland patches identified as important bird areas by Bombay Natural History Society.An NMSEZ spokesperson said they were unaware about the flooding but Cidco would know.“Neither are Cidco, NMSEZ and JNPT constructing anything at the moment at Dronagiri nor has there been any debris dumping. We are clueless as to what caused the flooding. Any future construction plans within Uran under any of the projects have been stopped because of the pandemic,” said Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-barely-any-rain-yet-uran-village-flooded-again-environmentalists-blame-wetland-burial/story-w4GyA8Idy0e2wqd12Ni0XN.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM presents draft resolution rejecting farm laws, urges Centre to make MSP statutory||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday presented a draft resolution rejecting the Centre’s farm laws and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill, with an appeal to all parties in the state to rise above political interests in the spirit of “saving Punjab”.The draft resolution presented on the second day of the special assembly session seeks annulment of the farm laws and the proposed Electricity Bill, as well as promulgation of “a fresh ordinance making the procurement of foodgrains on the minimum support price (MSP) a statutory right of the farmers and continue with procurement by the Government of India through Food Corporation of India and other such agencies.”Regretting that several legislators indulged in frivolous activities on Monday to gain political mileage, with some coming in tractors and some spending the night in the assembly precincts in protest against the non-receipt of his government’s Bills, the chief minister said he had signed the same at 9.30pm after extensive discussions and consultations with experts. “Such delays in sharing copies of Bills happen in an emergency session,” he said, pointing to something similar happening when his government had brought in the Punjab Termination of Water Agreements Act during his last tenure in 2004.BILLS BASIS FOR STATE’S LEGAL BATTLECaptain Amarinder Singh said the Bills being presented on Tuesday would form the basis of the state’s legal battle ahead and, hence, needed to be thoroughly vetted before presentation.The draft resolution expresses the regret of the assembly over the “callous and inconsiderate attitude of the Government of India in attending to the concerns of the farming community on recent farm legislation enacted by them.” It reads that the assembly is constrained to unanimously reject the three (farm) laws and the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020.Referring to The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, the draft resolution notes that the Union Government had converted the relevant farm ordinances into Acts and notified the same on September 24 and 26 even though the concerns and sentiments of the House were conveyed to the Prime Minister through a letter by the chief minister on September 14.‘FARM LAWS ENCROACH ON STATE SUBJECT’“These three legislation along with the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, are clearly against the interests of farmers and landless workers, and time-tested agriculture marketing system established not only in Punjab but also in original Green Revolution areas of Punjab, Haryana, and western UP,” it said, adding that the Government of India had enacted trade and not farm legislation.Further, said the draft resolution, these laws are also against the Constitution, which comprises agriculture as a subject of the state. These legislation encroach upon the functions and the powers of the states, as enshrined in the country’s Constitution, said the draft resolution, read out by the Speaker.CENTRE WANTS TO FINISH PDS, CLAIMS SIDHU Amritsar East Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu also questioned Modi on implementing the MS Swaminathan report recommendations. “What happened to the promises? These new laws have snatched the basic rights of farmers. They will be helpless,” Sidhu said, alleging that the Centre’s intention was to finish the public distribution system (PDS).Shiromani Akali Dal legislators, led by Bikramjit Singh Majithia, burnt a copy of the Centre’s new farm laws outside the Vidhan Sabha. AAP MLAs STAY IN ASSEMBLY COMPLEX OVERNIGHT The two-day special session began on Monday with the opposition Aam Aadmi Party MLAs holding a dharna and spending the night in the assembly complex, demanding copies of the Bills the Congress government was to introduce. The 13 AAP MLAs, who sat in the Well of the House till late on Monday evening after which they moved to the gallery outside the assembly, confined themselves within the complex. On Monday, finance and acting parliamentary affairs minister Manpreet Singh Badal said that the state government is consulting constitutional experts on the issue of legislation to counter the new farm laws and added copies of various Bills to be tabled during the session will be given to the opposition parties by the evening. Even after the adjournment of the session for the day on Monday afternoon, AAP legislators continued their dharna, demanding copies of the Bill to counter the legislation enacted by the Centre. Late at night, the Leader of Opposition and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said, “We will sit here through the night and continue the protest as we are yet get copies of this and other Bills to be tabled during the session. “The AAP will support the legislation against the farm laws but the government should have given us its copies. We haven’t got copies of other Bills as well. How can our legislators discuss and debate important issues?” Cheema said. As the assembly area had to be sanitised and sealed overnight in view of the Covid-19 situation, the AAP MLAs, including the women legislators of the party, were asked to shift outside the House. Earlier, the AAP members were persuaded by the Speaker, deputy speaker and Vidhan Sabha officials to end their protest, but they remained adamant on their demand. WHEN CONGRESS MLAs SPENT NIGHT IN ASSEMBLY Four years ago when Congress was in opposition in Punjab, their party MLAs had spent the night in the Punjab assembly seeking a debate on the no-confidence motion against the ruling SAD-BJP combine, which was defeated by voice vote, and had refused to vacate the House till the government gave an assurance that a discussion will be allowed on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-to-table-bill-against-centre-s-farm-laws-in-assembly-today/story-lOPBUIFxPkgJQv0ewM4vqK.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Active cases in Maharashtra drop by 127,000 in over a month||Maharashtra’s tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) active cases is on the wane since September 18. The viral infection has reduced by 127,993 Covid-19 cases since September 17, when the active cases stood at 301,752. The ratio of active cases compared to the total number of cases reported has also reported a significant drop of 15.48%.Active cases are the difference between the total number of cases and the Covid-19 patients, who have recovered from their viral infection and those who died of the contagion. Active cases refer to live Covid-19 cases at a given point of time.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases have been going down since September 18.Also read: 5 worst-hit states have seen decline in active Covid-19 cases, says Health ministryOn September 30, the state had recorded 259,033 Covid-19 cases and on Monday (October 19) the corresponding figure stood at 173,759.The ratio of active Covid-19 cases, as compared to total cases reported, has come down to 10.85%. The corresponding figure was 26.33% on September 17.“The rate of fresh Covid-19 infection has declined over the past four weeks. At the same time, the state has recorded more number of recoveries than fresh Covid-19 infections. The tally of active Covid-19 cases has reduced significantly,” said a state health department official.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country as far as the raging Covid-19 pandemic is concerned. On Monday, the Covid-19 case count reached 1,601,365 after 5,984 fresh viral outbreak cases were recorded, which was the lowest over the past three months. On July 7, the state had reported 5,134 Covid-19 cases.State minister for health and family welfare Rajesh Tope recently had said it appeared that Maharashtra has hit a plateau and they are looking at positive outcomes in the near future. “We are looking at the current situation positively. It appears to me that the state has hit the plateau, as the Covid-19 infection rate is stagnant. A decline in fresh Covid-19 cases will start only if the public continues to co-operate,” Tope had said.Maharashtra has reported 42,240 Covid-19-related deaths, including 125 fresh casualties on Monday, to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-active-cases-in-maharashtra-drop-by-127-000-in-over-a-month/story-UIF4TIttobmKJTb1W96UdJ.html
20-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Durga Puja pandals put up barricades to ban entry of visitors||Several Durga Puja committees in Kolkata on Tuesday have started putting up barricades to ban the entry of revellers to pandals a day after the Calcutta high court’s (HC) order, while a few others said that they had done it even before the legal directive was issued. On Monday, the HC while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) had banned the entry of revellers inside pandals and declared them as “no entry zones”. The move aims to prevent overcrowding and curb the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The HC order has come as a setback for many community puja organisers and revellers, who were all set for pandal hopping while braving the contagion.Also read: Mumbai artist creates 6-feet portrait of Goddess Durga with 31,000 push pins“We have banned revellers’ entry to our pandal. Only local residents will be allowed in a bid to restrict overcrowding. We will follow the HC order and only a few club members will be allowed,” said Sahal Ghosh, secretary, Santosh Mitra Square, one of the prominent community pujas in central Kolkata and a major crowd-puller. Debdaru Fatak puja, another attraction in the western parts of the city, has also put up barricades to ban the entry of revellers. The organisers have put up a giant screen at a distance from where pandal hoppers can take a look at the idol, the pandal and the decorations. “Local residents organise this puja. They will only be allowed to enter the pandal this year because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic,” said Gautam Halder, one of the puja organisers. The HC on Monday directed the authorities to put up barricades outside pandals. Barricades must be installed 10 metres away from the outer end of the pandal for large community pujas. The corresponding rule is five metres for smaller pujas.Kolkata Police personnel and some puja committee members were seen measuring the distance of barricades late at night on Monday. “We have coordinated with the Anandapur police station authorities and have put up barricades to bar the entry of visitors. On Tuesday, we will put out a list of 15 organisers, who will be allowed to enter the pandal during puja days,” said Pradip Biswas, one of the members of a small local community puja in eastern Kolkata along the Eastern Metropolitan (EM) Bypass. The HC has directed 25 and 15 community puja members be allowed entry to larger and smaller pandals, respectively. The names of the entrants will have to be decided in advance and cannot be changed daily. The puja organisers have been directed to display the list of entrants. “We have put up barricades at a distance from the pandal. Also, rings have been drawn on the ground in a bid to maintain adequate social distancing norms,” said Banibrata Banerjee, a member of FD Block puja committee in Salt Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-durga-puja-pandals-put-up-barricades-to-ban-entry-of-visitors/story-y3jxy5Fv69xOFAtlfru2fL.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Seven-month-old in need of surgery dies after being denied admission by major hospitals||A seven-month-old baby with a brain abscess -- a pocket of pus in her brain -- died after being refused admission by at least three prominent government-run hospitals in the national Capital. Her parents moved the Delhi high court (HC) and filed a writ petition to get her admitted to Safdarjung Hospital on September 3, where she was operated upon on the same day, but unfortunately died hours later. She was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital days after her parents ran from pillar to post to ensure proper medical treatment for her. Also read: AIIMS reports first case of Covid-19-related brain nerve damage in a childThe matter is still pending in the court and the hospitals have been asked to respond about the reasons for their refusal of admission.Initially, the baby was taken to the emergency department of Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital on August 17. She was suffering from fever, vomiting, seizures, and altered sensorium or an inability to think clearly. A day later, the baby was referred to a higher centre for proper healthcare management. She was admitted to Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar (BSA) Hospital at Rohini on August 18, where doctors gave her antibiotics, fluids, and anticonvulsants for the seizures. The doctors suggested neurosurgery after they conducted an ultrasound of the brain. Her family was asked to approach hospitals such as Ram Manohar Lohia (RML), Kalawati Saran, and Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya for the surgery.The parents approached RML, Safdarjung, GB Pant, and Kalawati Saran Hospitals, but were denied admission orally in all these healthcare facilities. The baby continued to remain admitted to BSA Hospital over the next three days without any treatment, despite the authorities pleading their helplessness to perform the surgery. A computed tomography (CT) scan, which was done from a private diagnostic laboratory four days after the child was admitted to the BSA Hospital, showed that she had developed brain abscess. BSA Hospital authorities decided to shift her to a better healthcare facility, as her condition had worsened. An ambulance was provided along with a resident doctor. However, both RML and GB Pant hospital authorities denied her admission, and she was brought back to BSA Hospital. Then, the parents moved the Delhi HC, which ensured her admission to Safdarjung Hospital on September 3. Though she was operated upon the same day, unfortunately she passed away following the surgical procedure.Safdarjung Hospital authorities in their affidavit have maintained that they never refused admission to the patient.The authorities at Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, which is one of the two biggest standalone paediatric hospitals in Delhi, claimed that they did not have the facility for paediatric neurosurgery. RML Hospital authorities insisted that the baby was given “proper medical assistance by the attending staff” and was referred to paediatric neurosurgery emergency, where she not allegedly brought for admission.Contrary to the RML Hospital’s assertion, the patient’s registration card showed “no bed is available” was the excuse offered by the former. The court has directed RML Hospital authorities to file another affidavit to explain the discrepancy in their statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-seven-month-old-in-need-of-surgery-dies-after-being-denied-admission-by-major-hospitals/story-UMhB5iqw5tn9e9aj1Cf9sI.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||AIIMS reports first case of Covid-19-related brain nerve damage in a child||The New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has reported its first coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced brain nerve damage in a girl (11), which has led to her blurred vision.The doctors in the child neurology division are preparing a report on her health condition that they plan to publish soon.“We have found Covid-19 infection-induced Acute Demyelinating Syndrome (ADS) in an 11-year-old girl. This is the first case that has been reported in the paediatric age group,” said the draft of the report.The nerves are covered with a protective layer called myelin that helps messages from the brain move quickly and smoothly through the body. ADS include health conditions that damage myelin, brain signals and affect a gamut of neurological functions such as vision, muscle movement, senses, bladder and bowel movement etc. Also Read: 5 worst-hit states have seen decline in active Covid-19 cases: Health ministry“This girl had come to us with a loss of vision. The MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) showed ADS, which is a new manifestation. However, we now know that the virus majorly affects the brain and the lungs. We plan to publish this case report since we have established that her condition was Covid-19 induced,” said Dr Sheffali Gulati, chief, child neurology division, department of paediatrics, AIIMS, Delhi.The girl was undergoing treatment under Dr Gulati’s supervision. Her condition improved with immunotherapy, and she was discharged from the hospital after about 50% of her vision was regained.AIIMS authorities are also treating another Covid-19-positive teenager (13) girl after she had complained of fever and encephalopathy (swelling of brain). She is undergoing treatment and the doctors are still trying to ascertain whether her condition was induced by Covid-19.Epilepsy, encephalitis, Kawasaki-like disease, Guillain-barre syndrome etc are the other commonplace health complications that children, who tested Covid-19 positive, are known to suffer from. Some of these brain conditions may adversely affect the long-term neurodevelopmental outcome. As a result, these children need a regular follow-up treatment that can be a challenge for a resource-strapped country such as India.In a review published in the journal Pediatric Neurology, Dr Gulati, said, “…the challenges faced by paediatric neurologists in a developing country are distinctive. Only a few centres, including ours, run round-the-clock child neurology tele-helpline and tele-consultation services, but restricted availability of video-calls and internet facility at rural households limits their efficient use. Besides, specialised facilities such as dietary therapy and surgery for drug-refractory epilepsy, etc. are offered at only a few centres only.”The treatment gap for neurological disorders is going to increase in India in the near future.“We can sense the problem, as our telemedicine helpline meant for children with neurological issues is receiving around 25 calls a day on an average, as compared to about 10 calls earlier. This is going to be a huge problem, as we are also treating non-Covid-19 children with neurological conditions, who need immediate attention. Our healthcare workers on the ground need to undergo training to identify neurodevelopment issues among children, promoting tele-consultation in a bid the public can at least call with their problems etc. We cannot talk of allotting more funds because of the prevailing situation, but it needs more thought,” Dr Gulati added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-reports-first-case-of-covid-19-related-brain-nerve-damage-in-a-child/story-qDP9Nqg7doOveNs18yB0FL.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI remains in ‘poor’ category today as well||The national Capital’s air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday continued to remain in the poor category, as the hourly data showed 232 at 7 am, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).CPCB’s 4 pm bulletin on Monday showed that the overall AQI of Delhi was 244, a marginal improvement from Sunday’s 254, which also fell in the poor category.The Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’ (MoES) air quality early warning system said that the AQI did not further worsen to the very poor category because of high wind speed. “The predominant surface wind was coming from the western direction of Delhi. The wind speed was around 12 kilometres per hour (kmph) and the sky remained largely clear on Monday morning accompanied by mist,” the early warning system said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-remains-in-poor-category-today-as-well/story-er8o1kTX2nRd9PSJkajxFM.html
20-10-2020||City||8-member SIT to probe HRTC conductor recruitment paper leak||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Tuesday formed an eight-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) conductor recruitment exam leak case. Deputy inspector general (crime) Bimal Gupta will head the SIT with Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan, Shimla SP Mohit Chawla, cyber crime SP Sandeep Dhawal, CID SP Sandeep Bhardwaj, Solan additional SP Ashok Kumar, Hamirpur DSP Renu Kumari and Mandi DSP (headquarters) Karan Singh Guleria as its members. State director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said that the SIT members have been selected from different districts as the investigation has statewide ramifications. “It will ascertain the involvement of any organised gang or group. The SIT shall also probe any irregularities/lapses in holding the exam,” he said. So far, three people have been arrested in the case. They are Lucky Sharma and Sunny Sharma, both from Rohru in Shimla, and Manoj Kumar from Jawali in Kangra. ACCUSED SURRENDERS IN KANGRA Manoj Kumar, 26, one of the accused, surrendered before Kangra police at Shahpur police station on Tuesday. A resident of Bhali panchayat in Jawali subdivision, Manoj allegedly sneaked a phone into the exam centre at Shahpur. He clicked photos of the question paper and shared them on social media minutes after the exam started on Sunday. The exam was being conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC). The HPSSC secretary filed an online complaint at Shahpur police station, stating that a candidate who appeared for the exam at the Himachal Institute and Technology (HIET) had shared photos of the paper on social media. Police had been raiding his possible hideouts since Sunday. “Manoj Kumar has been booked under Section 7 of the Malpractices Act,” the Kangra SP said. The leak was first detected at a Shimla centre where a candidate was caught clicking photos by an invigilator. He had sent the images to his brother on WhatsApp but was yet to get a response. The candidate, Lucky, was arrested from his house in Rohru on Sunday. Later, investigations showed the question paper circulating on social media was leaked from a Kangra centre. This was detected from the serial number and code on the question paper. EXAM NOT TO BE CANCELLED: HPSSC Meanwhile, the HPSSC, in a meeting held on Monday, decided not to cancel the exam. HPSSC chairman Brigadier (retd) Satish Sharma said that of more than 60,000 applicants, 71% had taken the exam. Cancellation of the exam won’t be in the interest of the candidates, he said, adding that the malpractice was detected at only two centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-member-sit-to-probe-hrtc-conductor-recruitment-paper-leak/story-vBZfVqMOX1VMl5clW2PY0K.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||100 years of a Delhi education icon||On May 24, 1912, the khazanchi (treasurer) of the Imperial Bank of India, Rai Bahadur Lala Sultan Singh, wrote a letter to his 17-year-old son after touring Cambridge University in England. Remarking that there were about 20 “first-class colleges” there, he wrote: “The sons of rich people mostly come to the university (Cambridge) as it is rather expensive and it is they who take the most prominent part in the affairs of the British Empire. They are not like our rich people who say, parh kar kya karna hai... koi naukri thori karni hai (What is the use of studying… it’s not like one needs to find a job).”Eight years later, his son, Raghubir Singh, started a school in a haveli in Daryaganj right across the road from freedom fighter Dr MA Ansari’s home. Singh, then in his mid-20s, was clear about what he wanted from the school: it must be co-educational; the girls were to be given the same opportunities as the boys; the arts were as important as the other subjects; training in English was mandatory, so was a rootedness in home-grown, traditional systems of knowledge. But Singh’s agenda was also set: a new generation of Indian leaders, who would take charge of the country some day, had to be built.  Today, 100 years later, Modern School is located across three sites, with a combined strength of 6,000 students: Modern School Barakhamba Road came up in 1933, the Raghubir Singh Junior Modern School on Humayun Road came up in 1961; and Modern School Vasant Vihar came up in 1975. In the past decade, it has also come to manage two schools in Faridabad and Kundli.Several noted artists, writers, diplomats, legislators, members of the judiciary, sportspersons and businessmen and women are alumnae of the school, from former West Bengal governor Gopal Krishna Gandhi to from NITI Ayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant, contemporary artist Nilima Sheikh and Shekhar Kapur, who directed the Oscar winning film Elizabeth, to journalist and former Hindustan Times editor Khushwant Singh. Both the World Cup winning cricket teams had a Modernite: Kirti Azad in 1983, and Gautam Gambhir in 2011. Even former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi studied at the school for a brief period soon after it was first established.What’s more, the connection between Modern School and the Capital is intricate. Many of the Indian engineers and contractors who worked with Edward Lutyens and Herbert Baker — lead architects of the imperial team tasked to build New Delhi from ground up — supported Raghubir Singh’s quest to build a school.This included Sobha Singh and Teja Singh Malik — both of whom were later knighted — as well as Baisakha Singh, Narain Singh, and Rai Bahadur Devi Singh, all of whom were responsible for many of the structures on the Central Vista, as well as the laying of the roads and sourcing the material for much of the construction. Another early proponent of school was Sushil Kumar Rudra, then the principal of St Stephen’s College.The school started with six students; by the end of the first year there were 12. Among them were Raghubir’s three children, Malik’s son and daughter Kaval (the only girl in the first batch), Devi Singh’s two sons, and Sobha Singh’s two boys, including Kushwant Singh. Kamala Bose, formerly the principal of a girls’ high school in Dehradun, was the principal of the new school.“No location could be imagined more suitable than Delhi so rich in historical associations, and yet — as the hub of the country’s political life, and a notable centre of its intellectual activity — so progressive in its outlook,” Raghubir Singh wrote in his records.After more than a decade after operating from 24 Daryaganj, the school moved to an exposed red-brick building on Barakhamba Road designed by Charles George Blomfield (who was part of Lutyens’ team) and his brother, Francis. Educating Indian youthBetween Sultan Singh’s letter of 1912, and the setting up of Modern School in 1920, much happened. The decade was a period of major policy decisions by the British with respect to education, writes Ajay Sharma, author of A History of Educational Institutions in Delhi. For instance, at the Delhi Darbar itself — held in December 1911 to mark the shifting of the capital from Calcutta — “it was announced that Rs 40 lakh would be distributed for the promotion of popular education in India”. When the Capital Committee was formed, a plan was also proposed to create education institutions for people from all around India to receive “instruction in modern subjects”, thus laying the ground for the setting up of Delhi University in 1922.However, after the events of 1919, which saw a draconian Rowlatt Act passed and the Jallianwala Bagh massacre take place, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi gave a call to boycott government-run schools and colleges. In 1920, the Congress formally passed a resolution of non-cooperation, which advised ‘the gradual withdrawal of children from schools and colleges, owned, aided or controlled by government and in place of such schools and colleges, the establishment of national schools and colleges in various provinces.’Thus, private entrepreneurs with means and deep community ties, propelled by the desire to see an independent India, turned to creating institutions. Indian philanthropists were also imbued with the nationalist spirit, with an idea of a composite India,” said Professor Rakesh Batabayal, who has written The Modern School (1920-2020): A Century of Schooling in India. For instance, Lala Sultan Singh didn’t just advance Rs 5,000 to his son to start Modern School; back in 1902, he had also saved Hindu College from losing its affiliation with Punjab University by housing it in one of his buildings in Kashmere Gate.“It was in the wake of Mahatma Gandhi’s appeal that Modern School was born. In the same year, certain other institutions were established: National Muslim University of Aligarh (later Jamia Millia Islamia), Gujarat Vidyapith, Bihar Vidyapith… they worked independently of the official system, trying to revive the ideals of the ancient Hindu or Muslim education,” writes former Planning Commission member and Modern School alumna, Syeda Hameed, in A Dream Turns Seventy Five, a book that she co-edited with alumnus Kushwant Singh on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of Modern School. Yet, as Hameed points out, there was little in the public school mould which was accessible to the common people until Modern School. “The founder was barely 25-years-old when he started the school, but he visualised that one day, India would be independent. At that point in time, it would require a cadre of people who believed in India for India and also had the necessary education to be able to help in the governance and administration of a newly independent country,” said Ashok Pratap Singh, senior trustee of the school and grandson of Raghubir Singh.A provision for the arts“I don’t remember studying at all. My memory is permeated entirely with my participation in theatre and arts. The school taught me the interconnectedness of practice and theory, and this is something that I took with me to the National School of Drama. The pyramid was not built in a way that the exam was on the top,” said Anuradha Kapur, former director of the National School of Drama, who studied in Modern School from 1955 to 1968. She recalled, in particular, the plays that noted Hindi writer and theatre director Ved Vyas — a faculty member who joined in 1948 and went on to become the first principal of the Vasant Vihar school — put up. Alumnus justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, who served as a chief justice of the Madras and the Punjab & Haryana high courts before he became a Supreme Court judge, said that he earned his acting chops in Hindustani theatre under Om Shivpuri, a former faculty member of the Barakhamba Road school. Justice Kaul (61) joined as a kindergartener in 1964. In ’76, his final year of school, he played Moliere’s miser in the Hindi adaptation, Kanjoos. “The Arts did not used to pay well at the time, but the school would pick the best people in the field as members of the faculty. Our principal [MN Kapur] would say, apart from a good academic record, each student should have one hobby and be good in one sport. So it was not unusual for us to stay back and practice for functions. Each student was encouraged to participate,” he said.One of the first appointees of the school was Sarada Ukil, a proponent of the Bengal School, who went on to design the school’s crest. Ram Kinkar Baij created a sculpture that still rests in the school, and Sukumar Bose painted a mural that adorns the Hall of Religions, the prayer hall of the school, which was inaugurated by Rabindranath Tagore in 1936. All three taught art in the school. Later, well known artist-couple Kanwal and Devayani Krishna, and modernist sculptor Amarnath Sehgal, noted photographer OP Sharma among others, also taught there.“Modern School offered an education system that would not only make girls and boys competent enough to work wherever they wanted but also awaken them to the need of the times in terms of their participation in the freedom struggle,” said Manju Rajput, principal of Raghubir Singh Junior Modern School.The push to focus on issues beyond the classroom is strong even today. Meenakshi Sahni, principal of Modern School Vasant Vihar, says that in 2015, students, parents, alumni and teachers from all branches of the schools took out a march to India Gate to protest against air pollution. “It happened much before this whole debate on air pollution in Delhi had begun. The environment has been one of the key areas we do work on.”“Our students are representing the country internationally in other games as well including squash, swimming, and golf. We have been judged as one of the best schools in sports,” said Barakhamba Road principal Vijay Datta.Most alumni have a busy social calendar — from sport competitions to theatrical productions, felicitation ceremonies to dinners — all organised by the Modern School Old Students’ Association (MSOSA). The association was formalised in 1967, but it came into being a decade before, said former president Sunder Hemrajani. The idea was to “bring old Modernites from different walks of lives together and carry on a relationship with the school, develop a bond with the current students. It’s become a part of the school’s legacy”. “There are 20,000 alumni of which at least 16,000 are active,” said alumna Ketaki Sood, president of the board of trustees.Justice Kaul, the chairperson of the Modernites Trust, which provides scholarships to students from economically weak sections and even runs various programmes for retired teachers, admits that “for a day school, such bonding is unusual.” “There is great loyalty to the uniform. The joke went that Modern School students don’t get out of it even when they go home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/100-years-of-a-delhi-education-icon/story-i6Rbhp6xn1LknqpdliQPvK.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Celebrating two lives||Kavita Arora, 47, is a psychiatrist. Ankita Khanna, 36, is a psychologist. They occasionally share their 8th floor apartment, in Gurugram, with residential complex pigeons or with Zuzu, the neighbour’s dog. Ms Arora’s elderly father, who resides in south Delhi’s Alaknanda, stayed with them during the early uncertain days of the coronavirus pandemic. Ms Khanna’s parents, who live in Dehradun, visit them annually.Ms Arora and Ms Khanna have been living together for eight years. They first met at work, in the child and adolescent mental health clinic that Ms Arora co-founded with two other mental health professionals. Chatting to this reporter on WhatsApp video from their drawing room, both women vividly recall the fateful morning in January, 2012, when “Ankita, holding on to a cup of tea in her hands, was too jittery to take a single sip from it.”Though Ms Arora and Ms Khanna share a common passion for Harry Potter novels, there are things that set them apart. The former is fond of Gulzar poems; the latter likes Mary Oliver’s poetry. The former loves salads and sandwiches; the latter has a preference for home-made desi khana. The former is always happy to connect with people; the latter prefers books over people.“Despite how different we are, the space we have created together feels complete,” declares Ms Arora. While Ms Khanna reveals that “no matter how frazzled I am, Kavita is always steady and calm, and able to see humour and optimism in every situation.”Then, there are aspects about each other that they have learnt to tolerate. Ms Arora has grown resigned to Ms Khanna’s penchant for “phenko, phenko,” or “decluttering” the house. One morning, Ms Arora found her beloved CD player, the one she had bought from her life’s first pay, lying outside, in the trash area, waiting to be picked up by whoever wanted. As for Ms Khanna, she gets exasperated by Ms Arora’s tendency to “never say no to anyone who wants to talk, ask for help, chew her brains, teach a class, etc., etc.”And now, the most delicate question that can be put to any couple—who among them spends more time on mobile phone and social media?Ms Arora says: “She does!”Ms Khanna says: “She does!”Earlier this month, they, along with another same-sex couple, filed a petition in the Delhi High Court seeking to get married under the Special Marriage Act, stating that the lack of formal acceptance of their union under Indian laws is a violation of their constitutional rights. The next hearing is in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-celebrating-two-lives/story-bt4X0ceHtakNS08d0mvaoL.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for robbing goldsmith in Chandigarh’s Sector 23||Two days after a goldsmith was robbed at knifepoint at his rented house in Sector 23, Chandigarh Police on Monday arrested the mastermind and his aide.However, one of the two men who executed the crime was found to have died of heart attack while the other is absconding. Those arrested have been identified as Bikash, 40, of Kumaun Colony, Nayagaon, Mohali, and Kamlesh, alias Kamal, 25 of Dhanas in Chandigarh. While Bikash is also a goldsmith, Kamlesh is a photographer.Two men had fled with 150 grams of gold, a wallet and some documents from victim Samrat Thakur’s house on Saturday afternoon after threatening him with a knife and locking him in a room. The 20-year-old victim works from home and makes gold ornaments on order from different jewellers. In his complaint, he had raised suspicion on Bikash, who had visited his house before the robbery.On being interrogated, Bikash confessed that he had planned the robbery. Bikash told police that he used to supply raw gold to Samrat to make jewellery, and suspected that he had started misappropriating the gold. In order to teach him a lesson, he hired two men, Rahul and Chotu, to commit the robbery.On Saturday morning, Bikash had gone to Samrat’s house, and on finding that he was alone, he tipped off Rahul and Chotu. Co-accused Kamlesh had picked up and dropped off the duo, said police. Police on reaching Rahul’s house in Nayagaon found his family mourning. He reportedly had died of a heart attack. Meanwhile, Chotu, a resident of Dhanas, is absconding.Police have recovered 60% of the raw gold stolen from Samrat besides the knife and motorcycle used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-for-robbing-goldsmith-in-chandigarh-s-sector-23/story-1m27kKctkOwP2mqWCSqAIK.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trader injured as bike-borne men open fire in Chandigarh’s Sector 25||A 35-year-old man was critically injured after two bike-borne men opened fire at him at his garments shop in Sector 25 on Monday night. This was fourth firing incident in Chandigarh in the past 10 days.Identified as Sandeep, the victim sustained injuries in the head and shoulder and was rushed to the PGIMER, where his condition is stated to be stable.Sandeep has also remained president of the residents’ welfare body in the sector and was recently booked for illicit liquor trade in the area.Police have identified the accused as Rajiv and Vikas, on the basis of CCTV footage.“The attack on Sandeep is the result of an old rivalry. Both Sandeep and Rajiv have been earlier booked in criminal cases,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police.A case has been registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11-police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trader-injured-as-bike-borne-men-open-fire-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25/story-PlbNSgbyzHIXym6GAA2CBJ.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||70-yr-old Chandigarh man shoots self in suicide bid||A 70-year-old pensioner, who is reportedly depressed, was left critically injured after shooting himself in an apparent suicide attempt during the wee hours of Monday in Chandigarh. A former engineer, he had retired from a central government department in Mohali, and was presently staying with his wife in Manimajra. He has two daughters, who are married. It was around 4:30am that he shot himself in the temple with his licensed .32 bore revolver. He was wearing a turban.The senior citizen was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). His condition is said to be critical. Police said the man is suffering from depression, and was being treated for it at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-yr-old-chandigarh-man-shoots-self-in-suicide-bid/story-bn1PKtw67LsdoLPcUe87YP.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||French technical experts to help restore heritage buildings in Chandigarh||Teams of technical experts from France will help the Chandigarh administration in the restoration of heritage buildings and renovation of heritage furniture. A meeting in this regard was held with a French delegation, which is on a visit to the city.The French team said that technical experts will hold online sessions, as physical visits will not be possible amid the Covid-19 pandemic. After technical exchange of ideas online, the French technical team is expected to visit the city next year for execution of the restoration work.The heritage buildings that are to restored include the high court, civil secretariat and legislative assembly at the Capitol Complex. Currently, the administration has taken up the restoration of exposed concrete facade of government buildings in Sector 17, including the Central State Library and DC office, besides Pierre Jeanneret house and Le Corbusier Centre. It also plans to start restoration work on private buildings in Sector 17.In February, a high-level delegation comprising Brigitte Bouvier, director, Fondation Le Corbusier, and French embassy officials had visited various heritage sites to review the restoration work in Chandigarh.On Sunday, the delegation that included French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain, had met UT administrator VP Singh Badnore to discuss the matter.In the Monday’s meeting with administration officials, the French delegation comprised cultural attache Isabelle Vierget Rias, second counsellor and chief of staff to the ambassador Antoine Chausson, and cultural counsellor and director, French Institute of India, Emmanuel Lebrun Damiens.Will help stop auction of smuggled heritage itemsDuring the meeting, the administration also took up the issue of illegal auction of Chandigarh’s heritage items abroad.French embassy officials assured the administration that it would explore legal provisions to help stop such auctions in their territory and elsewhere.Concerns have been raised over the administration’s inability to preserve heritage items, with their trafficking becoming rampant. Stolen heritage and smuggled items from Chandigarh have repeatedly found their way to foreign auction houses.In the last 10 years, heritage artefacts worth around ₹30 crore have been auctioned around the world. More than 50 auctions have been held in different countries, including the US, UK and even France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/french-technical-experts-to-help-restore-heritage-buildings-in-chandigarh/story-lYhe2qHxXomoVhrYq1n7bK.html
20-10-2020||City||No Covid casualty in Chandigarh after 3 weeks||Chandigarh on Monday reported no casualty due to Covid-19 for the first time since September 28. The fatality rate stands at 1.52%.Meanwhile, with 63 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered continued to be more than the fresh cases, which stood at 40 on Monday. While 13,686 people have tested positive in the Union Territory so far, 12,617 (92.2%) have recovered and 208 have died, leaving 861 active case. In Mohali, two more people lost battle against the virus on Monday, while 21 tested positive and 67 were discharged. The total stands at 11,774, of which 700 cases remain active. As many as 10,850 (92.2%) patients have recovered while 224 have died. Panchkula recorded one death and 18 new cases. The deceased was indentified as an 83-year-old man from Sector 14. It took the toll to 107.The district has reported 6,855 cases so far, of which 6,456 (94.2%) have been cured and 292 remain active.Second sero survey begins in PanchkulaThe second round of serosurveillance started in Panchkula on Monday. “A total of 720 samples from 16 clusters will be collected under the survey,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon. A serological survey is an epidemiological tool that helps in detecting unreported or past cases of Covid-19 and in understanding the prevalence of the disease in communities. Panchkula was among five districts in Haryana where the survey started in late June.Out of 355 tests conducted, nine were found to be positive for Covid-19 antibodies, least among the five districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-covid-casualty-in-chandigarh-after-3-weeks/story-3PoiqThmMdW06GOEdOowQL.html
20-10-2020||City||Farmers force closure of Reliance stores in Mohali||Farmers’ protest on Monday led to the forced closure of Reliance-owned businesses in Mohali. Up in arms against the new central farm laws, protesters in Punjab have been targeting corporate houses as well, accusing them of making inroads for the agriculture sector in connivance with the Union government.Groups of farmers from the district converged on various markets, targeting Reliance-owned stores and petrol pumps. Protesters started gathering outside Reliance stores in Phases 7, 10 and 11 since Sunday night, and did not allow them to open in the morning. Farmers also forced the closure of Reliance petrol pumps in Kharar and Banur. “We have boycotted multinational companies for invading Punjab markets and snatching the share of poor farmers, pushing them towards poverty,” said one of the protesters.Balwant Singh, another protesters, said: “Central government is forcing MNCs on us, which act as crocodiles and will eat farmers, who are a small fish. We will not allow them to do business in Punjab till the government rolls back the new legislations.” Meanwhile, the Mohali administration has issued orders to the police department to make adequate arrangements at the railway stations in Mohali and Kharar, where farmers are suspected to be planning rail blockade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-force-closure-of-reliance-stores-in-mohali/story-3L8TFdKfFUBedhD7rLYg2K.html
20-10-2020||City||Probe indicts ex-SHO in Zirakpur ‘fake’ rape case||The Mohali superintendent of police (SP, rural) on Monday submitted inquiry report in an alleged fake rape case registered at the Zirakpur police station last month, clearing the name of one of the suspects while raising questions on the probe conducted by then station house officer.In the report submitted to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh, SP Ravjot Kaur Grewal said Sunil Kumar, a Nashik man who is one of the suspects, had no role in the crime that allegedly took place at a hotel in Zirakpur, as the CCTV footage did not match with allegations in the FIR. The report also points out that SHO Gurwant Singh failed to carry out proper investigation in the case, said Grewal. The SHO was sent to the police lines and a probe marked to the SP (rural) on the complaint of Kumar’s wife, alleging false implication in the case. While Kumar is in judicial custody right now, the other suspect, Dinesh of Mumbai, has not been arrested yet. SSP Satinder Singh said: “All angles are being probed. Action will be taken against whosoever is found guilty in next couple of days.”3 booked for extortionMeanwhile, police have booked three men for extorting ₹2.76 lakh from Sunil’s wife for reaching a compromise with the alleged rape victim. Rajpal Gill, the new Zirakpur SHO, identified them as Lakwinder Singh of Desumarja in Kharar, Amit Singh of Balongi in Mohali and Pritpal Singh of Gulmohar City in Kharar.While police arrested and got a two-day remand of Lakwinder and Amit on Monday, Pritpal is still at large.The FIR against Kumar and Dinesh was registered on September 27. The complainant in the case had told police that she was fond of acting and was informed by a friend that the two were casting for a TV serial. Following this, the woman, along with her friend, allegedly went to meet the two at a hotel. She claimed that after her friend left, the two men served her drinks laced with sedatives and raped her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/probe-indicts-ex-sho-in-zirakpur-fake-rape-case/story-DXfpSQ6FnLIUrSybMOIT2K.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid positivity rate in Chandigarh lowest in 8 weeks||The weekly Covid-19 positivity rate in the city has dipped to 6.2%, which is the lowest the rate has been in eight weeks since August 17.With daily infection numbers remaining below 100 since October 9 and daily tests being conducted on more than 1,000 suspected patients, the cumulative positivity rate has also seen a marginal decrease from 15.3% on October 1 to 14.1% on October 18.Even after the backlog testing numbers were added on later dates in September, the positivity rates remained above 8% touching 18% in September’s last week.Not one to lose momentum, the UT health department has decided that mobile testing teams will visit the government dispensaries to perform tests on persons coming forward voluntarily.“The idea is to bring the testing facility to the doorsteps of the residents to eliminate the need to visit some major facility for the same. Also, if we can identify and isolate the patients early, we can stop cluster formation and eventually, the spread of the disease,” a senior UT health official, wishing anonymity, said.Joint director of the UT health department and medical superintendent, Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Dr VK Nagpal said that as per the plan, at least three mobile testing teams will visit 32 dispensaries of the city, which means that in each area, a testing team will be available once in 10 days. Two more testing teams will be deputed in the containment zones, he added.Meanwhile, the institutions that reopened OPDs on Monday will voluntarily test all patients visiting for consultation.Tuesday’s schedule for mobile testing teams1. Civil dispensary, Industrial Area, Phase 12. Auxiliary medical unit, Raipur Khurd3. Police lines, Sector 264. Civil dispensary, Sector 195. Civil dispensary, Kaimbwala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weekly-covid-positivity-rate-in-chandigarh-lowest-in-8-weeks/story-UKMZWG3uYzWAohX6HyHxVJ.html
20-10-2020||Election:||‘Nitish Kumar was unfair’: RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav supports Chirag Paswan||A day after attacking the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) as the B team of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday expressed his sympathy for LJP leader Chirag Paswan and said chief minister Nitish Kumar had been unfair to the young politician ahead of the upcoming state polls. Without going into the specifics of how exactly Nitish Kumar had been unfair to Chirag Paswan, the RJD’s chief ministerial face noted that Paswan had recently lost his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan.“What Nitish Kumar Ji did with Chirag Paswan is not good. Chirag needs his father today more than ever before but Ram Vilas Paswan Ji is not among us and we are sad about it. Nitish Kumar did injustice with Chirag Paswan, his behaviour is unfair,” Tejashwi Yadav said. Chirag Paswan’s father passed away on October 8. Citing ideological differences with Nitish Kumar, the politician has pulled the LJP out of the National Democratic Alliance in Bihar while insisting that it supports the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre. He also said the BJP and LJP would form a coalition government after the results of the three-phase election are declared on November 10. On Sunday, Yadav took a swipe at the LJP in electoral rallies ahead of the assembly elections. “They are vote katwas (vote splitters),” he said, urging voters to beware of the BJP’s B-team The LJP thanked Yadav for his expression of support on Monday. “Everybody has been approving what Chirag Paswan’s views at one point or the other. First they criticise, later they toe his line,” said LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari. Also Read | Farewell, Ram Vilas PaswanBoth Tejashwi and Chirag are facing the state elections without the presence of their fathers for the first time. RJD president Lalu Prasad is serving a jail term and cannot take part in elections; Ram Vilas Paswan’s death has deprived Chirag Paswan of an experienced political mentor. Tejashwi Yadav’s conciliatory comments towards Chirag Paswan sparked a new round of speculation about post-poll alliances. “You cannot rule out a post-poll alliance this election. Not only Chirag, other parties have kept their options open as the election may witness a low turnout. A slight swing will become a deciding factor,” said D M Diwakar, a politicval expert and former director of the AN Sinha Institute for Social Studies. On Monday, Chirag Paswan again reiterated that a BJP-LJP government will be formed in Bihar after assembly poll results are declared on November 10, and asked BJP leaders not to use terms like vote splitter against his party “just to keep Kumar happy”. “Ultimately, a BJP-LJP government will be formed in the state after November 10,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/nitish-kumar-was-unfair-rjs-s-tejashwi-yadav-supports-chirag-paswan/story-4GzOo4z60pbva5HG2BEbQK.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sector welfare body marches to MC office against water tariff hike||Members of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) marched from the Sector 17 Plaza to the office of the municipal corporation in Sector 17 on Monday morning in protest against the proposed 200% hike in water charges.They were joined by the supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress, as well as councillors Devinder Singh Babla, Gurbax Rawat and Rajinder Kaur Gujral.Before the march, FOSWAC along with trader bodies such as Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) had collected at the Plaza to discuss why the hike wasn’t justified.FOSWAC general secretary JS Gogia said, “Despite providing no additional benefits, the water price is being hiked, which is not justified. Rather, the MC should sort out the old pipes first and fix leaks before charging more taxes.”FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Bittu added, “An average person is paying 60% of his income in the form of various taxes already. The city has a huge population of retired pensioners, which the MC should take into account.”Bittu said MC elections were scheduled for next year and the people will remember this decision, adding that more protests will be organised if their demands were not accepted.Devinder Singh Babla, MC’s leader of opposition, spoke about how the people in power were neglecting the demands of the people.Police were deployed in large numbers at the site of the protest, however, social distancing was not maintained. Many protesters could also be seen wearing masks improperly or not all. Nobody was booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-welfare-body-marches-to-mc-office-against-water-tariff-hike/story-mDmorTv0YvIzuQ6NyMd3IN.html
20-10-2020||City||2 cases of chain snatching reported from Mumbai||Two cases of chain snatching were reported on Sunday in which valuables worth Rs1.5 lakh were robbed. The first incident took place at Vakola around 6am when two bike-borne men snatched the gold chain, worth Rs51,000, of a 50-year-old complainant, Vithabai Sakpal. The complainant, who is a resident of Gamdevi Pipeline, was coming from VN Desai Hospital when the incident happened. She then filed a complaint at Vakola police station, following which a first information report (FIR) was registered. The second incident took place in Malad (West) around 3pm when two bike-borne snatched the chain, worth Rs91,000, of 70-year-old Switi Kamat who was walking near Sundar Nagar. An FIR has been filed at Malad police station under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-cases-of-chain-snatching-reported-from-mumbai/story-3BBqyD4KTbv0Y1D0gRrION.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Central Administrative Tribunal asks Maharashtra government to reinstate auditor||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has issued an order reinstating an auditor who was allegedly relieved from his post arbitrarily last year, by Maharashtra’s additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik. The order was passed on September 22 and Saunik has since got a stay on CAT’s order. On August 30, 2019, senior departmental accounts auditor GD Thakare from the public works department (PWD) was asked to discontinue auditing, by Saunik and the superintendent engineer. Thakare challenged this instruction and approached CAT. This year, on September 22, CAT issued an order saying the state must permit Thakare to audit and relieving him of his duty was in contravention of the Public Works Accounts Code. In response, Saunik filed a review petition and has since got a stay on the order reinstating Thakare. “I have done no wrong. I immediately obtained a stay order against this [CAT’s] order. I have asked for the review of this order,” Saunik told HT.However, activist and advocate Pravin Wategaonkar has written to Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, seeking action against Saunik. Wategaonkar said, “PWD headed by Saunik had no right to relieve Thakare and that he had acted unlawfully was confirmed by the ruling given by CAT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-administrative-tribunal-asks-maharashtra-government-to-reinstate-auditor/story-Z4KdEMvhdwVb4g6gduveuL.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former Chandigarh MP flays Panjab University’s V-C for deferring senate polls again||Days after the senate polls of Panjab University (PU) were deferred for a second time, former MP and Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, who is also a PU senator, spoke out against vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.In a tweet, Bansal said, “VC @OfficialPU fires from shoulders of Governor Pb & Administrator UT to smother democracy. Gatherings of 200 people, inter-state travel & assembly sessions are ok, Bihar and 57 other assembly seats go to polls, but senators from Punjab will spread Covid, says UT. (sic)”PU senate polls were earlier scheduled to start from August 24, but were postponed for two months. On October 15, the varsity had decided to postpone the polls again, seeking fresh advice from the administration. UT in its response had advised the varsity to continue with its decision to defer the polls to avoid the spread of Covid-19.On Friday, in a letter to the officiating registrar-cum-returning officer of PU, the UT administration had cited a response from the senior superintendent of police: “As the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Maharashtra is at its peak and the faculty members, who belong to these states, will arrive in Chandigarh to cast their votes at PU, the possibility of spreading Covid-19 in Chandigarh cannot be ruled out. Thus, it is recommended that permission may not be granted to PU authority to conduct the senate elections 2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-chandigarh-mp-flays-panjab-university-s-v-c-for-deferring-senate-polls-again/story-YqvfC7gXNE70VhuwvfBYbN.html
20-10-2020||City||Expect thunderstorm with lightning today in Mumbai: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow alert – thunderstorm with lightning – for Mumbai for Tuesday. A yellow alert had been issued for Monday, too, but no rain was recorded in the city and suburbs between 8.30am and 5.30pm. Heavy rain warnings with thunder and lightning have been issued for Thane till Thursday, for Palghar till Wednesday, and Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg till Friday. The weather bureau said the formation of a fresh low pressure weather system over Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify rain activity over central India, interior Maharashtra and the Konkan coast. “Currently, a well-marked low pressure area persists over west-central Arabian Sea, and as a result of this, an associated upper cyclonic circulation may lead to rain over the next 24 to 48 hours over the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). However, rainfall during the latter half of the week is due to the low pressure forming over Bay of Bengal,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Meanwhile, owing to the cloud cover early on Monday morning, the minimum temperature in Mumbai was 3 degrees Celsius above normal at 26.2 degrees Celsius. However, a partly cloudy sky throughout the day helped in bringing the day temperature 2 degrees Celsius below normal to 31.6 degrees Celsius. South Mumbai recorded the minimum temperature at 26.5 degrees Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal, even as the maximum temperature was recorded at 32 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal. The air quality index (AQI) on Monday was 63 (satisfactory) and is expected to be 58 (satisfactory) on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expect-thunderstorm-with-lightning-today-in-mumbai-imd/story-x6JLcVPYMSjTGIanBvHPgP.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Expect chilly weather in Chandigarh over the next few days||With minimum temperature plunging down to 16.5 degrees on Monday, the weather in the city has suddenly become chilly, and as per India Meteorological Department (IMD), is likely to continue so for the next few days.IMD Chandigarh director Surender Paul said, “Due to a northwesterly flowing in the city, the minimum temperature dipped on Monday. This is expected to continue for the next two to three days after which the temperature will go up by 1-2 degrees again when low-level easterly winds start. Western disturbances are unlikely for the next few days and dry weather will continue.”Paul said winters are likely to come as per schedule, and very cold days are likely to begin around the beginning of January. Last year, they had started in the middle of December.Minimum temperature in the city went down from 18.2 degrees on Sunday to 16.5 degrees on Monday. Maximum temperature went down from 34 degrees on Sunday to 33.5 degrees on Monday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 33 degrees, while minimum temperature will remain between 16 degrees and 17 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expect-chilly-weather-in-chandigarh-over-the-next-few-days/story-GLo5YwHdvaZHiHnVJIusTN.html
20-10-2020||City||2.2 lakh final-year students from colleges affiliated to University of Mumbai complete exams online||Close to 2.2 lakh final-year students from over 800 colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) have given their online exams, revealed a statement released by the varsity late on Monday evening.“Over 400 exams were held online, in which over 1.58 lakh fresh candidates as well as 67,500 students with backlogs/allowed to keep term (ATKT) appeared for their papers,” read the statement.It further stated that these figures include students studying at the various university departments as well as all affiliated colleges.“As assessment have begun, we hope to declare results at the earliest,” said a spokesperson for the varsity.This year, exams for the final-year batch were delayed by almost six months owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. MU decentralised the examination system by grouping six to 10 colleges together under one cluster and gave the institutes a free hand to the clusters to hold exams as per their schedule and with the service provider of their choice.Around 23,000 students with MU’s Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) are appearing for their online exams. After the first session of online exams were marred with technical glitches, the re-examination started from Monday for students with backlogs and exams for fresh candidates will begin from October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-2-lakh-final-year-students-from-colleges-affiliated-to-university-of-mumbai-complete-exams-online/story-jZkpzkJztiic5P4vV3OxVK.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Late actor’s house help moves Bombay high court, seeks compensation of ₹10 lakh for ‘illegal detention’ by NCB||Dipesh Sawant, the domestic help of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has moved the Bombay high court (HC), seeking compensation of Rs10 lakh on the grounds that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NBC) had kept him in illegal detention before producing him in front of a metropolitan magistrate. Sawant, 25, has been accused of interacting with peddlers and accepting deliveries of contraband material, allegedly on behalf of Rajput, for the late actor’s consumption. “There is gross violation of fundamental rights of the petitioner by the NCB officials by not producing the petitioner to the nearest magistrate within 24 hours of taking into custody,” stated Sawant’s petition. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik has posted Sawant’s petition for hearing on November 6. In the petition filed through advocates Aamir Koradia and Rajendra Rathod, Sawant has stated that the NCB took him in custody from his Chembur residence on September 4, around 10pm. He, however, was produced before a holiday magistrate 36 hours later, on September 6 around 1.30pm. The petition adds that in the interregnum, one of co-accused in the case, Kaizan Ibrahim, was produced before a magistrate on September 5, and was immediately granted bail by the magistrate. Sawant, however, was not produced along with Ibrahim, and was instead shown arrested on September 5 at 8pm. Sawant has alleged that NCB kept him in illegal detention for over 36 hours, which violated the mandate of Article 22 of the Constitution of India. Besides, Sawant has also alleged that the agency intimated his brother Vivek about his arrest only on September 6 at 11.40am, thereby violating the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the DK Basu judgment, pertaining to the guidelines on detention. Apart from the allegation of illegal detention and breach if Supreme Court guidelines, 25-year-old Sawant also claimed that all the offences for which he has been charged were bailable, having purportedly involved small quantity of drugs. However, this ground had been negated by a single judge bench of the HC earlier. While granting bail to Sawant and some others arrested by NCB, the single judge held that all offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, were non-bailable. Sawant is charged under sections 8(c) with 20(b)(ii) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, ware-house, use, consume, import, export of cannabis other than ganja), 23 (import, export or trans-shipment of contraband material), 29 (abetment) and 30 (preparation for offences punishable under sections 15 to 25) of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-late-actor-s-house-help-moves-bombay-high-court-seeks-compensation-of-10-lakh-for-illegal-detention-by-ncb/story-VENDs69GIgchciE49uxOPJ.html
20-10-2020||City||Body with multiple injury marks found in Pinjore, murder case registered||Body of an unidentified man in his late 30s was recovered from Nalagarh national highway near Pinjore’s Prempura village, police said on Monday. His right arm has ‘NEERAJ SANG’ tattooed on it, though the last few alphabets are not clear, the police said. The body was found on October 17, but police are still trying to ascertain the man’s identity. An FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against unidentified persons as the body bears marks of multiple injuries possibly inflicted by sharp-edged weapon on the face, head, arms and the back. As per the details, sarpanch of Prempura, Surmukh Singh, had on Saturday evening called the police, informing about the body lying in the bushes on roadside. The victim, about 5ft 5 inches tall, was wearing a yellow T-shirt with his neck and right arm tried with a scarf. The police said that there were at least eight injury marks on the body, suggesting that he was stabbed repeatedly. As there was no trace of blood, the police suspect that the body may have been dumped there after execution of murder somewhere else. The body has been kept in the mortuary of Kalka civil hospital. Investigators are currently scanning missing complaints registered at the police stations in nearby areas. The police have urged the public to contact the police control room and Pinjore station house officer in case they have some information about the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-with-multiple-injury-marks-found-in-pinjore-murder-case-registered/story-PrQAbswQMl4ttrTqy0ZaVO.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College will revise plagiarism norms on UGC lines||Punjab Engineering College (PEC), a deemed to be university, is considering revising its plagiarism rules according to the revised guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC).The institute has formed a panel comprising the associate dean (PhD), associate dean (PG) and senior librarian for revision of the plagiarism policy in lines with the UGC rules. The matter was also discussed during the last senate meeting.The matter was first discussed in 2018’s standing committee meeting of the PEC senate where members observed that the institute’s plagiarism policy needed revision in view of the UGC’s modified guidelines on plagiarism.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “The panel will formulate institute-specific guidelines and those will be discussed in the senate meeting for approval.”The standing committee of senate had observed that the points which need to be revised include the level of plagiarism, detection/reporting/handling of plagiarism, penalties, similarity check for exclusion for plagiarism and others.What UGC guidelines sayAs per UGC’s revised anti-plagiarism norms that came out in 2018, higher educational institutions have to declare and implement a technology-based mechanism using appropriate software so as to ensure that documents such as thesis, dissertation, publications and others are free of plagiarism at the time of submission.Further, plagiarism will be quantified into level 0, where similarities are upto 10%. There is no penalty for level 0 plagiarism.For level 1 plagiarism, where similarities are above 10% to 40%, students will be asked to submit a revised script within a stipulated time period not exceeding six months. As for level 2 plagiarism, where similarities are above 40% to 60%, students shall be debarred from submitting a revised script for a period of one year.For level 3 plagiarism, where similarities are above 60%, student registration for the programme shall be cancelled.Similarity checks for plagiarism exclude all quoted work reproduced with all necessary permission and/or attribution and all references, bibliography, table of content, preface and acknowledgements. The checks also exclude all generic terms, laws, standard symbols and standards equations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-will-revise-plagiarism-norms-on-ugc-lines/story-fvqSfFI4So0KHqOKh9400N.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Why no action against media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput death case? Bombay HC asks Ministry of Information and Broadcasting||The Bombay high court has asked the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) why no action had been initiated on the complaints related to media trial in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by individuals, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and a group of former top police officers, seeking a restraint on media trials. The court was informed by senior counsel Arvind Datar, representing the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA), that the self-regulatory mechanism for channels was doing its work diligently. NBA also implored the Bombay high court (HC) to not give in to the requests of the petitioners – who sought directions for the formation of a statutory authority to regulate the electronic media – as it would lead to an end of the independence of media. NBA submitted that the self-regulatory mechanism which is in place has been very effective in redressing complaints against channels and all the members have strictly adhered to its regulations, with the exception of Republic TV and its Hindi channel. NBA informed the court that Republic TV did not want to abide by its regulations and hence, left the association, and went on to form its own self-regulating authority. The two authorities were responding to allegations by the petitioners that the electronic media was conducting media trials during which they resorted to police bashing, disclosed vital details of the ongoing investigations and tried to influence the opinion of viewers. The petitioners had stated that independent self-regulating authorities in the form of NBA and NBSA were not taking sufficient steps to curb channels from conducting media trials. Datar, however, refuted the allegations and submitted that they had time and again taken disciplinary action, and at times stringent action, against errant channels by banning its airing for three days to three months. He submitted that though the two authorities did not have any statutory powers, it was adjudicating complaints based on the programme code as directed by the MIB. Datar concluded by coaxing the court to not grant the requests of the petitioners to have a statutory body to regulate the electronic media, as it would become difficult for the media to function independently. He also cited the Supreme Court judgments in which the Apex court had refused to interfere or direct the legislative to form a statutory mechanism to regulate the electronic media. In light of this, Datar requested the court to not exercise its discretionary authority. After hearing the submissions of NBA and NBSA, the bench sought to know from MIB if the two independent authorities were formed without any statutory powers so that channels could afford an escape route by invoking Article 19(2) of the Constitution and approaching the courts when they were pulled up for irresponsible and objectionable reporting. Datar, however, clarified that though the two independent authorities were allowed to address complaints against errant channels, the MIB was not restricted from taking action simultaneously as per the Cable TV Regulation Act. The court then asked MIB to inform it on Wednesday as to why no action had been initiated by the ministry with respect to the complaints related to media trial in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-no-action-against-media-trial-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-bombay-hc-asks-ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting/story-nrCMNrZEJQtsjUaQSrFEgI.html
20-10-2020||City||Ambala MC elections: Notification on ward-wise reservation issued||An official notification regarding reservation of various wards for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections in Ambala City was issued on Monday.As per the notification, out of 20 wards, five (wards 1, 2, 7, 11 and 14) have been reserved for the candidates from the Scheduled Castes (SC) category, with wards 11 and 14 for women from the same category.These wards were decided in a draw of lots in the presence of deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma and MC commissioner Partha Gupta. The process was videographed. The polls are expected to take place towards the end of this year.Similarly, wards 4 and 18 are reserved for candidates from the backward classes (BC) and wards 6, 9, 12, 17 and 20 for women candidates from the general category.DC Sharma said that the process took place according to the arrangements described in Section 11 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, and Rule 7 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Ward Delimitation Rules,1994.In the last tenure of the MC House that ended in 2018, there were 20 wards under MC Ambala, out of which 11 were in the city area and nine in the Sadar area of the cantonment. But in 2019, the corporation was divided into Ambala MC and Ambala Sadar municipal council.Parties reactHaryana Congress treasurer Rohit Jain alleged that the whole process had happened secretly and the party, without its organisational structure, will surely make a comeback. Meanwhile, ruling party BJP’s chief Rajesh Batoura will face his first elections.With the debut of Haryana Democratic Front, led by former Haryana minister Nirmal Singh and his daughter Chitra Sarwara, in the elections, things will only get interesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-elections-notification-on-ward-wise-reservation-issued/story-UsFj39NDbAY549U5NulkMK.html
20-10-2020||City||Man driving under influence injures couple, held||A man was arrested for drunk driving and leaving two persons injured in an accident near Chandimandir light point, police said on Monday. The accused has been identified as Rajesh Kumar of Chandikotla village in Panchkula. Police had on October 18 registered a case on the complaint of victim Kanta Sharma of Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh. She said that on October 17, she, along with her husband Sushil Sharma and son Sidharath, was on her way to Parwanoo from Chandigarh in their Maruti Alto car being driven by her husband. They had left for Parwanoo at 8pm. Kanta said she was sitting in the rear and they were waiting at the Chandimandir light point for signal to turn green then a car coming from behind hit their vehicle. Such was the force of the collision that their car was pushed to the other side of the road, the complainant said. She alleged that accused was reeking of alcohol. She and her husband were shifted to the Panchkula civil hospital, where she is undergoing treatment. The FIR has been registered under sections 279,337, and 427 of the IPC and 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-driving-under-influence-injures-couple-held/story-nxnTUJh1PpSLEhVyMKJq5J.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Covid tally crosses 19,000-mark||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 19,000-mark on Monday with 168 more people testing positive for the virus. The total number of positive cases in the state have now reached 19,135. Of the new cases, 36 were reported in Mandi, 26 in Kullu, 24 in Sirmaur, 21 in Chamba, 16 in Hamirpur, 11 in Kangra, 10 in Bilaspur, 8 in Una, 7 in Lahaul-Spiti, 4 in Solan, 3 in Shimla and 2 in Kinnaur. The death toll mounted to 267 after four more patients succumbed to the infection. Chamba, Kangra, Kinnaur and Solan registered one fatality each. There are 2, 593 active cases in the state. The overall recoveries have reached 16,241 as 201 more patients have been cured. With 3,445 cases Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra with a total of 2,797 infections. Mandi has 2,441 cases, Sirmaur 2,124 cases, Shimla 1,969, Una 1,481, Bilaspur 1,137, Hamirpur 1,110, Chamba 1,055, Kullu 1,044, Lahaul-Spiti 293 and Kinnaur 239. CM tests negative Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s follow up sample results returned negative for Covid-19 on Monday. Thakur had tested positive on October 12 and has been in home isolation ever since. He is likely to remain in isolation for a few more days before resuming work. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-covid-tally-crosses-19-000-mark/story-JQACP97QN1BIPVB7H2ftiJ.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh district courts resume physical hearing to poor response||After staying shut for more than seven months due to the Covid-19 outbreak, district and sessions judge allowed the physical hearing of cases on Monday, but was met with cold response.The judge has allowed physical hearing provided both parties give their consent. As per advocates, “no two parties will give consent hence, this clause will not be of much help as defence party would want to delay hearings by withholding consent”. For the consent of both the parties, a joint application has to be submitted at the special counter on the ground floor of the complex in Sector 43. On Monday, the court was sanitised, however, majority of the courtrooms remained locked and the hearing of most of the cases was done via virtual hearing.Advocate NK Nanda, president, District Bar Association (DBA) said, “There was no physical hearing. I had three cases today and all were heard via videoconferencing. At least judges should start sitting in courtrooms. They can adjourn some matters, but they should hear the advocates in urgent cases.”“When judges in Mohali and other places can sit inside courtrooms, then why not in Chandigarh district court?” he questioned. Nanda said they have added a clause that both parties should give consent. “When did two advocates have agreed on one case? One will never give consent, hence, there will be no physical hearing.” For the inspection of judicial records, only advocates or their clerks are allowed to inspect the documents in the courtroom on the working day.A senior public prosecutor said, “Most of my cases are in the final stage, but the other party will never give consent. Hence, I will have to wait until this condition is removed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-district-courts-resume-physical-hearing-to-poor-response/story-7hoUd3BL1jIzRnXsdGzmNM.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||‘Mumbai likely to witness thunderstorm with lightning on Tuesday’: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a ‘yellow alert’ - for thunderstorm and lightning - for Mumbai for Tuesday.A yellow alert had been issued for Monday too but no rain was recorded in the city and suburbs between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. Heavy rain warnings with thunder and lightning are in place for Thane till Thursday, Palghar till Wednesday, and Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg till Friday.The weather bureau said the formation of a fresh low-pressure weather system over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify rain activity over central India, interior Maharashtra and the Konkan coast. “Presently, a well-marked low-pressure area persists over west-central Arabian Sea, and as a result of this, an associated upper cyclonic circulation may lead to rain over the next 24 to 48 hours over the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). However, rainfall during the latter half of the week is due to the low pressure forming over the Bay of Bengal,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Also read: SSR death case - ‘Why no action against media trial?’ HC asks I&B ministryMeanwhile, owing to cloud cover early Monday morning the minimum temperature in Mumbai was 3 degrees Celsius above normal at 26.2 degrees Celsius. However, partly cloudy skies through the day kept the day temperature 2 degrees Celsius below normal at 31.6 degrees Celsius. South Mumbai recorded the minimum temperature at 26.5 degrees Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal while 32 degrees Celsius was the maximum temperature, a degree Celsius below normal.The air quality index (AQI) was 63 (satisfactory) on Monday and is expected to be 58 (satisfactory) on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-likely-to-witness-thunderstorm-with-lightning-on-tuesday-imd/story-ROv3buiI8qFD3WCEio9C7L.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims nine more lives in J&K, toll 1,388||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded nine deaths and 427 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 88,369.Officials said 258 people tested positive in Kashmir and 169 in Jammu division. Of the nine fatalities, three were in Jammu division and six in Kashmir. The death toll has reached 1,388.August witnessed 326 deaths, 478 fatalities were registered in September and 207 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19 in October so far.The active cases dropped to settle at 8,314 after 781 more patients were cured—364 in Kashmir and 417 in Jammu. The overall recoveries have reached 78,667, which account for a recovery rate of 88.0%, the highest so far. The total number of tests conducted in the UT so far are 20.23 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases were recorded in Jammu district at 116, followed by 12 in Samba. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 112 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 38.Till date, 6.29 lakh people have been enlisted for observation —21,927 in home quarantine, 8,314 in isolation, and 52,205 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.45 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-nine-more-lives-in-j-k-toll-1-388/story-ZUs7kjpej28hpNOgJp7AUJ.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||14-member panel set up to propose amendments to Maharashtra Public Universities Act||The Maharashtra higher and technical education department on Monday set up a committee to make further amendments to the Maharashtra Public Universities Act (MPUA), which was amended previously in 2016. According to a government resolution (GR) issued on Monday, the 14-member committee will study MPUA and suggest amendments to improve the Act as well as to incorporate the central government’s National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. The committee will be headed by Sukhadeo Thorat, economist and former chairperson of the University Grants Commission, and comprise current and former vice-chancellors of major universities in the state. “The committee has been directed to study the existing Act, and suggest changes keeping in view rules and regulations at national and international levels,” read the GR, adding that the proposed amendments should be practical, easy to implement and student-friendly. The MPUA, which governs all non-agricultural universities in the state, was amended during the winter session of the state Assembly in 2016 and came into force on March 1, 2017. Changes were made to sections of the Act to improve the functioning of universities and reintroduce student elections in over two decades. “It has been four years since the Act was last amended. We need to have a fresh look at the Act and make improvements to enhance the performance of our universities. At the same time, we need to make changes to the Act to integrate the guidelines of NEP,” said Rajeev Jalota, additional chief secretary, higher and technical education department. The state has asked the committee to submit an interim report of its proposals within three months. “The state has sought amendments for the better implementation of the NEP 2020. A meeting will soon be convened by the chairperson, during which the terms and conditions for the committee will be defined,” said Rajan Velukar, former vice-chancellor of the University of Mumbai and a member of the committee. Earlier this year, the Union education ministry announced a complete overhaul of the country’s school and higher education in NEP 2020, which is India’s first education policy of the 21st century. NEP was passed by the Union cabinet on July 29. Education activist Santosh Gangurde said that the formation of the committee was a welcome step. “For the past five years, there have been discussions about some lacunae in MPUA, such as a rotation system in reservation policy, which is unconstitutional. The Act also lacks clarity about the regulation of autonomous colleges. Also, there needs to be proper coordination between NEP and MPUA,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-member-panel-set-up-to-propose-amendments-to-maharashtra-public-universities-act/story-FOqbLUms3vIKYJmmjE5VIN.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Officials to keep an eye on recovered Covid-19 patients in UP||About 80,000 coronavirus (Covid-19) disease patients, who were discharged from September 1 to 15, will be checked up on for post-Covid symptoms, the Uttar Pradesh government has said, adding that officials have been directed to setup up post-Covid help desks, besides monitor recovered persons through the integrated command and control centres. State officials said the action is being taken as it has come to light that some Covid-19 patients, after getting discharged from hospitals, complained of health issues.“The number of active cases in the state is on the decline but we need to be more careful, and observe social distancing and wear masks, especially now since the festive season is on. This will help avoid another wave of Covid-19. It has also come to light that there are some recovered people are facing health issues after being discharged post Covid treatment. These complaints could be related to breathing issues or even high levels of blood sugar,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).He said districts have been asked to set up post-Covid care desks at their district/combined hospitals and provide treatment to people who come for checkups. “From Tuesday, we will start calling up the almost 80,000 persons who were discharged in the state from September 1 to 15. Doctors will ask them some questions. This will help us ascertain how many patients are facing complications post-Covid treatment,” he added. In Ghaziabad, the number of discharged patients till October 19 stood at a total of 15,932, out of a total of 17,211 total cases so far, as per the state control room figures. Of the total patients discharged, at least 8,175 patients were discharged from September 1 to 15.“Upon directions by the state health officials on Monday, directions have been issued for setting up a post-Covid care desk at hospitals, as well as a wing at the district control and command centre where doctors will be available. People who have been discharged can also call up the control room in case they face any health issues post discharge. The records of such patients will be maintained separately,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. The officials of the district health department said they have issued further instructions to the four community health centres – Modinagar, Dasna, Loni and Muradnagar – to set up post-Covid healthcare desks.Ghaziabad conducted a total of 3,90,035 tests for the Sars-Cov-2 till October 17, and has an overall test positivity rate of about 4.36%.State health department officials said that the number of active cases had peaked to 68,235 on September 17 and thereafter, there has been a constant decline, with the total active cases at 31,495 on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/officials-to-keep-an-eye-on-recovered-covid-19-patients-in-up/story-0GyLtzdtgoqmAhlzIjMpRP.html
20-10-2020||City||After months of verbal jostles, Speak for India enters last lap||New Delhi: Following months of intense verbal duels between college-goers from across the national Capital on contemporary topics, the grand finale of the Federal Bank Speak for India — Delhi Edition, in association with Hindustan Times and Hindustan, will be conducted on Tuesday. This is the first time the event is being organised in the National Capital Region (NCR).The event provides a platform for the youth to debate contemporary social, political, and cultural issues and explore opposing perspectives, while preparing them to take on the role of change-makers in society.Over 62,000 participants from across Delhi and the NCR registered online, and over 1,000 students took part in the preliminary auditions. The initial rounds, which took place in January and February, were conducted in various Delhi University (DU) colleges, including Hindu College, Kirori Mal College, Aurobindo College, and Daulat Ram College.Though the finale was slated to be conducted in March, the event was postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the disease.Finalist Priyanshi Sharma, 21, who will graduate in Economics from Daulat Ram College this year, said, “The experience has been different from DU debating circuits, because it was very well-organised and managed. Since the participants were from good debating societies, the level of competition has also been great. Debates like these give us the chance to see multiple perspectives of an issue and ponder over a stance that might be completely opposite to ours. It helps us learn how to function with logic in life.”The initial screening was done through auditions at the sub-zonal level across more than 10 centres in Delhi-NCR, following which shortlisted candidates competed at four zonal auditions. The eight finalists who will debate on Tuesday were selected from the 36 semi-finalists and are from institutes like FORE School of Management, Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), and various DU colleges.Rajan Bhalla, chief business officer and CMO, HT Media Ltd, said “Federal Bank’s Speak for India Delhi Edition 2019 in partnership with Hindustan Times and Hindustan is truly India’s biggest debate competition for youth. The multi-state competition engendered a massive response from collegians who participated with great fervor. And, we’re all geared up for the grand finale.”Federal Bank MD and CEO, Shyam Srinivasan said, “These are challenging times. When we set this out almost a year ago, nobody had a clue that we would be faced with such a change in events [due to the pandemic]. But we are excited to be able to do the first event in Delhi with our partner Hindustan Times.”While former parliamentarian and national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party Baijayant Jay Panda is the chief guest, renowned athlete and paralympian Deepa Malik and Aam Aadmi Party legislator and spokesperson Raghav Chadha are the guests of honour. The jury comprises senior journalist Barkha Dutt, founding member of DU’s National Democratic Teachers’ Front Inder Mohan Kapahy, and Shri Ram College of Commerce professor Abhinav Prakash Singh.The winner will get a cash prize of ₹1.5 lakh, a scholarship of ₹50,000 and a college reward worth ₹25,000. The first runner-up will also get a cash prize of ₹1 lakh and ₹20,000 college reward. Apart from this, there is a category of popular choice award with a cash prize of ₹50,000 and consolation cash prize for five participants of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-months-of-verbal-jostles-speak-for-india-enters-last-lap/story-NI5p94S82anu2wczeQhdJM.html
20-10-2020||City||26-year-old booked for HRTC paper leak||A 26-year-old man was booked in connection with the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) Conductor Recruitment paper leak.The accused, Manoj Kumar, a resident of Bhaunka village in Jawali sub-division of the district, is at large. The paper was leaked on social media minutes after the exam started on Sunday. The exam was being conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC). Around 60,000 candidates had appeared for the exam conducted across 304 centres. Kangra senior superintended of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan said the HPSSC secretary filed an online complaint at Shahpur police station stating that a candidate who appeared for the exam at the Himachal Institute and Technology (HIET) near Shahpur had shared photos of the paper on social media.“The accused has been booked under section 7 of Malpractices Act, 1984,” said Ranjan , adding that efforts were on to nab him. Photographs of some pages of the question paper had started circulating within half-an-hour of the start of the exam.The leak was first detected at a Shimla centre where a candidate was caught clicking photographs by an invigilator. He had send the images to his brother on WhatsApp but was yet to get a response.Later, investigations revealed that the question paper circulating on social media was actually leaked from a Kangra centre. This was detected from the serial number and code printed on the question paper.The candidate who leaked the paper from the Shimla centre was arrested from his home in Rohru on Sunday.Another candidate was caught with a phone at the Solan centre. His phone also had photographs of the question paper but he had not shared them when he was apprehended.Meanwhile, HPSSC has banned the accused from appearing in any exam for three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-booked-for-hrtc-paper-leak/story-BMIc2FeBfDMrlrXLQBOCxK.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Total Covid-19 tests in Capital cross 4 million-mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests conducted in Delhi crossed the four million-mark, even as the number of tests dipped to just 36,000, according to Monday’s daily health bulletin. On average, over 55,000 tests were conducted each day during the week barring Sunday, higher than the average of 51,000 during the previous week. The Capital added 2,154 cases of the infection, and conducted 36,445 tests in the 24-hour period pertaining to the Monday bulletin. To be sure, new cases and tests usually dip on Monday, owing to a lull on the weekend. The bulletin also added 31 deaths on the day, taking the city’s total fatality count to 6,040.In Delhi, after reaching a peak of over 4,400 cases being reported in a day during September third week, the numbers started dipping slowly, reporting fewer than 3,000 cases since early October. However, the numbers started increasing again when the government increased the number of more accurate RT-PCR [reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction] tests. Rapid antigen tests are cheaper, easily deployed at clinics and dispensaries, and can give results within 15 minutes. However, they also tend to throw false negatives for people who might have the infection. “Of course, if we do more RT-PCR tests, we will detect more cases as it is a more sensitive test. This is the reason it is suggested that the less sensitive rapid antigen tests be used in containment zones for screening cases, but the RT-PCR tests be used elsewhere,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and head of department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College. Experts, however, worry that there might be an increase in the number of cases after the festive season. “There is likely to be an increase in the number of cases as people meet during the festive season. The increase in the number of cases will be seen 10 to 14 days after the festival. By then, it will also be the time for Diwali,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Dr Khilnani also warned that the increase in the pollution levels may cause more severe disease, with many needing treatment in intensive care units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/total-covid-19-tests-in-capital-cross-4-million-mark/story-Zk3eunIqNc0HSQR1NKhieM.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Woman found dead inside home; husband, minor son missing||The body of a 25-year-old woman was found at her rented accommodation Sunday night, located under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction. The woman’s husband and their eight-year-old son are missing, said the police.According to the police, they received a call on the police helpline on Sunday night from a neighbour of the woman, who said that she was lying dead in her rented accommodation in Yakubpur village.“A team was rushed to the spot and the woman was found lying down. She was taken to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead, after which her body was sent for an autopsy,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.Police officers said that prima facie, it seems that the woman was strangled to death as there were no other visible injury marks on her body. “However, we will be sure only after the autopsy report comes in and based on the findings, we will register a case and take necessary action. Meanwhile, a probe in the case is underway,” said the station house officer.Police officers said that the husband was seen by the neighbours the day before the incident. Officers said they suspect that he may be behind the woman’s death, and then probably fled with the child. However, the neighbours did not mention any fights or disagreements noticed between the couple recently, which might suggest a domestic dispute.“The landlord hadn’t done any verification for the family and it is unclear where they are from, although according to the neighbours they worked as daily wage earners. We are working on tracing the rest of the family and informing them about the woman’s death. So far, no one has filed a formal complaint regarding her death but a case will be filed based on the autopsy report,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-woman-found-dead-inside-home-husband-minor-son-missing/story-jpzccSLDwOkDE7WW4XHpgO.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Over 77% non-Covid-19 ICUs in Delhi now occupied, data shows||The number of patients visiting hospitals with ailments other than the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has reached the same levels as before the lockdown enforced on March 25. As a result, almost 75% of the beds in non-Covid-19 intensive care units (ICUs) are occupied, compared to 54% of Covid-19 ICU beds. The Delhi government has started updating information on the availability of non-Covid ICU beds in its ‘Delhi Corona’ app after the Delhi high court asked the state for information of ICU beds available for the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients. The court issued the order when Delhi government’s decision to reserve 80% of the ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals to ensure availability of Covid-19 beds was challenged. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt Safdarjung Hospital, the wards that used to be empty are filling up rapidly. “Most of the ICU beds are needed for patients coming in to our emergency department with ailments like meningitis, pneumonitis, stroke and heart attack. Of course, the number of cases might not have gone down but people were not travelling to get treated at our hospital in June and July,” said Dr BK Tripathi, head of the department of medicine at the hospital. “There were wards that remained empty, but now the number of patients has gone up to the pre-lockdown levels. Plus, we are also getting more patients who would have gone to hospitals like Lok Nayak that have completely suspended services other than Covid-19.”At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) across the road, almost all the patients in the ICUs come in through the hospital’s emergency department, with routine surgeries having been put on hold. “Our non-Covid ICU has again started running at about 90 to 95% capacity; almost the same as what it used to be before the lockdown. With the fear of Covid-19 reducing in the minds of people, travel resuming, and border closures having been lifted we are getting more and more patients every day,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent at AIIMS. The emergency at the hospital is running in full swing. Apart from that, semi-emergency surgeries like those needed for cancer are also being routinely performed. In fact, it is the cancer patients who are taking up most of the non-Covid ICU beds in the city hospitals. At Indraprastha Apollo hospital, most of the patients admitted are from the departments of cancer, cardiology, neurology, and orthopaedics. “In comparison to June and July, the number of hospital admission have doubled. And, most of the patients are coming in with complications after avoiding going to hospitals for long periods. For example, I had a patient with both shoulders dislocated, but only one had been aligned and treated. People are coming in with cardiac complications as well. This has driven the increase in ICU occupancy,” said Dr Yash Gulati, senior consultant from the department of orthopaedics at the hospital. “Just because there are Covid-19 cases doesn’t mean that the burden of other diseases has reduced. Yes, people are delaying some of the planned procedure, but we still need as many ICU beds. If more ICU beds are needed for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, we need to create more beds rather than diverting from the existing ones,” he said. An expected increase in the pollution levels will further drive demand for ICU beds. “Every winter when the pollution levels go up, we see an increase in the number of patients coming in with heart attacks and aggravation of respiratory diseases like asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and they need ICU care, especially the elderly,” said Dr Gulati. At Max hospitals, orthopaedic admissions saw the highest increase in September of 78% over July. The biggest share of non-Covid ICU beds are occupied by cancer and heart patients. “If you look at the number of admissions for September, it is almost the same as previous year. And, most of the ICU beds are being utilised by cancer and heart patients, both of which specialities tend to perform complex surgeries in older patients or those who are weak after chemotherapy and need intensive care. Our department does about 150 surgeries a month, of which 45 to 50 patients (33%) need ICU care,” said Dr Harit Chaturvedi, chairman, Max Institute of Cancer Care. With fewer ICU beds available, many surgeries have to be deferred. In case of “quaternary surgeries like cancer, heart, neurology etc, the doctors have to be assured that there is an ICU bed available before they can take up the surgeries. If more beds are diverted for Covid-19 treatment, it will hamper the treatment of patients with other diseases and lead to a lot of deaths,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-77-non-covid-icus-in-delhi-now-occupied-data-shows/story-KQ8SsP62QkeptMTRq2kDYJ.html
20-10-2020||City||Tonnes of flowers at Kalyan APMC market thrown away for want of buyers||Tonnes of flowers that arrived at Kalyan’s APMC market for sale this Navratri were found thrown away at the market premises on Monday morning. Flower vendors who usually sell tonnes of flowers during Navratri and Diwali festivals claimed that lack of buyers due to the pandemic has affected their business badly this year.Tonnes of marigold and sevanthi flowers were thrown away by vendors due to lack of sale.“This year, there is no business as temples are shut and no celebrations are happening. Even the amount of flowers that arrived at the market was only 50 per cent this time as many flowers were spoiled due to rains. Whatever arrived in the market could not be sold due to very less buyers and had to be dumped,” said a 40-year-old flower vendor from the market who did not wish to be named.In order to sell the flowers, the vendors also reduced the cost of the flowers drastically from ₹80 to ₹20 per kilo.Every year, a day before Dussehra, around 400-500 people visit the market for flowers all the way from Kalyan, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Shahad and other areas. As soon as the Navratri festival begins, the Kalyan APMC market is ready with lot varieties of flowers which is used through the festival and during the rituals for Dussehra festival. “Every year people come to the market to purchase flowers at wholesale rates. However, this time, only retail flower vendors came to buy flowers in fewer quantities,” added the vendor. Satish Fulare, 41, who has been selling flowers at the market since last the 25 years, claimed that more than the vendors, the farmers were worse affected.“I bring one or two trucks comprising around 1,500-2,000 kg of flowers to the market. Half of the flowers had to be thrown away like many other vendors at the market. More than the vendors, the farmers are worse hit due to the lockdown and the rains. People did not visit the market due to lockdown and lack of transportation,” said Fulare, who gets flowers from all over India including Bengaluru, Akola, Coimbatore and Madurai.“The prices of the flowers were reduced from ₹80-₹100 per kg to ₹10-₹20 so that they could be sold. Even then, the sale was poor and we had to throw them away,” added Fulare.Meanwhile, on Monday, at least 25 trucks of flowers arrived at the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tonnes-of-flowers-at-kalyan-apmc-market-thrown-away-for-want-of-buyers/story-Vwlsip8GG4SfLDHuYoqklK.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Semester exams: PEC senate to take final call in Wednesday meeting||The senate of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will take the final call regarding the on-campus semester exams of the institute.Students had raised concerns earlier this month when PEC issued examination schedules and decided to call students on campus to take the semester exams. Scheduled to start from November 2, the exams were later postponed till post-Diwali after students’ proposal.Earlier this month, PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi had met the student representatives twice. Besides postponing the exams, the students had also urged to conduct pending semester exams, which were not held due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.Now, the senate in its upcoming meeting on Wednesday will take the final call on the proposals of students. PEC has also proposed that exams will be repeated and no student will be forced to appear in the semester exams if he/she is unable to come to Chandigarh.Sanghi said, “If the senate agrees to the proposals of students, new dates will be finalised or we will authorise the dean academic to finalise the semester exam schedule.”Regarding more flexibility in curriculum for the students when choosing subjects apart from their core subjects, which PEC has already discussed in the last senate meeting, a report of the committee will be tabled in the Wednesday meeting. The committee was constituted to work on modalities and decide on what courses should be made available for students apart from their core subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/semester-exams-pec-senate-to-take-final-call-in-wednesday-meeting/story-HzcPbnrabNsGuHTuMxucFM.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Decomposed body of 10-year-old boy found at construction site||The body of a ten-year-old boy was found at a construction site in Sarfabad on Sunday, eight days after he went missing, the police said, adding that the autopsy report is awaited.According to the minor’s family, he went missing on October 11 from his home in Sarfabad, when he was playing outside his home. “He was playing with a cycle tyre outside the house in the evening. When he didn’t come inside for a while, we started looking for him in nearby areas. When we couldn’t find him, we approached the police and filed a complaint,” said the boy’s father, who works as a daily wage earner. His wife works as a domestic helper. The couple has three more children.Based on the family’s complaint, a case of kidnapping had been registered then at the Sector 49 police station.On Sunday afternoon, officers said they received a call on the police helpline from a passerby about a foul smell coming from a construction site in the area. A police team was rushed to the spot and the boy’s body was found buried under piles of bricks. The site is barely 100 metres from the boy’s home, said the police.“The body was decomposing and has been sent for an autopsy. We are waiting for the results to come back which shall throw some light on the cause of death,” said Sudhir Kumar, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Police said prima facie, it seems to be a case of murder, as given the way the body was placed when they found it suggests that someone tried to hide it. However because of the decomposition obvious injury marks, if any, were not immediately discernable, said the police.“Based on the findings of the autopsy, we will add the necessary charges to the FIR. A probe in the matter is underway and necessary action will be taken soon. The body was handed over to the family following autopsy,” said the SHO.The family said they can’t think of anyone who might have wanted to cause harm to the boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-decomposed-body-of-10-year-old-boy-found-at-construction-site/story-tceCgNgIowAQtBcVMfGyhN.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Kangana invites Shanta Kumar, Bali to brother’s marriage||Actress Kangana Ranaut on Monday met former chief minister and veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar at his home in Palampur.She invited the octogenarian leader to her younger brother Akshat Ranaut’s marriage. The wedding will be held next month in Rajasthan.Ranaut also visited the premises of Vivekananda Medical Institute and paid floral tributes at Swami Vivekananda’s Statue.Interacting with local media, Ranaut said she was not there for politic reasons and had come to meet Shanta Kumar and invite him for the function. She refused to take any further questions.Later, in a press statement, Kumar said he was proud that the nationalist actress had come to meet him and his family. “It was more of a family get-together. I have known her father, Amardeep Ranaut, for a long time,” said Shanta.The 86-year-old leader said, “I first congratulated Kangana when she was awarded the National Film Award.My respect for her has grown ever since as she has taken powerful names in Bollywood head-on after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and exposed the movie mafia.” “The whole of Himachal is proud of her,” said Shanta adding, “When the Maharashtra government started acting to dissuade her, I had written letters to the CM and governor expressing strong resentment. Since then I have been in regular touch with her family.”Later, Ranaut also met former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali at his home and also invited him to the wedding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangana-invites-shanta-kumar-bali-to-brother-s-marriage/story-dyUmVSm8RkoGjf4zP0B9lO.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Amrapali group’s assets being auctioned to raise funds for stuck projects||NOIDA: Six properties of now-defunct Amrapali group will be put on sale via online auction with an aim to raise funds for construction of several stuck housing projects in Noida and Greater Noida.The six assets that will be auctioned include floor area ratio valued at ₹55 crore with capacity to build three new towers in Princely Estate in Sector 76, 12.73 hectares of land worth ₹44 crore in Udaipur, and Amrapali hospital worth ₹21 crore in Greater Noida’s Sector Omega-I. Besides, a pre-cast factory valued at ₹179 crore, ₹140-crore land and a plant of pre-cast worth ₹39 crore -- all in Greater Noida’s Sector Ecotech Extension 6 -- will be auctioned, said R Venkatramani, a senior lawyer who is appointed as court receiver by the Supreme Court for all the stuck projects of Amrapali. The interested buyers can bid online on October 31 this year. Once these assets are auctioned, the money collected will be used for the construction of the flats. “We have good amount of funds available with us and the construction on all projects of Amrapali is in full swing. If these assets are auctioned on October 31, then it will help us in raising more money to be spent on the construction,” said Venkatramani.On July 23 last year, the Supreme Court had appointed Venkatramani as court receiver to control Amrapali’s housing projects and carry out further activities, including registration of ready units, accepting money from buyers, selling unsold apartments and dealing with the central government-owned NBCC Ltd that has been directed to complete the stuck projects.NBCC has to deliver around 30,000 flats, some of which are partially built, while finishing is to be done in most of the cases.In the first tranche, NBCC had, on November 29 last year, invited firms to compete for tenders to the following projects: Centurion Park in Greater Noida Sector Techzone 4; Silicon City-I and Silicon City-II in Noida Sector 76, Zodiac in Noida Sector 120, Sapphire I and II in Noida Sector 45, and Princely Estate in Noida Sector 76. Since then, NBCC has started work on all projects in Noida and Greater Noida.On August 24 this year, NBCC also started the construction work at seceral other projects that include Smart City-Golf Homes, Kingswood, Leisure Park (Phase 1 and 2, and River View), Centurion Park-Terrace Homes, Tropical Garden, Leisure Valley, and Dream Valley. All of these projects have a total of about 16,308 housing units.“There will be no issue at all and all flats will be finished and delivered as per schedule submitted by the NBCC,” said Venkatramani.Earlier, the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) had tried to auction the assets of Amrapali but it failed to do so. Now the Supreme Court allowed state-run Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited (MSTC) to carry out the auction of these assets.“Earlier the rates of all assets needed to be auctioned were escalated as per the market sentiment. Now, the rates are better and we hope that MSTC will be able to sell around 40 assets in a phased manner and raise funds for construction of stuck projects,” said Amit Gupta, legal advisor to Amrapali Centurion Park Homebuyers Group that fought the case in the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amrapali-group-s-assets-being-auctioned-to-raise-funds-for-stuck-projects/story-LNOIaF3OA0Pc1HEMEY9gPK.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Three farmers booked for stubble burning in Jewar||Greater Noida: The police have registered a case against three farmers for allegedly burning crop stubble in their fields in Jewar on Saturday. In his police complaint, Vipin Kumar, who is the lekhpal (local revenue official) of Jewar block, said that he was conducting an inspection when he found incidents of stubble burning at three different locations in Jewar. “Three persons – Amarnath, Tota Ram and Jagdish Prasad – all residents of Jewar Bangar village – had harvested their crops and burnt the stubble in their fields. I had received information from local people and visited the spot. The incident also created pollution in the neighbourhood,” Kumar said in the complaint. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer, Jewar police station, said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered against three persons under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. “The revenue department had spotted the incident and informed police. We conducted primary investigation and found the stubble burning had happened. We also held a meeting with local farmers and sensitized them not to burn stubble as it pollutes environment,” he said. Bahadur also said that an investigating officer has been deputed to further look into the incident, and appropriate action will be taken against the erring farmers based on his report. Vijaypal Baghel, a local environmentalist, said that there is need to sensitize farmers about the harmful effects of stubble burning. “This is bad for the environment as well as bio-fertility. The crop residue should be used as cattle fodder. In rural areas, this is also used to make a hut. Some farmers burn the stubble in order to quickly clear the farm land. Strict enforcement and monitoring will yield good results,” he said. The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the administrations of NCR districts to check stubble burning in their respective areas. On October 14, Devesh Chaturvedi, additional chief secretary, UP government, had issued an order directing the district administrations to buy residue from farmers and use it for cattle fodder in goshalas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-farmers-booked-for-stubble-burning-in-jewar/story-xWYTHO3qEzjpE2YqzNXnlL.html
20-10-2020||City||Air quality stays ‘poor’ in Delhi||New Delhi: Marking slight improvement in the air quality in Delhi, mostly due to meteorological factors, the air quality index (AQI) in the city dropped for the second consecutive day on Monday. The AQI on Monday was 244, compared to 254 on Sunday and 287 on Saturday, according to the daily Central Pollution Control Board bulletin. The air has remained in the ‘poor’ category (AQI more than 200) since October 7.According to Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system the air has not deteriorated into ‘very poor’ category because the wind speeds have remained high. “The predominant surface wind was coming from the western direction of Delhi with speeds up to 12kmph,” the early warning system said. The ministry’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that there could be a change in surface wind direction by October 21, which is likely to bring calm surface wind conditions leading to low ventilation and deterioration of AQI. Expecting further deterioration in air quality in the coming days, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Monday asked the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to be ready to close thermal power plants that do not meet the standards laid down in 2015.In two separate letters, EPCA chief Bhure Lal asked the two states to review preparedness for closing thermal power plants and to inform the authority of this as well as steps that will be taken to ensure compliance with necessary shut-down during the peak winter period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-stays-poor-in-delhi/story-vNOmEDyIt0Qoa9s4w0riDM.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad from Sept 15-Oct 15 worse than last year’s||Ghaziabad/Noida: Even as the different agencies have started with pollution abatement measures ahead of the winter season, the figures of past one month from September 15 to October 15 indicate that the three cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida have remained at a higher average air quality index (AQI) of 194, 192 and 175, respectively, as compared to the average figures for the corresponding period last year. According to the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), from September 15 to October 15 last year, the average AQI for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida stood much lower at 133, 141 and 129, respectively. The officials attribute the rise in air pollution ahead of winter this year to the meteorological conditions and early withdrawal of monsoon. “The average AQI range is higher this year due to early withdrawal of monsoon which came into effect around September 25. The last rainfall activity in the region this year was on September 8. So, there has been lesser dispersal of pollutants this year due to no rain in major part of September. Last year, the monsoon withdrawal was on October 10 with October 4 being the last day that saw 47mm of rainfall,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. “Further, early withdrawal of monsoon this year has also led to early start of stubble burning which has also affected air quality around the start of September. Moreover, the wind speed last year was more in October as compared to 10-12kmph at present. In another 2-3 days, we will have easterly winds coming in but they will have lesser speed. So, chances of accumulation of pollutants are more,” he added. According to official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory – a division of agricultural physics, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, there have been 7,640 instances of stubble burning in three states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh during the period from October 1 to October 18. During the same period in 2019 and 2018, the three states registered 3,727 and 4,033 instances of stubble burning, respectively, according to CREAMS’ records. The UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) officials from Noida said that the various government agencies are working aggressively to control pollution. “The higher side of AQI witnessed this year is primarily resultant of meteorological conditions. Locally, we do not have major source, except increase in number of vehicles. The work for the Delhi-Meerut Expressway is towards the finish and it is also not contributing majorly to the pollution,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB at Noida. The UPPCB officials from Ghaziabad said that the higher ranges of AQI have resulted due to lesser rainfall in September and October. “Last year, there was rainfall activity in months of September and October which led to lowering of pollutants. This year, we have taken up more stringent steps like installation of cameras at construction sites and even asked polluting units to install cameras which will be under control of UPPCB. Apart from this, regular action is being taken against illegally run factories. Different agencies are also taking up pollution abatement measures,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. The UPPCB officials also said that due to the early start of stubble burning this season, they are expecting that concentrated burning on fewer days will rather be spread in form of distributed burning over a longer period of time and will result in lesser deterioration of air quality. Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist, said, “It will be wrong to squarely blame stubble burning for pollution. If the officials expect that stubble burning this year will be spread over a longer period of time and will result in lesser pollution, they must also keep in check the local pollutants which also have a high share in air pollution.”Echoing similar views, Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ association, said, “It would not be correct to state that deterioration in air quality is due to stubble burning which has been a practice prevalent for decades. The vehicle base in NCR has increased tremendously, along with construction activities and instances of burning of solid waste and garbage. Local pollutants also share a major contribution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-from-sept-15-oct-15-worse-than-last-year-s/story-1sRBPnVxPwdSgIouIMGWdK.html
20-10-2020||Noida||Noida’s first shooting academy to offer scholarships to women||Noida: A shooting academy located in Dadri, the district’s first, has planned to offer scholarships to at least 10 women candidates. The academy, started by Lt (retd) Satendra Kumar, 46, a retired navy officer in Dadri, was inaugurated on Saturday by the Noida police commissioner.The academy – Satendra Kumar Shooting Academy LLP – is spread over an acre and is equipped with multiple air pistols, kits, sportswear, etc. “We have developed three shooting ranges – 10, 25 and 50 metre. The campus is environment friendly. We have collaborated with the Noida police for the Mission Shakti programme and are going to offer training to budding women sportspersons at an affordable fee. We will also select 10 aspiring and meritorious women candidates and offer them scholarships,” said Kumar, who is a recipient of the Arjuna award (1998), the Khel Ratna award (2016) and Uttar Pradesh government’s Laxman award (2020).Both men and women can train at the academy, however, scholarships are available only for women. There is no age limit however there are four training groups – youth (below 18 years), junior (18-21 years), open (21-60 years) and veteran (above 60 years), added Kumar, who took voluntary retirement from service in July 2019.Alok Singh, police commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that budding women shooters recommended by the Noida police will be provided training on a preferential basis. The Noida police commissionerate on Monday tweeted a number – 9364444999 – on which interested candidates can call for information on training at the academy. On Mission Shakti, he said that the initiative is getting a good response from the public.“The programme is a comprehensive effort by the state government, and the local police and administration. This exercise needs the involvement of multiple departments at the field level. The programme comprises four steps - awareness generation, women empowerment, enforcement, and prosecution,” he said. Talking about the LED screen-equipped van that was flagged off on Saturday, he said: “The van visits different places in rural and urban areas and relays information, through which locals connect to officials at the DCP level via video conference and share their issues or grievances,” he said.The commissioner said that the police have also planned to empower women by teaching them unarmed combat. “We will impart self-defence/judo training to women. We will also impart professional training to help them get jobs, in order to empower them. We are figuring out the modalities for this programme so that they can become self dependent,” he said. “We will also provide training to men and sensitise them that it is not manly to harass a woman. They will be sensitised to treat women with respect,” the commissioner told HT. On enforcement, he said that the Anti-Romeo Squads are continuing their drive and are taking action against men for unwanted behaviour. “We have also planned to take action against suspects named in serious offences. We have designated officials to assiduously chase such suspects to ensure early prosecution,” he said.Singh said the Noida police personnel are given short term courses where they refresh their skills in handling weapons. “They are trained to deal with multiple contingencies such as hostage situations, combat, riot, etc. We are also developing a special unit to deal with combat situations. The unit is undergoing training in the district. They will be professionally trained to tackle the toughest of situations. We will share more details once their training is over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-first-shooting-academy-to-offer-scholarships-to-women/story-BikEvlV14bsFSVAnhvFZVK.html
20-10-2020||Noida||At this Ghaziabad school, students resume classes next to temporary jail||Ghaziabad: At least 250 students of the Shambhu Dayal Inter College in Ghaziabad attended school for the first time in over six months on Monday. However, they were not the only ones there, as the inter college complex now houses a temporary prison facility as well.According to school officials, one block of the campus was taken over by the district administration on June 24 to set up a temporary jail.“The block houses prisoners even now, although it is expected that they will be shifted in a couple of days. We have spoken to the education department as well as the district administration to get the premises vacated, as students have started coming in for classes and more are expected in coming days,” said principal Devendra Singh.The school, located near the MMG District Hospital, has at least 2,567 students enrolled from classes 9 to 12.“As a precautionary measure we have taken up sanitisation as well as deployed all standard operating procedures for prevention against the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Those inmates who had tested positive for the disease were housed here, instead of them being shifted to a regular jail. We are expecting that they are shifted out at the earliest,” he said. He added that about 13 rooms of the school have been occupied for the makeshift facility, which also has police deployment.The police, meanwhile, said that suspects who are arrested in different cases are brought to the temporary jail, where they are tested and lodged.“They are kept at the temporary jail for two-three days and tested. Once they show no symptoms for Covid-19, they are shifted to the Dasna jail. If any of the suspects tests positive, they are shifted to a Covid facility,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). Social activists said the jail should be shifted out immediately as the environment can have a detrimental effect on students’ minds.“It is not advisable to operate a temporary jail from the school premises and it should be shifted out immediately. Police presence and incoming of suspects can leave a bad impression in the mind of students and they should not be exposed to such an environment. In fact, the jail should have been shifted out before classes resumed,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, national president of Rashtriya Sainik Sanstha.Officials of the education department and the district magistrate visited the school on Monday. “About 12-13 inmates are still lodged at the interim prison at the school and we expect that the premises will be vacated by Monday evening. The district magistrate inspected the school on Monday and has given necessary directions for it to be shifted out,” said Ravi Dutt, district inspector of schools.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said the pro-tem facility has a few inmates and poses no issues to students. “However, classes have started and a temporary jail should not be operating from the school premises. Although it is in a different block of the school, I have given directions for it to be shifted. The school premises will be vacated by Monday night or Tuesday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-this-ghaziabad-school-students-resume-classes-next-to-temporary-jail/story-arLjpNBrtfZlpvBfl4f6rI.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Odd-even last weapon against pollution: Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the government will implement the odd-even road rationing scheme to curb vehicular emissions as the “last weapon” in the fight against air pollution in the national Capital. “We have implemented the odd-even scheme several times in Delhi and it will be our last weapon. Odd-even is also a way to reduce vehicular pollution but right now we are completely focussing on this (‘red light on, gaadi off’) campaign. If all other programmes don’t work, then the government will think about implementing the odd-even scheme,” Rai said at an event to launch a campaign to urge motorists to turn off engines of their vehicles while waiting at traffic lights. Delhi’s air quality has consistently remained in the ‘poor’ category since October 7, with the AQI remaining over 200. On Monday, Delhi’s AQI was measured at 244. Experts also pointed out that since public transport is running with only limited capacity in view of restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government should step up other measures to ensure that it doesn’t have to resort to enforce odd-even.Also Read | ‘Disagree with Javadekar’: Kejriwal lists steps to tackle air pollution in short timeBhure Lal, chairperson, Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) said that on-ground enforcement for controlling pollution sources will have to be augmented this time so that emergency measures such as bringing about the odd-even plan can be avoided. “This is surely a different kind of situation that we will be facing this time. The aim should be that the enforcement is so strict this year that the air quality does not slip into the emergency levels,” Lal said.Delhi has so far implemented the odd-even scheme thrice in sweeping measures to reduce the city’s record-high air pollution by limiting the number of cars on streets. After being implemented twice in 2016, the scheme was added to the Supreme Court approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) as a measure to be implemented when Delhi’s air quality reached the ‘emergency’ category—PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) are above 300ug/m3 or PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) levels remain 500ug/m3 continuously for 48 hours. Last year, the scheme was enforced between November 4 and November 15. However, researchers and environment experts have been divided on the odd-even scheme’s impact on the pollution levels in the national capital.When the policy was first implemented between January 1 and 15, 2016, a study by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur, Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi, The Energy Research Institute and National Physical Laboratory in Delhi, and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, found that the PM 2.5 levels fell by 4%-6%. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) also carried out a study of the two phases in 2016 and concluded that a single factor could not result in substantial reductions in pollution and that an “integrated approach” was needed. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic the government will have to look at newer strategies to fight pollution. “You cannot remove half of a city’s vehicles without giving them an alternative public transport option. The Delhi government had plans for bringing in new buses, but a lot of things have been delayed because of the pandemic. The government will have to look for newer ways to keep the pollution levels down in these circumstances,” she said. All private petrol, diesel, compressed natural gas (CNG) and hybrid cars, including those entering the city from other states, are required to be a part of the road rationing drive. Only CNG-fuelled commercial vehicles such as auto-rickshaws, taxis, trucks, buses, tempos and gramin sewas are allowed to ply during the arrangement. Two-wheelers, commercial vehicles, cars driven by women or carrying only women passengers, specially-abled people or school children are exempted from the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odd-even-last-weapon-against-pollution-rai/story-3N6N2QEh9GbmQIx0YbEzVP.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Two dead after inhaling fumes at jewellery factory waste tank in Delhi’s Azadpur||Two cousins who were in the business of separating gold from muck died after inhaling poisonous gases while extracting waste from an underground tank at a jewellery factory in north Delhi’s Azadpur on Sunday evening, police said. Four of their employees, who were helping to pull out the waste that contains gold particles, fell unconscious and had to be hospitalised. The families of the two dead men -- Idris and Salim, both aged 45 -- suspected foul play, saying a lot was at stake -- gold and hard cash as commission to collect the muck from the factory. But police said it was “open and shut case” of death due to asphyxiation while clearing an underground tank.“We arrested the factory owner and a Delhi-based contractor on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and for causing hurt by a rash act,” Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said. Ruling out any conspiracy, the officer said the people who had entered the tank were not provided any safety gear. The factory located in Azadpur along GT Karnal Road is into manufacturing gold and silver chains. Like at many other such units, during the manufacture and cleaning process, gold particles are washed down and collected in a large underground tank. “The water with which the factory workers bath at the end of the day’s work also goes into the same tank, as do chemicals used to clean the gold and silver,” the DCP explained. All the waste material contains gold particles, which are extracted through a tedious process that involves washing the muck again and again and waiting for the gold to settle down before it is collected.. Big jewellery factories often outsource cleaning of these tanks to private players, who are part of a largely unorganised trade, in lieu of some cash or a part of gold extracted from the waste. In this case, the work was outsourced to two 45-year-old cousins -- Idris and Salim -- from Khurja in Uttar Pradesh. “This was the first time my cousins were working for this factory. The deal was to pay 820 grams of gold and R30 lakh cash to the factory in return for the muck and extracting gold out of it,” said Mohammad Arif, brother of Idris. They were working for the last 15 days, he said. HT tried to contact the factory office-bearers for their version of the deal and the allegations but the owners did not permit entry into the building on Monday afternoon. On Sunday morning, Idris and Salim arrived in Delhi in a Tata Scorpio with five full-time and part-time workers. They uses buckets to haul out muck from the 20 feet deep tank with a narrow opening at the top. “We began work at 10am and had collected about 50 large buckets of muck by 4pm. We didn’t need to enter the tank until the last of the muck remained. Since the remaining waste needed to be hauled out manually by entering the tank, we decided to go in,” said Mansoor, 38, a full-time worker who survived despite falling unconscious. Mansoor alleged that the two business partners asked the factory owner, Rajender Soni, and contractor Pramod Dangi, for oxygen cylinders to be able to carry out the work safely but received no such gear. “Finally, Idris lowered me into the tank with the help of a rope. I was inside for barely five minutes when I began to lose unconscious. I managed to alert Idris in time and he hauled me out,” Mansoor said. Mansoor said he fell unconscious after that and didn’t remember much. Another worker also named Salim said he too fell unconscious around the same time even through he did not even enter the tank. Both men said they had been doing this job for several years for a daily salary of R500 -- work or no work -- and for free food and stay that came along with the job. It remained unclear at what time and in what circumstances Idris and his partner Salim, or exactly how many people, entered the tank. But the police received a call at about 6.45pm about some workers falling unconscious. “Idris, Salim and a worker named Islam were pulled out of the tank. Six people were affected by the poisonous gases and they were all rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital. While Idris and Salim died, Islam continues to remain hospitalised. Three others were discharged after treatment,” said another police officer. Relatives of Idris and his cousin Salim said they had never heard of the two men entering the muck before. “Their work involved lakhs of rupees and they didn’t ever need to do this work by themselves. That is why they would take along so many labourers,” said Shoaib Ahmed, brother-in-law of Idris, saying the police should probe the deaths as a murder case. The DCP said the first information report (FIR) was registered on the statement of a surviving worker and there was no allegations of foul play by the complainant. In a slightly similar incident,two men were killed and another hospitalised after they were exposed to poisonous fumes while cleaning a septic tank in south Delhi’s Badarpur on October 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-dead-after-inhaling-fumes-at-jewellery-factory-waste-tank-in-delhi-s-azadpur/story-V2BM3izOB7MQBUz6ZBB6cP.html
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door garbage collectors in Chandigarh threaten stir from October 23||Even as the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has spent ₹30 crore to buy 390 more garbage collection trucks, it is still unlikely to meet the October-31 deadline set by a green tribunal panel to start segregated door-to-door garbage collection in all wards. The MC faces opposition from garbage collectors, who have threatened to go on a strike from October 23 and said they would not allow plying of new vehicles. The opposition is against the MC taking over the garbage collection through the trucks, which is being currently undertaken by the collectors in their private carts. “We will launch a stir and stop both door-to-door garbage collection as well as sanitation works from October 23 unless our demands are met,” said Krishan Kumar Chadda, president, Safai Karamchari Union. MC, which currently has 100 vehicles, will receive 200 more vehicles this month, but still would not be able to cover all the wards for collecting segregated solid waste. A panel setup by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had recently directed the MC to fully implement the segregation of the door-to-door collected solid waste by October 31. It had also directed the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) to submit a compliance report on the issue. NGT had early this year directed the civic body to ensure 100% waste segregation in the city by June 2020. However, due to Covid-19 crisis , it couldn’t be implemented. In October last year, the MC had made waste segregation mandatory in the city. But, segregation didn’t take off with both garbage collectors and residents failing to comply with the rules. Its earlier attempts at the segregated waste collection in 2017 and 2018 had also failed. Notably, Chandigarh even couldn’t grab a spot on the list of top-10 cities in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings mainly because of poor waste management. Why opposition “The MC has not signed a memorandum of understanding with us as promised. We have been demanding that MC should allow us to collect the user charges from people as well as earn from the sale of the reusable items in the collected solid waste. But, even though the MC general house has passed a resolution to this effect, the corporation is yet to commit it in writing,” said Om Prakash Saini, president of the Chandigarh Door to Door Garbage Collectors’ Society. MC is insisting on collecting the user charges through residents’ water bills or property tax bills. “Instead, it is stating that it will collect user charges and also pay partially from the earnings of the reusable solid waste items. This will adversely impact our income,” he added. The door-to-door garbage collectors will be joined by the Safai Karamchari Union in the indefinite strike. “The MC should stick to its promises and allow the garbage collectors to continue with their work as they are currently doing. These new vehicles can’t even enter the narrow and congested lanes of the villages,” said Krishan Kumar Chadda. Meanwhile, MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We are acting as per the resolution passed by the general house. The resolution was taken up only after the collectors reached an agreement with the MC on the issue. The MC will also pay the collectors both from the user charges and from the earnings of reusable solid waste items. If there are still any differences, the MC committee on sanitation will take up the matter with the collectors.” Former mayor and current chairman of MC Sanitation Committee, Rajesh Kalia, said, “We have already accepted their demands. Nobody will lose their earnings. We only want to organise and streamline the entire garbage collection process in a better way. We will be meeting them and clarifying all the issues. It is only few political motivated people who are creating such hurdles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/door-to-door-garbage-collectors-threaten-stir-from-oct-23/story-LJejNEWh9xSYwDb6Hj4ZgP.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Confessions not in public domain cannot be published: Delhi high court||The Delhi high court on Monday said that confessional/disclosure statements of an accused which are not in public domain cannot be accessed and published while hearing a plea filed by Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, one of the persons arrested in conspiracy of the Delhi riots case, who had said that his disclosure statement was published by Zee News. The court said that the news channel had made a ‘mistake.’Justice Vibhu Bakhru gave another chance to the channel to file its affidavit disclosing the source of the statement that was broadcast on the channel.“Prima facie, we find that a mistake has been made by you. Now in order to redress the people who are aggrieved, think of an appropriate redressal,” the judge said.The court said that it does not think that a journalist has a right to take out the case diary and publish it and that the news report cannot be based on documents which are not in the public domain. “These are documents which you cannot take out and publish. There is no doubt about it,” the judge said.In his petition, Tanha had alleged that police officials leaked his disclosure statement, recorded by the probe agency during the investigation, to the media.During the hearing, the judge also declined an application by the channel, represented advocate Vijay Aggarwal, seeking to file the name of the source in a sealed cover.Aggarwal requested the court to allow him to submit the affidavit in a sealed cover stating that it is for the comfort of the journalist who has reported the matter as she had asked not to disclose the name of her source as it would put him at risk. To this the judge said, “You are crossing the line here. There is no material to show this. Police has conducted high level enquiry and is taking action against its officials”.Tanha’s counsel Siddharth Aggarwal told the court that such a thing would not have been possible without the contact between the journalist and the prosecution. He said that his client had not even signed the disclosure statement.While the police has claimed that the disclosure statement was not leaked by any of its officials, the counsel for the news channel said the journalist has requested that he should not be pressed to disclose his source of information in view of the fact that the truthfulness of Tanha’s confessional statement has not been disputed by him in the petition.The police had said that even they are aggrieved with the news reportHT contacted Sudhir Chaudhary, editor-in- chief of Zee news, for his response on the court’s observations but he was not available for a comment despite repeated calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-says-confessions-not-in-public-domain-cannot-be-published/story-JYdYDUYBSzwZ42cOJOKZrO.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar calls Eknath Khadse most capable Opposition leader; rules out induction of turncoats in Maharashtra||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday hinted that senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse may join the party. Commenting on the reports about Khadse’s entry to the NCP that have been doing rounds for several weeks, Pawar said Khadse’s capability and work cannot be overlooked, but the political decision has to be taken by him. He also praised the senior BJP leader saying that Khadse has been the most effective leader of opposition he had seen in over two decades.“Khadse saheb was the leader of opposition in the state. He was also the finance minister. We have seen his contribution in the growth of the party (BJP), though he was abusive to us. We have seen his aggressiveness, capability, work which cannot be overlooked. However, he has all the right to make a political decision,” Pawar said in a response to a question by media persons. “It appears today that he has been the most effective leader of opposition of Maharashtra in the last 20-25 years. Unfortunately, according to him, work and sacrifice wasn’t recognised. In such a scenario, a person can think of moving out to a place where he will get recognition,” the veteran leader said, giving an indication of a possible switch over.Seeking political rehabilitation, Khadse is in talks with senior NCP leaders. His close aides say he is likely to join the party and is expected to be nominated to the state legislative council.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress is yet to take a decision on recommending names to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for appointing 12 members to the upper house of state legislature.The former revenue minister was sidelined by the BJP after he was made to resign from the post following allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal near Pune in 2016. He has been upset with the party since then. He was also denied an election ticket in the state Assembly elections last year. He has been blaming former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for sidelining him in the party. Pawar also clarified that the NCP has decided not to re-induct turncoats from Osmanabad. His remark seems to be directed at former MP and Pawar’s erstwhile close confidante, Padmasinh Patil and his son Rana Jagjitsinh Patil. Both of them were ministers in different Congress-NCP governments, but defected to the BJP in the run to the Assembly elections last year. Patil was a long-time close aide of Pawar and had even handled responsibility as state president of Pawar-led Indian Congress (Socialist) before the outfit was merged back with the Congress. Padmasinh Patil’s sister Sunetra is also the wife of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.“A deliberation is going on over the re-induction of those who left the party. We are considering it and have taken some decisions as well. For instance, in Osmanabad there will be no entry for those who have left the party. Be happy wherever you are,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-most-capable-oppn-leader-says-sharad-pawar-rules-out-induction-of-turncoats-from-maharashtra-s-osmanabad/story-AECBbrq5WySwiqaCe6dt7M.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||Muted Durga Puja in Delhi this year as Covid-19 pandemic hits festivities||No thematic pandals and majestic idols, fairs or cultural performances. Durga Puja in Delhi this year will mostly be a private affair, bereft of all the grandiose as a majority of puja committees have either cancelled the celebrations or shifted their programmes online to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.In Chittaranjan Park (CR Park) -- the heart of Durga Puja celebrations in Delhi that attract tens of thousands of visitors every year -- all the major committees have decided not to allow the entry of people and limit physical darshan to members only.Durga Puja this year will be celebrated from October 22 to 25. Other major committees from across the city such as Aram Bagh, Kashmere Gate (Delhi Durga Puja Samiti), Matri Mandir Samity in Safdarjung Enclave and Milani cultural and welfare association in Mayur Vihar Phase 1 have followed suit, asking devotees to join the rituals online on their respective social media handles.Every year during the festival, lakhs of people would throng CR Park and its adjoining areas and other pujas across the city for what is called “pandal hopping”. Complete with cultural performances, competitions and food stalls, the pujas have always been crowd-pullers every year. In CR Park, parking used to be a big hassle and would result in traffic jams up to Nehru Place and beyond.Bhog, the ceremonial food offerings first given to Goddess Durga and then distributed among devotees, will also be home-delivered, they said. Everything from Pushpanjali (the first community prayer of the day) to the evening Aarti and donations has been shifted online. Committees are even posting texts of all mantras for devotees to chant along as the puja is performed by the priests.Greater Kailash (GK) MLA and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said the decision was taken in a meeting held on Monday morning with various puja committees, the area’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), police personnel, and representatives of the south Delhi municipal corporation (SDMC).To ensure citizens do not crowd outside the temple, Delhi Police will place barricades.Also Read | Covid-19: Thousands flout social distancing norms to throng Durga puja pandals in Kolkata“Around 12 Durga Puja committees from Chittaranjan Park, GK2, GK1, Alaknanda and Kalkaji attended the meeting. It has been unanimously decided that Durga Puja celebrations will be suspended this year due to the pandemic. Most of the population of CR Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important that they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals,” Bharadwaj said.The CR Park Kali Mandir Society, which organises one of the biggest Durga Puja festivals in Delhi, attracting around 250,000 visitors every season, has tied up with a DTH service provider and a local cable operator so that devotees can have a darshan of the Durga idol from their houses.“Worshippers will not be allowed to physically join the puja at the mandap. Pushpanjali will be offered online and the devotees will be required to be ready with flowers and other items in their homes,” said Prodip Ganguly, joint secretary of the society. ““Only for religious reasons, a small Kalash Puja/ Ghat Puja will be attended by 10-15 committee members. This will ensure the continuity of puja by these samitis. I have requested the district administration and local police to help the puja committees in stopping outsiders entering these areas,” Bharadwaj added.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said, all precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic are being taken and arrangements are being made at CR Park in view of the DDMA Guidelines.“Security arrangements, including anti-terror arrangements with meetings with stakeholders, and crowd-control measures, including those for social distancing, have been put in place,” the DCP said.The Purbanchal Bangiyo Samiti, an umbrella body of 38 Durga Puja committees in East Delhi, said 14 committees in the area got permission from the district magistrate on Monday to celebrate with the idol but without fanfare.“Of the 38 puja committees in east Delhi, 14 will have idols but no outsiders will be allowed. It will be restricted to only 10 members per committee. The other 15 committees will do Ghot (kalash) puja either at the homes of one the members or at the usual venue. The remaining nine committees are not organising any form of puja this year,” said Mrinal Kanti Biswas from the Samiti.Biswas, who is also general secretary of Mayur Vihar Phase 1’s Milani Puja committee, said they organised two metal tanks for the immersion of idols in East Delhi. “One metal tank will be at the Mayur Vihar phase 1 Kali Bari and the other at Purbasha Kali Bari IP Extension. The height of the idols this time have been restricted to 4-5 feet only for easier immersion,” he said.The Aram Bagh Puja Samiti has shifted their puja to the Narayan Satsang Mandir, Rani Jhansi Complex (Delhi) from October 21 to 26. Their idol is three-and-a-half feet tall compared to the previous year’s 16-feet idol.Swapan Ganguly, general secretary of New Delhi Kali Bari, one of the oldest Durga Puja organisers in the city, said for the first time, they will not offer bhog on site. “In a first, we will home-deliver Durga Ma’s blessings to whoever gives donation for the bhog. Other visitors who insist on getting bhog will have to make a nominal payment this time and will be given the prasad in packed boxes as they exit from the pandal,” he said.Ganguly said as per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) orders, they have planned separate entry and exits with sanitising tunnels for visitors. “We are creating a serpentine route for visitors coming to see the Durga idol. There will be no stage performances or food stalls this time,” he said.In an order issued on October 11, DDMA allowed Navratri and Durga Puja functions to be organised in the national Capital with limited attendees but prohibited all kinds of fairs (melas), food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and processions till October 31.The Delhi government said teams have been formed by the revenue department to inspect all sites for which applications have been received. “The exact number of approved applications for Durga Pujas in Delhi is unknown as data from all the 11 districts is yet to be compiled,” said a senior official in the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muted-durga-puja-in-delhi-this-year-as-pandemic-hits-festivities/story-BGWILYOOW2KHzrtuMCvmiK.html
20-10-2020||City||Leaders survey flood-hit Maharashtra, no word on relief||Even as almost all key political leaders, including the chief minister, toured the flood-affected central and western Maharashtra on Monday, the farmers did not get any firm assurance of compensation for the massive crop losses they suffered due to the retreating monsoon last week. Farmers from more than 10 districts of central and western Maharashtra have sustained heavy losses to harvest-ready crops on more than 10 lakh hectares. Crops of soyabean, sugarcane, cotton and pulses like moong, urad have suffered major losses. Solapur, Sangli and Satara in western Maharashtra, and Osmanabad, Latur and Beed in central Maharashtra saw maximum rainfall last week. More than 60 people died due to downpour in these districts last week. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with few ministers, visited a few villages in Solapur and held a meeting with the officials from the district administration. He said financial assistance would be announced once the district administration completes the spot assessment of losses. He said the government would seek Centre’s help for the relief package. The CM said his tour was more to give assurance to the farmers that his government was with them. “The crisis is not over yet, as there is forecast of incessant rainfall from the retreating monsoon over the next few days. Our priority should be to avoid human losses during these challenging times. We will do everything for the farmers and their welfare,” Thackeray said in a press conference held at Solapur. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured them financial assistance. “There is nothing wrong in seeking Central government’s assistance in such a natural calamity. It is the government elected by the people and it is the duty of the Centre to assist us. PM Modiji is positive about it,” he added. Thackeray will visit flood affected villages in Osmanabad district on Wednesday. Like Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, leaders of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, Pravin Darekar, ministers from state government, MPs from ruling and opposition parties visited rain-affected areas. Pawar said that the state government has no option but to borrow to help the farmers. Fadnavis said the state government has the borrowing limit of ₹1.20 lakh crore, out of which only ₹50,000 crore has been borrowed and it is still entitled to raise loans. “As a ruling partner in BJP-led state government, Thackeray had demanded for relief of ₹25,000 a hectare for crop losses due to unseasonal rain. Why is he not giving the same amount to the farmers now,” he asked. War of words During their tours, CM Thackeray and Oppn leader Fadnavis exchanged political remarks against each other. Fadnavis, while beginning his three-day tour, said the state government should show courage by giving relief to farmers instead of pointing fingers at the Centre. He said that while in power, he had announced financial aid of ₹10,000 crore to farmers hit by unseasonal rain last year. He taunted the CM, congratulating him for venturing out of the house for the first time in six months. He added the CM was visiting the areas just because he announced his three-day tour. Hitting back, Thackeray said if Fadnavis feels that he toured flood-affected people because of him, he should visit Delhi, so that PM Narendra Modi will come out of his office. Thackeray also advised the Oppn leader to help the government get financial aid from the Centre. He said if the Centre had paid the state’s dues on time, they would not have had to seek Central aid. Fadnavis termed Thackeray’s remarks immature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leaders-survey-flood-hit-maharashtra-no-word-on-relief/story-ZgmZmx6TDutwIRJxFtKSbJ.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||New ladders will help Delhi fire dept cut response time||The Delhi Fire Services (DFS) has inducted smaller fire engines with hydraulic ladders as part of an effort to improve operational capabilities in handling fires in buildings shorter than 15 metres --- which according to the DFS data comprise most the spots where they are called for rescue missions. Officials said the new machines, which have been designed in collaboration with the DFS, are not only cheaper but can also be deployed in shorter time than the bigger, imported skylifts which can reach up to a height of 50 metres. Called ‘mini aerial hydraulic platforms’, the DFS has inducted four of these machines. “The new machines will bring down the response time and help save lives and property,” said DFS chief Atul Garg.He explained that manoeuvring and deploying the current skylifts prove difficult in congested spaces as it needs at least a space of 20 feet to deploy. In cases of fire incidents in multi-storey buildings, the new machines will provide better response time as they are as small a normal fire tender and can easily be deployed in areas where is no space to use bulky machines. Fire department statistics show that it received 13,433 fire and rescue related calls between April 1 and October 18 this year – nearly 67 calls every day. Of them nearly 25 calls made daily were related to seeking assistance of firemen for rescuing birds and animals. A majority of the remaining calls were related to fire in factories, godowns, and buildings in unauthorised colonies – all having heights between 15 and 18 metres. “Except that the imported aerial platform is the only available option for tackling fire and rescue operations in high-rise buildings, the mini aerial platforms have similar features. It’s smaller in size, cost effective, time saving and more helpful in situations where fire fighting and rescue operations are to be carried out in congested neighbourhoods,” said a senior DFS official. “We apprised the concerned officials in the Delhi government about the situations and circumstances and floated the idea of procuring locally designed and manufactured aerial hydraulic platform. The idea for such vehicle came from the vehicles that the electricity department uses for maintenance of street lights. After the government’s approval, we designed a mini aerial platform and got it manufactured from the vendor,” said Garg. “We have inducted four mini platforms in our fleet and they have being used on trial basis. So far, their response and feedback from our fire fighters are positive and encouraging,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-ladders-will-help-delhi-fire-dept-cut-response-time/story-tUnxFcqXvDaB0mFNO9CzkO.html
20-10-2020||Delhi||HC poser to Delhi govt over Amanatullah Khan’s bid for waqf board chair||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Delhi government how MLA Amanatullah Khan could be appointed as chairperson of the Delhi Waqf Board when a special audit initiated to look into allegations of irregularities against him is pending.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad posed the query to the Delhi government during the hearing of a plea, seeking quashing of a notification which called for a meeting of the elected waqf board members on Monday evening to elect one of them, including Amanatullah, as the chairperson.“Issue is whether a person facing serious allegations of irregularities should be allowed to be made chairperson of the board when the Delhi government has ordered a special audit regarding allegations against him. Why should he be allowed to be part of the system when there are serious allegations against him,” the bench asked.The Delhi government had last month ordered a special audit into alleged irregularities by Amanatullah Khan during his tenure as Delhi Waqf Board chairperson during March 2016 and March 2020Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, informed the court that the board has nothing to do with the special audit and the findings would be placed directly before the government. The bench listed the matter for hearing on November 9 after Jain said the meeting of the board to elect a chairperson would be deferred till November 19. The court was hearing a plea filed by Mohd Iqbal Khan.The bench then asked whether Khan intends to contest for the post of chairperson.Advocate KC Mittal, appearing for Khan, said that under section 16 of the Waqf Board Act, if any member who incurs disqualification, he cannot be elected as a member or chairperson. As far as his client is concerned, he has not been disqualified at any instance. The section is very clear and specific that unless someone is convicted or charged of corruption or moral turpitude, there is no bar from him being elected again as chairman, Mittal said.The court also asked the ASG to place before it, on the next date, the rules and judgments which permit a third party to challenge waqf board elections before a tribunal set up for the purpose.The petitioner, who claims to be a social worker, said the notification calling for a meeting of the board members on October 19 was issued on October 7 and therefore, he did not have the time to move a representation to the concerned authority. He has alleged in his petition that there are also several criminal cases against the MLA. Khan has in the past accused Delhi police of filing false cases against him and called the police a political conspiracy. The waqf board is the custodian of over 2,000 properties in Delhi such as mosques, graveyards, schools, residential buildings and shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-poser-to-delhi-govt-over-amanatullah-khan-s-bid-for-waqf-board-chair/story-7TNeX3xGWF0bvvwKneu1VI.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s standing committee members challenge 674-item agenda for October 21 meeting||A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed before the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday, challenging the agenda of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC)standing committee meeting scheduled for October 21. The PIL has been filed by advocate Makarand Narvekar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of the standing committee, and Prabhakar Shinde, group leader of the BJP in the BMC.The PIL challenges the 674 items placed for approval by way of video conferencing in a single meeting day. It contended that it is not possible to deliberate and pass so many resolutions in a single day, and it seemed like the corporation intended to pass all resolutions without any discussion. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni allowed the PIL to be heard on October 20 for urgent reliefs. According to the PIL filed by advocate Jeet Gandhi on behalf of Narvekar and Shinde, on October 16, BMC issued the agenda of the standing committee meeting to be held on October 21. As per the agenda, the meeting would be held for the first time since March 31. Due to the pandemic situation, it would take place through video conferencing. A total of 674 items had been placed for discussion and approval by members of the committee for the meeting. The PIL further stated that in the history of the BMC, the standing committee has never passed so many resolutions in a single day. According to the petition, the respondents — the BMC along with chairman of the standing committee Yashwant Jadhav, its municipal secretary Sangeeta Shinde, BMC commissioner IS Chahal and the state government — have clubbed several items on the agenda for one meeting, and are expecting to pass them together, without allowing deliberation. Narvekar and Shinde have contended that the arbitrary decision of the respondents to have 674 items for deliberation on a single day will cause grave harm to citizens of Mumbai, and should not be voted on without any deliberations. The PIL further stated that the agenda runs into thousands of pages, and it extremely difficult to go through the information in three days. The petitioners stated that there are already 80 pending agenda items of the standing committee meeting dated May 15, 2020, which was scheduled but not held owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Pointing out that elections for the post of chairman of 27 committees were held physically on October 10, the PIL suggested that the committee meeting also be held physically and that the items on the agenda be reduced so that there can be fruitful discussions on each issue. Additionally, BJP has alleged an error in the results of the ward committee chairman elections. Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and standing committee member, said, “We have also approached the HC, challenging Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar’s decision to name Shiv Sena’s candidate as the winner of the ward committee elections held on Friday by declaring one vote of the BJP as invalid. The matter is not listed yet.”The BJP had alleged that Pednekar declared Shiv Sena’s Deepmala Badhe as the winner for the chairman post in the ward committee elections for S and T wards by wrongly declaring one vote of contesting BJP corporator Jagruti Patil as invalid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-standing-committee-members-challenge-674-item-agenda-for-october-21-meeting/story-dGgdmDRpf6hDL5a4djdvgP.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||With onion supply in Maharashtra dwindling, imports from Iran arrive at Vashi APMC market||Onions imported from Iran have arrived at the wholesale APMC market in Vashi on Monday. With the onion prices rising in the region due to shortage of onions from Maharashtra, the imported onions, which are cheaper, are being seen as alternative by traders. Iranian onions were sold for ₹55 to ₹60 per kg, while those from various regions of the state are selling for ₹60 to ₹70 per kg in the wholesale market. Ankush Gaikar, an onion trader, said, “With the onion stock dipping in local markets and prices rising, traders are increasingly importing onions. Around 600 tonnes of onion has arrived recently at Mumbai port of which 25 tonnes arrived in APMC market on Monday. The onions are of good quality and are cheaper than those available from local sources.” Ganesh Patil, another trader, said, “The number of vehicles bringing in onions daily has reduced. Today, 94 vehicles arrived against the usual of around 125 vehicles. Recent rains have damaged a lot of crop, and that is affecting supplies. Arrival of new crop is expected to be on the lower side for the next two months. This is where the imported onions will help cover the shortage. Onion is presently being imported from Iran, Egypt and Turkey.” Anil Pandey, a retailer from Mumbai, said the imported onions seem to be of good quality but added that it is the consumer who will decide if they prefer it over the Indian onion. He said, “Indians have a liking for a particular taste of onions, and the imported onions often do not match it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-onion-supply-in-maharashtra-dwindling-onions-imported-from-iran-in-vashi-apmc-market/story-mDSEOBKuVLejRqtDZ09UEP.html
20-10-2020||Pune||On visit to flood-affected areas, Thackeray says financial aid after assessment; farmers unhappy with his visit||Daund/Akkalkot: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said he will announce financial assistance to farmers in next few days once the ground level assessment by administration is complete. Thackeray, who visited flood-affected parts of Solapur district, asked farmers to stay alert in view of India Meteorological Department’s prediction of heavy to very heavy rainfall in parts of state in next three days. “I will not make any announcement about the financial aid today. The Panchanamas are on and once it is complete, government will make an announcement. The danger of heavy rainfall in the state still persists as IMD has forecast of heavy rain in next two-three days. Therefore, I would like to urge everyone to stay cautious,” Thackeray said while addressing press conference. He was accompanied by state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and other ministers in the Mahavikas Aghadi government. Thackeray also handed over cheques of financial aid to the relatives of those who died in the rain fury in Solapur district. Farmers and their representatives, however, expressed disappointment over “no announcement” about aid by CM as they fear the process to complete assessment may take days. Gajanan Gunaware, sarpanch, Swami Chincholi village in Daund taluka which is also affected the most, said, “Farmers had taken loans for farming and this was the season to get the benefit out of the crops, but floods washed away everything. The state government should immediately waive off farm loans. Political party leaders, including the CM, will just visit, say a few words and go away. We have to survive here for years and need a permanent solution to this flood situation.” Earlier in the day, Thackeray visited Sangvi Khurd village in Akkalkot tehsil of Solapur district to assess loss to crops and property. The farmers in the village expressed disappointment as the chief minister has decided to take review of loss to crop from the bridge on Bhori river instead of visiting fields. Asha Dattatray Awate, president of village Mahila Bachat Group said, “The entire village has suffered due to floods and we were hoping to talk to CM and tell him our problems. But the police didn’t allow us to talk to him. We repeatedly requested them to allow us only for 2 minutes, but none of them listened to us. Most families in the village have suffered due to heavy rains and we are left with no food grain and money. The only option for us is to commit suicide.” Heavy rains last week destroyed crops on over 1 lakh hectares while 48 persons lost their lives in Marathwada, Western Maharashtra and Konkan regions. Following the rain fury, Thackeray had come under criticism of not stepping out of Matoshree, his residence. Another villager Shivaji Pandurang Machale said, “Thackeray came with full police bandobast and hundreds of political party leaders and their workers. He just stopped on the Bori River bridge, spoke to some of the villagers on the other side of the bridge where the damage is nominal and left. The maximum damage of houses and farms is on the other side, more than 115 houses are completely damaged and around 100 acres with standing crop are washed away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-visit-to-flood-affected-areas-thackeray-says-financial-aid-after-assessment-farmers-unhappy-with-his-visit/story-B2Q9VWFdwykSx7CTB3IfPO.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Pune lawyer missing since Oct 1 suspected to be dead; three arrested for kidnapping||A lawyer is among three persons arrested by the Pune police for the kidnap and murder of a fellow lawyer, police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said at a press conference on Monday. The deceased, identified as Umesh Chandrakant More, was allegedly kidnapped from the court premises on October 1. The three arrested have been identified as Kapil Vilas Falke (34), a resident of Ramdasnagar Audut Housing Society, Chikhali; Deepak Shivaji Vandekar (28), a resident of Salewad village in Ashti, Beed; and Rohit Dattatray Shende (32), a resident of Santnagar in Market Yard, according to the police. The three have allegedly confessed to the murder and have been remanded to four days in police custody by a local court. “We were suspecting a murder case and unfortunately it turned out so. We can declare that the case has been solved. We have found the body and a DNA test will be conducted,” said commissioner Gupta. A case under Section 365 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Shivajinagar police station on October 2 after More’s brother Prashant More reported him missing. “Advocate Shendage was involved in a case against a land department official that was registered based on advocate More’s complaint to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in 2018. Arrests were also made in that case. We had asked for a speedy investigation. Many of his friends and colleagues had also gone to the police station and submitted their suggestions,” said Satish Mulik, president, Pune Bar Association. More’s body was allegedly thrown in Tamhini ghat area of Pune. The police produced the lawyer and the two other accused in the court of the chief judicial magistrate in a case of kidnapping, according to a senior lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-lawyer-missing-since-oct-1-suspected-to-be-dead-three-arrested-for-kidnapping/story-xCAMJjnX3ZiySZwpwbkJgJ.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Police bust multiple illicit alcohol operations in rural Pune||The Pune rural police, on Monday, claimed to have found two illicit alcohol breweries in Jejuri village, Purandar. At one site, run by Sandeep Kej Ratod, 20 litres of alcohol in plastic cans was found at 6:30pm on Sunday; while at a second operation run by one Kacchu Deepak Rathod, 15 litres of illicit alcohol was found, along with equipment used to brew the same. Two separate cases, both under 65(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act, have been registered at Jejuri police station. In another case, a makeshift brewery was found in Tulapur village by officials of Lonikand police station at 4:30pm on Sunday. A farmland owner had set-up a tin-shed on his farm in Akharvasti, Tulapur village and was brewing illegal alcohol. Ingredients worth Rs 61,100 were seized. The accused, however, ran away after hearing the police arrive in the field. A case under Sections 65(c) and 83 of Maharashtra Prohibition Act has been registered at Lonikand police station. A similar raid was conducted in Parwadi, Baramati, on Sunday afternoon. The police seized 17 bottles worth Rs 884 from a tin shed and arrested Swapnil Sanjay Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-bust-multiple-illicit-alcohol-operations-in-rural-pune/story-18mNNCFCpN4Y6wnDA9gJlL.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Four new units in Pune to handle economic offences||The Pune police have formed four new units in the Economic offences wing (EOW) and cyber crime cell to streamline complaints received by the department, according to Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, Pune. The four units will look into land disputes, banking, housing and general cheating plaints. Unit 1 will handle land disputes and train staff, intelligence, and administration. Unit 2 will look into banking, investments, deposit fraud, share and commodity market related complaints. Unit 3 housing along with job racketing, education, medical, stamp, and counterfeit currency fraud cases and Unit 4 general category of cheating. The EOW and cyber crime cell is headed by IPS officer Bhagyashree Navtake. The units will report to Shivaji Pawar, assistant commissioner of police, EOW and cyber crime, of Pune Police who will in turn report to DCP Navtake. The units will handle cases with amount over Rs 3 crore. All cases with fraud of above Rs 25 crore will be transferred to the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-new-units-to-handle-economic-offences/story-3DFPNvZIUZhU4tddadT8pI.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Pan-India pre-monsoon season 2020 recorded 27.58 degrees Celsius, the coolest since 1997||The pan-India average temperature during the pre-monsoon season for 2020 was 27.58 degrees Celsius, an analysis of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, data, revealed on Monday. The analysis was undertaken by Vineet Kumar, a research fellow at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune. A tweet from Kumar read: “All India average temperature during the pre-monsoon season of the year 2020 was 27.58 C, making it the coolest pre-monsoon season after 1997”. Kumar’s main area of research is cyclones in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. His study is based on the weather conditions released by IMD. According to IMD, the pre-monsoon period is between March 1 and May 31, monsoon (June 1 to September 30), post-monsoon (October 1 to December 31), and winter (January 1 to February 28/9). Anupam Kashyapi, director, IMD, commenting on the pre-monsoon drop in temperature, said, “Cyclonic storms were more in the March to May period, with frequent Western disturbances which lowered the average temperature over north and central India. Severe cyclonic storms too were partially seen over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, reducing the average temperature.” The IMD report also states that rainfall was almost double the normal in central India and north India. Central India recorded 76.5mm of rain that is 204% of its normal rainfall. This is the highest rainfall since 2001 for central India. Similarly, in north India, rainfall was significantly above normal. Northwest India recorded 149.4 mm, or 131% of its normal rainfall. The report also stated that rainfall received in the country as a whole is 158.5 mm. IMD forecasts light to moderate rains in next 48 hours The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast of heavy rains for two consecutive days threw the city’s life out of gear with incidents of waterlogging and traffic jams on Sunday and Monday. According to IMD, the city recorded an average 32.6 mm rainfall during the past 24 hours at 5.50 pm on Monday. The department has forecast light to moderate rainfall with thunder activity, including lightning, during the next 48 hours. IMD weather section head Anupam Kashyapi said, “As monsoon takes it exit, isolated heavy rain is expected over most parts of Maharashtra, except Vidarbha, during the next three days and rainfall will intensify on October 20.” Heavy rainfall was recorded at Panhala (437mm), Indapur (246mm), Baramati (235mm), Mahabaleshwar (204mm), Pandharpur (282mm) and Paithan (80mm) last week. The exit of South West Monsoon season has been stalled due to consecutive weather conditions existing over central area of India during past ten days. Extreme weather conditions that contributes to dip in temperature (specific cases) Jammu and Kashmir (Flood and heavy rains, snowfall and gale) — April, May Rajasthan (dust storm) — May Madhya Pradesh (lightning and thunderstorm) — March, April Maharashtra (Thunderstorm) — March Assam (Flood and heavy rains) — May Bihar (Thunderstorm) — May West Bengal (Floods and heavy rains) — March, May Orissa (Heavy rains ) — May||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pan-india-pre-monsoon-season-2020-recorded-27-58-degrees-celsius-the-coolest-since-1997/story-vThOOIWfcOnijtGBh5xzwK.html
20-10-2020||Pune||Fadnavis, Thackeray engage in war of words over who will assist farmers between Centre and state||Pune: The tour of flood-affected parts of Maharashtra undertaken by various political parties turned into a political slugfest on Monday as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis engaged in a war of words over who will assist farmers between Centre and state. During his visit to flood-affected areas, leader of opposition Fadnavis said that while the Centre will help farmers in Maharashtra, the state government cannot escape its responsibility. “It is the state government’s primary responsibility to assist farmers. However, what we see today is a growing tendency of this state government to pass on every responsibility to the Centre,” said Fadnavis on NCP president Sharad Pawar’s remarks. Pawar on Sunday said that the Union government should help the flood-affected farmers as the state has limitations. Pawar also said he will be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the next 10 days. The NCP chief also wants the state government to explore possibility of borrowing money to offer financial aid to farmers affected by rains on immediate basis. Later in the afternoon, responding to Fadnavis’ accusation that the state government is passing on its responsibility to the Centre, Thackeray said that if the Centre gives dues to the state on time, there will not be a need to ask for Delhi’s help. “I do not want to bring in politics here. However, if the Centre gives our dues on time, there will not be a need for asking anything from the Centre,” said Thackeray. On being asked why the Maharashtra government is seeking help from the Centre instead of coming forward on its own, Thackeray countered: there is nothing wrong in doing this. “What is wrong in asking for help from the Centre? After all, the Central government is of the entire country,” said the chief minister, while expressing confidence about Prime Minister Modi extending help to the state saying during his phone call, Modi had assured assistance to Maharashtra. Modi on Friday called up Thackeray and assured him help as the damage to crop and lives in Maharashtra is huge due to recent rains. The heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 48 lives in Maharashtra’s Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions last week while crops on lakhs of hectares have been damaged extensively, leading to farmers demanding immediate relief. At many places in Pune and Solapur districts, farmers have complained that despite four days, the administration has not started assessment of cross damage, as a result of which there is delay in help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fadnavis-thackeray-engage-in-war-of-words-over-who-will-assist-farmers-between-centre-and-state/story-7JdYqQqZkKDNGcy5OjRBgI.html
20-10-2020||Mumbai||New freshwater fish discovered from western ghats in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district||Researchers have discovered a new sub-species of the Schistura – a freshwater loach –from the Sahyadris (western ghats) in Maharashtra. The Schistura are tiny and colourful fish species which inhabit streams and water that is rich in oxygen. Species that spend most of their life in either freshwater inland areas or brackish estuaries are known as freshwater fish species. The findings by Jayasimhan Praveenraj from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-Central Island Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair; Maharashtra chief minister’s son Tejas Thackeray from the Thackeray Wildlife Foundation, Mumbai; and fish enthusiast and underwater photographer Shankar Balasubramanian were published the peer reviewed journal Aqua International Journal of Ichthyology recently. Praveenraj said Thackeray had found this tiny loach in 2012. The same loach was collected for the second time by Thackeray and Balasubramanian in 2017. The fish was named as ‘Schistura hiranyakeshi’ after the river Hiranyakeshi which originates in the Sindhudurg district. “As we collected the specimens from 2017, we found that the fish did not have any official scientific name, and hence we worked on it for providing an official description. We compared our newly-found loach with other species of Schistura from the Indian subcontinent and confirmed it to be new. Hiranykeshi in Sanskrit means ‘golden hair’ which also symbolises the golden yellow fin colour on the fish. This is one of the prettiest loaches ever discovered from India,” said Praveenraj. Endemic to its type locality, the Schistura hiranyakeshi has a very limited distribution and appears to be rare and restricted only to the upper streams and ponds of the ancient Shiva temple in Sindhudurg district at Amboli, a recognised hotspot for multiple discoveries. According to studies, the species has a golden-beige body colour with a crimson sheen and golden yellow bars on their elongated body along with a unique colour pattern. They are around 37.8mm long. “There are 64 species of Schistura in India, with most of them described from the Northeast region, while only 14 were described from peninsular India,” said Praveenraj. Experts said that it was a significant discovery. “The northern parts of the western ghats, including parts of Goa and Maharashtra, are poorly explored as compared to their southern counterparts in Karnataka and Kerala, where major studies have been focussed. There have always been speculations that the northern western ghats’ freshwater system has rich biodiversity. Now, this is an evidence to show the presence of strikingly beautiful species that have previously escaped the eyes of researchers,” said Rajeev Raghavan, assistant professor at Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, and the South Asia coordinator of the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Freshwater Fish Specialist Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-freshwater-fish-discovered-from-western-ghats-in-maharashtra-s-sindhudurg-district/story-8LNQx506ylGFaUr3yh7eRJ.html
