21-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man wanted for attempted murder arrested after returning from Dubai||Versova police on Wednesday arrested a 21-year-old man wanted in an attempt to murder with robbery case from 2019. The arrested accused, identified as Shakir Shaikh, 21, is a resident of Versova. Shaikh, along with his friend Akash Naik, 21, had stabbed an autorickshaw driver and robbed him in June last year.Rauf Shaikh, sub-inspector, Versova police station, said, “In June 2019, after committing the offence, Shaikh fled to Dubai, where he started working as a salesman at a mall. In September 2020, he came back to India, and on Wednesday we came to know that he was likely to come to visit his sister at Versova.” “In 2019, Shaikh was overweight and sported a beard and long hair. He had since lost weight, shaved off his beard and cut his hair so that no one could identify him. However, we identified him and arrested him,” said the sub-inspector.“Shaikh and Naik had needed money, and so they planned the robbery. They boarded an autorickshaw and asked the driver to drop them at Aram Nagar No 1, Versova. While alighting, they flashed a knife at the driver and threatened to kill him if he did not hand over his mobile and cash,” added the officer. The driver attempted to protect himself, but the accused stabbed him in the stomach and fled with his mobile phone and money. A case was registered under section 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A day later, police managed to arrest Naik, but Shaikh was absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-wanted-for-attempted-murder-arrested-after-returning-from-dubai/story-HlXeMwVrr4hVISPPUyZ2iP.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to follow up with recovered Covid-19 patients for TB symptoms||As Covid-19 and tuberculosis (TB) share similar symptoms, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed all hospitals in the city to check patients who have recovered from Covid-19 for TB.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), TB and Covid-19 are both infectious diseases that primarily attack the lungs. Both diseases have similar symptoms such as cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. “As the pandemic advances, more people of all ages, including TB patients, will be exposed to Covid-19,” reads the note released by WHO in May. In Mumbai, 135 TB patients have been co-infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Of this, 18 have succumbed to the infection, mostly because of late diagnosis. “Most of these co-infection cases have been identified in new TB patients. They approached hospitals considering it just Covid-19 infection. But when their CT scan report showed different forms of clouding in lungs, their sputum culture confirmed that they were also carrying the bacteria of TB,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical superintendent, Sewri TB Hospital. “Both of these infections affect people with lower immunity,” he said.In view of this, a circular has been issued instructing all private and public hospitals to follow up with Covid-19 recovered patients to check if they have developed any symptoms similar to TB such as coughing, loss of appetite, fatigue, among others.“If any of them show such symptoms, we will run a sputum test to check if he/she has TB,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, deputy health officer, BMC. “But so far, we have not diagnosed any recovered Covid-19 patients with TB,” she added.In addition, BMC has also added TB in the questionnaire for the door-to-door survey under ‘Your Family, Your Responsibility’. “During the survey, if anyone is found with TB-like symptoms, we will also run a diagnosis on it,” she added.Social workers have welcomed the decision of the civic body which may help to identify post Covid-19 TB patients. “When a patient is found positive for Covid-19, many hospitals don’t run a sputum test for TB. So, there is no way to know if the person also has TB as the symptoms are similar. Thus, it is important to check on these recovered patients as TB has a longer incubation period with a slower onset of disease,” said Ganesh Acharya, TB activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-follow-up-with-recovered-covid-19-patients-for-tb-symptoms/story-VQ6OdAsh72ukjDdo0IgN7M.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||55,000 women travel by Mumbai local trains on Day 1||The number of women commuters using locals was low on Wednesday, the first day they were permitted to travel by train. Till 8pm on Wednesday, approximately 55,000 women commuters travelled by local trains, with 25,000 on the Central Railway (CR) and 30,000 on Western Railway (WR). Railway authorities on Tuesday permitted women commuters to travel by local trains from Wednesday between 11am and 3pm, and post 7pm. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) deployed 250 additional personnel at Central Railway (CR) stations. These included women RPF personnel during the stipulated time when women passengers were allowed to commute.Passengers underwent thermal scans at the entrance of railway stations and their tickets were inspected by railway authorities. Women commuters expressed relief over the decision to allow them to commute, but have asked for an increase in the stipulated time for commuting.“I am very happy as women commuters are allowed to travel by local trains. I stay at Reay Road and used to travel to Kurla daily by BEST bus. It used to take me one and a half hours to reach my workplace. Travelling by local trains will definitely save time. The timings should be increased,” said Sofiya Shaikh, a Reay Road resident.“The timings for women passengers should be increased to 5pm. Many women commuters have to work in different areas and cannot reach the railway stations by 3pm,” said Ankita Sinha, a Ghatkopar resident. Many women passengers also used rail services to complete their pending housework. “I am travelling from Kanjurmarg to Dadar after more than seven months. Before the lockdown, I had booked furniture and home accessories but could not finalise the order. I am going to buy them,” said Shruti Kakkar, a Vikhroli resident who travelled by train on Wednesday.The railways stated that they will increase services when the need arises. “There was no incident of overcrowding reported. We will be observing the commuter traffic pattern in the coming days,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.The state government, under its Mission Begin Again initiative, on Friday had permitted women passengers to travel by local trains without QR code from October 17. However, the railways delayed it to October 21, seeking time to finalise the standard operating procedures.CR is presently operating 706 local train services while the Western Railway (WR) is operating 704 services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-000-women-travel-by-mumbai-local-trains-on-day-1/story-bp6zpSnVXBiPDaWnwIZbPO.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||594 proposals on meeting agenda ignored as BMC standing committee debates membership of BJP councillor||Despite having 600-odd civic work proposals from the past seven months on its agenda, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee, which physically met for the first time since March, debated over membership of a nominated member, leaving aside the entire agenda of the day.The meeting started with Shiv Sena group leader and committee member Vishakha Raut contending the appointment of the nominated councillor, Bhartiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bhalchandra Shirsat, as a committee member. She moved a proposal demanding his disqualification as a standing committee member.While the civic body has 227 elected representatives, there are five citizen members who are experts in various fields or have expertise in the municipal body’s functioning. They are appointed as nominated councillors. These councillors do not get voting rights in the general body or the standing committee, but are allotted councillor funds and are treated like elected councillors.Sena members, with support from the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Samajwadi Party (SP), challenged Shirsat’s membership as a standing committee member. “If he cannot vote on whether proposals are to be passed or not, there is no point in being a member of the standing committee. These are important civic work proposals that impact every Mumbaiite, and nominated members cannot vote on them,” said Raut.Pointing out the appointment of KP Naik, who was Sena’s nominated councillor and member of the standing committee from 1997 to 2002, Shirsat argued, “Their nominated councillor has served in the standing committee for five years. It is hypocritical of the Sena to oppose my membership. They wasted more than two hours debating over my membership, whereas, they could have discussed these important proposals. The standing committee cannot disqualify me and only the mayor has the right to do so.”A majority of the 594 proposals on the committee’s agenda were tabled for post-facto approval, which means the contracts for the civic works have been awarded and BMC has already committed them for payment. This leaves little scope for the standing committee’s effective rejection of the proposals. This is possible because the standing committee gave spending powers to the municipal commissioner in March, in light of the lockdown, since the committee did not meet during that time. The next meeting is scheduled to be held on October 26.After a heated discussion between the Sena and BJP leaders, standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav said, “I have discussed the matter with the municipal secretary and the law department of the BMC. A nominated member cannot be a member of the standing committee. I disqualify him from the committee and ask him to please step out of the general body hall.” Members of other parties, except the BJP, supported the Shiv Sena.The standing committee has 26 members, of which 13 were newly-nominated on September 28, including BJP’s Shirsat. Following the debates, Sena moved another proposal to adjourn the meeting, stating that it could not be continued without the removal of the nominated councillor, and the proposal was passed. The BJP said that it would challenge the disqualification in the Bombay high court (HC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/594-proposals-on-meeting-agenda-ignored-as-bmc-standing-committee-debates-membership-of-bjp-councillor/story-NuA5EyKUQr10GUVIlsY7kN.html
21-10-2020||City||3 booked for power bill fraud worth ₹5 lakh in Ambala||The police here on Tuesday booked three authorised retailers for committing fraud of about Rs 5.14 lakh, on the complaint of a director of a private firm tasked with collecting electricity bills from the consumers for the UHBVN (Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam).Director of the firm EPay Infoserve, Kiranpal Singh of Sanjauli village of Panipat district lodged a complaint against three authorised Ambala-based retailers identified as Mohit Gulati of Shivpuri Colony, Ambala Cantt, Puneet Kumar of Palam Vihar Colony, Ambala Cantt, and Ravi Kumar of Milap Nagar Nanhera, Ambala.Kiranpal alleged that all three conspired to commit the crime and defrauded an amount of Rs 5,14,388 from the firm after forging signatures of the electricity consumers of UHBVN and the amount was paid by the consumers as electricity bills.A case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC at Mahesh Nagar police station on Tuesday, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-booked-for-power-bill-fraud-worth-5-lakh-in-ambala/story-WRJghdkZHXYg5yGBjTeOPP.html
21-10-2020||City||Noida man loses cab to robbers in Punjab’s Zirakpur||Four robbers snatched the car of a Noida-based cabbie in Zirakpur on Tuesday. They thrashed him and even took ₹11,000 and his mobile phone.The police on Wednesday booked the unidentified accused who had boarded the same cab.Pawan Kumar stated in his police complaint that he brought passengers from Delhi and while heading back on Tuesday, two persons from Singpura in Zirakpur boarded his taxi claiming they wanted to go to Delhi. Soon, two more persons boarded the vehicle for Delhi.Kumar alleged that after filling CNG in his car near Banur, one of the accused asked him to stop the car and all four thrashed him and made him sit in the rear seat. They then drove to an isolated place in Panchkula and threw him out of the car.Investigating officer Hardeep Singh said, “We have registered a case under Sections 392 (robbery), 365 (kidnapping) and 323 (thrashing) of the Indian Penal Code and initiated the probe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-man-loses-cab-to-robbers-in-punjab-s-zirakpur/story-atkx69hoPPhD3gSNYarHYM.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Expecting festive rush, Chandigarh admn mulls Covid testing at religious places||As devotee footfall is expected to rise during the festival season, the UT health department is working out modalities to conduct Covid testing at major religious places in the city.This comes after UT administrator VPS Badnore on Wednesday advised the authorities that voluntary Covid testing should be done near gurudwaras and temples.Director health services and family welfare Dr Amandeep Kang said that based on the recommendation, they will hold meetings with the managements of religious places where heavy footfall of devotees is expected.“The local administration, managements of religious places and the health department will deliberate on the modalities. The arrangements have to made in such a manner that it does not cause any panic reaction if somebody is tested positive. We will have to keep certain things in mind while choosing suitable places within compounds,” Dr Kang said.She added that the administration was also working on arrangements to carry out Covid testing at Sukhna Lake on Sundays.The UT administrator has also directed the police department to stay alert during the festival season to ensure that there is no crowding and gathering of people during various celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expecting-festive-rush-chandigarh-admn-mulls-covid-testing-at-religious-places/story-2XSLBMuPl1s0IbaA879CoM.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Chemists to get Covid test centre lists to display in shops during festive season||As part of its ongoing Covid-19 awareness campaign, and especially in view of the festive season, the Delhi government will start distributing maps and lists of Covid-19 test centres among private chemists across the city, urging them to display these prominently in their shops, said a senior government official. The official further said the government will start this campaign on Thursday with the north-west revenue district, which currently has the highest proportion of active cases – more than 15% of the total 22,317 active cases (as on October 18). Such maps and lists -- with names and addresses of 310 Covid-19 test centres managed by the Delhi government – were initially distributed to Delhi Metro for displaying outside Metro stations. Later, they were displayed in some prominent markets and public spaces, with an aim to encourage more testing and to ensure that any person who wants to get tested faced no inconvenience in locating a test centre. “Now these lists will be distributed among chemists over the next two weeks. This is part of the government’s action plan to intensify Covid-19 awareness in the light of the festive season, which is likely to increase the risk of transmission,” said a senior government official, not wishing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chemists-to-get-covid-test-centre-lists-to-display-in-shops-during-festive-season/story-bPpLWuBkN7m0c1AJvtaCDM.html
21-10-2020||City||Colleges in a fix over DU’s new ‘best of four’ directive for Bihar board students||New DelhiThe Delhi University (DU) admission committee’s new guidelines for calculating the ‘best of four marks’ of applicants from the Bihar Board have created confusion about the status of students who have already been enrolled, varsity officials said. In a circular issued to colleges on Tuesday, the university’s admission committee said, “50 marks Hindi paper from Bihar Board will not be considered for calculation of best of four….50 marks English paper from Bihar Board will not be considered for calculation of best of four.” According to an official at an off-campus college, the Bihar School Education Board has papers of 50 marks each for English and Hindi in class 12. In contrast, other boards and CBSE have 100-mark papers in the two subjects.In DU, students calculate the best of four by including one language, one subject in which admission is sought, and two other academic subjects mentioned in list A in the university Undergraduate admission bulletin available on its website. In previous years, according to officials at several colleges, they were calculating the best of four of these students on a pro-rata basis. For example, if a student had scored 40 marks out of 50, it was considered as 80 out of 100 while calculating the best of four. “We used to calculate the percentage of students on a pro-rata basis in previous years and take admissions. Now, when we have already enrolled several students in Hindi (Hons) in the first cut-off list and approved many admissions in the second list, the university has come out with a new directive. What do we do with the admissions of these students? This directive should have been issued before the admissions,” the official quoted above said. At least 6,729 students from the Bihar Education Board have applied for admissions in DU this year. But Delhi University’s dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said the University had informed the colleges about this rule in the first cut-off itself. “We do not take any decision before consulting the principals. We have to compare the syllabus of different education boards for the equivalence. In case of the Bihar board, it is not on a par with the syllabus of CBSE or other boards,” she said. Bagai said the university had last year itself informed the colleges not to consider 50-mark papers on a par with papers with 100 marks. “It is the mistake of the colleges if they still continued with the admissions,” she said.Suman Kumar, a member of the DU admission committee, said, “The admission branch will take a decision regarding the students from Bihar board who have already been enrolled in some colleges.”Abhishek Singh, a Bihar board student aspiring to take admission in Political Science (Hons) in DU, said, “I had both English and Hindi in class 12 and we have to include at least one language while calculating the best of four. What do I do now?” Bagai said, “The University cannot take admissions by including a 50-mark paper in the best of four.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/colleges-in-a-fix-over-du-s-new-best-of-four-directive-for-bihar-board-students/story-jJS2kqMYcwfdsvpBNGNBhM.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Umar Khalid’s judicial custody ends on October 22||Former JNU student Umar Khalid’s judicial custody in connection with his alleged role in Delhi riots ends on October 22. Khalid was arrested under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the communal violence that took place in north east Delhi in February this year.A Delhi court on September 24 had sent Khalid to judicial custody till October 22 after he was produced in the court through video conferencing.The court had sent Khalid to the custody of Delhi police’s special cell for 10 days on September 14, after the agency had alleged that he had planned a conspiracy to carry out the riots in Delhi during the visit of US President Donald Trump.Recently, a Delhi court had directed the Tihar Jail officials to provide safety and security to Khalid in prison. The court’s order came on an application submitted by Khalid seeking adequate security measures in jail so that he was not harmed by anyone in judicial custody.On February 24, communal riots broke out in north east Delhi after citizenship law supporters and protesters clashed with each other, leaving at least 53 people dead and as many as 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-umar-khalid-s-judicial-custody-ends-tomorrow/story-h82FNCSDtOA4xAb7njqD5M.html
21-10-2020||City||Delhi high court raps govt over delay in funds for lower courts||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday pulled up the city government for making the subordinate judiciary “run from pillar to post” to get funds sanctioned for the recruitment of supporting staff at courts, which have come to a grinding halt, and asked whether it wanted judicial officers to conduct proceedings from ‘chaupals’.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad noted that 150 judicial officers are due to be posted in a couple of months but their courts would not be functional without the support staff. It directed its administrative side to release the requisite Rs 2.52 crore from its budget to the district courts without any delay for the recruitment.The court also rapped the government for ‘not sanctioning funds; for the basic requirement of district courts, which are generating huge revenues through collection of fines, traffic challans and court fees, saying it wanted to kill golden egg-laying goose. The same bench remarked, “Rs 115 crore collected through virtual traffic fines by district courts. What do you (Delhi government) want? You want to kill the goose that lays the golden egg?”The court said that since the money is required, it was taking it from the funds provided for the Delhi High Court. However, the amount has to be returned to the HC by the Delhi government on or before December 31.“150 judicial officers are waiting to be posted in courts. Thanks to no support and no staff. Let the Delhi government send the staff on deputation to district courts. Or you want these judges to conduct proceedings by sitting at chaupals (public space),” the bench said.It observed that the judiciary was not doing anything in this regard as it was patiently waiting for the Delhi government to release the funds. “You (Delhi government) did not do anything. Probably you took it as a weakness,” it said.“Thankfully the high court has its own funds. You are making the subordinate judiciary run from pillar to post (for funds),” the bench told the counsel for the Delhi government.The high court had earlier also directed the Delhi government to process the pending sanctions of other branches of district courts but the sanctions are still pending at the executive’s end.Delhi government counsel Santosh Tripathi said he had apprised the authorities about the orders passed by the high court in the case and wanted two weeks’ time and that the matter will be placed before the Cabinet.He said he was not in a position to state the timeline by which the Delhi government will be able to resolve the issue.Advocate Sanjoy Ghose, representing the Delhi High Court, placed before the bench letters issued by Principal District and Sessions Judge (West) who is the chairman of the recruitment committee, Tis Hazari Courts.Addressed to the Registrar General, the letters stated that an agency was engaged for conducting recruitments to vacant posts of senior personal assistants, personal assistants, junior judicial assistants and data entry operators in district courts, family courts.He said written and typing tests were conducted for various posts and the results declared before the Covid-19 lockdown on March 25. Even virtual interviews were conducted in August but the final results have been kept in abeyance in view of the pending petition.“But due to the absence of funds or revalidation of financial sanction, the whole recruitment process has been brought to a grinding halt,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-raps-govt-over-delay-in-funds-for-courts/story-Fa1tOpl2eIXi9uwHs2hlOP.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Govt orders installation of CCTV cameras at labour offices||A day after he expressed concerns over the state of affairs at the construction labour welfare board offices across the 11 revenue districts in the national capital, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Wednesday issued directions for the installation of CCTV cameras in each of these offices.Sisodia had taken over the labour portfolio from minister Gopal Rai last week and had announced that one million constriction workers will be registered under the welfare board in the coming months. Currently, around 52,000 construction are registered and around 66,000 are awaiting verification of their applications. Registration in the board entitles construction workers to financial and other benefits in times of need -- ranging from medical aid, expenses to cover deaths and marriages in the family, and also to tackle unforeseen circumstances such as the Covid-19 lockdown.“Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, on the basis of his surprise inspection of labour offices, ordered the installation of CCTV cameras at every district labour office building,” said a statement issued by his office.It further said, “Display boards will be put up outside each labour office clearly explaining process of registration and verification to construction workers. The government has a no-tolerance policy towards any discrepancy that hinders welfare of construction workers.”The order also said that labour commissioners have been directed to conduct surprise checks with the help of police and anti-corruption branch officials to do away with touts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-orders-installation-of-cctv-cameras-at-labour-offices/story-Ll7mIebLMXJPUCN2DTOnPP.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Provide Umar Khalid with FIR copy, other papers related to his arrest, court tells police||A Delhi court directed the city police to supply former JNU student leader Umar Khalid with a copy of the FIR lodged against him in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. The court was hearing a plea moved by Khalid, seeking copies of the FIR related to the Khajuri Khas violence case, remand application submitted for his police custody, the remand order and medical report, so as to know the grounds of his arrest.During the hearing, the prosecution contended Khalid was informed about the grounds of his arrest and that if the documents were supplied to him at this stage, it would open a Pandora’s Box as he would keep on asking for one document after the other.Khalid, who was first arrested on September 13 on charges of being part of the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots and lodged in judicial custody, was rearrested on October 1 in another riots case at the Khajuri Khas police station. Chief metropolitan magistrate Purshottam Pathak also directed police to supply Khalid with the remand application and remand order of October 1 by which he was sent to three-day police custody as well as reports of the medical examination conducted while he was in police custody.The court said no person can be detained without informing him of the grounds for his arrest.Pathak said the remand application and remand order along with the medical reports did not contain any sensitive material which may not be disclosed.In its order on October 20, the court said the Constitution stipulated that no police officer can arrest an individual without informing the grounds of his arrest and Article 22 of the Constitution guaranteed the fundamental right of protection against illegal arrest and detention.It further said Section 50 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provided that every police officer with authority to arrest someone without warrant, must inform the person being arrested about the crime for which he is being arrested and other relevant grounds for the arrest.Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary, appearing for the police, opposed Khalid’s plea and said there was no provision in law to supply the documents before the court takes cognizance of charges.But the court did not accept this and directed that the documents sought by Khalid be provided to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/provide-umar-khalid-with-fir-copy-other-papers-related-to-his-arrest-court-tells-police/story-xYSqDSirbMch75HQeXQfRM.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||City braces for low-key Durga Puja||As the Millennium City adapts to the new normal due to the pandemic, Durga Puja festivities this year are also being tweaked to ensure social distancing at venue, live streaming of rituals and proper hygiene, starting Thursday.The district administration has allowed Navratri and Durga Puja functions to be organised in the city, but with limited attendees and have prohibited fairs, food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and processions until Diwali.Organisers of Durga Puja across the city will be live streaming the ceremonies on each of the five days of Puja. Cultural programmes, coordinated and rehearsed in-house, have also transitioned online. “We will have a digital Pujo in compliance with social distancing, but it will still be according to the almanac, right from Pushpanjali,” said Sraboni Bhattacharya, member, Bangiya Parishad Gurugram.Celebrations will be low-key in public areas as most organisers have prohibited physical visits, while some have set up applications and time slots for devotees to visit.According to the police, organisers have been directed not to allow visitors who are not wearing face masks and also arrange other sanitisation facilities at the venues. Thermal scanning is also must, the police said.The district administration has set strict rules for the Durga Puja celebration across the city.As per the guidelines issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, last week, it is imperative that suitable regulations are put in place and proper measures are taken during the celebration to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at the venues. “Durga Puja pandals will be allowed to be set up only in temples and no pandal shall be allowed to be erected on and by the side of any road. We have not allowed setting up of any food stalls near pandals. Also, we have made all necessary arrangements with the organisers to ensure that immersion of the idols will be done with a minimum strength of devotees so as to avoid congestion and large gatherings at the immersion sites,” he said.Organisers of the pandal at DLF Phase-1 community centre, which is one of the most popular in the city, have turned to social media to meet people, prohibiting visits.Ambica Sachdeva, a resident of Block E of DLF Phase-1, said, “This time, we are trying to celebrate by not visiting pandals but meeting people digitally while being at home. There are no pandals this year in our area and all celebrations are only online.”Many in the developing sectors along the Dwarka Expressway and near Kherki Daula have cancelled their celebrations due to apprehensions of Covid-19 spread and are setting up rituals online.Alok Roy, president of Sushant Lok Durga Puja committee, said that this year, rituals will be limited to a few families in a hall. “Social and entertainment part will no longer organised in open and grand way. People are restricted to social media and only members will be allowed to visit the halls,” he said.Some organisers have roped in renowned artists to pull audiences online and celebrate the festival.Sraboni Bhattacharya, member, Bangiya Parishad Gurugram, said that they are celebrating Durga Puja in a new and different way, with most events being organised online. “There would be live streaming of the puja and pushpanjali, and we will enjoy a lineup of cultural programmes online. What we are missing though is catching up with friends, the ‘adda’ and the yummy ‘bhog’. It is sad that we cannot have ‘boron’ and bid adieu to Ma, and there will be no ‘sindur khela’ either. This year, I just pray to Ma Durga to keep everyone healthy and safe,” she said.Partha Dey, general secretary of Bangiya Parishad, said, “Our aim is to ensure the safety of all devotees and we should not get infected nor should others. We will adhere to the guidelines and maintain social distancing. We will celebrate a digital affair — pushpanjali will be offered online and people will not stand before ‘Ma Durga’ but will offer prayers from home through their mobile phones or computer screens.”However, the association has set up an application to allow visitors to book time slots for visits. “A distance of six feet is mandatory for all the visitors, no one is allowed to touch anything and sanitization is being carried out every two hours to ensure the safety of devotees and organisers. The members are allowed for physical presence through pre-booking but only once a day,” said Partha Dey.Khatri said there will be effective sanitisation of all premises, with particular focus on lavatories, hand and foot-washing areas. “No physical offerings like ‘prasad’ or ‘bhog’ will be allowed inside the pandals,” he said.The police has not received any application for setting up pandal this year and special teams have been formed from each police station to keep a check on puja halls.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that this year, the celebrations will be confined to association members of organising committee only. “We have not received any request for deployment of police personnel, unlike the other years. The organisers are not allowing even 100 devotees a day to the hall and they will have to keep us updated in case they increase the number,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-braces-for-low-key-durga-puja/story-r3rYgS9lMhJoLrYzdOgInN.html
21-10-2020||City||Farmers allow movement of trains: Ludhiana industrialists breathe a sigh of relief||The announcement made by farmers’ associations to allow movement of goods trains has come as relief for industrialists and traders in Ludhiana. Many of them were struggling to make ends meet amid rising cost of raw material and orders being cancelled by buyers due to delay in transportation. Industrialists had been urging the state government to intervene in the matter, as apart from increase in input cost, the production cycle of industrial units were also hit amid the farmers’ protests. Importers and exporters from Ludhiana have also welcomed the decision taken by the farmers’ associations.Rahul Ahuja, chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab, said, “If import and export would stay disturbed for the coming days, many industrial units in the city would have to close down due to shortage of raw material. With no import of raw material, the production cycle was hit badly. Also, orders, especially those booked by customers from abroad, were being cancelled due to the delay. We had been urging the farmers’ associations to allow movement of goods trains and the announcement has come as a major relief for the industry. These agitations in the state also pushes away the investors, which will ultimately hit Punjab’s economy.”Harish Dua, president of the Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Association, said, “The transportation cost had increased as industrialists were being forced to move goods by road. It was costing us around Rs 20,000 more to transport goods to Mumbai port through road. Further, orders were being cancelled by foreign buyers due to delay.”At a time when the industry is already struggling to get back on track after lockdown, black marketing of raw material amid shortage of supply is also taking a toll on business as input cost has increased. Jagbir Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Cluster, said, “The sewing machine sector is facing shortage of raw material, including pig iron, as consignments are stuck in Ambala due to no movement of goods trains. Due to shortage of material in the market, black marketing has increased. Pig iron which was earlier available at Rs 28,200 per tonne, now costs Rs 41,000 per tonne. The industry was already reeling under losses and the input cost has further increased by over 20% due to the lockdown and ‘rail roko’ protests by farmers.”Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said, “We hope that the business which was going through a slowdown will be back on track during the festival season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-allow-movement-of-trains-ludhiana-industrialists-breathe-a-sigh-of-relief/story-rtpH6tvT2fTIlFm4yxAEXO.html
21-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Sports bike robbery cracked with arrest of four||Zeroing in on robbers having a free run in the city, police have arrested four accomplices of notorious snatcher Lovedeep Singh, alias Sonu, and recovered 20 mobile phones, two motorcycles and two sharp-edged weapons from them.One of the two-wheelers – a Yamaha sports bike – was robbed from a realtor’s office on Jassiyan Road on October 9.Besides this incident, Lovedeep and his accomplices are also believed to be involved in a robbery bid at a currency exchange shop near Dharampura Chowk on October 5.Police have already announced a cash reward for any information that leads to Lovedeep’s arrest.His aides who were arrested on Wednesday have been identified as Raman Kumar of Peeru Banda, Salem Tabri; Ashish Kumar Sethi of Aman Nagar; Narinder Singh, alias Happy, of Bakipur village, Tarn Taran; and Amit Gupta of Aman Nagar.According to the police, the accused were involved in at least 20 incidents of snatching. “We are probing whether they also had a hand in the robbery attempt at the money exchange shop on October 5 or if Lovedeep targeted the trader with other men,” said inspector Satish Kumar, SHO, Division Number 3.He said Raman and Narinder were already facing trial in 15 cases of snatching, burglary and drug peddling. A hunt is on to arrest Lovedeep and other members of his gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sports-bike-robbery-cracked-with-arrest-of-four/story-S9I6uk3eM3hDVlcuyShx2N.html
21-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC intensifies drive against single-use plastic||Struggling to impose a complete ban on the use of plastic bags for the last four years, the municipal corporation (MC) has once again decided to intensify a drive against the manufacturing of single-use plastic in the city.Working on the lines of Indore MC, the Ludhiana civic body has decided to implement a complete ban on manufacturing and use of plastic bags below the width of 50 microns in the city.Fine up to Rs 20,000 can be imposed depending upon the quantity of plastic bags confiscated. The decision was taken during a meeting wherein the committee members, who had recently visited Indore, gave a presentation to mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Wednesday. A committee comprising six officials had recently visited Indore to get an idea of the solid waste management in the cleanest city of the country.Ludhiana secured 34th rank among 47 cities with over 10 lakh population in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, while Indore stood at the first position for the fourth consecutive year.The MC team which had visited Indore included councillors Parvinder Lapran, Baljinder Bunti, Pankaj Kaka, councillor Sunita Rani’s son Deepak Sharma, MC Secretary Jasdev Sekhon, and senior assistant engineer Harpal Aujla. Councillor of ward number 74, Pankaj Sharma said, “It has been decided that MC will implement a complete ban on the use of plastic bags below the width of 50 microns. Use of plastic carry bags below 50-micron width is a major hurdle in the solid waste management and the plastic waste also chokes the sewer lines.”The officials also decided to develop a few city wards as model wards for setting an example for others. Sharma said that the committee members have also asked the mayor to deploy a nodal officer for implementing the ban.Sharma said, “A ban on the use of plastic bags has already been implemented in my ward and shopkeepers have been given 10 days to stop using plastic bags or challans would be imposed on the violators.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that there are a number of points on which the civic body can work upon but those would be implemented in phases. The civic body has decided to go strict against the use of plastic bags and the committee members have been asked to submit their recommendations in writing.The state government had imposed a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags in April 2016, but the MC has been struggling to implement the same in the city. The drives initiated against the use of plastic carry bags got derailed due to political pressure or resentment shown by traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-intensifies-drive-against-single-use-plastic/story-9sCwfpuQiX0D5KqyEUWGzI.html
21-10-2020||City||Unidentified man found brutally murdered in Ludhiana||An unidentified man was found brutally murdered near a tea stall on RK Road on Wednesday morning. The victim’s face was badly damaged and seemed to have been crushed by a heavy object.A passerby discovered the body when he was going to pay obeisance at a temple around 6.45am and informed the police.Moti Nagar station house officer, sub-inspector Simarjit Kaur said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. She said initial probe suggests that the murder took place somewhere else following which the body was dumped here.The body has been sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem examination. It will later be kept in the mortuary for 72 hours for identification. Cops are also making announcements in surrounding areas to find out if any person has gone missing recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-man-found-brutally-murdered-in-ludhiana/story-loCYslSog5kA79ae8IXV6H.html
21-10-2020||City||Ludhiana man bludgeons wife to death in front of five-year-old son||Suspecting her of infidelity, a 34-year-old labourer bludgeoned his wife to death with a stick in front of their five-year-old son at Paramjit Colony in Focal Point on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Police said the accused, Pradeep Kumar, attacked his wife in drunken stupor and fled the house on realising the next morning that he had murdered his wife, Kamla Devi, 33.However, neighbours nabbed him and handed him over to the Focal Point police.“Kamla and Pradeep used to work in the same factory. He has confessed to suspecting his wife of having an extramarital affair with another worker of the factory,” said inspector Mohammad Jameel, SHO, Focal Point police station. “On Tuesday night, Pradeep was drunk and had an altercation with Kamla about this. In a fit of rage, he hit Kamla with a stick on the head, leading to her death. But, he didn’t realise this in his inebriated condition and went to sleep. After he regained consciousness on Wednesday morning, he realised what had transpired the previous night and fled, only to be caught later by his landlord,” he added.Police said the couple had been married for 15 years and had a 14-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son. Their daughter was away at their hometown in Uttar Pradesh, while their son was living with them.Neighbour heard couple’s fightTheir neighbour, Amit Kumar, told the police that on Tuesday night, he heard a noisy fight between Pradeep and his wife, which was a routine affair. Therefore, he did not intervene. But, he heard the couple’s son wailing on Wednesday, so went to their house to inspect the matter.“On stepping inside, we were shocked to see Kamla lying on the floor in a pool of blood and her son crying inconsolably, while Pradeep was nowhere to be seen,” Amit said.“On being asked, the boy said his father was away to buy medicine for his mother, as she was not waking up,” he added.Kumar immediately alerted the police and also sounded other neighbours. After some time, Pradeep’s landlord spotted him in the area and handed him over to the police. Pradeep was arrested and booked for murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. They have informed the victim’s family in Uttar Pradesh and sent the body to the Ludhiana civil hospital for post-mortem examination.The custody of the couple’s son was handed over to Pradeep’s brother who also lives in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-bludgeons-wife-to-death-in-front-of-five-year-old-son/story-Ievkwj3GJ8wiHdnKm8GPLP.html
21-10-2020||City||Farm laws: Anganwadi workers’ protest disrupts traffic in Ludhiana||The members of Anganwadi Mulazam Union (CITU) staged a protest on Gill Road to support the farmer unions against the central government farm laws and, disrupted the traffic movement on all connecting roads on Thursday.The protest commenced at noon, during which the workers blocked the road bringing the traffic to a standstill. The commuters were stuck in a jam for more than one hour on all connecting roads leading to Janta Nagar, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Miller Ganj.The protestors dispersed after the area police intervened and, they submitted a memorandum to them.The workers said that the central government must roll back the three farm laws and continue with the old system. Subhash Rani, the general secretary of the union, said, “If the farm laws get implemented then it will not only affect the farmers but the common man as well. On October 15, representatives of farmer unions were called for a meeting but, they walked out after no minister showed up.” The farmers have been staging protests against the Centre’s new farm laws for a month now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-laws-anganwadi-workers-protest-disrupts-traffic-in-ludhiana/story-B6uPFLO2FXe9GRbRAtIL6J.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||Udyog Vihar, sectors 14 and 18 major pollution hot spots in the city, finds CPCB task force||Areas such as Udyog Vihar (1 and 4), sectors 14 and 18 are the major hot spots for air pollution in the city, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) task force that visited these areas on Tuesday and found deficiencies in terms of management of road dust and discharge of particulate matter in air through the dumping of construction and demolition waste (C&D) waste on the roadside.On Wednesday, the Gurugram’s air quality once again slipped into the ‘poor’ category with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 263 on CPCB’s index. The air quality worsened a day after it had recorded a ‘moderate’ AQI of 192. Air quality had been oscillating between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories for at least the past 10 days. Shiv Shanker Sharma, a member of the CPCB-led task force, said, “For the last three to four years, air quality monitoring surveys have been carried out where Udyog Vihar and sectors 14 and 18 have repeatedly emerged as pollution hot spots. These surveys take into account both observation as well as complaints regarding violations of anti-pollution measures. These areas have a high level of dust due to the digging up of roads and dumping of C&D waste.”CPCB has formed 50 teams for Delhi-NCR to give feedback on pollution control measures from October 15 till February 28. Out of these, three teams have been earmarked for Gurugram. According to Sharma, in Udyog Vihar, the team noticed heavy dust pollution due to dug-up roads for the installation of a gas pipeline and a fibre optic network. “The heavy traffic movement in these areas is also responsible for blowing up dust in the air,” said Sharma.Sharma added that they found sites where C&D waste was being dumped without being covered. “The agencies concerned have been advised to cover the dumping sites with shade to avoid dust pollution,” said Sharma. For sectors 14 and 18, he said, “Although these are residential sectors, C&D was found along the roadside. The loose soil in these areas was being discharged in the air as dust. The land-owning agencies have been informed to take action,” he said. Earlier, in September, CPCB asked the civic bodies of Delhi-NCR to initiate a special drive to remove waste (garbage and C&D) from open spaces. On October 16, CPCB directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to submit the action-taken report on the activities done so far to tackle the high levels of particulate matter in the air.Between September 15 and 21, CPCB deputed its team at high pollution zones for an assessment of the work done by local agencies in implementing CPCB guidelines. The teams visited Gurugram in the last week of September and observed inadequate action in various locations in terms of management of C&D waste, solid and industrial waste, road dust, construction, and other air polluting activities. According to them, an analysis of public complaints on social media indicated a higher percentage of open dumping of C&D waste and burning of garbage. An MCG official privy to the matter, said, “A meeting was held on October 19 with Bhure Lal, chairman, Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA). He was satisfied with our report. The status will be reviewed again after 15 days.” Hari Om Attri, joint commissioner, MCG, who is also the nodal officer enforcement of measures from management of C&D waste, said, “More than 25,000 tonnes of C&D waste has been lifted since October 15, after the Grap measures kicked in. This year, overall 2.5 lakh metric tonnes has been lifted from various the city. At least 41 challans and fine of more than ₹1 lakh has been imposed since the implementation of Grap measures. We are even looking at prospect of recycling C&D waste for construction of roads and footpaths in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/udyog-vihar-sectors-14-and-18-major-pollution-hot-spots-in-the-city-finds-cpcb-task-force/story-x2ZceUnoqLBdtVSSrInWJM.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||Pollution hot spots on major roads under the scanner||The Gurugram administration has identified 18 spots on major city roads across the city, which witness high vehicular pollution, and asked the personnel of traffic police and other departments concerned to take measures to manage the situation. Officials said the reason for high pollution at these spots is that heavy traffic movement and congestion is witnessed on these spots as these are located on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Sohna Road, Delhi-Jaipur highway and important sector roads.Following the directions issued by the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca), the district administration sent a letter to the traffic police last week, asking for a reduction of jams at these spots, more enforcement and increased presence of police personnel so that road congestion is cleared quickly. The 18 points include the Delhi-Gurugram border near Ambience Island, Iffco Chowk, Subash Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Umang Bhardwaj Chowk, Sohna Chowk, Kherki Daula toll plaza, Dwarka Expressway, Huda City Centre, Hamilton Court in DLF-4, Pataudi Road crossing on Dwarka Expressway, Rampura Flyover underpass and Bilaspur Chowk. The directions issued by the deputy commissioner, Gurugram, to curb pollution calls for stringent enforcement of pollution rules and checks on pollution certificates, wrong parking offences, ferrying of dangerous goods, validity of all vehicle-related certificates and impounding vehicles that are old and not allowed to operate under current pollution norms. The traffic police department said that following the directions of Epca and with measures under the Graded Action Response Plan (Grap) coming into force in the city, they have increased police presence at these pollution and traffic hot spots. Between October 15 and October 20, the police also issued 71 pollution-related penalties and 578 for wrong parking offence, said traffic officials. The main objective of their drive, said DK Bharadwaj, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), was to reduce congestion and ensure traffic movement remained smooth. “We have also increased the presence of traffic police personnel at these 18 pollution hot spots and the enforcement has been made strict. We are also conducting awareness among the vehicle owners to follow traffic rules,” said Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj said that they are keeping a watch on the traffic situation through CCTV cameras in real time, and action is taken immediately when congestion is reported at any spot. “No movement of vehicles which are beyond their life is being allowed,” he said, adding that they are working in tandem to curb vehicular and dust pollution on roads. The traffic police is also sharing the action taken report, on a daily basis, with the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said officials. As per the details shared by traffic police, the department has issued 681 penalties for pollution-related offences till the end of September, 18,543 for wrong parking, 24 for overloading and 1,238 to owners of vehicles whose road worthiness certificates were expired. The National Highways Authority of India, which has Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Dwarka Expressway and Sohna Road, under its jurisdiction, said that it has deployed water tankers to sprinkle water so that dust pollution can be reduced. “Water is being sprinkled at project sites and construction material is covered with green cloth to check dust,” said Shashi Bhushan, project director, Gurugram. To curb pollution at these congested stretches, transport experts say that apart from these measures, authorities should also look at staggering the timing for employees working from offices. Markets and commercial offices should be allowed to open on different days so that people making trips to the markets and offices are reduced. “The movement of vehicles should be allowed more in the day and less during evening hours so that pollutants can settle. The odd-even formula for vehicles and no private vehicle days should be observed barring emergency situations,” said Professor Sewa Ram, a transport expert with the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi. Sewa Ram also said that more enforcement will help in reducing congestion and it would reduce idling time, which causes more pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pollution-hot-spots-on-major-roads-under-the-scanner/story-5enaGIfX1XnUzYLhzcLgjM.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||Five booked for Rs 2.4-crore insurance fraud||The police on Tuesday booked five persons for allegedly duping at least 27 people of more than Rs 2.4 crore in the last four months, on the pretext of premium payments for their insurance policies. The police said they have traced the fraudsters to remote areas of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and have dispatched personnel to make the arrests.According to the police, the fraudsters created fake email ids of a reputed city-based insurance company and forged their letterheads and logos to project authenticity. On the pretext of seeking premium repayments, they duped the people to make payments to their bank accounts. After receiving the money, they stopped taking the calls.A case under sections 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal code and Section 66 D of Information Technology was registered at the Cyber Crime police station after the police verified all complaints. The police said that insurance frauds have gone up this year, with 18 cases being reported so far in 2020, compared to four cases in 2019.The incident was reported to the police by a city-based insurance company, whose 27 customers complained to the company, which suspected foul play following an internal investigation. A complaint was made by a senior manager of the company to the police last month, following which a case of fraud was registered at the Cyber Crime police station.It is suspected that the fraudsters obtained the data through third-party agents or touts, the police said, although it is yet to be ascertained.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that during the probe, they found that fraudsters were impersonating representatives of the insurance company to dupe existing customers and those showing an interest in buying a policy.The fraud victims said they started getting calls from the imposters from May, after they had skipped payment of the premium of their term insurance. “In June 2016, I bought a life term insurance policy, whose annual premium was due every June. I had paid a premium for two years consecutively. However, last year I skipped paying the premium and thought I will pay it fully in 2020,” one of the victims, who was duped of Rs 5 lakh, told the police in a statement.Goel said that the victims have shared all pertinent data — forged quotations, fake and fabricated renewal notices received by them, forged logo of the company and proofs of payment made to bank accounts.“A few customers (of the insurance company) have also shared screenshots of WhatsApp chats with the imposters. One of the customers has also shared an audio clip of the conversation with the imposter and one has shared a forged ID card purported to be issued by the complainant company. Records reveal that there are certain imposters who have been defrauding existing and new customers by pretending to be its employees,” he said.The police said this is not the only case and that more than six private insurance companies have contacted them with similar complaints.Police commissioner KK Rao said they have formed a team and involved their cybercrime investigators to probe the case. “We have taken all details from the company, bank accounts and the details of their cellphone numbers. The suspects switched off their mobile phones after making the calls but had the same mobile numbers, which they used every day for three months. So, it is earlier for us to identify their locations. We will arrest the suspects using technical surveillance soon, as teams have been left for six areas in UP and Bihar,” he said.Rao said they have duped more than 60 people as per the records they have recovered, but they are yet to ascertain exact details and that the company has received only 27 complaints so far.According to the investigators at the Cyber Crime police station, the number of people falling victim to online frauds has increased during the lockdown.“Mostly, people are using digital payment options without observing the necessary precautions, which makes them prone to online fraud. People are now glued to their phones and cybercriminals are taking advantage of this by posing as insurance representatives or e-commerce sellers,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-booked-for-rs-2-4-crore-insurance-fraud/story-3FdZ1axpCwbpObBKxsYI1O.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||HSVP carries out demolition drive in Sector 57||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive in Sector 57 to clear out 30 plots on a piece of land, which have been encroached upon by private individuals over the last few years. The land, which was acquired by HSVP from local villagers, has been stuck in litigation for the last one-and-a-half decade. Last month, the Punjab and Haryana High Court gave the order in HSVP’s favour. This has now enabled the authority to hand over the possession of these plots to the allottees who are the rightful owners, said HSVP officials. On Wednesday morning, a team of HSVP officials demolished 22 temporary residential structures, 50 tenements and two shops amid strong resistance and protest by residents and locals. Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP, Gurugram, said that these plots had been encroached upon. However, after the high court’s verdict, the plots will now be handed over to the rightful owners. “The enforcement team started the work to remove the encroachments in the morning,” said Kalia, adding that due to the HC verdict in its favour, the authority would be able to hand over more than 800 plots, which were earlier stuck due to litigation. The enforcement team was led by SK Rana, sub-divisional engineer, survey, and Kartar Singh, naib tehsildar, who was the duty magistrate, while a large police team supported the authority officials during the drive. Earlier on Tuesday, Kalia said encroachments were also removed from sectors 27 and sector 43 dividing roads. “A number of complaints had been made by residents regarding the encroachments on main roads. Action was taken against the violators and they would not be allowed on these roads again,” said Kalia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-carries-out-demolition-drive-in-sector-57/story-5suGsUxUtv13MY21vhqvdP.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||Over 300 new Covid-19 cases reported after a month;tally crosses 26,000-mark||The city reported 304 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, after a month of reporting less than 300 daily cases. Health officials said that they will have to observe the new figures for the next two to three days to understand the impact of the festival season on the Covid count.The last time when the count new Covid-19 cases had reached 314 was on September 21. In the first half of September, more than 300 new infections were emerging every day. It even crossed the 400-mark on September 20. A slight decline was visible in the last week of September, with cases hovering at 280. In October, the number daily cases remained at an average of 260, according to the health department officials.On Wednesday, with 304 new cases, the total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 crossed the 26,000-mark. Till now, 26,176 patients have been affected by Covid-19. Out of these 195 have died due to the illness, with nearly 73% deaths being reported due to co-morbidity. Presently, there are 2,424 are active cases. Among them, 153 are seriously ill patients undergoing treatment in hospitals, while 2,259 are in home isolation and 12 in district Covid Care Centres. “The total positivity rate of the district is eight percent. There has been an increase in the number of new cases as almost 30 cases have been added after pending police verification,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to him incomplete addresses given at the time of testing creates problem in identifying cases and their contact tracing. It takes a day or two for the police to trace these cases, after which they are added to the list. When asked about the impact on the positivity rate due to the ongoing Navratri festival and people thronging temples and markets, Yadav, said, “The team will get a better idea on Saptmi and Maha Ashtami (auspicious days of Navratri). The numbers may increase but it will be difficult to predict now. Therefore, we will observe the situation till the next week. Accordingly, the department will work upon the strategy.” Currently, over 3,000 tests are being conducted every day, with more than 2,000 Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests and nearly 850 antigen tests. Taking note of the festival season, the health department has deployed two testing vans to conduct Covid-19 testing outside crowded markets and shopping malls from 5pm to 8pm. Teams are covering nearly 20 sites through these evening camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-300-new-covid-19-cases-reported-after-a-month-tally-crosses-26-000-mark/story-ZGp5cO0fDJvbb24GYVYLcP.html
21-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG to use C&D waste in construction of roads, footpaths||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is considering the possibility of using construction and demolition (C&D) waste recovered from Bandhwari landfill in the construction of roads and footpaths across the city, said officials on Wednesday. The matter was proposed during a meeting of the finance and contract committee (F&CC) on October 16 and received in-principle approval.As per MCG officials, three types of waste are separated from solid waste with the help of trommel screening machines at the Bandhwari landfill. C&D waste constitutes one of such waste materials. Currently, the civic body’s concessionaire is paying a third-party agency to clear the C&D waste from the landfill.MCG officials said instead of disposing of the waste, it can be incorporated by the civic body itself and used as a raw material while laying the base layer of roads and footpaths. “The matter was put forward for discussion before the F&CC committee and was verbally approved. We are now working on compiling a proposal and sending it to senior MCG officials for consideration,” said Satyawan Singh, superintending engineer (SE), MCG. Currently, the MCG purchases raw material at a rate of nearly ₹40 per cubic feet. Officials further said, at its optimum capacity, the trommel machine can separate daily waste of around 50-60 tons of C&D waste, which, if used in road and footpath construction, will not only help in recycling of waste but also save the MCG their funds for purchasing of raw material.As per a senior MCG official privy to the matter, when waste is lifted from different parts of the city, C&D waste often gets mixed up with wet, dry, and other types of waste before being eventually dumped at the landfill. First, the bio-remediation process is initiated at the landfill that involves spraying of liquid with a high content of bacteria that decomposes organic material.After 3-4 weeks of this process, the mixed waste is then screened via the trommel machine, which segregates waste into different types, including C&D waste, manure, and residual derived fuel (RDF).“The MCG’s proposal will club the utilisation of all three wastes together. We’ll have to wait and see whether one, two, or all three of them get approval at the same time so that the next steps can be initiated,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.Around 850 tonnes of C&D waste is dumped every day in the city, according to an estimate by the civic body.“C&D waste layers are ideal for footpaths, cycle tracks, village, and internal city roads. However, these cannot be used for roads which have heavy vehicle movement, such as master roads and highways as stretches with layers of C&D waste tend to have a low-weight bearing capacity. In such stretches, roads can easily sink or be riddled with potholes if the base layer consists of C&D waste. Hence, MCG needs to be cautious and selective when finalising stretches where they intend to use C&D waste,” said Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi.Recycling of C&D waste is not an entirely novel venture for the MCG. On December 5, last year, MCG’s C&D plant opened in Basai. Depending on the C&D load, the plant is capable of processing 300-1,800 tonnes of waste every day.The plant recycles items such as kerbstones, tiles, pavement blocks, concrete bricks, and concrete aggregate products such as gravel, sand, stones, concrete, items primarily used in construction. As part of its agreement with its concessionaire, MCG receives around 10% commission fee for the sale of any product processed and recycled at the plant.Notably, as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures, the MCG has collected nearly 2.5 lakh metric tonnes of C&D waste from different parts of the city last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-use-c-d-waste-in-construction-of-roads-footpaths/story-NAJJICVvH52jHAMeCsIwQL.html
21-10-2020||City||Police Commemoration Day: Tributes paid to police officers who succumbed to Covid-19||Police observed Police Commemoration Day at Police Lines, on Wednesday, to pay tributes to personnel belonging to police and paramilitary forces who lost their lives in the line of duty.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has lauded the contribution of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaspal Singh, who had laid their lives in the line of duty while serving the society during the lockdown.Agrawal said that ACP Kohli contracted the virus while he was on duty and succumbed to the infection on April 18. ASI Jaspal Singh had succumbed to coronavirus on August 10.The police chief said that their contribution will always be remembered. Photos of ACP Kohli and ASI Jaspal are added to the remembrance wall installed at Police Lines. The police chief met their families and also promised every possible help to them.Families of ACP Kohli and ASI Jaspal Singh planted saplings in memory of departed souls in the police lines. The police chief has also honoured their families.Agrawal urged people to fight the anti-national forces jointly. He said that it is only because of the sacrifices of those killed in the line of duty that we are living in a peaceful environment and communal harmony.He was also accompanied by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, former DGP DR Bhatti, besides several others.Agrawal paid tributes to the police and paramilitary personnel who were killed in the line of duty in different parts of the country. A contingent of police gave a salute to them and officials and dignitaries present on the occasion observed two minutes silence.While narrating the historical importance of the Police Commemoration Day parade, Agrawal said that it is observed by the police of all the states and the paramilitary forces throughout the country to pay tributes to CRPF jawans, who were killed in the line of duty on October 21, 1959, at Hot Springs (Ladakh) during an assault by the Chinese Army. He also lauded the sacrifices made by the state police in combating militancy in the state as well as combating internal disturbances in other states for maintaining peace.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appreciated the role of the police in combating the Covid-19 pandemic.Agrawal said that a total of 117 police personnel of Ludhiana Police laid down their lives while combating terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-commemoration-day-tributes-paid-to-police-officers-who-succumbed-to-covid-19/story-fdQBkXk6mip16SyEEw0IbK.html
21-10-2020||City||Compartment exams: PSEB increases number of centres in Ludhiana to maintain social distancing||Punjab School Education Board has increased the number of examination centres for compartment exams of Classes 10 (open school) and 12 from 17 to 42 in Ludhiana to maintain social distancing. The examination will begin on October 26. As many as 4,981 (1,712 of Class 12 and 3,269 of Class 10) candidates are expected to appear in the exams.The examination will begin at 11am and conclude at 2.15pm. As per the instructions from the board, candidates have to reach the centre one hour earlier so that the staff can conduct thermal screening and can direct them to sit in the classrooms allotted to them. If any student has any Covid-19 symptoms then he/she will be seated in a separate room. The students have also been directed to wear masks, carry sanitisers and bring transparent water bottles. The board also directed the centre controllers to ensure a gap of six feet between students while deciding the seating plan. To ensure proper physical distancing inside the halls, the invigilators will not distribute or collect the answer sheets. Students will pick up one of the sheets kept at the invigilators’ tables according to their roll numbers and after attempting the paper, will put them back on the table.The board is sending Rs 700 to all the centre controllers to purchase hand sanitizers and soaps to maintain hygiene on the premises. The schools which are set up as examination centres will have to get their premises cleaned and sanitised two days before the exam.PSEB controller of examination Janak Raj Mehrok said, “We have increased the number of centres in Punjab to maintain social distancing. The centre controllers have been instructed to follow all SOPs and make necessary arrangements to ensure the safety of the students and the staff on duty. We are also sending funds to examination centres to purchase hand sanitisers and soaps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/compartment-exams-pseb-increases-number-of-centres-in-ludhiana-to-maintain-social-distancing/story-zn4lAh4lIAFTz6mW5mI0oM.html
21-10-2020||City||DMCH holds online lectures to observe World Iodine Deficiency Day||Highlighting the importance of Iodine for overall well-being, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) observed ‘World Iodine Deficiency Day’ on Wednesday. Faculty from the department of endocrinology, DMCH conducted online lectures to create awareness among the public about proper intake of iodine for better health. Consumption of adequate quantity of iodine is essential for overall well-being, advised Dr Parminder Singh, professor and head of the endocrinology department, DMCH. Dr Singh said that Iodine is one of the essential dietary minerals that is required in the body for normal thyroid function, growth, and development. If a person suffers from Iodine deficiency, it can lead to a number of health conditions that can even be fatal. “The body does not make iodine, but it is an essential part of your diet. A certain amount of iodine is always required in the body in order to create a vital chemical known as the thyroid hormone,” he said.Professor of endocrinology, Dr Naveen Mittal said that proper functioning of thyroid hormones affects all the cells in the body and the hormones are also important for the proper development of cells. These hormones play a crucial role in increasing the metabolic rate of the body, regulate the growth of long bones, and help in the development of the brain.Assistant professor in the department of endocrinology, DMCH, Dr Surabh Arora said, “One of the main sources of iodine is obviously the salt. Apart from salt, milk, and egg yolks are another source of iodine. These are good for children as these provide another essential brain nutrient for them too. Also do not ignore the intake of vegetables and fruits like sweet potato, onion, spinach, banana, and cantaloupe that contains iodine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmch-holds-online-lectures-to-observe-world-iodine-deficiency-day/story-5Gm3b2XZosBneDxGq3KciO.html
21-10-2020||City||SAD asks Ludhiana Mayor to hold MC house meet within 15 days or face stir||With Mayor Balkar Sandhu failing to conduct the municipal corporation (MC) general house meet for over seven months, a delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors met him on Wednesday and gave an ultimatum to call a meeting in 15 days, or face agitation. The councillors said that residents are raising a hue and cry over clogged sewer lines, potholed roads, non-functional streetlights among other issues, but the civic body is paying no heed to the problem. Rather the mayor is making excuses to further delay the general house meeting, they said. Leading the delegation of councillors, leader of opposition in the MC general house, Harbhajan Dang said, “We have been demanding that the mayor should call a meeting so that problems being faced by residents can be resolved. We had also met the mayor in this regard on September 29, but no announcement has been made by him so far.”“Now, we have given an ultimatum of 15 days to the mayor to call a general house meeting or the party will raise an agitation against the civic body and state government,” said Dang. Councillor Jaspal Singh said that contractors have also been delaying the development projects and many road samples collected by the MC in the past have failed the quality test, but the civic body has failed to take action against such contractors. “A meeting of the MC general house should be conducted at the earliest”, he said.Councillors and SAD leaders including Sarabjeet Singh Laddi, Paramjeet Garcha, Surjeet Singh Rai, Manpreet Singh Manna, Balwinder Shanky, Nirmal Singh among others were also a part of the delegation. Covid test necessary for councillors: MayorMayor Balkar Sandhu said that he will announce the meeting of the MC general house but every councillor will have to get a Covid-19 test as per the guidelines issued by the state government. Dang, however, slammed the claim of the Mayor stating that the assembly session was held with MLAs undergoing the Covid-19 test. “If the mayor is concerned over the spread of the virus, then the meeting can be organised at Guru Nanak Stadium, where it would be easy to maintain social distancing,” he said.Dang said that the mayor is making excuses to further delay the meeting as the civic body has failed to work efficiently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-asks-ludhiana-mayor-to-hold-mc-house-meet-within-15-days-or-face-stir/story-fDNSG5ka1QmSo1yRISraUO.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad district official rush to Karhera after 236 Dalits ‘convert’ to Buddhism||A controversy has broken out over 236 Dalits from a colony in Ghaziabad’s Karhera allegedly converting to Buddhism to protest the Hathras gang-rape and murder case, following which district administration officials rushed to take stock of the situation on Wednesday. Those who allegedly “converted” were said to be residents of Valmiki Basti, near the Hindon airbase. They claimed they converted on October 14 to seek justice for the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras who was allegedly gang-raped and later died of her injuries last month.District officials, however, said there had been no conversion and that when they visited the locality, people raised issues such as jobs, power supply and housing.Pawan Valmiki, 27, who says he has changed his surname to “Boudh” after the “conversion”, said more people would convert in case their 16-point agenda of demands, which they claimed they had submitted to the delegation, were not met within a week. “Justice for our sister (Hathras victim) who was murdered is a major concern for us. About 236 people converted to Buddhism on the evening of October 14. In coming time, more people will get converted in case the victim of Hathras case doesn’t get justice,” said Pawan, adding other demands were indeed related to other issues. “We don’t have a community centre here for functions. We have also not received benefits of PM Awas Yojna and Ujjwala Schemes. People from Dalit community are basically sidelined. The MLA, district magistrate and senior superintendent of police heard us and promised that the issues will be resolved,” he said, adding that he founded the ‘Navyuvak Sangharsh Sewa Samiti’ to demand their rights.The Hathras case, which sparked widespread outrage after the police forcibly cremated the victim’s body, is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Vir Singh, another resident, said that people of his caste felt pressured and that they were appalled by the events that took place at Hathras. “If we do not get justice this time, we will search for some other way. It is likely that more people will convert. We want justice and our youth need jobs,” he said. “There is lot of resentment in our community. So, slowly, we all will get converted to Buddhism,” said Rajjo, another resident. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said prohibitory orders were in place at Karhera since the pandemic struck, making it impossible that 236 people to gather for a “conversion” ceremony. However, an additional district magistrate was inquiring into it, he added.“We spoke to the residents there, including Pawan Valmiki. They raised issues such as the lack of jobs, electricity, housing, among others. He claimed that some locals had threatened them. The senior superintendent of police will take appropriate action. Pawan told us that the decision (to convert) was taken in the heat of the moment. But he did not raise the Hathras case with us,” said Pandey. “They did not hand over any letter about a 16-point agenda.”Sahibabad MLA Sunil Sharma, who also accompanied the district administration, said there was a political conspiracy behind the entire issue. “We have come to know of involvement of people from a political party. During the meeting, people raised their local issues like housing, ration cards, etc. There is no conversion,” he said.Community meets KejriwalPawan Valmiki on Wednesday met with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the Capital. Pawan said he is the founder-president ‘Navyuvak Sangharsh Sewa Samiti’ formed to fight for Dalit rights. He had earlier worked as a housekeeping staff at a highrise in Mohan Nagar but lost his job during the lockdown. “My father is bed ridden due to ailment for about 5-6 years and I lost the job. I have to feed my family which also include a son and a daughter. Our electricity bills are mounting and can be disconnected any day,” he said. “Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal sent a car for us and five of us went to meet him at his official residence. He shared his concerns over the Hathras incident but also said that we should not have converted. He also assured us that he will come at Karhera in couple of days to meet us.”.Later, AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh tweeted pictures of the meeting and wrote, “There is no justice for Dalits under the rule of Yogi Adityanath. They are being raped and murdered. Angry after the Hathras scandal, several from the Valmiki community left Hinduism. They shared their pain with Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-district-official-rush-to-karhera-after-236-dalits-convert-to-buddhism/story-B06l92ItJVzXwXsbnkFv1K.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Over 90% Covid-19 patients in home isolation cured, shows data||Manish Kumar had a few hours of anxiety after testing positive for Covid-19 on September 21. But, after receiving a call from the integrated control room, the 34-year-old resident of Sector 77 found himself in a comfort zone. The doctor from other side told him not to worry. “His voice was so soothing that I got sure that I can defeat this deadly virus at my home,” he said. After a few hours, a health worker came to his house, gave him a pulse oximeter and some medicines, and briefed him and his family about the home isolation protocols. From the next day, Manish was in regular communication with the doctors and other medical staff. “They used to call me at least twice a day to know about my pulse rate, oxygen saturation level, body temperature and urine output. Phone calls from them were a routine affair for me till I defeated Covid-19 in 14 days,” he said. Manish, however, is not an exception. Vibha Choudhary, a 55-year-old homemaker from Sector 51 who tested positive also narrates a similar story. “For the first time in my life, I’ve seen that doctors and medical officials can be so co-operative. And, that too without taking any money,” she said. As per data from the Gautam Budh Nagar health department, 1,955 Covid-19 patients out of a total 2,153 till October 21, who were allowed home isolation in the district, have been cured. And since July 25, when home isolation facility for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients was permitted by the state government, no such patient has died in the district, officials said. GB Nagar district additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Lalit Kumar, who is also the in-charge of home isolation in the district, said that a team of doctors and paramedics takes the stock of home isolated patients at least twice in a day between 9 am and 8 pm. “We also arrange motivational calls for them to boost up their morale as any negativity in the mind can make Covid-19 infection lethal. A patient is shifted to Covid-dedicated hospitals, in case the pulse rate is alarmingly low or temperature goes very high. Also, if the oxygen saturation rate goes below 95%, we immediately shift the patient to hospital from home isolation. So far, we have referred 68 home isolated patients to different Covid-19 hospitals, but all of them recovered soon. None of the home isolated patients in the district has succumbed to the infection,” the ACMO said. About the eligibility for home isolation, the ACMO said that person must be certified an asymptomatic case and should have adequate facility at home for self isolation. “The patient must have a caretaker, who will be available with the patient round the clock. Patients should also agree to monitor their health and updated status must be shared with the district surveillance officer. It is mandatory to follow home quarantine protocols for other members of the patient’s family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-90-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-cured-shows-data/story-QA09rHcH9dDMW5moUZl9mN.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Covid-19 cases dip as Ghaziabad crosses 17,000-mark||The district has witnessed a dip in the number of average Covid-19 cases per day in the current month. The first 18 days in September saw an average of 204 positive cases per day, while during the same period this month the cases have come in at an average of about 155 per day, according to data from the district health department. On Wednesday, Ghaziabad reported 42 new Covid-19 cases, taking the district’s total tally to 17,492.Unlike the previous instances when every lot of 1,000 cases was being reported in a gap of about four to six days ever since the district completed 10,000 Covid-19 cases (on September 10), the latest 1,000 cases, when the district achieved a total of 17,000 cases, has come in a longer duration of eight days, as per the figures of the state control room. The district achieved 16,000 cases on October 10 and reached the 17,000-mark on October 18. Officials said that the declining trend is encouraging. “The cases are now coming in at a slower pace, and we expect that there will be more decrease in numbers in coming days. We are still emphasizing on better surveillance, contact tracing and early referral of patients. Further, there is also strict adherence to social distancing and wearing of face masks so that the infection do not spread during the festival season,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Between September 1 and 18, the district conducted 64,429 tests, while it increased the testing and conducted 78,321 tests during the first 18 days of October. Experts, however, said that there have been no exceptional works done when it comes to tackling Covid-19. “There is an overall trend of decline in cases. It seems to be a natural phenomenon with the virus that reached its peak and is now on declining trend. It could be possible that it can come in waves and at present it reached the peak of a wave and declining,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “However, it is a time when we need to be more alert as the virus has not died down and will stay till a susceptible population is available to it. We must also improve health care infrastructure in remote areas to tackle it if it moves to such places,” he added. Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad, said that the reasons for decline in cases could be manifold. “It (reasons) may range from lesser testing to herd immunity getting developed in community. But it needs to be probed more. On the other hand, there are chances that the cases may increase in winters along with increase in air pollution. In such times, we need to take every preventive measure,” Agarwal said. Meanwhile, officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that they will now be conducting about 3,100 tests per day as directed by the state officials. “Earlier, we were told by the nodal officer to conduct 6,000 tests per day. During a recent video conference, we were told by the state officials to stick to daily target of 3,100 tests which includes 2,000 through the rapid antigen kits. So, we will try to keep the 2,000 tests with the rapid kits while we may increase RT-PCR testing in coming days,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-cases-dip-as-ghaziabad-crosses-17-000-mark/story-nPKHldmYaiwitH1Hcefj2M.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Prices of potatoes, onions go through the roof||The prices of vegetables such as onions and potatoes have gone through the roof, upsetting household budgets across the city. Vegetable sellers said that the prices have increased due to low supply and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and claimed that they are getting the vegetables at high rates from the mandis. On Wednesday, a visit to Noida’s Indira Market in Sector 27 found that potatoes and onions were being sold at ₹50 and ₹60 per kg. In July-August, the retail prices of potatoes and onions in the city were in the range of ₹25-₹30 and ₹35-₹40 per kg, respectively, according to sellers and residents.Residents said that the prices of several vegetables have been soaring for the past three-four months. Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Noida Sector 51, said that he had visited Harola market on Tuesday for vegetables. “I bought potatoes at the rate of ₹45 per kg. I did not buy onions as the Navratra festival is going on. The price rise has affected many people, specially the weaker section of society. This should be checked,” he said. Raju Kumar, a vegetable seller at Indira Market, said that prices have increased due to the coronavirus outbreak and high demand. “We buy vegetables from mandis at Bhangel and Phase 2 in Noida, and Azadpur and Okhla in Delhi. In wholesale markets, the prices have increased and hence we have to raise the rates too,” he said. The rates of other vegetables have also increased. Sunil Kumar, another vegetable seller, said that tomatoes are being sold at ₹60 per kg and cauliflower ₹80 per kg. “The vegetable market is down since the coronavirus outbreak. We have to manage the transportation cost and manpower. Prices have increased due to low supply,” he said. However, the Uttar Pradesh government has asked the district administrations across the state to check the rates of potatoes and onions, saying that the rates of these vegetables in the wholesale mandis are significantly low. Manoj Singh, additional chief secretary, UP government, on October 10 wrote a letter to the district administrations over price rise of potatoes, tomatoes, and onions. “In mandis, the prices per quintal of potatoes are ₹2,320-2,820; tomatoes ₹2,000-₹3,646; and onions ₹1,430-3,380. The local price rise is due to hoarding and black-marketing of goods,” the letter stated. Noida city magistrate Umashankar Singh said, “We have not received any complaint from residents about the price hike. We will talk to the different stakeholders to check the prices of these vegetables.” Santosh Kumar, secretary, wholesale sabzi mandi at Noida Phase 2, said that the prices of vegetables have increased in the past three months. “Most of the vegetables in Noida markets come from other states like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The import is less due to adverse weather conditions,” he said. Kumar said that the price also depends on the quality of vegetables. “The wholesale rate of onion is ₹40; potato ₹30 and tomato ₹25 per kg,” he said.Suhas LY, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, said that he has received the government order on vegetable price hike. “We will launch an enforcement drive and take action against the violators, if any,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-prices-of-potatoes-onions-go-through-the-roof/story-RyH6xDZH6KNdjlfHXIYC5K.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Yamuna authority to float infrastructure bonds to raise funds||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has decided to raise funds via infrastructure bonds for development projects and land acquisition around the Noida International Greenfield airport coming up at Jewar. This is the first time in Uttar Pradesh that a land owning agency will raise funds this way.While officials said that banks were eager to lend to Yeida after the airport project was approved, the authority believes raising funds through bonds could get it low cost funds.Many critical infrastructure projects are expected to be built around the Jewar airport. A high-speed Metro line, an extension of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and other road projects are part of the plan, which is expected to cost around ₹10,000 crore. Jewar is 70km away from Delhi and 30 km away from Greater Noida and hence, these links are critical in providing connectivity.“We have hired a Brickwork Ratings that will assess and rate us. It has been mandated to complete the assessment in next two months. Once the ratings will be out we can start raising funds via these instruments. But the rating should be in at least category A or better with A+++ to start raising funds with infrastructure bonds,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the Yedia. “The industrial bodies in Hyderabad and Pune are already selling infrastructure bonds to fund their projects.”Yeida expects that its market value would have increased after the Switzerland company Zurich International AG signed the agreement to build the airport. Work is scheduled to start by the middle of next year and completed by 2023.The Uttar Pradesh government on April 24, 2001, had established Yeida to set up industries to generate employment and develop urban areas along the expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. Around 200,000 hectares from 1,187 villages of six districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Agra -- were notified under Yeida. So far, it has acquired around 16,000 hectares of land for its various schemes.In 2012, it borrowed around ₹3,000 crore from banks and the Noida authority at a rate of 9.5% and 12%, repectively.“Before the airport project was approved, banks were reluctant to provide loan to us, but now everyone wants to give. However, going for bonds will make available funds at lower interest and investors also can get better returns,” said Singh.“The government agencies can go to raise funds via selling bonds. In these bonds the public can directly invest infrastructure projects and earn safely,” said Neeresh Kumar chartered account and expert in finances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-authority-to-float-infrastructure-bonds-to-raise-funds/story-e9733isWdV82Jmwf6igE2N.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Two persons arrested for crimes against minors in Greater Noida||A 25-year-old man visited his friend’s place in Surajpur and allegedly raped a 7-year-old girl in the neighbourhood on Tuesday evening. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the suspect used to visit his friend in Surajpur in search of a job. “The victim lives with her family members in the neighbourhood. The suspect lured the girl into his room with the promise of a toffee and raped her,” she said.When she returned hom, the victim narrated the ordeal to her family who filed a complaint at Surajpur police station. “Police have registered a case against the suspect under Section 376 (rape) of IPC and also under POCSO Act. The victim has been sent for a medical examination and report is awaited,” she said. In another case, a 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 15-year-old girl on Tuesday. The suspect was identified as Govinda, a native of Badaun. He lives on a rented accommodation in Santram Nagar in Site V area in Greater Noida. Vivek Trivedi, SHO Site V police station, said that the suspect had allegedly kidnapped a minor girl from the neighbourhood. “The girl’s family filed a complaint against him. We registered a case under Section 366 and Section 363 of IPC. We conducted a search and rescued the minor girl from the suspect’s rented accommodation,” he said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-persons-arrested-for-crimes-against-minors-in-greater-noida/story-FCaESanTkKn9thBAMyfNvM.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Stubble burning continues to affect air quality in Ghaziabad||Even as the pollution control board and the district administration continue their drive against pollution sources, they have struggling to control the instances of stubble burning. HT on Wednesday found instance of stubble burning in an area near river Hindon behind Mohan Nagar. So far, there have been two major instances of stubble burning in the district in which one was spotted by HT team on October 14 at Kushaliya near Dasna. After verification, the officials suspended the local Lekhpal and also lodged an FIR against the erring person. In another, the officials of the pollution board found instance of stubble burning at Muradnagar and an FIR was also registered in the case on October 17. On Wednesday afternoon, another instance of stubble burning was spotted near Mohan Nagar. When the HT team went to get to know why those who were putting fire to the stubble were doing so, they turned aggressive and did not offer any comment. “We will get the instance verified and will take up suitable action if the instance of stubble burning has taken place. We will also levy penalty in the instance which will be based on the plot area. On our part, we are strictly monitoring the instances of stubble/garbage burning and other pollution generating factors,” said Utsav Sharma, the regional officer of the UP pollution control board. According to official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory – a Division of Agricultural Physics, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, the Ghaziabad district during the period October 1 to November 30 had witnessed 17 instances of stubble burning in 2019. “During a video-conferencing held on Wednesday, the chairperson of the Environmental Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority [Epca] appreciated our efforts and has asked us to step up vigilance to tackle pollution in coming days,” Sharma, added. He said that Bhure Lal, the Epca chairperson, has asked the officials for an action taken report with respect to previous issues prevailing at Kaushmabi and Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area. The pollution board officials also added that they penalised seven instances for ₹50000 each at Mohan Nagar, Sahibabad, Vasundhara, and Krishna Enclave among others where the construction material was laying in open. “As part of our enforcement drive, we demolished 109 illegal factories in Loni which were indulged in works related to operation of furnace, extraction of chemicals, etc. Further, we have also completed the verification of 13 instances of bigger construction sites where the UPPCB had directed for conduct of self-audit and installation of CCTV cameras. One of these was found erring and a penalty of Rs 5 lakh was recommended at a construction site in Morta near Delhi Meerut Road,” Sharma, added. He added that the verification of the rest of 37 sites, which either completed the self-audit or installation of CCTV cameras or both, is under process. According to the figures of the Central Pollution Control Board, the Ghaziabad district recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 254 under ‘poor’ category on Wednesday while the other two cities of Noida and Greater Noida also fared under the same category with AQI of 264 and 284, respectively. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stubble-burning-continues-to-affect-air-quality-in-ghaziabad/story-ibj2QSgu4bfAz0Zvbu0QFM.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Over 85% power feeders in Noida’s urban areas cause heavy line loss||Alarmed by mounting line losses and no let-ups in power theft, the power discom Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has started a crackdown. PVVNL chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said the discom regularly inspects meters of heavy load connections. “We have identified 66 feeders, out of 76 in urban areas, that report line loss of over 50%. Prima facie, it appears power theft is the main reason behind this mounting AT & C (Aggregate Technical and Commercial) loss. We have started checking the meters of consumers with heavy loads in areas where electricity is supplied by these feeders,” he said. Singh said the overall line loss in Noida was around 18%, earlier the state’s power minister Shrikant Sharma had directed officials to bring this down to below 15%. Singh said the ‘faulty’ feeders have been supplying power to around 70,000 consumers mostly from urban villages or developing areas, particularly located on the banks of Yamuna and Hindon rivers. “We have found that power theft is rampant in villages like Wajidpur, Chaura, Jhundpura, Sadarpur, Chhalera, Salarpur, Bhangel and Gejha. Our officials have already started raiding meters of consumers in those areas,” he said. When asked about the possible connivance of power officials in the losses, Singh said, “We are looking into this matter also. If officials are found guilty, action will be taken against them,” he said. The discom has also started disconnection drive against 60,000 defaulters, who have yet not cleared their pending dues of electricity bills of Rs 150 crores. “So far, we have disconnected power lines of over 7,000 defaulters,” the chief engineer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-85-power-feeders-in-noida-s-urban-areas-cause-heavy-line-loss/story-A8iTXRInnuY8ntDApsgHBN.html
21-10-2020||City||Facing abetment to suicide charges, sacked woman sub-inspector held||AMRITSAR A former woman Punjab Police sub-inspector (SI), who was dismissed from service on Tuesday over abetment charges in connection with the suicide by a jeweller and his wife, was arrested on Thursday. Sub-inspector Sandeep Kaur was absconding for the last 13 days. Senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Dhruv Dahiya said she was nabbed from near Dhirowal Bet village under the Shri Hargobindpur police station. The 35-year-old jeweller had ended his life at a hotel on October 10, alleging harassment by Sandeep who was posted at the Mehta police station in the district. The next day, the jeweller’s 32-year-old wife also hanging herself at her house. In the suicide note, the jeweller stated that he was being blackmailed and threatened by the woman SI, a resident of Nawan Pind. Two cases under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code were registered against the SI and her friends at Mohkampura and Jandiala police stations of Amritsar. On Tuesday, the police had booked three people, including a Punjab Police constable, for sheltering the sub-inspector. On Monday, Dahiya had initiated a departmental inquiry against Jandiala deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sukhwinderpal Singh, besides suspending Mehta police station in-charge Satpal Singh for negligence in arresting the SI. “Sandeep had taken ₹17-18 lakh from me and was demanding more. She threatened to kill me if I failed to pay the money. There are screenshots of messages in my phone that will make it clear that she was pressuring me to kill Baljit Singh, her former friend. She also tried to pressure me to kill one Navdeep Sandhu and his wife,” the Jeweller’s suicide note read. Police have also launched search for two more people whose names were in the suicide note and through whom the SI had allegedly been collecting money from the jeweller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facing-abetment-to-suicide-charges-sacked-woman-sub-inspector-held/story-Q4sDTZiT4Fsv8jX6KVHlGN.html
21-10-2020||City||Elected members demand meetings at PMC headquarters||PUNE: After various business establishments, now political members have sought lifting the ban on conducting general body meetings of civic body. Elected members of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday demanded general body and standing committee meetings to be allowed at PMC headquarters. As the state government instructed to conduct online meetings on the background of Covid-19, PMC has been holding general body meetings online since last four months. Elected members from all parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, said that they are not getting a chance to raise various issues. Hence, it is necessary to organise meetings in person. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The city was in the grip of the pandemic since last seven months. Now the virus cases are coming down. Hence, all party leaders, including me, would visit Mumbai and request the chief minister to allow us to hold general body meeting at PMC headquarters.” Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “Administration would put the elected members’ demand in front of the state government. We still have instructions to organise the general body meetings online.” Opposition party leader in PMC Deepali Dhumal said, “Pune zilla parishad is organising online meetings better that the municipal corporation. Many elected members are not getting a chance to put forth the issues of their respective wards at the meets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elected-members-demand-meetings-at-pmc-headquarters/story-yBsrESeG19Q23TFuBW1vqK.html
21-10-2020||City||CM promises relief aid announcement in two days after discussion in cabinet||Pune: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said his government is committed to restore normalcy in the lives of those hit by heavy rains and floods in the state as soon as possible. Addressing the flood-hit people at Katgaon as he toured parts of the Marathwada district, Thackeray said the state cabinet will meet on Wednesday or Thursday to take a decision on the relief to be given to the affected people. “In the next couple of days we will announce a relief package for flood-affected farmers in the state. We will ensure farmers stay on their farms. I am not here to tell you the numbers, but we will take decisions which will satisfy flood victims,” Thackeray said on Wednesday, on a visit to Osmanabad district’s flood-affected areas. “This year started with a global disaster and our state was also affected. Then there were cyclones and now the heavy rains have affected our state. For the next seven-eight days the returning rains will be there. I know everyone is looking at me with a lot of hope, but just to please the citizens I won’t announce any big numbers. I will say what I will definitely do. I will ensure that all the flood-affected areas and people will be fully supported by our government,” Thackeray said. Talking about the delay in the panchanama process, he said, “The state cabinet meeting will be held and by that time 80 per cent of the panchanamas will be completed. Once we get a complete review, we will ensure that each and every family affected by the floods will be given support and help. I promise that our government will help people in all possible ways to come back strong from this disaster.” Maharashtra was affected by floods last week due to heavy rains on October 14 and 15. Several parts of Pune, Solapur and Osmanabad districts were affected. To review the flood-affected villages and farms, chief minster Uddhav Thackeray and state opposition party leader Devendra Fadnavis have started their visits since Monday. Thackeray accompanied by other state cabinet ministers of Maha Vikas Aghadi was on Osmanabad district visit on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-promises-relief-aid-announcement-in-two-days-after-discussion-in-cabinet/story-Mc3pCCeHWHJvAa84l0LPKN.html
21-10-2020||Noida||Air quality plunges to ‘very poor’ in parts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Gr Noida, ‘poor’ in Ghaziabad||The air quality plunged to ‘very poor’ category in parts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Gautam Buddh Nagar, and Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region on Wednesday, according to a government agency. There was concentration of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants in the air of the four immediate neighbouring districts of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. In Faridabad, the AQI was recorded at 365 at the station in Sector 11 followed by 316 at New Industrial Town, 278 at Sector 30 and 271 at Sector 16A, according to the CPCB data at 8 pm. In Gurugram, an AQI of 331 was recorded at the station in Sector 151 followed by 238 at Vikas Sadan and 228 at the Teri Gram, while there was insufficient data from the station at NISE Gwal Pahari. In Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Noida, the AQI of 277 was measured at Sector 116, 264 at Sector 62 and 249 at Sector 1, while the station at Sector 125 showed “insufficient” data for the last 24 hours. In Greater Noida, an AQI of 340 was recorded in Knowledge Park V while it was 246 in Knowledge Park III, according to the CPCB figures. Adjoining district Ghaziabad’s Loni had an AQI of 297 at 8 pm followed by 270 at Indirapuram and 268 at Sanjay Nagar and 191 at Vasundhara, it showed. The worsening of the air quality comes even as the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) has been implemented in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) from October 15 to check air pollution, which spikes around this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-plunges-to-very-poor-in-parts-of-faridabad-gurugram-gr-noida-poor-in-ghaziabad/story-DRL6y3gUSV5nB3KZtA5ODO.html
21-10-2020||City||GMCH Jammu principal shifted, HoD microbiology to hold charge||The Jammu and Kashmir government transferred Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra as secretary (technical) in health and medical education department on Wednesday.Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo, said, “In interest of administration and patient care, Dr Digra has been transferred and posted as secretary (technical) in health and medical education department.”Head of microbiology department, Dr Shashi Sudan, has been handed over the charge of office of GMCH principal till a regular arrangement is made. On September 14, Dr Digra had written to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and applied for VRS (voluntary retirement scheme) following the interference in working of the hospital by “extra-institutional officials.”The major referral hospital of Jammu region, GMCH has become a battlefield for senior doctors with patient care taking a severe hit. He, however, did not name anyone in the letter.Dr Digra had claimed that there were “some extra-institutional officers, one or two heads of departments and some faculty members who are bypassing the departmental hierarchy and approaching administrative department in technical, professional and administrative matters.”“Such interferences in the internal working of the principal office will create scope for anarchy, indiscipline and further demeaning of the office. This will further create a space for the GMC employees to create nuisance,” read the letter.“In view of this, if my services are not being liked by anybody, I offer to get voluntary retirement,” Dr Digra’s letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmch-jammu-principal-shifted-hod-microbiology-to-hold-charge/story-EE34bSx5Mtg1vGw1Nxr5UM.html
21-10-2020||City||Grand celebrations on J&K Accession Day this year: BJP||This year, there will be grand celebrations on the Accession Day of Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of India, said J&K Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ravinder Raina here on Wednesday.Addressing a meeting of district presidents and district ‘prabharis’ at the party headquarters, Raina said, “This time, the day holds a great significance after the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A. It will be the first time that the day will be celebrated with joy.”“The region is set to celebrate the occasion like August 15 and every BJP leader and activist will make efforts to make it a grand celebration,” Raina added.He said that senior ministers from Centre may also address them on the occasion as it is a “special occasion for people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh”.Raina said BJP will celebrate this day in the form of a grand rally, both physical and virtual in nature, and programmes will be organised in every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grand-celebrations-on-j-k-accession-day-this-year-bjp/story-wuvxqj24C9CoVOt4B1HWXO.html
21-10-2020||City||Leh hill development council goes to polls today||Amid a straight contest between arch-rivals BJP and Congress, the 30-member Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) Leh will go to the polls on Thursday.Additional district commissioner (ADC) of Leh, Sonam Chosjor, who is also the returning officer for the polls, said, “We have made all the arrangements. Polling parties along with polling material have reached the 294 booths set up in 26 constituencies across the district.”Out of the 294 polling booths, 15 have been identified as hypersensitive while 45 are sensitive.It may be stated here that 94 candidates are in the fray for the 26 seats.“Two polling parties were airlifted in IAF choppers to two booths in Changthang area on Tuesday. Polling will be held on Thursday from 8am to 4pm and the results will be declared on October 26,” said Chosjor.Elderly voters cast ballot in advance The ADC also informed that as a special arrangement for elderly voters above the age of 65 and the differently-abled, the administration had reached out to them on October 13 and 14. “Our teams took personal ballot from them at their homes,” he said.Around 1,000 elderly voters had availed the facility, he informed. These included 104-year-old Abe Tsering of Kunjus.EVMs make a debut For the first time, the LAHDC polls are being held using electronic voting machines (EVMs).The temperature in the cold desert plummets to sub-zero during winter, which has just set in.BJP and Congress have fielded their candidates on all the 26 constituencies while Aam Admi Party’s 19 and 23 independents are in the fray.A total of 89,788 voters will elect 26 councillors to the LAHDC, while four will get nominated to the 30-member council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leh-hill-development-council-goes-to-polls-today/story-sqEwyc5XtpGcvcQrD4wHgK.html
21-10-2020||City||264 fresh Covid cases, five deaths in HP||Himachal Pradesh recorded 264 fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday taking the state tally to 19,621. Death count mounted to 275 with five more patients succumbing to the contagion. Two fatalities each were reported in Shimla and Mandi and one in Kangra. Among the new cases, 68 were reported in Mandi, 44 in Kullu, 32 in Shimla, 25 in Solan, 22 in Kinnaur, 19 in Sirmaur, 18 in Kangra, 13 in Bilaspur, 10 in Hamirpur, 9 in Chamba and two each in Lahaul-Spiti and Una. There are 2,636 active cases in the state whereas the tally of cured reached 16,676 with 219 recoveries being recorded on Wednesday. And the recovery rate is at around 85%. The state has conducted over 3.54 lakh tests till date. Solan is the worst affected district with 3,486 cases, followed by Kangra where 2,828 people have been detected positive till date. The graph of infections is rapidly increasing in Mandi where the tally has reached 2,534. Sirmaur has 2,178 cases, Shimla 2,064, Una 1,486, Bilaspur 1,148, Kullu 1,131, Hamirpur 1,124, Chamba 1,070, Lahaul-Spiti 296, and Kinnaur 263.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/264-fresh-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-hp/story-Ycg3wHAlM67GLC51SyJ21O.html
21-10-2020||City||Three more accused held in HRTC paper leak case||Three more people have been arrested in connection with the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) conductor recruitment paper leak case.With this, a total of six people have been arrested since Sunday when the paper was leaked by two candidates at Shimla and Kangra centres.Deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Bimal Gupta, who is heading the SIT formed by director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu to probe the case, said among the three people arrested yesterday, one was a bus conductor and two paper solvers.Accused have been identified as Anil Kumar, Abhishek and Mukesh, all residents of Jawali in Kangra district.The main accused of the case, Manoj Kumar, who was a candidate in the exam, had surrendered before the police on Tuesday. Manoj had sent the question paper to Anil via WhatsApp who then forwarded it to Abhishek and Mukesh, and they sent the solved paper back.Two brothers have been arrested in Shimla in connection with the case.Gupta said that the three accused threw their phones into the Govind Sagar Lake in Bilaspur district in an attempt to destroy evidence. They were on their way to Shimla and were considering moving high court to seek anticipatory bail, however, they returned midway.The question paper of HRTC conductor screening exam was leaked on the social media last Sunday within 20 minutes of the start of the exam. The exam was being conducted by Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC).The leak was first detected in Shimla where a candidate sent photos of the question paper to his brother. Later, police revealed that the copy of paper circulating on the social media was leaked from a centre in Kangra.More that 71% of total 60,000 applicants, vying for 568 posts, had appeared in the exam at 304 centres setup across state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-accused-held-in-hrtc-paper-leak-case/story-Sxi0Zrx2oqyvEXoFTRg40M.html
21-10-2020||City||HPU row: Won’t let students’ voices be suppressed, says Cong MLA||Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh on Wednesday condemned the “misbehaviour” of police and Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) administration with the students saying that he will not let the latter’s voices be suppressed.NSUI and other student organisations have been demanding the university administration to conduct entrance exams for admission in postgraduate courses. However, on Tuesday, the students and police clashed at the university campus when the former tried to meet the vice-chancellor.While interacting with the media, the Congress MLA alleged that HPU had become an arena of RRS politics. He said qualification is being sidelined in the university today as it is operating under the orders being received from Nabha or Nagpur, which is unfortunate.Criticising the state government, Vikramaditya said the BJP-regime also politicised the construction of Rohtang Tunnel when the Congress too had a huge contribution to the same, which cannot be forgotten.The MLA continued that the BJP government was misleading the people by claiming to be working for the development of the state.Vikramaditya asked the state government to show any five works that it had started in the state and completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hpu-row-won-t-let-students-voices-be-suppressed-says-cong-mla/story-Uw5GGGTPODeCxDJp6JMq9K.html
21-10-2020||City||HP governor hails police’s role in Covid fight, unveils awareness cutout in Shimla||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Wednesday unveiled a cut-out prepared by Shimla Police for social awareness about Covid-19 at Raj Bhavan here.He said the police had done an excellent job in fighting the pandemic as frontline warriors and their friendly attitude during this period has changed people’s mindset about cops.However, the governor cautioned that the fight against coronavirus was not over yet and urged the people to wear masks, wash hands with soap, maintain physical distancing in public places and follow all the other guidelines to beat Covid. He called for cooperation towards the Prime Minister’s mass movement appeal against the pandemic.Dattatreya appealed to intensify the police campaign against drugs and said the police could play an important role in protecting the youth from drug addiction.On the occasion of Police Commemoration Day, the governor paid tribute to all the police personnel who have laid down their lives for the country.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla and others from the district police administration were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-governor-hails-police-s-role-in-covid-fight-unveils-awareness-cutout-in-shimla/story-Gf2HcTpbv03zxNhqjki5qJ.html
21-10-2020||City||Apple products made by Shimla-based SHG proving a boon to rural women||Sudarshana, a self-help group (SHG) in Samoli village of Rohru sub-division in the district here has emerged as an example of women empowerment, self-reliance and social upliftment. Their apple products, including like jams, pickles and chips, are making impressive sales in many cities across the country, while helping them earn a living during the coronavirus pandemic.The SHG has an active participation of 25 women who make apple products from C grade apples.The group’s chairperson, Sudarshana Chauhan, said park development officer, Rohru, Dr Kushal Mehta gave them a three-day training on the basics of preparing delicious and better-quality edible products from apples and also shared important information related to the sale of the products.Inspired during the training session, these women started making apple chutneys and jam, as a boost their family income.The SHG chairperson said these products are available at sale centres in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Nagpur and Delhi. Apple chutney is being sold for about ₹400 to ₹800 per kg. Efforts are being made to make these products available in other major cities soon.Horticulture development officer Kushal Mehta said seeing the success of Sudarshana, various training camps will be organised in Rohru subdivision so that the other women of this region are also able to financially support themselves and their families.“The Jai Ram Thakur-led state government is committed towards the upliftment of rural women and is implementing all-inclusive policies and programmes on the ground. In this series, emphasis is being laid on the formation of women SHGs so that the rural economy can be strengthened in the global corona crisis and rural women can be made self-reliant,” he added.He said the SHG in Samoli is synonymous with the empowerment of rural women in Rohru region and is also a source of inspiration. Apart from apple chutney and jam, women are ready to expand the business of other products like pickles, apple chips and tomato sauce. There is also a plan to take interest-free loans for these groups in collaboration with NABARD, which is boosting their economy.Mehta said the nodal officer behind the success of this group was Dr Devraj Kayath and former Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap have also contributed, calling for special emphasis on the training to make women economically independent and empowered during the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apple-products-made-by-shimla-based-shg-proving-a-boon-to-rural-women/story-wG1A3nlozLi2NxXtOv4thK.html
21-10-2020||City||Kullu Dussehra to be a tepid affair under Covid shadow||The centuries-old Dussehra celebrations and Lord Raghunath yatra in Kullu will be a humble affair this year, owing to the stringent Covid pandemic guidelines which call for limited participation, social distancing and wearing of masks.Usually, over 300 deities congregate at Kullu’s famous Dhalpur ground, the venue for the Dussehra celebration. However, this time the district administration has allowed only seven while a maximum of 100 persons is permitted to pull Lord Raghunath’s chariot.Last year, the district administration had invited more than 330 deities for the festival. As many as 250 deities participated in the rath yatra. Kullu Dussehra is the largest cultural events in the state where more than three lakh people take part in the festivities that span over a week.The district administration on Wednesday issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the Dussehra festival. It has only permitted Lord Raghunath, Hadimba Mata, Tripura Sundari Naggar, Bijli Mahadev of Kharahal valley, Lord Jamlu of Peej, Adi Bhrama of Khokhan, Lord Laxmi Narayan of Sainj (Raila) and Lord Bir Nath of Dhalpur, along with the limited numbers of bajantaris, gur, pujari, kardars and hariyans, to take part in the traditional procession.The kardars of the deity have to submit a list of persons accompanying them before October 23 to enable the health authorities to take their samples accordingly. No deity except the ones mentioned above shall participate in the festivities.Only 200 persons, including the Hariyans Devlus of the above mentioned deities, having a Covid negative report shall be allowed to participate in the rath yatra of Lord Raghunath with face masks, gloves and social distancing.No persons other than those having permission to participate in rath yatra shall be allowed on the procession track and the inner and outer peripheries of the Dhalpur ground shall be completely sealed during the yatra — first and the last day of the festival.The persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are advised not to attend the festival. All the devotees accompanying the deities shall ensure self-monitoring of health, downloading Arogya Setu app reporting to the authorities in case of any illnesses. All the devotees and visitors will not be allowed in without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-dussehra-to-be-a-tepid-affair-under-covid-shadow/story-WpPJTVtF3dDjxTR4RHmCbI.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 1,406 fresh Covid-19 cases, 20 deaths in 24 hours||Pune district reported 1,406 fresh Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday, according to the state health department.The district has reported 3.26 lakh Covid-19 cases till date, of which 2.89 have recovered; 6,581 were declared dead and currently, 30,570 are active cases.Pune city reported 442 new cases taking the total count to 1,69,178 and three deaths took the death toll to 3,876. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 230 new cases taking the final count to 82,991 and eight deaths took the death toll to 1,176. Pune rural reported 734 new cases taking the final count to 74,616 and nine deaths took the death toll to 1,529, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 23,371 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count of those recovered to 14,15,679. The recovery rate in the state is 87.51%. Also 8,142 new cases in the state were reported on Wednesday taking the total to 16,17,658. In addition, 180 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Wednesday taking the death toll to 43,127. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.64%. Of 83,27,493 laboratory samples, 16,17,658 have tested positive (19.43%) for Covid-19 until Wednesday. Currently, 24,47,292 people are in home quarantine and 23,312 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-406-fresh-covid-19-cases-20-deaths-in-24-hours/story-rjS6GonbjB5qV7ttGZ1jiN.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Nine more arrested in Rs 20 crore MD seizure case||The crime branch officials of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested nine more persons, including a Nigerian national and a Chhota Rajan aide, in connection with the Rs 20 crore mephedrone (MD) racket that was busted earlier this month. The accused arrested by police used to manufacture drugs at a factory in Ranjangaon MIDC and sold them at high prices in various markets in Pune and Mumbai. While the PCMC police have already seized mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 20 crore in the market, other material worth Rs 90 lakh was confiscated and properties worth Rs 75 lakh has been attached this week. PCMC police chief Krishna Prakash said that the arrested persons had planned to start the second drug manufacturing factory in Palghar district of Thane and had bought two-acre land from the proceeds which they had earned by selling the banned 112kg MD. “Earlier, we had arrested five persons with 20 kg MD worth Rs 20 crore on October 7. After that we had formed six teams to further investigate the case and unearthed the racket,” said Prakash. During the course of the investigation, it was revealed that the accused had conspired to manufacture MD at a defunct factory, Sanyog Biotech Pvt Ltd, at Ranjangaon MIDC. They had manufactured 132kg of MD in December 2019 of which they sold 112kg and 20kg has been seized from their possession. The kingpin behind the drugs racket has been identified Tushar Suryakant Kale, who is a resident of Borivali and has been linked to the Chhota Rajan gang and another notorious criminal Rakesh Shrikant Khanivdekar alias Rocky of Vasai. It is a major breakthrough and such crackdowns will continue to break the back of the criminal syndicates operating in the region, said Prakash. Among the nine fresh arrests, police have apprehended a Nigerian national identified as Jubu Ukodo, a resident of Vasai, who has been charged with selling the 112kg of MD. He had earlier served 10 years’ imprisonment in Kolhapur jail in a drugs case. He has also been accused of tampering with a visa document and a separate case will be filed against him, investigators said. On October 7, the large scale racket was busted after senior police inspector Shriram Pol had received a tip off regarding the operations of the syndicate. Following the input, the police team had nabbed Anandgir Madhugir Gosavi (25), Chetan Fakkad Dandavate (28), Sanjiv Kumar Bansi Raut (44), Akshay Shivaji Kale (25), and Tausif Hasan Mohammad Taslim (31), on Chakan-Shikrapur road wherein 20kg of MD were seized from their possession. Akshay Kale had kept the drugs at his house and they were seized while he was going to sell them in the market. As the investigation progressed, the PCMC police arrested Kiran Rajguru, Ashok Sankpal and Kiran Kale who informed them that drugs were manufactured at Sanyog Biotech Pvt Ltd in Rajangaon MIDC. Accordingly, the factory was raided, contraband recovered and sealed. Tushar Kale and Khanvidekar emerged as the gang leaders and separate teams were deployed who searched for them at different places in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Vasai, Nasik and Palghar. Tushar Kale and Rocky had planned about setting up a drug factory despite being in jail and had hired Ashok Sankpal’s Sanyog Biotech company, which was defunct. Kiran Kale who works as a director with another company in the same area had intervened with Sankpal and the other accused in the case . A meeting was held at his office where it was decided to produce MD at the rate of Rs 60,000 per kg. Tushar Kale had paid Rs 67 lakh as advance money for buying a large quantity of drugs. The police have frozen all their bank accounts and also attached two-acre land in Palsai village in Palghar district .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-more-arrested-in-rs-20-crore-md-seizure-case/story-lcQmY4BAVSxvc2t5GRgvzO.html
21-10-2020||City||Punjab bills fail to cheer up cotton growers||BATHINDA Unmoved by the Punjab assembly’s bill assuring MSP (minimum support price) only for paddy and wheat, farmers in the cotton-growing belt feel that the proposed initiative would derail crop diversification initiatives.This season, Punjab set a record by bringing 5.01 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation, which is the highest since 2010-11 kharif or summer-sown crop season. Official sources said the record was achieved by sustained efforts made to motivate farmers to get out of conventional cropping pattern for judicious use groundwater.But farmers like Gurjit Singh Romana of Danewala Satkosi village in Fazilka district said the inclusion of only two crops for assured minimum rates is a cruel joke with the farming community. “The government should make assured MSP purchase for all crops a legal right of farmers,” he said.Impressed with state government’s initiative on crop diversification, Romana volunteered to sow maize on five acres and on other 15 acres, he continued with cotton.“Cotton is being purchased by private players at about ₹4,800/quintal while the MSP is ₹5,745/quintal with 8% moisture. Similarly, maize has an MSP of ₹1,850 quintal while no buyer is offering more than ₹1,200. I feel cheated for opting for crop diversification. The state government’s claim of calling Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, a ‘historic move’ is a shallow statement until farmers are assured the best rates,” said Romana.Official sources said of nearly 43-lakh quintal cotton arrived in the market last year, nearly 65% was bought by private buyers below the MSP while rest was purchased by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI).“Of 5.36 lakh quintal cotton arrived this year till yesterday, 2.05 lakh quintal was sold below the MSP. It is for the second consecutive year that farmers are being paid less for the cash crop that is an economical backbone of Malwa districts,” says an official. Criticising the bill, another farmer Jagjit Dhaliwal of Acha Rikki village in Fazilka said the bill doesn’t mean much as farmers are already being paid MSP on wheat and non-basmati varieties of paddy. Proposed legal action against those buying wheat-paddy offer no solution to the farmers who sow other crops but get exploited at the hands of the traders, he added. Dhaliwal has sown cotton on six acres and the private players started offering ₹4,800 per quintal at the start of this month even as the rate of the natural fibre has gone up to ₹5,500, still short of the MSP.“Farmers growing wheat and non-basmati rice always are paid at least the MSP. This year, I was paid ₹1,935/quintal by a private trader, ₹10 more than the MSP. But farmers contributing to diversified cultivation need support and assured minimum rates. In fact, assured MSP is a sham political slogan, farmers actually need assured rates on the basis of cost input calculated in the report Dr MS Swaminathan on National Commission on Farmers to enhance profitability,” said Dhaliwal.Kanwaljit Singh, a progressive from Bathinda’s Dialpura Bhai Ka village, said if the state government wants farmers to only grow paddy, why should they risk venturing into cultivating maize of cotton.“I have six-acre land under cotton and this year, I experimented drip irrigation on one acre. As I took my produce to the mandi in the adjoining Kotkapura town of Faridkot district, traders paid me ₹4,600/quintal, a short of over ₹1,000,” he said.Noted agricultural economist Dr SS Johl said proposing assured rates only for two crops is meaningless. “The state may have limited resources but agencies like Markfed should be financially strengthened to come to the rescue of cotton growers whenever private buyers pay less than the MSP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-bills-fail-to-cheer-up-cotton-growers/story-42XG77yiyKm4JLqwUTu4eN.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt directs schools to sensitise students against bursting firecrackers amidst dropping air quality||The Delhi government has directed all schools in the national capital to sensitise students against bursting firecrackers during the festival season in view of the deteriorating air quality, which is an increased cause of concern during the Covid-19 pandemic.Since the schools continue to be closed, the authorities have been advised to use WhatsApp groups and other virtual mediums to motivate the students to “say no to crackers”.“Festive season of Diwali, Chhat Puja and Guru Parb is marked by heavy use of firecrackers, which release toxic pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and many others which pollute the air and cause serious ailments like asthma, bronchitis, hypertension and cardiovascular problems. The air and noise pollution caused by the firecrackers also affect the lives of animals, birds and other living beings on earth,” the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in a letter to the school principals.“The ailing and old persons are all the more prone to catch different allergies and diseases caused by pollution. During the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, ensuring better ambient air quality is essential since respiratory ailment is one of the major symptoms in corona patients and bursting of firecrackers can deteriorate air quality,” it added.The department has directed the schools to sensitise the students about the ill-effects of bursting firecrackers and encourage them to celebrate the festivals by lighting candles, electric fancy lights, earthen lamps and keeping the environment neat and clean.“Students should be motivated to ‘say no to firecrackers’. In addition to this, heads of the schools should direct the teachers to motivate the students to adopt safer and eco-friendly measures to celebrate Diwali and other festivals in a different way, instead of bursting firecrackers.“In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, all the schools are closed for students and hence, all the heads of schools are hereby directed to utilise the WhatsApp groups to share the above information with the students to follow at home,” the DoE said.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 268 at 10 am on Wednesday, while on Tuesday, it was 223.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-directs-schools-to-sensitise-students-against-bursting-firecrackers-amidst-dropping-air-quality/story-7XuVQfDOA3LhvXo8X4gqhO.html
21-10-2020||Bangalore||Heavy rains flood low-lying areas, uproot trees in Bengaluru||The torrential rains lashed some parts of Bengaluru on Wednesday, resulting in waterlogging and uprooting of trees.Many layouts in the low-lying areas had knee-deep water.The worst affected areas were Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Vishveshwarapuram, Lakkasandra, Gottigere, Nagarabavi and Kengeri.Vehicles in the basement of some apartments in the low-lying areas were submerged.Deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan, along with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, visited Rajarajeshwari Nagar.According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, about 70 mm rainfall was recorded in most parts of the city. Channenahalli received the highest at 126.5 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/heavy-rains-flood-low-lying-areas-uproot-trees-in-bengaluru/story-HNdje0ivgDiQUbJZjS3gDL.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||2,500 volunteers at Delhi’s 100 major traffic signals for ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign: Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday launched the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in the city as a measure against pollution.The minister said that if the Delhi government and its residents join forces and fight together in this war against pollution, the city will win.“Till today, all the government agencies were part of this campaign but from today the two crore citizens of Delhi will be part of the war against pollution. During this campaign, we want active participation of every citizen and the goal of this campaign is to bring down vehicular pollution,” Rai said.If two crore population of Delhi contributes responsibly in ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign, then vehicle pollution in the city can be reduced by 15 to 20 per cent, the environment minister said.“About one crore vehicles are registered in Delhi, which on an average burn fuel in Delhi for about 15 to 20 minutes per day at the red light. The purpose of this ‘Red Light on, Gaadi Off’ campaign is to stop fuel burning from vehicles standing at the traffic signals of Delhi,” Rai added. “This entire campaign is voluntary, the people of Delhi have to voluntarily join the campaign.”As many as 2,500 civil defence volunteers have been assigned on the ground at 100 major traffic signals in Delhi in collaboration with the traffic police for the campaign.“These volunteers will make people aware of this campaign through placards. Their duty has been given in two shifts, the first shift will be from 8 am to 2 pm and the second shift will be from 2 pm to 8 pm,” Rai said.“We are confident that with people’s participation we will successfully run this campaign and bring down vehicular pollution,” Rai concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-500-volunteers-at-delhi-s-100-major-traffic-signals-for-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-gopal-rai/story-NiWpNGUBAGaMH3SVdSKNDJ.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police cop educates underprivileged kids under open sky school||Sitting under the open sky, with books in their hands and the yearning to learn, dozens of young children throng the school, run on rug covered flooring. Here’s where Than Singh, a Delhi police constable, takes to the board to write the topic of the day, and thus begins the learning process. At the Sai Temple compound inside Red Fort parking area, this open sky school has been run by Singh, since 2016. Catering to kids of labourers, who work in neighbourhood areas, this school is Singh’s way to serve the society.“I don’t want these young kids to get into bad company — betting, gambling or drugs. Nor do I want them to become rag pickers and collect bottles from the streets. I want them to study and achieve something in life,” says Singh. A resident of Delhi’s Paschim Vihar, this cop truly understands the value of education, and the meaning of the right to education that he wants every child to have. Hence, he manages funds for the school from generous donors, and people who willingly lend a helping hand. “We provide the kids with notebooks, stationery, and even sweaters in winter. Basically, we provide anything that can make their life better,” adds Singh, who is a father to two kids, and feels “pleasure in devoting time to teach young children”. In this endeavour, he is joined by another tutor, Ankita Sharma.Their school, which had to shut down due to the lockdown since most labourers had gone back to their villages, has recently restarted. Singh explains, “Around 25-30 kids are dropped here by their parents everyday! These kids don’t have mobile phones, so can’t attend online classes, and hence I reopened the school. We teach them from 5.30pm to 7pm. Amid the pandemic, we have been ensuring that they maintain social distancing, as per safety requirements. I’m also trying to teach them about sanitisation and providing them masks, so that they stay safe and propagate the significance of masks to their parents back home as well.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-cop-educates-underprivileged-kids-under-open-sky-school/story-rnMaWZmmsilEZvCUGDL3ON.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||‘BJP should think why its foundation stones are coming off’: Uddhav Thackeray on Khadse’s resignation||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the resignation of Eknath Khadse. Thackeray said that the BJP should think why its foundation stones are coming off.“When someone like Eknathji Khadse, who expanded the BJP’s base, leaves the party, then the BJP should think why its foundation stones are coming off when it is reaching the pinnacle of success,” the chief minister said about his party’s former ally.“There is no point in reaching the pinnacle if the foundation stones are coming off,” he added. Thackeray was speaking in Osmanabad where he took stock of the losses caused due to heavy rains and floods last week.“Earlier, we (Shiv Sena) left the NDA, the Shiromani Akali Dal also left the alliance recently. Now Khadse is also not with the BJP. Hence, the BJP should think about it. Being an old friend of the BJP, it is my duty to alert them,” he said.Also Read| Maharashtra: Khadse quits BJP, blaming Devendra Fadnavis for the decision; to join NCPThackeray also said that he is ready to “welcome” Khadse in the family of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), which comprises of Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Khadse announced his resignation on Wednesday, blaming former chief minister and now leader of opposition in Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis for taking such a step. He said that Fadnavis, through the police, fabricated false cases against him.“The then CM (Devendra Fadnavis) instructed police to register FIR against me on false allegation of harassment by a woman. He said the case would be withdrawn later. Inquiries for corruption was initiated against me in which I came clean. I suffered a lot in BJP,” he said while interacting with the media.Khadse further said that he will join the NCP on October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-should-think-why-its-foundation-stones-are-coming-off-uddhav-thackeray-on-khadse-s-resignation/story-FqRnOB5rzdfYwk2T9AKnTO.html
21-10-2020||City||Tripura government announces special provision for sacked teachers in clerical, staff posts||The Tripura government has announced ahead of the annual Durga Puja that over 4,000 posts would be filled in the home and manpower and employment department coupled with a special provision for over 9,000 school teachers, who were sacked six years ago because of a faulty recruitment process. The state government has earmarked 4,000 posts for non-technical lower division clerks (LDCs) and multi-tasking staff and another 500 are for constables in Tripura Police. Altogether 10,323 school teachers, who were sacked six years ago due to the faulty recruitment process, would get relief in age for LDC and multi-tasking employees’ posts.“The selection tests for the Group C and Group D posts will be conducted through a joint recruitment board. As per the new recruitment rules, the candidates have to appear for written tests and viva voce for 85 and 15 marks, respectively,” said Ratan Lal Nath, state minister for education.Also read: Tripura scribes reject offer of talks, demand CM Biplab Deb withdraw remarkThe job aspirants for LDCs and multi-tasking employees need to clear a typewriting test within six months if they don’t have any knowledge of the medium, he added. “There is a special age-relaxation for the 10,323 sacked school teachers for the posts of LDCs and multi-tasking employees,” said the minister. In September, the state cabinet had approved that the 10,323 school teachers would get an opportunity to apply for 9,700 Group C non-technical posts that would be notified in a phase-wise manner.The teachers are eligible to avail the age-relaxation facility until March 31, 2023.The state government will extend the facility to 9,686 school teachers, including 764 postgraduate, 4,380 graduate and 4,542 undergraduate degree-holders.Bhaskar Deb, a leader of Amra 10,323, a motley group of the sacked school teachers, has threatened to launch an agitation against the state government’s decision. “We have demanded a one-time recruitment process for us. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb had assured us of something better. But ,the state cabinet approved only age-relaxation for us and that too, for only 4,000 posts. We are not happy with the government’s decision. If our demands are not met, we will launch an agitation,” he said. Earlier, the Tripura high court (HC) had terminated 10,323 school teachers due to their faulty recruitment process in 2014. The teachers were appointed in postgraduate, graduate and undergraduate posts in different phases since 2010. The sacked teachers had challenged the HC’s order, when the erstwhile Left Front government was in power. Though they had filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court (SC), the apex court had upheld the HC’s order in 2017. Of the total 10,323 school teachers, over 8,000 teachers were reappointed on an ad-hoc basis, whose tenure expired on March 31. The rest of the school teachers got themselves placed in various posts in the state government’s departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-government-announces-special-provision-for-sacked-teachers-in-clerical-staff-posts/story-EWCdrZtUG7fRZwpyseoxFI.html
21-10-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Maoists threaten to kill those working on road projects; 6 vehicles blown up||Suspected members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) have threatened to kill people engaged in road construction works in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district in their bid to create, maintain and further expand their liberated zones by leaving pamphlets at a road construction site on strategically crucial Arki-Bandgaon road through a Left-wing extremist (LWE) triangle connecting Khunti, Ranchi, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, the police said on Wednesday.The pamphlets were found strewn around the road construction site on the under-construction 44-kilometre (km) stretch of Arki-Bandgoan road in Lupungdih forest under the jurisdiction of Bandgaon police station in West Singhbhum district.Also read: BSF jawans in Malkangiri unearth 7 IEDs planted by suspected MaoistsMaoists attacked the construction site late at night on Monday and blew up four excavators, a JCB machine, four small vehicles and a motorcycle. The machines and vehicles, which were worth around Rs 2 crore, were blown up by around 60 Maoist rebels, who were led by Prabhat Munda, a close associate of the banned party’s zonal commander, Maharaj Pramanik. “This 153-km Arki-Bandgaon road is strategically crucial from the operational point of view for the police and security forces. Lupundih jungle has a dense forest cover and is surrounded by hills and almost inaccessible for forces even though it is 18 km away from Bandgoan police station. The road is barely a dirt track inside the dense jungle. The Maoists have been targeting road construction projects in a bid to maintain and expand their liberated zones by restricting prompt movement and action by security forces in inaccessible, remote forest and hilly areas,” said Ajay Linda, superintendent of police (SP), West Singhbhum, on Wednesday morning.“The Maoist squad, led by its self-styled area commander Prabhat Munda alias Mukhiya, was behind the subversive activities in its desperate bid to divert aggressive police operations against other groups led by top Maoist commander Jeevan Kandulna, Maharaj Pramanik, Amit Munda and Analda, who are active in the LWE triangle that links four districts. These groups are indulging in extortion and they have nothing to do with Maoist ideology,” said the SP. Earlier, the Maoist rebels had threatened the MNPS Construction company’s management and the contractors in a bid to extort money from them.The Maoists also circulated pamphlets threatening to kill people engaged in road construction works in the area. SP Linda said he had asked the construction firm’s management to park their vehicles at Kochang picket point, which is located four km from Bandgaon police station, by early evening daily after their day’s work got over. “We are and will continue to provide security to road construction works, but the companies must also act responsibly and follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that have issued because of the Maoists’ threats. The forces from West Singhbhum district along with that of neighbouring Khunti district are conducting anti-Maoist operations in the area,” SP Linda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-maoists-threaten-to-kill-those-working-on-road-projects-6-vehicles-blown-up/story-YYy7rGqkoeaxh6EUisdeGL.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Fadnavis replays old videos of CM Thackeray, says it is time to act now||Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday replayed old video clips of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar wherein they had promised aid for farmers.The two leaders had gone to flood-affected areas when Fadnavis was the caretaker chief minister in October last year. Thackeray, during his visit to flood-affected areas, had demanded a compensation of Rs 50,000 per hectare for crop losses.During the current crisis, Thackeray as CM, visited flood-affected areas though he did not make any announcement. “Those who demanded aid for farmers earlier have a chance to keep their word now. Those in the government should be more patient, but the ruling party leaders are indulging in politics. The state should help the farmers,” said Fadnavis.The leader of the opposition, currently on a visit to flood-affected areas of Marathwada, said at Osmanabad during a press conference that the Centre would definitely help the state in the wake of damages caused due to heavy rains, but the state government should also spell out what it is doing to provide relief to the affected farmers.Fadnavis said the three ruling parties in the state have many differences among them, but they are expert in shrugging their responsibilities.“The NDA government will surely help more than the earlier (UPA) government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already spoken to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and assured him about it, but the state government must also tell what it is doing to provide aid to farmers,” he said.The Centre is also tackling the Covid-19 pandemic as is the state government, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fadnavis-replays-old-videos-of-cm-thackeray-says-it-is-time-to-act-now/story-Th8XysG5FkZrN98E22OCqO.html
21-10-2020||City||Don’t touch the innocent, don’t spare culprits: J&K L-G Manoj Sinha on Police Commemoration Day||Jammu & Kashmir’s lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, on Wednesday asked police “not to touch innocent” and “do not spare the culprits”.Sinha, who was speaking at an event to mark the Police Commemoration Day, paid rich tributes to the police and other security forces personnel who have laid down their lives for the country. He asked the police and security forces to go all out in neutralising the threats. “If people sleep at ease, it is because of our police and security forces who work tirelessly to protect Jammu & Kashmir from evil forces and militants who are supported by our neighbour.” He added security forces epitomise bravery and courage.“Police Commemoration Day is the day to remember the heroic spirit of 10 valiant jawans of Central Reserve Police Force, who sacrificed their lives while protecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation against the Chinese forces in Ladakh on October 21, 1959. The day is also dedicated to martyrs of Jammu & Kashmir police who have laid down their lives in the line of duty.”He said their supreme sacrifice will be eternally etched into the memory of people. Sinha added security forces perform their duties with utmost dedication and courage despite challenging situations and facing all odds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-touch-the-innocent-don-t-spare-culprits-says-j-k-l-g-manoj-sinha/story-GVnyKalxbVWzGYGcNVtgyO.html
21-10-2020||Election:||In cacophonous poll battle for Bihar, a war of songs erupts||As Bihar gears up to vote in Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday got its Delhi MP and Bhojpuri singer Manoj Tiwari to reprise one of his chartbusters, appealing to voters to retain their trust in the state’s ruling dispensation.“Suna ho Bihar ke bhaiya”, launched by the party as its new election song, is a straight lift off “Jiya ho Bihar ke lala” - the foot-tapping number from Manoj Bajpayee-starrer Gangs of Wasseypur, which had acquired a cult status upon its release a decade ago.Incidentally, the composer of the original song, Sneha Khanwalkar, had been roped in by the campaign team of chief minister Nitish Kumar in the 2015 assembly polls when she came out with the catchy “Phir se Nitish Kumar Ho”.The JD(U) chief had then comfortably returned to power belying naysayers who were skeptical about his coalition with archrival Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) finding resonance with the voters.Back in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Kumar is now the coalition’s chief ministerial candidate, and in the new song, Tiwari, who has retained the tune as well as the background score of the original number, reminds the voters that he wants them to support the JD(U) chief even as the larger than life persona of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his benevolence towards Bihar seems to be the central theme of the song.In the nearly eight-minute-long song, Tiwari dwells at length on the progress made by the state under the NDA rule.He then goes on to add that if someone says in spite of so many accomplishments “Bihar mein ka ba (what does Bihar have to offer)” then the person needs to get eyeglasses checked.For the politically aware people of Bihar, the insinuation is hard to miss.Neha Singh Rathore, a bespectacled 20-something from Tiwari’s native district Kaimur, has become an internet sensation with her rap song “Bihar mein kaa ba” where she takes a grim, sardonic view of her home state. She claims a lot remains to be done despite a decade-and-a-half of sushasan (good governance).Manoj Bajpayee’s rap number “Mumbai mein kaa baa”, released recently to much acclaim, had inspired Rathore, who keeps a low profile and reaches out to viewers and listeners through songs which she self-records on her smartphone and uploads on social media.A self-styled cultural activist who wants to pull Bhojpuri music out of the slush of sleaze, Rathore likes to make a political point without caring much for party affiliations.After “Bihar mein ka ba” became a hit on social media platforms earlier this month, the RJD-led opposition, eager to fish in NDA’s troubled waters following the rebellion by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, lapped up the song to use it to score brownie points against the ruling coalition.Paswan has been bitterly criticising Nitish Kumar over a host of issues including alleged corruption and lack of development.The BJP’s famed election machinery hit back with a vengeance, coming out with a series of video packages showcasing the NDA government’s achievements in the state with the tagline “Bihar mein ee ba (this is what Bihar has to offer)”.Recently, another upcoming folk singer from Bihar, Maithili Thakur, who croons in her eponymous native language, sought to lampoon the “kaa ba” refrain of Rathore, whom she did not mention by name, and sung paeans to the state’s rich cultural heritage.It is being speculated that Thakur, with no apparent political inclinations, had been approached by the saffron party. Rathore seems to be taking it all on the chin, though.Unfazed by the attacks, she has come out with yet another song that gets close to the bone of NDA backers.“Rozgar deba ki karba drama, kursi tohar baap ken na ha (will you do something for job creation or simply indulge in antics. Remember, your seat of power is not dynastic),” says Rathore in the song which she says reflects the mood of the state’s youth. It, however, remains to be seen how the new song impacts the electoral outcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/in-cacophonous-poll-battle-for-bihar-a-war-of-songs-erupts/story-d0nLTEh6yggYYXTKYXOcUM.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Pune records 1,004mm rainfall since June||Pune recorded a whopping 1,004 mm of rainfall in the past four-and-a half months, starting June 1. October alone saw 200 mm of rainfall in 20 days. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune received 209 mm of rainfall between October 1 and October 19. Last year, the city witnessed 235.5 mm rainfall. The highest rainfall received in October was in 2010, 262.8 mm. According to the Indian Meterological Department (IMD), cyclonic storms had a strong impact on the Pune region, which led to above- normal rainfall for the current monsoon season. According to data made available by the IMD, the city witnessed an average 1004.6 mm of rainfall between June 1 and Oct 19. The city is forecast to witness more rainfall before the monsoon bows out of the state, starting October 24, IMD stated. IMD’s head of weather, Anupam Kashyapi, said, “The region has reported heavy rain due to an increase in the number of cyclonic conditions and extreme weather conditions recorded in different parts of the country, which led to heavy rainfall in the Pune region and other parts of Maharashtra.” According to the IMD data, July has traditionally been the month which received highest rainfall of the monsoon season. July witnesses an average of 184mm rainfall, but this year recorded 119 mm. However, the reduction was made up in August, September and October, where an average rainfall of 200 mm was received, IMD stated. Box June 221.7 mm July 119 mm Aug 233.4 mm Sept 219.7 mm Oct 209.7 mm (till Oct 19, 5.30 pm)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-1-004mm-rainfall-since-june/story-fpE0arAkxAwFj25E8cG9vN.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Two history sheeters arrested by Satara police in Haryana||Two members of a national gang, involved in 711 cases of ATM theft, were arrested by the Satara police and remanded to their custody by a local court. The two were identified as Sakruddin Faijru (36) and Ravi alias Ravinder Chandarpal (33), both residents of Haryana. The two have manipulated ATMs in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana. Of the 711 cases found to have been registered against them in these states, 447 are from Maharashtra, 102 from Karnataka, 64 from Gujarat, 43 in Haryana, 29 in MP, 24 in Rajasthan, and two in UP, according to a statement issued by Satara police. A team of four Satara police officials were in Haryana looking for the duo for the past several days, according to the police. The two were found while trying to evade arrest in a Baleno car in Haryana when they were arrested. The police have seized Rs 1,50,000 in cash, the car, and two mobile phones from the two, according to the statement. The two were found while Satara police officers from Shahupuri police station were investigating cheating and theft case registered on October 5. The case was registered after the manager of Canara bank located in Radhika Chowk area of Satara submitted a complaint stating Rs 2,00,000 had been withdrawn by manipulating the machine. The manipulation and the wrongful withdrawal had been made between September 20 and September 21. Assistant police inspector Vishal Vaykar of Shahupuri police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-history-sheeters-arrested-by-satara-police-in-haryana/story-rr4v6t7MS0pfPvGKxbPAiL.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Man axed to death in Aundh; one in police custody||A 23-year-old man has been remanded to police custody by a local court on Tuesday for the murder of a 24-year-old in Aundh gaon on Monday evening. The brother of the accused person was attacked after he was arrested, confirmed assistant commissioner of police Ramesh Galande of Khadki division, Pune police.The deceased has been identified as Kshitij Lakshmikant Vairagar (24), also a resident of Aundh gaon. The arrested man has been identified as Aniket Dilip Dikshit (23) a resident of the area of where the murder was committed. One other person, with whom Dikshit arrived on a motorbike, is on the run.“From what I know, he (the accused man’s brother) has suffered a fracture in one leg and a case in that matter is getting registered,” said ACP Galande.Dikshit arrived on a motorbike in Maling and attacked Vairagar with an axe on his head. The two had a long standing feud over an unidentified reason, according to the police.When two of the deceased man’s friends tried to stop Dikshit from raising the axe, they could not do so and were attacked as a result and escaped without injuries.A complaint was lodged by Dhananjay Thorat (35), one of the two who tried to stop Dikshit.While the attacker fled the spot, the others took Vairagar to a local hospital where he was declared dead.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 302 (murder), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-axed-to-death-in-aundh-one-in-police-custody/story-7p6x4lQ73voVRbShd8PLRK.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 1,112 cases, 58 deaths||Pune district reported 1,112 fresh positive cases and 58 Covid-19 related deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. The district reported 3.25 lakh Covid-19 cases till date, of which 2.81 lakh have recovered, 6,562 were declared dead and currently, 37,613 are active cases. Pune city reported 334 new cases taking the total count to 1,68,736 and 22 deaths taking the death toll to 3,873. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 173 new cases taking the final count to 82,761 and four deaths with 1,168 as the death toll. Pune rural reported 605 new cases taking the final count to 73,882 and 32 deaths taking the death toll to 1,520, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 7,429 patients were discharged today taking the final count to 13,92,308. The recovery rate in the state is 85.5%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.64 per cent. Currently, 24,34,687 people are in home quarantine and 23,488 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-112-cases-58-deaths/story-BUPhHCwrJat5B7CzxbvDzK.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Forts in Pune likely to open next week||Forts in Pune district are likely to open next week after a span of seven months in lockdown, since March 24. In Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani, Satara district, the district collector opened popular tourist points for visitors. The re-openings have being decided on in accordance with the unlock guidelines of the state government, seeking a gradual lifting of restrictions. Pune’s District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We would be taking a review of the demand made by Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole regarding the reopening of forts for nature lovers. A positive decision is expected after reviewing the ground situation next week.” Earlier, MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted: “Trekking and outdoor enthusiasts have been facing unnecessary fines at forts and hills across the district. I have spoken to Collector Dr. Rajesh Deshmukh who has assured me that in the coming week he will issue orders relaxing restrictions on trekking and other adventure sports ” In Satara, district guardian minister Balasaheb Patil and MLA Makarand Patil took up the issue with the government citing serious losses to small businesses and their operators in the Panchgani and Mahabaleshwar hill stations, due to the lockdown. District collector Shekhar Singh ordered the reopening of the Vienna lake for boating in Mahabaleshwar, while the table land has also been opened for public. Similarly, permission has been granted for horse rides and taxis in the area. Indoor games parlours have also been allowed to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/forts-in-pune-likely-to-open-next-week/story-DFHFLNaGwufjpcd9LAysGN.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Experts cite lower testing as reason for dip in case count||The city has been reporting a drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases, a glimmer of hope, however, experts have pointed out that lower testing numbers by the district administration is the reason for this drop. This also could lead to an earlier second wave, the experts have opined. Also, poor contact tracing and unsupervised home isolations are being cited as reasons the chain of infection will not break. Pune district has conducted close to 13,000 tests as of October 1 and 2,656 Covid-19 cases were reported on that day. However, as of Monday, the number of tests conducted is 4,455, one-third of what it was at the beginning of the month. The number of cases went down to 549, one-fourth of the number of cases as of October 1. The graph of positive cases and the positivity rate has also been going down. The positivity rate was 20 per cent as of October 1 and is at 12 per cent as of October 19. The positivity rate indicates the number of positives detected for every 100 Covid-19 tests. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter said that these are not the real numbers and that the administration is not following the ICMR guidelines of contact tracing, which is the only way to break the chain. He said, “The administration has no idea about those isolated at home. People simply get their reports and then stay at home without informing the administration and they are left unsupervised as they are not on record. So, the real numbers could be way higher. Even if the administration tests about four to five people for every positive person, then the contact tracing tests would be about 4,000-5,000 tests and the additional Covid-19 tests of new positives.” Bhondwe also added that there was a slight decline in the number of cases at the beginning of August, which again went up following the Ganesh festival. Similarly, in the Diwali season, there could be a surge which would be evident by November end. Bhondwe said, “If the police and the civic bodies are not able to control the crowd and ensure strict compliance of social distancing and wearing masks then the second wave will be inevitable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/experts-cite-lower-testing-as-reason-for-dip-in-case-count/story-LLwPulWwsCwtF95H4RfYhO.html
21-10-2020||Dehradun||Allow part of Rajaji Tiger Reserve to be used for Mahakumbh 2021: Uttarakhand to Centre||Uttarakhand has again requested the Centre to allow it to use a part of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve to build temporary camps, parking facilities, police posts, health centres and help desks for the 2021 Mahakumbh in Haridwar. The Centre earlier turned down the request. Environmental groups have opposed the proposal saying the move will adversely impact the reserve’s flora and fauna.“We have requested the Central government again to allow us to use the land after it was declined. We are in talks with officials and also finding alternative land for constructing the temporary structures,” said Uttarakhand’s principal secretary (forests) Anand Bardhan.The Mahakumbh, which is held after every 12 years, is scheduled in Haridwar between January and April. Around 50 million pilgrims attended the last Mahakumbh. The number of pilgrims is likely to be restricted for the 2021 Maha Kumbh in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: Haridwar gears up for Mahakumbh 2021, paramount focus on cleanlinessUttarakhand’s chief conservator of forests D J K Sharma said the Centre did not consider the proposal on technical grounds. “As per norms, reserved forest land can be diverted for non-forest activities for 15 days, but given the situation of Mahakumbh, we sought special permission from the Central government which has been turned down.” Sharma said if such land is needed for more time, it is normal to seek either a conversion or a transfer which the state is unwilling to do. “The state government does not want to divert the entire forest area for Mahakumbh as the constructions will be temporary in nature. Another reason is that if the land is transferred, then it can be misused for other purposes in future.”The state government wrote to the Centre in April seeking the use of 778 hectares of land from the reserve for non-forestry purposes from September to May next year.Environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat said even temporary structures can have a permanent impact, especially on the movement of animals. “Animals require spaces to move. If they [the government] start using the area, then the animals will enter Dehradun and also further increase conflict. Animals are used to moving in particular directions. Even if a temporary structure is made, it can disturb their behaviour. ...what is the guarantee that these temporary structures will not turn into permanent structures as has happened in Uttarakhand earlier?” said Rawat.The reserve is home to 23 species of mammals, including 38 tigers, and over 300 species of birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/allow-part-of-rajaji-tiger-reserve-to-be-used-for-mahakumbh-2021-uttarakhand-to-centre/story-4Wvy5U2uxznLlHMC1tyKIL.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Plasma therapy saved my life, ICMR shouldn’t remove it: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that plasma therapy, used as a treatment against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is effective and should not be removed.His remarks came amid reports that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering removing plasma therapy from the national guidelines for treatment of Covid-19.“Lives of more than 2,000 people, including mine, have been saved through plasma therapy, so ICMR shouldn’t remove it,” Jain said.“Even the US has said that it’s beneficial,” he addedPlasma therapy refers to a procedure where the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient is used in order to create antibodies for those infected.The Delhi health minister had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17 and was administered plasma therapy after his symptoms aggravated. He recovered after a month and resumed work on July 20.ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava had on Tuesday said that plasma therapy might be removed from the national guidelines for treating Covid-19 after a study conducted by the council showed that it did not help in reducing mortality or slow progression of the infection.“We are discussing with the national task force on Covid-19 management and with the joint monitoring group that may be deleted from the national treatment guidelines on Covid,” Bhargava added.The ICMR study was conducted in 39 hospitals across the country where over 1,200 patients were screened.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plasma-therapy-saved-my-life-icmr-shouldn-t-remove-it-satyendar-jain/story-DtDbYjyU0osrjpkKmvZczK.html
21-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM approves ₹75 lakh for martyr fund; increases uniform allowance for cops||Paying tribute to police and para-military personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday said Rs 75 lakh had been approved for the state martyrs fund. Rawat was speaking at the police memorial parade in Dehradun where he also felicitated family members of martyrs. The chief minister said, “The responsibility for the country’s internal security is taken by the para-military and police for which they are ready to sacrifice their lives. Last year, 265 such personnel made the supreme sacrifice out of which, six were from Uttarakhand. They are a source of great inspiration for us.” Also read: Police personnel always give their best without hesitation, says PM ModiHe also announced an increase of ₹1,000 in the uniform allowance for assistant sub-inspectors (ASI) and inspectors of the state police department. Currently, ASIs and inspectors get a one-time uniform allowance of Rs 3,000.Earlier on Tuesday evening, director general of police Uttarakhand Anil Raturi held a video conference with all the senior superintendents and superintendents of police of all the 14 districts to discuss the security arrangements in the festive season amid Covid-19. Raturi directed them to ensure that precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distance are followed by people. “In the coming days, there are some major religious events and festivals for which police have to increase enforcement. We have to ensure that people follow the Covid-19 precautions,” he said. He also directed police officials to speak to religious leaders to ensure that the people going for religious events wear masks and maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-approves-75-lakh-for-martyr-fund-increases-uniform-allowance-for-cops/story-OlVoX2yEAzoMMBfEyKV8iI.html
21-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government forms task force for Covid-19 vaccination||Uttarakhand government on Tuesday formed multiple-level task forces at state, district and block levels for Covid-19 vaccination in the near future, said officials. The development came into light after state chief secretary Om Prakash issued an order regarding the same. According to the order, the task force or operation group for Covid-19 vaccination will handle the vaccine’s storage, handling, implementation and valuation. “The state-level task force would have a total of 11 members and would be headed by the chief secretary. It would have members including secretaries of finance, health, home, world and child development, urban development, Panchayatiraj, rural development and director general health,” stated the order. Also Read: Coronavirus pandemic: UK to infect healthy volunteers in vaccine research trialThe district-level task force would be headed by the district magistrates concerned. It would have 10 members including senior superintendents of police/ superintendents of police, chief medical and health officers and other district administration officials. Also Read: Very large portion of Covid-19 vaccines likely to be manufactured in India: Gates Foundation CEOThe order also stated that the block level task force would be chaired by deputy district magistrate and will have eight members including deputy superintendent of police, block development officer and other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-government-forms-task-force-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-dKTfI9CzQUGcOz5ocGGfFN.html
21-10-2020||Lucknow||Man in Uttar Pradesh gets 13 days in jail for harassing woman 10 years ago||A local court here has sentenced a man to 13 days imprisonment for harassing a woman in Budhana town of the district in 2010.Judicial Magistrate Pervinder Singh has also imposed a fine of Rs 1,500 on the convict, Nafees, after holding him guilty under section 294 (obscene act in public place) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 297 of the Criminal Law Act.According to prosecutor Punit Kumar, Nafees was arrested for harassing a woman on a road in Budhana town of the district on August 26, 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/man-in-uttar-pradesh-gets-13-days-in-jail-for-harassing-woman-10-years-ago/story-dUvLBytPq9uKoPwvDx4IbN.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||With over 94K cases in Himachal courts, state seeks to simplify revenue laws||With more than 94,000 revenue cases pending in court, the Himachal Pradesh government is working on simplifying revenue laws for early disposal of the cases. State revenue minister Mahender Singh Thakur said this after presiding over a meeting of the expert committee set up by the state government on land laws. The members gave suggestions on matters of partition, mutation, demarcation and correction in entries in records. The minister said that at present there are 94,902 cases pending in revenue courts in the state. These include 29,313 cases of partition, 18,025 cases of demarcation, 25,251 cases of mutation, 2,497 cases of correction in entries, 2,837 cases of encroachment and 16,790 other cases. He said that Himachal government has made a provision of providing three biswa land for the construction of houses in the rural areas and two biswa in the urban areas to homeless and landless families. Besides, the provision of distribution of nautor land in the tribal areas has been made but due to the implementation of the Forest Conservation Act, the distribution of land was not being done in these areas. Nautor land means the right to use, with the sanction of the authorities waste land belonging to the government outside towns, reserved and demarcated protected forests and outside such areas as may be notified from time to time by the state government. ENSURE TIMEBOUND DELIVERY OF SUMMONS The committee had a detailed discussion on this issue. The members of committee said that the cases of partition, mutation, demarcation and correction in entries often get delayed due to untimely delivery of summons, thus a timebound system should be ensured. Besides, simplification of the settlement process and the use of technology were also suggested at the meeting. Amendments in Sections 45,104 and 118 of the HP Tenancy and Land-Reform Act, 1972, were suggested to make it more practical. Deliberations were also held to improve the provision of Section 118 so that its main objectives could be accomplished. A sub-committee was constituted under the chairmanship of MLA Ram Lal Thakur with Jagat Singh Negi, Rakesh Singha, Narendra Thakur, Balbir Singh and Bikram Jaryal as it members. The sub-committee would submit its recommendations on issues discussed at the meeting and other suggestions before November 30. Additional chief secretary, revenue, RD Dhiman, land record director CP Verma, settlement officer Manmohan Sharma besides official and non-official members were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-over-94k-cases-in-himachal-courts-state-seeks-to-simplify-revenue-laws/story-IGlles8AmXvwYF7zRj6M5M.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Emergency parole is to prevent spread of Covid-19 in jails, not to empty prisons: Bombay HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging the prohibition on grant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) emergency parole to convicts from outside Maharashtra.The bench observed that the purpose was “only to ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in prisons and not to empty jails altogether”.“The purpose of enacting Rule 19 (1) (C) of the Maharashtra Prisons (Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959 was not to create a bonanza for convicted prisoners to claim release for being with their families, but to meet the situation created by the pandemic and the nature of its communicable spread,” said the two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Sunil Share and justice Avinash Gharote, while dismissing the petition filed by Chandradev Rai and Satish Ninapure.Also read: Bombay HC restrains builder from further construction at illegal industrial estate near BhiwandiBoth the petitioners are convicted for murders in separate cases and are lodged at Morshi open prison in Maharashtra’s Amravati district. While Rai is a resident of Maharajganj district in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Ninapure belongs to Betul district in Madhya Pradesh (MP).They were aggrieved by a clause in Rule 19(1)(C) introduced to the Maharashtra Prisons (Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959, on May 8, which prohibited grant of emergency parole to convicts having their places of residence outside Maharashtra. The rule was applicable to convicted foreign nationals as well. They were refused the special leave for being residents of other states.The petitioners had challenged the validity of the clause primarily contending that it was discriminatory, creating an artificial distinction between the convicts, who are residents of Maharashtra and those from other states.The bench turned down the challenge noting that the clause was based on March 23 recommendations of the state government’s high-power committee (HPC) and was identically worded. The bench noted that the HC has dismissed a challenge to the HPC’s recommendations and the Supreme Court (SC) has also upheld the decision.The bench said on May 8, when the notification was issued the country was under a strict lockdown, which was enforced since March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.All public transportation, including intra-state and inter-state modes of conveyance, facilities were prohibited because of the lockdown and as a result, the convicts, who belong to other states, could not have travelled to their native places, even if they were released on emergency parole, the bench cited.The bench further noted that the HPC had recommended on May 11 to extend the benefits to those convicts, who did not belong to Maharashtra, but the directives were to come into force after the lockdown was over and public transportation was available. The bench pointed out that it was for the state government to consider and act upon the HPC’s recommendations.The clause (c) of Rule 19(1) of the Maharashtra Prisons (Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959 pertains to medical emergency and the provisions were enacted to address such a specific situation, said the bench. “Thus, the object of the distinction made, is to achieve the safety of the prison inmates and to quite an extent the same appears to have been achieved, with steps and measures already in force to further improve the situation. The distinction cannot be said to be either arbitrary, unreasonable or discriminatory, as the distinction made, clearly has a nexus and is meant to achieve the purpose,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/emergency-parole-is-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-in-jails-not-to-empty-prisons-bombay-hc/story-mP6PN0RZd01WNBV5wYBMTI.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Khadse quits BJP, blaming Devendra Fadnavis for the decision; to join NCP||In a major development, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Eknath Khadse has decided to leave the party. He will be joining Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Friday. State NCP chief Jayant Patil made the announcement Wednesday.Patil said that Khadse had informed him “sometime back” that he had decided to leave the BJP. “Senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse, who has played a significant role in the growth of the BJP in Maharashtra, has decided to leave his party. He has informed me about his decision sometime back. This has paved the way for his induction in the NCP. Khadse will formally join the party on Friday afternoon,” Patil said.After resigning on Wednesday, Khadse held former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis for his decision of quitting party, saying he was forced to take the drastic decision. The leader has also said that his daughter-in-law and party MP Raksha Khadse will continue working for the BJP and there was no other party MLA or MP joining him.Also Read: Maharashtra government, Opposition at loggerheads over financial help for flood-affected farmersAccording to Khadse’s close aides, he is expected to get an MLC seat via the governor’s quota. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, led by Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, is yet to take a decision on recommending names to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for the appointment of 12 members of the legislative council (MLCs).Khadse, who had resigned as revenue minister and from other 11 departments in June 2016 after he faced corruption charges, resigned from the BJP after working with the party for over four decades. He represented Muktainagar constituency in Jalgaon district in the legislative assembly several times. Khadse said in Jalgaon that he was not upset with any other party leader except Fadnavis. “I have no grievances against any other leader from national or state leadership. I am upset with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who made the police fabricate false cases against me. One case of outraging the modesty of a woman was registered against me on the orders from Fadnavis who was then CM and home minister. Similarly, corruption cases in Bhosri land deal and cases by anti-corruption bureau were registered against me, though nothing came out of them. I urged my party leadership and Fadnavis on various platforms to give me reasons for the punishment, but I never got a reply,” he said.He was denied an election ticket in the state assembly elections held last year.Khadse said that he even tried to raise the issue with the central leadership and told them about the deliberate attempt to defame him (by Devendra Fadnavis), but no heed was paid. “I then got the message that I will not get justice here. I even submitted proof of the conspiracy by party leadership to defeat Rohini Khadse, my daughter, in the assembly elections last year. No action was taken,” he said.Khadse said that his daughter-in-law and Raver MP Raksha Khadse will continue to be with the party. “Raksha is free to take her decision. She has told me that she will not quit the party. There are many such examples of family members being members of different political parties, be it Jyotiraditya Scindia or Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil,” he said.Khadse also alleged that 60-70% of BJP leaders in the state have faced corruption charges. “There are at least 60% leaders in the party who have faced corruption charges. Some of them were given ministership, posts of leader of Opposition, but action was taken only against me. Except for the allegations of corruption levelled against me when BJP was in power, I never faced such charges before in my political career spanning 40 years,” he said.The state BJP unit has confirmed the development. Party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil has received his resignation. “We tried to sort out the problems through a dialogue with him. It didn’t work out. We wish him luck. Even a small party worker leaving BJP is a loss for the party,” Upadhye said.Chandrakant Patil said that Khadse’s allegations against Fadnavis were baseless. “Devendraji had already clarified the action taken by his government in each of the cases against Khadse. What Khadse has been claiming now is his version and should not be taken at its face value,” he said.He added that the decision was unfortunate, but there had been no need for Khadse to resign. He said that the party would have resolved the grievances the leader had.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-eknath-khadse-leaves-bjp-to-join-ncp/story-8kR8JTl9niabZeFNIcO2UN.html
21-10-2020||Education||Patna schools to curtail festival holidays for timely completion of syllabus||PATNA: As Durga Puja celebration has been scaled down, several private schools in the city have decided to curtail festival holidays including Durga Puja, Diwali, Chhath and winter vacation, in a bid to complete syllabus on time in the absence of regular classes.Several schools said that a good number of working days remained underutilised in the current academic session owing to new normal adjustment and resorting to online classes. Thus, academic loss will be compensated through shorter festival holidays.Ravi Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy and city coordinator of CBSE, said, “We will have only four-day holiday for senior students this Durga Puja. We are also in a plan to reduce Diwali and Chhath holidays so that syllabus can be completed on time followed by revision and test before final exam.”Umesh Kumar, a senior mathematics teacher, said, “Though education boards have reduced syllabus but the deleted portion has already been taught in the absence of timely information. Now, we have to teach fresh topics to students”Several convent schools, which have around two-week holidays during Christmas and winter vacation have also planned to cut short vacation.“We are mulling to reduce Christmas holiday by 50% for senior and senior secondary students. We will not have combined holidays for Diwali to Chhath rather online classes will be conducted in between the two festivals to carry out academic activities”, said an official of St Dominic Savio’s High School.However, curtailment of holidays has exerted additional pressure on school teachers who are facing 50% salary cut since March despite long working hours.Seema Pandey (45), a high school teacher, said, “It’s eighth month now and I am getting half salary. School management is not compromising with working hours, in fact, we are working double in the name of ‘work from home’. Now, working days have been increased without any compensation. It’s unfair with private school teachers.”PU postpones exams due to pollsPatna University of Monday called off annual year examination of BA, BSc and Bcom part II and LLB semester VI exam which was scheduled from October 22 to November 10.PU’s controller of examination RK Mandal said, “Exams have been cancelled in view of state assembly elections. Fresh exam dates will be notified shortly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-schools-to-curtail-festival-holidays-for-timely-completion-of-syllabus/story-ThVfxOEw0hty4sYb67WPWI.html
21-10-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court raises cap on number of people allowed inside a Durga Puja pandal||In a partial easing of restrictions, the Calcutta high court on Wednesday raised the cap on the number of puja committee members who can enter a Durga Puja pandal and allowed dhakis (drummers) to enter no-entry zones. A few local residents can now enter the pandals to take part in the puja and the rituals. However, the court refused to lift the ban on the entry of visitors inside puja pandals.The court was hearing a review petition filed by Forum for Durgotsab, a platform representing over 350 puja committees in the city.  Earlier, the court had ordered that only 15 puja committee members could enter a small puja pandal, and 25 could enter a big puja pandal. The court had also said that the names of the entrants would have to be decided in advance and could not be changed daily. Also Read: 2631 booked for not wearing masks in last 6 days in Kolkata as festive fervour growsIn its Wednesday’s order the division bench of the high court, however, has allowed up to 45 puja committee members to enter a big pandal at a time. The committees would have to prepare a list of 60 names (including committee members and local residents) in advance. Modifying its earlier order, the court said that the names can be changed every day. In case of small puja pandals, the list would contain only 15 names (including committee members and local residents) and not more than 10 members would be allowed to enter at a time. The list can change every day and has to be prepared by 8am daily. “There have been some modifications in the high court’s previous order, which comes as a breather. We are going through the details,” said a member of the Forum for Durgotsab, which filed the review petition on Tuesday. The Calcutta high court on Monday had banned the entry of visitors inside the Durga Puja pandals. Authorities were directed to put up barricades outside pandals. The ban remains in effect. Citing examples of Kerala wherein the number of Covid-19 cases had shot up after Onam, doctors had earlier warned the Mamata Banerjee administration that cases in Bengal could increase up to four-fold, if restrictions were relaxed during the festive season. This comes at a time when Kolkata is witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases because of the festive season because people are thronging the markets for puja shopping and pandal-hoppers have hit the streets en masse. While Kolkata reported 809 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, 4,029 new cases were registered across West Bengal. A month ago on September 20, Kolkata had reported 514 new cases and the state had registered 3,177 new cases. The positivity rate has jumped from 6.9% to 9.2% in the last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-high-court-raises-cap-on-number-of-people-allowed-inside-a-durga-puja-pandal/story-AurpmhU5JI1DQUDwPAa69O.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks information from I&B ministry on AI bot that turns photos into nudes||The Bombay high court has sought information from the ministry of information and broadcasting on an artificial intelligence (AI) bot which turns women’s photographs into nudes. The court cited an HT report, “In new online abuse menace, AI bot turns women’s photos into nudes,” while seeking the information.The court, while hearing various public interest litigations pertaining to the alleged trial by the electronic media in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, raised concerns about the menace mentioned in the report and directed additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh to take instructions from the ministry. “If you can gather from ministry what print media has reported... We want you to check malice in the report. Kindly check with the ministry,” said the division bench. The ASG said he had gone through the report and had spoken to the concerned officers. Singh submitted that there were provisions in the Information Technology Act namely section 69A and 79 (3) (b) under which action could be taken against the menace. The CJ said, “The issue is extremely serious and you (ministry) have to take steps.” The ASG assured the bench that the ministry would take steps to address the issue and concerns of the court on an urgent basis. While speaking to HT, ASG said that the newspaper needed to be complimented as it was doing its job diligently by reporting an issue which affects the common man. Also read: Section 498-A being misused to implicate husband’s entire family, says Bombay high courtThe bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the submissions of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) on the measures in place to regulate the electronic media from going overboard in reporting the progress in investigations of an incident, was informed by Singh that the self-regulatory mechanism was sufficient and there was no need for additional regulations. Singh submitted that the ministry has laid down a code which has to be adhered to by the news channels, whether they are part of any self-regulatory association or not. “Since we are on TV channels, whether you are a member or not, if there is violation, the ministry will take action, we can take action.” said Singh. He added that the ministry can step in if it finds the action of either members or non-members inappropriate. Thereafter, the chief justice sought to now from the ASG that the news channels were using airwaves which is public property and if the channels were misusing it there should be some regulation to control it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-information-from-i-b-ministry-on-ai-bot-that-turns-photos-into-nudes/story-U8B1FkeYCFw3WRjYl41P3L.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: Rana Kapoor’s daughter gets interim bail||A magistrate court in Mumbai on Wednesday granted interim bail to Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor’s daughter Roshini in a Yes Bank fraud case linked to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). Roshini is one of the eight accused, who have been charged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for cheating and corruption. The charges of corruption were dropped by the sessions court for want of sanction of prosecution, but the case for the charges of cheating and conspiracy hold good. Later, the case was shifted to a magistrate court for trial.The magistrate court had accepted the charge sheet filed by the CBI in September and issued summons to all the accused, who are not arrested in the case, including Roshini, and those related to four other companies such as DHFL, Belief realtors Pvt Ltd, RKW Project Pvt Ltd, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd. Roshini appeared before the magistrate court on Wednesday in response to the summons.“We appeared before the court on Wednesday and moved for an interim bail. The court has granted us interim bail until further hearing,” said Subhash Jadhav, the lawyer for the Kapoors. The court is scheduled to hear her bail plea in November. CBI has filed a case that alleged that Yes Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) between April and June 2018, in lieu of which Kapoor was allegedly paid kickbacks amounting to Rs 600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd. DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises, where Kapoor’s family members, including Roshini, have a stake, the CBI has alleged. The loan was sanctioned on the basis of mortgage of sub-standard property that allegedly has a meagre value. The Central agency claimed that Yes bank also sanctioned a loan Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers, which is DHFL group of company. The loan was sanctioned for the purpose of a Bandra Reclamation project. The entire amount of Rs 750 crore was allegedly siphoned off by Wadhawan after the sum was transferred by RKW Developers to DHFL without making any investments in the Bandra project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-rana-kapoor-s-daughter-gets-interim-bail/story-iLn6NdyMGEdAhhNkNXzQcN.html
21-10-2020||Lucknow||NSA slapped against accused held for cow slaughter in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh police slapped the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against one more accused held for slaughtering cows along the Indo-Nepal border, said additional superintendent of police (ASP) Ashok Kumar on Tuesday.The ASP said Rupaideha police had registered a case against one Haneef, son of Majeed, a resident of Rupaidiha and nine others on July 27, 2020 in connection with an incident of cow slaughter allegedly carried out by Haneef and others a day earlier on July 26 in Rupaidiha area.Haneef used to supply cow meat in the area, besides his act was a threat to communal harmony in the area, the ASP added.Also Read: 28 persons accused of crime against women externed from Uttar Pradesh districtsHe further claimed that though Haneef was lodged in jail since July 27 but there was resentment and fear in the area owing to his act, hence, police have taken action against him under the NSA and the notice has been served to him in the district jail.Prior to this, police booked another accused held for cow slaughter on September 7, 2020 under the NSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nsa-slapped-against-accused-held-for-cow-slaughter-in-uttar-pradesh/story-BGTlH3PQTScPjqceRRS7RM.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM adds cowshed, elevator to Oakover, his British-era official residence in Shimla||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has brought home a Himachali Pahari cow and got a shed built for it at Oakover, his official residence in Shimla. “It’s auspicious to rear cows at home. They bring peace, harmony and prosperity. Besides, the cow is a sacred symbol of life,” a staff member employed at Thakur’s residence said, requesting anonymity. The public works department, which is incidentally under the chief minister, built the cow shed near Oakover’s Gate No. 2 recently. “The cowshed is covered from all sides,” the staffer said. HARDY CATTLE BREED The Himachali Pahari is an indigenous cattle breed native to seven districts of Chamba, Mandi, Kullu, Kangra, Sirmour, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. The hill state has an estimated eight lakh such cows that are adapted to the mountain topography and cold climate besides fodder scarcity owing to higher number of white blood cells and haemoglobin levels. The daily milk yield of the cow ranges from 1 to 3 litres. The Karnal-based National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) has officially recognised the Himachali Pahari as an indigenous breed with unique features after researchers from the Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University (HPAU) gave the NBAGR scientific evidence. The NBAGR is the nodal agency of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for registration of newly identified germplasms of livestock and poultry in India. After taking over reins of the state in 2017, Jai Ram Thakur had imposed cow cess on the sale of liquor bottles that was raised from Re 1 to Rs 1.50 per bottle for this fiscal. ELEVATOR COMES UP The PWD has also added an elevator to the double-storeyed Oakover, making yet another alteration to the historic building that was once the retreat of the Maharajas of Patiala. Despite the fund crunch, PWD sources said the elevator was installed at a cost of Rs 35 lakh. Though the authorities denied any bylaw violation, the utility of an elevator for one floor has raised eyebrows. The British-era building was considered jinxed for years and it came to be believed that the chief minister who stayed at Oakover did not complete his term. Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar, the first CM of the state, Shanta Kumar and Ram Lal Thakur exited their office before their terms expired. The jinx was finally broken by the BJP’s Prem Kumar Dhumal, who completed his term as chief minister in 1998. Jai Ram Thakur’s predecessor Virbhadra Singh, the longest serving chief minister of the state, also avoided Oakover and stayed at his private residence, Holy Lodge, while in chair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-adds-cowshed-elevator-to-oakover-his-british-era-official-residence-in-shimla/story-o2tlI6nXifOsOEOzWTDqHM.html
21-10-2020||City||JKCA money laundering case: Farooq Abdullah summoned by Enforcement Directorate again||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah, who is also an MP from Srinagar, has been summoned by Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning regarding the Jammu and Kashmir cricket scam for the second time in three days. On Monday, Abdullah was questioned at the ED office at Rajbagh for six hours. On Wednesday, he was summoned by ED again.The fresh summons have evoked a sharp response from National Conference which has termed it part of a coercive plot and expressed dismay over unnecessary hounding of the senior leader.In a statement, NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said these ED summons are calculated coercive measures, aimed at curtailing Abdullah’s efforts to unite mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir.He termed the repeated ED summons pressure tactics. “What is it that ED forgot to ask during the six hours it interrogated an 83-year-old Member of Parliament?”The government and its agencies, the spokesperson said, have no consideration for a law-abiding citizen who is severely immuno-compromised and diabetic.Also Read: ‘Farooq Abdullah kept at ED office for 5 hours despite his age’: People’s Alliance attacks Centre“Dr Abdullah being treated like this is proof that the BJP is not even interested in a face-saving act and is completely comfortable with being seen as a bully by the nation,” he said. “How many times will the BJP use the CBI, ED, the anti-corruption bureau and its other agencies to browbeat the Opposition? The plot has become predictable. Anyone who speaks against the government or against its divisive politics will be hounded and summoned,” he said, adding that the only way to get a clean chit these days is to surrender one’s ideology and join the BJP. “We have seen this story play out from Assam to Karnataka, from West Bengal to Andhra Pradesh, but Dr Abdullah is not going to surrender to the BJP, come what may.”Ten office-bearers of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), including Abdullah, are accused of turning the sports body into a lending agency and operating several bogus accounts between 2005 and 2012 when the scam was unearthed.The scam came to light in March 2012 when JKCA treasurer Manzoor Wazir filed a police complaint against former general secretary Mohammad Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Mirza. Soon, a list of around 50 names linked to the financial scandal was released. The ED attached assets worth Rs 2.6 crore in the money laundering case related to the alleged embezzlement of JKCA funds, the central agency said in a statement issued in February. A provisional order for the attachment of assets was issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against former JKCA treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza and its finance committee member Mir Mansoor Gazanffer.All mainstream parties except the BJP criticised the government for issuing summons to the senior-most politician of Jammu and Kashmir, after they came up with the Gupkar declaration and formed an alliance to work towards the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jkca-money-laundering-case-farooq-abdullah-summoned-by-enforcement-directorate-again/story-qRcekWI0Lvz61ndPxiZJGN.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Section 498-A being misused to implicate husband’s entire family: Bombay high court||Nowadays, women and their families have started making vague allegations against every member of the husband’s family, implicating everybody under Section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code, Bombay high court observed last week.“Nowadays, it has become a tendency to make vague and omnibus allegations against every member of the family of the husband, implicating everybody under Section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code,” said a division bench of justices ZA Haq and Amit Borkar.“Hence, it has become necessary for the courts to carefully scrutinise the allegations and to find out if the allegations really constitute an offence and meet the requirements of the law, at least prima facie,” the bench added, and struck down offence of matrimonial cruelty registered by the Nagpur Police against three persons under Section 498-A.Also Read: Bombay HC asks TISS to join PIL to address begging problem in MaharashtraThe bench struck down the first information report registered at Sakkardara police station in September 2012 against Shabnam Sheikh, her husband Arif and Shabnam’s sister Shamans, after noticing that the complainant, Dr Kausar Fatima, wife of Shabnam’s brother Shabbir, had levelled vague allegations against the three.The bench struck down the offence against them after noticing that the complainant had alleged that they threatened her saying they were connected with higher authorities in the police and other departments, and taunted her for being of no use to her husband, despite being educated.The high court said the vague statements and taunts cannot be said to constitute cruelty to a married woman, as contemplated under Section 498-A of the IPC.The bench said the Supreme Court has time and again deprecated the tendency of using the criminal justice system as a tool for arm-twisting and to settle personal scores.“In the present case, sisters-in-law and brother-in-law have been arraigned as accused without there being specific allegations as regards the nature of cruelty, as contemplated by Section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code,” said the bench.“On overall reading of the FIR and the charge sheet, we are of the opinion that there are no allegations against the present applicants which constitute offences alleged against them and hence, we are of the opinion that continuance of present proceedings would amount to an abuse of process of law,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/section-498-a-being-misused-to-implicate-husband-s-entire-family-bombay-high-court/story-SJAdXS3OuXtXiq0Qx2IVDO.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Red Light On, Gaadi Off campaign from today: All you need to know||At over 100 traffic signals across the city on Wednesday, Delhi government’s transport department, environment marshals and traffic police officials will urge drivers to switch off their ignition while waiting for the light to turn green. This is part of the government and the police’s ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ (red light on, ignition off) campaign started to reduce vehicular emission.Here’s all you need to know about the campaign: 1) The campaign is starting from October 21 and will continue till November 15. Volunteers at traffic signals, where the waiting time is over 15 seconds, will urge drivers to turn off their ignition to reduce vehicular emissions.2) This will be an awareness campaign and drivers will not be penalised for not turning off their engines. Environment marshals will hand roses to drivers and will stand carrying placards to create awareness. 3) Nearly 2,500 civil defence volunteers have been roped in for the campaign. Along with these marshals, officials from Delhi traffic police, Delhi’s transport department, and local legislators and councillors will also participate in this.4) While the campaign will be carried out at 100 traffic signals identified by the traffic police, 10 signals, with a waiting time of over two minutes, have been identified where the campaign will be focused. More volunteers will be present at these signals.5) The government estimates that nearly 15-20% vehicular pollution can be controlled, if people cooperate and participate in this mass campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-all-you-need-to-know/story-CR4lT0TkuyQKNF3WoxWM7M.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||5 dead, 35 injured after bus falls into gorge in Maharashtra’s Nandurbar||Five persons were killed and at least 35 injured after a bus they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Khamchoundar village in Nandurbar on Wednesday.The injured have been taken to the Civil Hospital in Nandurbar.According to Mahendra Pandit, Superintendent of Police, at around 1 am, a bus travelling from Malkapur to Surat fell into a 60-80 foot deep gorge after another bus dashed into the bus.“Five persons including the driver, cleaner and three of the passengers, have died on the spot,” said Pandit.“Other 35 passengers on board were injured and have been shifted to Civil Hospital Nandurbar for treatment,” Pandit added.A team of police officials is undertaking the rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-dead-35-injured-after-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-maharashtra-s-nandurbar/story-FiHc8c4CEDA2yHnKP7bgMJ.html
21-10-2020||Dehradun||Triple Talaq activist Shayara Bano made vice-chair of women rights’ body after joining BJP||Uttarakhand government has appointed anti-triple talaq crusader Shayara Bano from US Nagar district as the vice-chairperson in the state women commission with minister of state (MoS) status on Tuesday evening. Bano’s appointment has come 10 days after her joining the BJP in the presence of state unit president Bansidhar Bhagat at party headquarters in Dehradun on October 10. Apart from her, two other women have also been appointed vice-chairpersons in the commission. “Shayara Bano has been appointed as vice-chairperson in the state women commission along with two others-- Jyoti Shah and Pushpa Paswan with minister of state (MoS) status,” stated a press statement issued by the state government.“The positions for the three vice-chairpersons in the body were lying vacant for long. They (appointees) have come as a gift by chief minister in Navratri,” stated the release. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the new appointees will help in better functioning of the women’s panel.Also Read: Uttarakhand HC issues notice to Maharashtra Governor Koshyari over pending dues as former CM“The three new vice-chairpersons would help in solving various issues related to women more effectively and efficiently,” Rawat said.Earlier, Bano had said that she joined the national party as she was “influenced with BJP’s principles.” Also Read: After Bihar Assembly Election 2020, another reshuffle in Congress on the cards“Not only was I highly influenced by the BJP’s principles, I also looked up to PM Modi as my ideal. These all are the reasons that I decided to join BJP,” said Bano. She had also said that she was also impressed with the BJP led NDA government’s move to ban the practice of Triple Talaq through legislation. “What this party’s government did was for the welfare of crores of Muslim women in this country,” she said. “In future, I am ready to shoulder any responsibility given by the party leadership,” said Bano.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/triple-talaq-activist-shayara-bano-made-vice-chair-of-women-rights-body-after-joining-bjp/story-F0Xqk6xi0Kp9X6WXXLyL1I.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra re-examines ‘wetland’ status for Navi Mumbai flamingo haven||The Thane district administration’s various bodies have undertaken a fresh verification drive from Monday to determine whether two sites in Navi Mumbai can be declared wetlands following an application by an environmentalist, who is also a local resident.The team will make its submissions before the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed state wetland committee, which is headed by the Konkan commissioner, on October 27. The team also identified debris dumping at the site and directed the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco), which is Navi Mumbai’s planning body, to clear it within a week.Also read: Maharashtra forest department confirms mangroves were hacked at Navi Mumbai’s Panje; owner, Cidco to respondThe sites included the 21.9 hectare (ha) NRI Complex and 14.3-ha Training Ship Chanakya (TSC), where a record 9,000 flamingos had flocked in April and May. However, both these sites were not included by the district administration in their final list of newly identified and verified wetlands in line with 2017 wetland rules that was submitted to the Maharashtra government’s environment department on January 3.Cidco plans to develop a golf course and construct 17 buildings, including 1,564 flats and 20 office spaces, in the area, which have been opposed by environmentalists and the local residents.The matter is pending before the Supreme Court.Based on an application for rectification of their status in February by Sunil Agarwal, a petitioner before the Bombay HC on protection of these wetlands, the Konkan commissioner on September 27 had directed the Thane district collector to verify the submissions.District officials said the areas could be declared as wetlands.“We found that both these areas have all the features of wetlands and are also rich in biodiversity,” said Yuvraj Bangar, tehsildar (revenue officer), Thane.“We are not aware of the Cidco’s stand. But a final report has been prepared by the sub-divisional officer (SDO) and will be presented before the Konkan commissioner on October 27. The matter will also be presented before the Thane district collector on Wednesday,” he added.Avinash Shinde, SDO, Thane, said another complaint about construction materials dumped in TSC was identified by the joint inspection team on Monday. “We have been promised by Cidco that the debris from the area will be removed within seven days, and they will submit a compliance report before the HC-appointed committee,” he said.Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco, said, “We are not aware, who dumped the debris, but we will ensure that it is removed. However, these two sites are not wetlands. They are land parcels and revenue records show them as saltpans and agricultural lands. As per 2017 wetland rules, these lands do not qualify to be declared as wetlands.”On January 3, the Thane district administration had submitted its final report to the state government, which showed only three wetlands, excluding the ones in Navi Mumbai.“We were surprised that the final report had left out these two key wetlands. Our application cited the reasons for their inclusion. We are hopeful that these two wetlands will be added to the verified list and a natural habitat for flamingos will be protected from concrete urban jungle and the proposed golf course,” said Agarwal.‘Both sites extraordinary wetlands, land cannot be diverted for other use’Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) authorities said that both the sites at Navi Mumbai have displayed essential wetland characteristics. “These are extraordinary wetlands that are used by a large number of migratory and resident water birds. On an average, around 50,000 birds, including around 15,000 near threatened lesser flamingos, can be observed roosting at this site at high tides during winter . We have recommended this site to be declared as protected areas in the studies carried out for the proposed Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) and Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL). Conversion of this land for a different purpose such as a golf course will jeopardise the air safety of the proposed airport, as birds may start using the NMIA and its influence zone for roosting purposes. This land should not be diverted to any other use,” BNHS had said in two separate reports to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-re-examines-wetland-status-for-navi-mumbai-flamingo-haven/story-ClEKPbMMLfbCb2UNA4zQWP.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||NCW chief meets Maha Guv, raises issue of rising ‘love jihad’ cases in state||NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma on Tuesday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in Mumbai and discussed the “rise” in ‘love jihad’ cases in the state among other issues, an official statement said. She highlighted the distinction between a consensual inter-faith marriage and ‘love jihad’ and said that the latter required attention, the National Commission for Women (NCW) said in a statement.“Madam Chairperson raised the issue of rise in love jihad cases in Maharashtra. She highlighted a distinction between consensual inter-faith marriages and love jihad and said that the latter required attention,” the statement said. As part of her visit to Mumbai, she also met a number of government officials, the NCW said.“Our Chairperson @sharmarekha met with Bhagat Singh Koshyari, His Excellency, Governor of Maharashtra and discussed issues related to #womensafety in the state including defunct One Stop Centres, molestation and rape of women patients at #COVID centres and rise in love jihad cases,” the NCW tweeted. She also raised the issue of the Maharashtra State Commission for Women not having a chairperson and stressed that the position be filled at the earliest to ensure complaints are addressed in a timely manner. She claimed that some 4,000 complaints received by the state commission have not been attended to and redressed. “Till such time that the position is filled, a member from NCW shall visit the state on a monthly basis to look into the concerns raised by the women in the state,” the NCW said. Sharma also enquired into the status of the defunct One Stop Centres and sought their immediate reopening. “Some 188 cases filed under POCSO are pending beyond the statutory three month period. This should be looked into on priority,” Sharma was quoted as saying in the statement. During her visit she met several women’s rights groups and NGOs to get a sense of the severity of the issue and the on-ground reality faced by women in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncw-chief-meets-maha-guv-raises-issue-of-rising-love-jihad-cases-in-state/story-73eFkJhlqMF8csSjZsNPMJ.html
21-10-2020||Kolkata||2631 booked for not wearing masks in last 6 days in Kolkata as festive fervour grows||With Durga Purga starting from Thursday and pandal hoppers already hitting the streets in lakhs since Monday, the Kolkata Police has intensified its vigil against those not wearing face masks to check the spread of coronavirus. The police over the last six days, between October 16 and 20, have booked at least 2,631 people for not wearing masks in Kolkata. In the preceding six days the police had booked 787 violators. This comes at a time when Kolkata is witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases as residents are thronging the markets for puja shopping and pandal hoppers have hit the streets in lakhs. While Kolkata reported 809 cases on Tuesday, 4,029 new cases were registered across West Bengal. Exactly a month ago on September 20, Kolkata reported 514 new cases and the state had registered 3,177 new cases. The positivity rate has jumped from 6.9% to 9.2% in the last one month. HT had earlier reported how the city police had apparently lowered its guard against those without masks in the first week of October. The West Bengal government had made wearing of face masks mandatory on April 12 to check the disease from spreading. Also Read: Festival season, small gatherings aid spread of Covid-19, warn expertsOn an average, 160 people were booked everyday between October 5 and October 11 for not wearing masks in public places while more than 300 people were arrested every day for the same reason between September 5 and September 11. The number of such prosecutions in August was even higher with around 410 violators booked every day. “The vigil has been intensified. The police had launched a campaign titled MaskUpKolkata in July. There has been no laxity. Violators are being booked regularly,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. Also Read: Kolkata plans live streaming Dussehra amid Covid-19 pandemicWhile Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the Nation on Tuesday had urged people to wear masks, the Calcutta high court while hearing a PIL on Monday has warned that just banning the entry of visitors inside pandals may not be able to control the spread of the pandemic if people come out to the streets in big numbers. Citing examples of Kerala where Covid-19 cases had shot up after Onam, city doctors had earlier warned the Mamata Banerjee administration that coronavirus infection in Bengal could increase up to four-fold, if restrictions were relaxed during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/2631-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-last-6-days-in-kolkata-as-festive-fervour-grows/story-VYzrLf1ZiHjzidSE4fViMM.html
21-10-2020||Bhopal||MP starts process to develop its second national fossil park||The Madhya Pradesh government has initiated the process for developing a second National Fossil Park in the state at Dhangaon in Mandla district, officials aware of the matter said. The move comes over a decade after a fossil of a palm plant with fruit that is found in Madagascar (Indian Ocean) was among fossils discovered in Mandla.Residents, geologists, paleobotanists, and environmentalists have been urging the government to protect the 40-65 million-year-old fossils of 15 genera of 10 plant families found. A team of Mandla district administration, the state forest department, and paleobotanists inspected the area last month.Mandla collector Harshika Singh said the team confirmed plants like Hyphaenocarpon (palm) with fruit are not found in India before the state government approved a proposal to develop the fossil park in Dhangaon. Singh added the fossils found in Dhangaon are older than those found at Ghughwa National Fossil Park in Dindori district.D K Kapgate, a retired professor studying fossils of plants in Madhya Pradesh, said India was a part of a supercontinent called Gondwanaland that included South America, Africa, Madagascar, Antarctica, and Australia about 180 million years ago. “The tectonic plates started shifting and then breaking up of land started. The Indian plate broke away from that of Madagascar about 60-50 million years ago and collided with that of Eurasia. The fossils of plants belonging to that period were first found in Ghughwa in the late 1970s and now these have been found in Dhangaon.”Kapgate said Dhangaon needs to be developed separately as the experts have not only found stems, leaves, and roots but also fruits intact with the palm tree which is something new.Bandana Samant, a geology professor at Nagpur University who has carried out a study at Dhangaon, said the area has amazing preservation of vegetation which is even older than 60-64 million years. “These trees are mainly found near the sea on the eastern coast of South Africa, Madagascar, and Australia. After breaking away from Gondwanaland, the Indian subcontinent moved from the south equator to its present position--north of the equator. The discovery of these fossil plants is a very important geological event on the Indian subcontinent as it is a window to study weather conditions and vegetation which used to exist more than 60 million years ago.”Samant said most of the fossils in Ghughwa were collected from different sites. “But in Dhangaon, we found whole fossil forest and sediments of that era. The state government should have taken a decision on developing fossil park many years ago because fossils of trunks, seeds, fruits, and leaves are treasures for India.”Prashant Srivastava, a teacher in Mandla with an interest in paleobotany, said he discovered many fossils of plants on a hill in Dhangaon in 2006. “I took pictures and studied them. I shared the pictures with experts and they told me that these are fossils of Hyphaenocarpon [palm] of Madagascar, Garcinia, Sterculia [chest nuts], Sonneratia, Madagascar polyalthia, Heynea [Mahagony], Drypetes, Artocarpus communis [bread fruit], Eucalyptus and others.”Srivastava said Madhya Pradesh is rich in plant fossils and yet the forest department was paying much attention to them.Chief forest conservator (Jabalpur division) Ram Das Mahala said they cross-checked the claims first about the fossils with help of experts. “Now, since we are sure of the presence of fossils there, we have initiated the process to develop the area as a fossil park.”Mahala said the park will be developed in two phases. “In the first phase, we are focusing on protecting about 35-hectare land with a ban on the movement of locals in the area... fencing would be done. In the next phase, the Eco-Tourism Board will invite a team of experts to identify every fossil to preserve it. The documentation will be done properly so that we could set up a museum later.”The National Fossil Park in Ghughwa was earlier developed in 1983. Dhangaon is located about 100 km away.Ghughwa has rare fossils of leaves and trees that existed anywhere between 40 million and 150 million years ago when India was part of Gondwanaland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-starts-process-to-develop-its-second-national-fossil-park/story-ylIUmIff8GJYs1ExDQyzRL.html
21-10-2020||Lucknow||28 persons accused of crime against women externed from Uttar Pradesh districts||In a first, 28 people accused of crime against women were externed from various districts of the state, police said. These included 12 people who had been externed from Lucknow for six months, police said. The action is part of ‘Mission Shakti’ launched across the state on October 17. During the launch, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that anti-social elements who commit sexual offences would face a social boycott and be publicly shamed with their pictures put up at roadside crossings.A women’s help desk will also be set up at each police station across the state, officials said. Additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi on Tuesday also launched the official website of the directorate of prosecution—upprosecution.upsdc.gov.in—to give momentum to the Mission Shakti campaign.Also Read: CBI teams probing Hathras rape case visit hospital where victim was treatedHe also launched a YouTube channel called UP Prosecution. ADG, prosecution, Ashutosh Pandey said that a day after Mission Shakti’s launch, the court sentenced 23 persons, accused of crime against women and girls, to life imprisonment. Pandey said 31 persons were sent to prison and penalised. In 49 cases of crime against women, the court rejected the bail of 51 accused while 28 others were told to leave the district. The statewide breakup of those asked to leave the district wasn’t available, but in Lucknow the police externed 12 persons. Lucknow commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said, “The 12 accused who have been externed from the district were repeat offenders and were booked under the Goonda Act.” The accused who have been externed are Sunny Kori, 23, of Krishna Nagar, Suresh alias Raju,32, of Chowk, Ram Avtar, 24, of Mohanlalganj, Mathura Prasad, 49, Indiranagar, Salim, 25, of Chinhat, Makku alias Maqbool, 20, of Chinhat, Irfan, 34, of Sadatganj, Shobhit Yadav, 21, of Gomti Nagar, Madan, 26, of Ashiana, Dhunni Yadav, 30, of Sarojininagar, Nisar, 33, of Para and Ram Samujh Yadav, 32 of PGI. “The action will ensure that these accused will not be able to repeat such offence in the district again,” said the officer. Pink booths and Pink patrols, headed by women police personnel are also likely to be functional soon, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/28-persons-accused-of-crime-against-women-externed-from-uttar-pradesh-districts/story-0G4Mqg0PaxW18s5SDOlxdO.html
21-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: ‘Accidental death during selfie’ turns out to be double murder; accused arrested||An accident, where two young men were reported to have lost their lives while taking a selfie in Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Barwani district, located around 313 kilometres (km) south-west of Bhopal, on August 31, has turned out to be a case of double murder, said the police. The accused, who had allegedly killed the men in a bid to keep his theft a secret, was arrested on Tuesday, police said.Shantilal, a contractor, who belonged to MP’s Dhar district, has been accused of the youths’ murder, police said.The arrested accused, who claimed to be the sole eye-witness of the alleged accident, had informed the police of the deaths on August 31, said Nimish Agarwal, superintendent of police (SP), Barwani. Also read: Police arrest 3 for kidnapping and murder of Jabalpur transporter’s son, one diesThe deceased were identified as Dinesh Barela (25) and Bunty Barela (22), who belonged to Dahi village in Dhar district.Their bodies were found at Ramgarh in Barwani district on September 1, the police said. “Shantilal said that the two men had slipped and fallen in a gorge, while taking a selfie on August 1. Their bodies were found on September 1. Though Shantilal was questioned several times about the alleged accident, he stuck to the accident theory. However, there were certain discrepancies in his statement,” the SP said, “Shantilal was again detained on Monday and he confessed to his crime the following day,” he said. “Shantilal said that he was working at a construction site with Dinesh and Bunty. He had stolen 200 sacks of cement from the site a few months ago and handed over the building material to the duo. He had demanded Rs 40,000 from Dinesh and Bunty as his share, but the men refused to part with the cash and started blackmailing him. This led to their murder,” the SP said.Shantilal has allegedly confessed to the police that he took the men to Ramgarh, a scenic spot in Barwani, and pushed them to a gorge and made it look like an accident. The arrested accused has been booked under section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-accidental-death-during-selfie-turns-out-to-be-double-murder-accused-arrested/story-KbJAJaN8CcM4AzdLZgVLXP.html
21-10-2020||City||Assam forest officials ‘seize’ railway locomotive for killing wild elephants||Forest officials in Assam have seized a railway locomotive for mowing down a female elephant and her calf in September. The elephants were killed by a speeding goods train at Lumding in Hojai district of Assam on the intervening night of September 26 and September 27. The accident took place near Pathorkhola railway station, when the elephants were trying to cross the railway tracks. “This is probably the first such instance in the country, when a railway locomotive has been seized in connection with death on train tracks,” said MK Yadava chief wildlife warden, Assam. On Tuesday, forest officials seized the engine from the Banunimaidan locomotive shed of North-eastern Frontier Railway (NFR) in Guwahati. Also Read: Ending longest shutdown, Assam’s Kaziranga national park opens for touristsEarlier, rail authorities had placed the pilot of the train and his assistant under suspension pending an internal probe. “Provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 will be imposed against railway authorities. The seized locomotive will be used as evidence in the case,” Yadava said. Forest officials said the impact of the accident was such that the one-year-old calf was dragged for nearly a kilometre (km) before the engine came to a grinding halt. “The area, where the accident took place, falls in an elephant corridor and railway authorities were cautioned earlier that trains should restrict their speed to below 40 km per hour,” said Pulak Choudhury, divisional forest officer, Lumding. “An internal inquiry by railways has revealed that the train was running at around 60 km per hour in the area and that caused the accident. We have filed a police complaint and are also conducting a separate investigation ourselves,” he added. Despite speed restrictions and meetings between forest and railway officials to prevent elephant deaths on railway tracks, such incidents keep recurring in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-forest-officials-seize-railway-locomotive-for-killing-wild-elephants/story-oa33PkDhwnIqqNPMAa8X8J.html
21-10-2020||Lucknow||Smriti visits Amethi, Congress calls it ‘political tourism’||Union minister for Women and Child Development (WCD) Smriti Irani arrived in her Lok Sabha (LS) constituency Amethi on Tuesday amid the rival Congress’s barbs of “political tourism”.Irani plans to announce several projects for her constituency, which used to be a Gandhi family’s pocket borough for years until she wrested the prestigious seat from Rahul Gandhi in last year’s parliamentary polls, during the festive season. This is her first visit to Amethi since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from the end of March in a bid to keep the viral infection at bay.The Congress is aiming to expose her “absence” from Amethi since she was elected to the LS from the prestigious seat last year.Irani pounced on former Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Kamal Nath’s “item” jibe and packaged it as a proof of the “Congress culture to insult women”. Also Read: Smriti Irani slams Gandhis for ‘not paying attention’ to development of Amethi-Raebareli“It’s true that the head of a political party (Rahul and Sonia Gandhi) has been doing politics in Amethi-Rae Bareli for years but it’s a matter of great satisfaction for me that we are living up to the expectations of the people through hard work in these places,” she said. Rahul Gandhi had represented Amethi in the LS for three consecutive terms since 2004. While his mother Sonia Gandhi has also been representing Rae Bareli, the only surviving Congress bastion in Uttar Pradesh (UP), in the lower House of Parliament since 2004. Irani responded to the Congress’s truant barb and listed a series of works initiated by her in a bid to help the voters in her constituency.“I ran an e-choupal programme and redressed around 1,900 complaints of the public,” she said while accusing the Congress leadership of “usurping the land of farmers”. “The Congress must first return the land to farmers that it has captured. The land was grabbed in the name of setting up a factory,” she said to a question, seeking her response to Rahul Gandhi’s allegation of misuse of state-run agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) under the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Front (NDA) government. She claimed that 22 development projects were launched in the Salon area of her constituency and all of them would be completed on time. She also reviewed the ongoing development projects. Also Read: On Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ jibe, Smriti Irani’s question for Gandhi familyShe also launched several health and wellness projects for her constituency and inaugurated a cow shelter before leaving for Tiloi. Deepak Singh, a Congress member of the UP legislative council (MLC), took potshots at her visit. He alleged that she escaped to Amethi in a bid to avoid embarrassing questions that were being raised ahead of the three-phase Bihar elections. “The visit is a cover-up. It is nothing but political tourism. It is aimed more at ensuring that embarrassing queries don’t come her way during the Bihar poll campaign, where she might have been quizzed about her prolonged absence from her LS constituency. She is aware that the ‘missing MP’ posters have come up in the constituency and even her own party workers have been looking for her,” Singh alleged.“I shall share the details of how many hours she has spent in the constituency by the time her visit ends,” he further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/smriti-visits-amethi-congress-calls-it-political-tourism/story-wcEsuw9V9DRv614gYjhAsN.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals ordered to test Covid-19 recovered patients for TB||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed all hospitals in Mumbai to test Covid-19 recovered patients for TB since both diseases are believed to have similar symptoms.In Mumbai, 135 TB patients were co-infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and 18 of these succumbed to the infection, mostly because of late diagnosis.“Most of these co-infection cases have been identified in new TB patients. They approached hospitals considering it to be just Covid-19 infection. But when their CT scan report showed different forms of clouding in lungs, their sputum culture confirmed that they were also carrying the bacteria of TB,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical superintendent, Sewri TB hospital. “Both these infections affect people with lower immunity,” he added.As per the World Health Organization (WHO), TB and Covid-19 are both infectious diseases that primarily attack the lungs and have similar symptoms such as cough, fever and difficulty in breathing.“As the pandemic advances, more people of all ages, including TB patients, will be exposed to Covid-19,” reads a note released by WHO in May this year. Also Read: 40% citizens in Mumbai screened for Covid-19 under Maharashtra government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiativeIn view of the developments, all private and public hospitals have been instructed to follow up on their Covid-19 recovered patients to check if they have developed any symptoms similar to TB, such as coughing, loss of appetite and fatigue among others.“If any of them show such symptoms, we will run a sputum test to check if he/she has TB,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, deputy health officer, TB, BMC. “But so far, we have not diagnosed any recovered Covid-19 patients with TB,” she added.Also Read: Plasma therapy may not be used on patientsAlong with this, the BMC has also added TB as one of the diseases to look out for in the questionnaire being used for the door-to-door survey under ‘Your Family, Your Responsibility’ programme.“During the survey, if anyone is found with TB-like symptoms, we will also run a diagnosis on it,” Dr Tipre added.Social workers have welcomed the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-hospitals-ordered-to-test-covid-19-recovered-patients-for-tb/story-3TE9beq91CX4gBpNFEig1L.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Murder convict out on parole kills man over gambling dispute; arrested||A 25-year-old was stabbed to death over a gambling dispute, allegedly by a life convict in a murder case who was out of jail on parole, in south Delhi’s Tughlakabad village in the early hours of Tuesday, said police.The suspect, identified as 42-year-old Vishwajeet alias Chacha, who got parole as a step to decongest jails to stem the spread of Covid-19, was caught later the same day along with the knife allegedly used in the crime.A case of murder was registered against him at the Govindpuri police station. Vishwajeet was previously involved in six cases of murder, dacoity, robbery and for crimes under the arms act, apart from a decade-old murder in Chittaranjan Park for which he was convicted for life, the police said. Also read: 2 held for killing brother over property dispute, stuffing body in trunkPolice officials associated with the probe said the murder took place over Rs 70,000 that the victim, Vicky Gupta, won while gambling (playing cards) with his brother Kuldeep Gupta, Vishwajeet, and their friend Raja near the forested area in Tughlakabad village. “Vishwajeet accused Vicky of cheating during the game and demanded back the money he had lost. An argument ensued and Vishwajeet took out a knife, stabbed Vicky in his chest and fled,” a senior police officer associated with the case said, adding that Vicky was unemployed. Additional deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Kumar Gyanesh said the murder came to their notice around 5 am on Tuesday, after Kuldeep informed the police about it. “The injured man was taken to Safdarjung hospital by his brother where he was declared brought dead,” said Gyanesh, adding that a murder case was registered on the statement of prime witness Kuldeep who is an auto rickshaw driver by profession. As Vishwajeet was absconding, the teams of the Govindpuri police station conducted raids at his possible hideouts. “We caught Vishwajeet in the evening from one of his hideouts in south Delhi. The murder weapon, a knife, was also seized from him,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-murder-convict-out-on-parole-kills-man-over-gambling-dispute-arrested/story-W7qyJGm7N8woQRiSsH3o5M.html
21-10-2020||City||Ending longest shutdown, Assam’s Kaziranga national park opens for tourists||Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) will reopen for tourists on Wednesday after a gap of over seven months because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Assam. This is the longest shutdown for KNPTR in its 112-year history.KNPTR authorities said that the park famous for its one-horned rhinoceroses and tigers would be formally reopened at 11 am on Wednesday by Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal at a function.All five national parks and 18 wildlife sanctuaries in Assam, including KNPTR, which usually remains shut for around five months annually due to floods, were closed in March following the Covid-19 outbreak.“This is the longest period of closure for KNPTR. Usually, the park remains closed from the end of May because of annual floods. However, this year, it was shut for an additional two and half months due to Covid-19,” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR.Also Read: Uttarakhand’s first radio-collared leopard found crossing Ganga near Haridwar“The usual precautionary measures such as wearing masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distancing will be put to practise while allowing tourists to enter the park. We will also ensure that a limited number of jeep safaris are allowed at a time. The vehicles’ tyres will be sanitised after each trip,” he added.All tourists will have to go through a screening process and anyone detected with Covid-19-related symptoms such as high fever, cough and could will be segregated and handed over to local health authorities.The elephant safaris won’t be allowed to operate during the first few days of the park’s reopening and may resume from November.Initially, only the Kohora and Bagori ranges of the park, which is spread over 914 square (sq) kilometres (km), would be reopened for tourists, the authorities added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ending-longest-shutdown-assam-s-kaziranga-national-park-opens-for-tourists/story-cqMmazXWfX4JrkpU9sw4lM.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI drops again, remains in ‘poor’ category||The national capital’s air quality index (AQI) on Wednesday at 7 am was 262, which was worse than the previous day’s at 223, but still managed to remain in the poor category. AQI between 201 and 300 is considered to be in the poor category.The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin on Tuesday at 4 pm showed an improvement of the AQI at 223, which is at the lower end of the poor category. Earlier on Monday, Delhi’s AQI was 244.Data from the Union of Earth Sciences’ (MoES) System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) showed that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers, or PM 2.5, was 8% on Tuesday.Also read: Paddy stubble can decompose in 25 days with microbial solution, says ICAR“Synergised stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions stand at 1,017. The transport-level wind direction is favourable. Our model estimate of stubble burning share in PM 2.5 is 8% for Tuesday, and is likely to increase by early Wednesday,” said the Safar forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-drops-again-remains-in-poor-category/story-6LDbXSk84eZAW5O1XSUHrN.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Amid pandemic, caution meets passionate debate||The grand finale of the 2019 Speak for India-Delhi edition was earlier slated to be conducted in March. However, the nationwide lockdown imposed from March 24 to arrest the spread of the Sars-CoV-2 virus delayed the event for nearly eight months. On Tuesday, the house witnessed the finalists debating whether the lockdown was the right step in tackling Covid-19 in India.The opening arguments made by the winner of 2019 Speak for India — Vinayak Gupta, a graduate from Delhi University’s Hindu College — emphasised that the lockdown gave the country’s inadequate health infrastructure time to prepare for the onslaught of cases that would hit it sooner or later. “If the lockdown hadn’t been imposed, there would have been more patients and no health infrastructure to deal with it,” said Gupta. His opponent Priyanshi Sharma, however, argued that it was too little, too late. “World Health Organisation (WHO) started speaking about Covid-19 disease in January itself. We took two months to impose the lockdown without consulting all stakeholders including labour ministry and bureaucrats. If such a lockdown were to be imposed at all, it should have been done at an earlier stage with more planning,” she said. Sharma also added that since the country has re-opened with checks in place, the same thing could have been done back then. Gupta, however, argued, “This alternative was only possible because the lockdown was imposed at the right time. Besides, the government did offer stimulus packages and benefit schemes to counteract the effects of migrant crisis and economic slowdown.”On Tuesday, candidates — armed with masks and sanitisers — continued to debate the effects of the lockdown in front of a group of 50 people. Due to the Covid-19 restrictions put in place, organisers had decided against a larger crowd to ensure social distancing measures.While the Covid-19 lockdown and the economic hardships arising out of it dominated the last round of Tuesday’s debate, the previous two rounds focused on the start-up culture and whether corporate jobs could be compared to slavery.While Ranu Sancheti, from the FORE School of Management, argued that corporate jobs put more value on human productivity than humans shifting from the traditional form of slavery, her opponent and runner-up Sharma contended that this can be construed as an argument against hard work.“Corporate jobs cannot be compared to slavery which was racist and forceful among other things because of the presence of choice. Growth in these companies is dependent on the extra hard work put in by people. If some don’t want to do so, it is their choice. They have that freedom,” said Sharma.In the first round, the debate was flagged by a discussion on the start-up culture and whether it was a fad or trend-setter. While Laiba, a graduate from Daulat Ram College who only goes by one name, argued that the start-up models were mostly borrowing business ideas from other country and applying it in India without taking into account the country’s culture, her opponent Bisathi Bharat argued that start-ups offered an alternative to reduce corporate inequalities since people coming from different backgrounds can become entrepreneur.Among the topics covered during the zonals and the semi-finals were the connection between unemployment and new forms of technology, Indo-US partnerships, authoritarianism, censoring shows on OTT platform, and whether celebrities make good politicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-pandemic-caution-meets-passionate-debate/story-zJCKFI6mUeFupKNes5YJDP.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s top debaters make mark on the biggest stage||Following months of intense verbal jousts between college-goers from across the National Capital Region (NCR), a History student from Hindu College and an Economics undergraduate from Daulat Ram College won the grand finale of the Federal Bank Speak for India — Delhi Edition debate competition held on Tuesday in association with Hindustan Times and Hindustan. The event, which was organised in Delhi-NCR for the first time, saw eight finalists from various Delhi colleges pitted against each other and showcased the importance of debate in strengthening a democracy. The jury comprised senior journalist Barkha Dutt, founding member of Delhi University’s National Democratic Teachers’ Front Inder Mohan Kapahy, and Shri Ram College of Commerce professor Abhinav Prakash Singh. While former parliamentarian and national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party Baijayant Jay Panda was the chief guest, renowned athlete and paralympian Deepa Malik and Aam Aadmi Party legislator and spokesperson Raghav Chadha were the guests of honour. Shyam Srinivasan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Federal Bank in a televised message, spoke of the event — the biggest debating event held in Delhi-NCR and six other Indian states — as a platform for bright young minds to meet and express their ideas. He added that it has been encouraging to witness the overwhelming reception the property received from about 62000 young aspirants in Delhi-NCR this year and the gripping performance of the eight finalists who spoke passionately for what they believed to be right.Civil Services-aspirant Vinayak Gupta, 21, and a graduate of History (Honours) in Hindu College won the debate, while Priyanshi Sharma, an Economics (Honours) graduate of Daulat Ram College came second. Gupta, who hails from small town Nautanwa, near Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh was awarded a cash prize of Rs1.5 lakh, a scholarship of Rs 50,000 and a college reward worth Rs 25,000, while Sharma, currently employed with Deloitte India as an executive won Rs 1 lakh and Rs 20,000 as college reward.The two faced off against each other on whether the lockdown was the right step in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic in India.The finalists offered a study on the diversity of the country: B Bharath, of Indira Gandhi National Open University, is the son of a farmer from Andhra Pradesh, and is studying for his Civil Services examination; Sushovan Chakraborty of Hindu College hails from Guwahati, Ranu Sancheti of Gurugram is a student of the FORE School of Management in Delhi, while Manawwar Hussain developed an interest in public speaking during his formative years spent at a Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya school in Bihar.Over 62,000 participants from across Delhi and the NCR registered online for the debate, and over 1,000 students took part in the preliminary auditions. The initial rounds, which took place in January and February, were conducted in various Delhi University (DU) colleges, including Hindu College, Kirori Mal College, Aurobindo College, and Daulat Ram CollegeThough the finale was slated for March, the event was postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the disease.“I believe in the power of words and also in action. We don’t have an Indian Administrative Services officer in the family and that’s why I want to be one. A civil servant has great power and with that you can help other people,” said Gupta. The debate format was rigorous and conducted over three rounds. In the first, all eight participants were asked to debate on the topic: Is the start-up culture a fad or a trendsetter. Each participant was asked to blindly pick a side and were given a minute to gather their thoughts. They were then given two minutes to speak extempore. After their speech, each pair of participants was given three minutes to question each other, and an additional minute to present their closing argument. After the first round, two pairs — four participants — were chosen to go into the next round.“With the government encouraging incubation of ideas for start-ups, the middle class is warming up to it and this is the time for start-ups,” said Gupta. Hussain of Kirori Mal College, who won the popular Choice award said “simply launching a website doesn’t make a start-up...what is absent in the country is the infrastructure to support it”. The same process was followed in the second round — the topic of debate was whether corporate jobs were the new form of slavery — but this time around, the three judges were also allowed to ask questions from each participant.“We have signed up for corporate slavery and we are compliant of their demands due to paychecks, but in reality this is a culture that puts less value on the human being and more on his or her productivity,” Sancheti said. Sharma however took exception to the term “corporate slavery”, as it was reminiscent of the master-slave relationship of feudal times. “We now have more choice. Earlier there used to be a strong element of force. Now you can change a job if it doesn’t work for you,” she said. In the final round, apart from the existing format, both participants were also expected to present a minute-long monologue on the opposing viewpoint, which was referred to as the turncoat round. Some of the questions that the duo grappled with included: Was the lockdown an opportunity for the Indian economy? Did it do equally right for the poor, the middle class and the rich? Or was the impact on the economy negative? Could we have avoided the migrant crisis? While Sharma called it an “ill-timed and ill-planned step” done without adequate consultation with bureaucrats and the labour ministry, her turncoat viewpoint was that the government spread awareness through multiple campaigns and implemented the lessons it learnt from other countries. Gupta said that we must not get caught up in definitions of “good or bad lockdowns” . “More people died of hunger they they did of Covid,” he added. Lauding the contestants for upholding the most important principle of a debate, Panda said: “Getting to know what the other side is thinking is a quality that is important in politics, in corporate life and life in general.” Chaddha used the platform to exhort young of India to “join national politics. “The average of India is 29. I am 31. You and I have more reason to worry about high taxes, increasing poverty...we’ll be living longer than most politicians today,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-top-debaters-make-mark-on-the-biggest-stage/story-kE7kmsMrWQWKah8t0eUzVI.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Legal experts differ on Punjab govt’s agriculture bills, as advocate general counts on ‘exceptions’||Legal experts see remote chances of the Punjab government’s farm bills (passed in the assembly on Tuesday) becoming a reality even as state advocate general Atul Nanda cited instances of ‘exceptions’ in the country’s constitutional framework. With the introduction of amendments by the Punjab assembly in the laws, a number of provisions in the legislations enacted by the Centre would stand negated provided the former get a nod from the governor and the President. “Our view is that agriculture falls in the state list. The state has powers to enact laws on the same. But, if there is an overlap (as who has powers to legislate these bills), our enactment is on Article 254 (II) and we have requested the President to give assent,” said Nanda. Article 254 (II) of the Constitution says a law made by the state with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to a law made by Parliament, the state’s legislation will prevail, if the President gives the nod. Nanda said there have been laws in the country which run contrary to the provisions of Central enactments. “We have a provision of anticipatory bail in Punjab which Uttar Pradesh does not have. It was also a Centre’s enactment to be implemented across the country. But during the Emergency, it was done away with in Uttar Pradesh,” said Nanda adding that there are a score of other such examples. But many legal experts were of the view that the bills are more of a ‘politico-legal’ move. “If any law is made by the Central government, the state assembly has no jurisdiction to override it. If there is any confusion, the state can say no and it can give a representation to the Central government or the President. Thereafter, they can approach the Supreme Court. But how will the country run if the assembly overrides Parliament,” said former Haryana advocate general Mohan Jain, who was also additional solicitor general in the former PM Manmohan Singh’s government. Other experts said since agriculture is a state subject, the Centre had no business enacting the laws. Some said since it involved inter-state trade, the Centre was well within its right to enact the laws. Assistant solicitor general Chetan Mittal said the state can’t interfere once the Centre has enacted a law. “If they have to (enact a law) to override any Central Act, power lies with the President. Otherwise, the Central legislation will prevail,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/legal-experts-differ-on-punjab-farm-bills-as-advocate-general-counts-on-exceptions/story-vpeXSw1RhlUN9ro1fDKNBN.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Into snack vendor’s heart||It’s the same blue sky, the same flowers and trees. All these things used to give him joy. But no longer.Durgesh Kumar Yadav is nursing a disappointed heart.“My love story has failed,” he says, his face hidden behind his mask.In his mid-30s, Mr Yadav is a “Bombay bhel puri” vendor in this sprawling public garden, in central Delhi. All day long he walks about the greens, a snack case perched on his head and a tripod-like wooden stand under his right arm. Sometimes he stops in front of a bench or under a tree, and sets up his stand for a few minutes, waiting for customers.This afternoon he stops by a jogging track and rustles out his establishment within a minute. A native of Badayun, in UP, he says his girlfriend is from “proper Delhi.” But then he suddenly freezes and corrects himself—“Hain nahin, thi (she was, not is, his girlfriend). We had a fight two days ago, here in this park, and we won’t meet again.”Mr Yadav has been living in the city for a decade. He met his “girlfriend” about four years ago. “She was the first to contact me,” he insists, saying that she had got his mobile number from a group of people who hail from his village and who live in her neighbourhood.“For the first few weeks we interacted on phone, and finally she came to this park to meet me... she knew that I worked here from late morning to late evening.”Whenever she would arrive, Mr Yadav would momentarily take a break from work and they would chat about “our families, my bhel puri business and about our future.” They would also listen to film songs on YouTube.But now it’s all over, he says, and “I’ll never marry... I will only have God as my jeevan-saathi (life companion).”Even while frustrated with the relationship, Mr Yadav has nice things to say about his ex. “She is a good person, her heart is sincere.”But.He raises his eyes, absent-mindedly removes his mask, pinches his lips, and ties the mask again.Taking out the mobile from his shirt pocket, Mr Yadav looks thoughtful. “Things can be different if she comes today and admit that mistakes were made on her side as well.”He now lifts the snack case, deftly places it on his head, clutches the tripod around his left shoulder and walks away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-into-snack-vendor-s-heart/story-gEAUv1Km4H1fiRpDE3zscI.html
21-10-2020||City||Actor Deepti Naval undergoes angioplasty at Mohali hospital||Veteran actor Deepti Naval, who underwent an angioplasty at Fortis Hospital in Mohali on Monday, said she was discharged from the medical facility on Tuesday and is “perfectly fine now”.There were reports that the actor suffered a heart attack in Manali, following which she was brought to Mohali. However, talking to PTI, she claimed it was a “heart symptom”. The 68-year-old actor has been in Rohtang for the past one month.Dr RK Jaswal, director, Cath Lab, Fortis Hospital, who operated upon the actor, said: ‘’She underwent stenting of the left anterior descending artery, utilising the advanced imaging technology optical coherence tomograph.”Naval spearheaded her career in parallel cinema with films like Junoon, Chashme Buddoor, Ankahee and Mirch Masala.She most recently starred in the series Made In Heaven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/actor-deepti-naval-undergoes-angioplasty-at-mohali-hospital/story-tGjOK5yYd6un3KOrWjbd7J.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man caught with countrymade pistol, supplier held too||Two men have been arrested for possessing a countrymade pistol and cartridges, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. They have been identified as Gopal, 27, of Sector 49 and Shivam, 22, of Faidan village.Police had set up a naka near the market in Sector 41 on Monday evening, when Gopal was stopped on suspicion. On frisking him, cops recovered a countrymade pistol. He revealed that he had procured it from Shivam. Later, Shivam was apprehended from near Faidan. Police also recovered two cartridges, including a used one, from him. The two were booked under the Arms Act at the Sector-39 police station. They were produced in court, which sent them to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-caught-with-countrymade-pistol-supplier-held-too/story-dgM0vD7kYv55pHEEViqS9M.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Holiday special train to ply on Kalka-Shimla track from October 21||After a gap of seven months, the Kalka Shimla Express is set to ply on the heritage railway track from October 21 till November 30. The train will take 42 trips in all.The train will depart from Kalka at 12.10pm and reach Shimla at 5.20pm. It will then depart from Shimla at 10.35am and arrive at the Kalka station at 4.10pm.For this, sanitisation of the Shimla railway station was done on Monday. Apart from the station platform, the waiting hall and passenger area were also sanitised. The maintenance work of the railway track has also been completed.Shimla railway station superintendent Prince Sethi said all the arrangements to resume the train have been made. All SOPs and guidelines issued by the government will strictly be followed, he added.Railway has decided to operate holiday special trains during the festive season. These will comprise seven coaches, including two luxury coaches.Shimla hoteliers and restaurant association president Sanjay Sood said the resumption of train services on Kalka-Shimla railway track will give a much-needed boost to the tourism and hospitality sector in the state, especially in Shimla. “This year due to the coronavirus pandemic, everyone involved in tourism and hospitality sector suffered huge losses and the resumption of train services after seven months is a positive step and we hope that more trains will be plied on this heritage track in the future to revive the tourism sector,” said Sood.The Kalka-Shimla railway track was built during the British era in 1903. The track is 96 kilometres long and has a 2.6 feet narrow gauge track which goes through 18 railway stations and has over 880 bridges and more than 100 tunnels.The railway track was declared a world heritage railway line by UNESCO in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/holiday-special-train-to-ply-on-kalka-shimla-track-from-today/story-Qo4b6DNw7JDVAfPA6cfd7J.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nip in the air as mercury drops below 16°C in Chandigarh||Minimum temperature in Chandigarh dropped to 15.8°C on Tuesday, lowest since the end of last winter. According to the weatherman, it is likely to dip further in the coming days.“The nip in the air is due to the northwesterly winds in the region. Towards the end of the month, minimum temperature is likely to come down to 12-13°C,” said an India Meteorological Department official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 33.5°C on Monday to 33.6°C on Tuesday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 33 and 34 degrees while minimum will remain between 15 and 16 degrees, according the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nip-in-the-air-as-mercury-drops-below-16-c-in-chandigarh/story-XbTgP7haAWep6dVQWe2MiP.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh pensioner who shot self succumbs, tests Covid +ve||A 70-year-old man from Manimajra, who was left critically injured after shooting himself in a suicide attempt at his house during the wee hours of Monday, died while undergoing treatment at the PGIMER on Tuesday. The health department said he also tested positive for Covid-19 after hospitalisation, which took the death toll related to the virus to 209 in Union Territory. This is the fourth death categorised as “due to non-Covid reasons” in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, with 57 fresh cases, the infection tally rose to 13,473. The number of active cases stands at 810, as 12,724 (94.4%) patients have recovered so far, including 107 discharged on Tuesday. Virus claims 3 lives in MohaliDeath toll in Mohali district rose to 227, with three more patients succumbing to the virus on Tuesday. The district also reported 27 fresh cases, including 23 from Mohali city, while 105 patients were discharged.As many as 11,801 people have tested positive so far, of whom 10,955 (92.8%) have recovered and 619 remain infected.Panchkula district reported no casualty, while 15 people tested positive, taking the total to 6,870.Among the fresh cases, five surfaced in Sector 7 and three in Sector 2.While 6,466 (94.1%) patients have recovered so far, 107 have died, leaving 297 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pensioner-who-shot-self-succumbs-tests-covid-ve/story-fFWaiui8SbjkWGlUy0uo5H.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER tells staffers to be vigilant after body swap at mortuary||Three days after a Rajpura-based family lodged a police complaint over the body of their ward being wrongly released to another family, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has directed the mortuary officials to remain vigilant while handing over corpses to the kin concerned.On October 17, the family members of a Mohali resident, who died of coronavirus, reported at the mortuary to claim his body. Though the due procedure and Covid protocol were followed at the mortuary, the mix-up took place after the said family mistakenly gave confirmation for the wrong body during the identification process, and ended up cremating the Rajpura resident, PGIMER officials said.“The Mohali family that took the wrong body despite PGIMER following due diligence, has already tendered a written apology in this regard to the department concerned. Also, the remains of the Rajpura resident have been handed over to his actual relatives for the last rites,” PGIMER said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-tells-staffers-to-be-vigilant-after-body-swap-at-mortuary/story-TvSsQBC6jOTZHocmwcLfSL.html
21-10-2020||City||Four robbers uproot ATM in Zirakpur, one held after chase||Four robbers uprooted an ATM from Kotak Mahindra Bank branch on VIP Road in Zirakpur in wee hours of Tuesday.Acting swiftly, police chased and arrested one of them, and recovered the ATM besides the vehicle and other tools used in the crime. However, three others managed to flee.The one arrested has been identified as Anmol Arora, a resident of Jarnail Enclave, Zirakpur, who used to run a medical store in Peer Muchalla. He named his accomplices as Abhishek Katiyal of Dhakoli, Deepak Sharma of Dera Bassi and Gurpreet Singh of Panchkula’s Sector 3.“They had learnt to uproot ATMs from online videos. The other three will be arrested soon,” said superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Grewal, adding that there were ₹14 lakh stocked in the machine.What transpiredThe crime took place around 4:30am. After uprooting the ATM, the four dragged it to a secluded place a few metres from the Patiala road. A passerby spotted them and called police. Head constable Deep Chand, who was on duty nearby, rode to the spot on his bike with another cop. They followed the marks on the road that were created due to the dragging of the ATM. They spotted the accused trying to break open the machine. On seeing the cops, they fled, but the head constable managed to nab one of them. A Mahindra Bolero with a fake registration number, an airgun, a pistol-shaped lighter, and other tools used to break the ATM were recovered. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-robbers-uproot-atm-in-zirakpur-one-held-after-chase/story-TX6icMqJ6zfVnEGsjYoP0M.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor left red-faced as BJP councillors skip MC meet||In an unprecedented move, 18 of the 20 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors on Wednesday boycotted the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s General House meeting, forcing their own party mayor Raj Bala Malik to adjourn it for lack of quorum.Only Malik and Maheshinder Singh Sidhu of the BJP were present in the meeting, held through video-conferencing, besides five of the Congress and an Akali councillor. Even the nine nominated members were absent.“Of the 27 elected representatives (including 26 elected councillors and the city MP), only eight were present, while as per MC Act, quorum requirement is of nine councillors,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.Apparently taken by surprise by her fellow party members’ move, the mayor said, “I don’t know the reason for the boycott.It is their own House and party. It is disappointing that they didn’t attend the meeting.”Contradicting Malik, BJP councillors insisted that she was informed by Dinesh Kumar, BJP organisational secretary, on October 19, that they would not attend the meeting if it is taken on a digital platform. Kumar didn’t respond to repeated calls.While the mayor was left red-faced, BJP councillors claimed they skipped the meeting because of MC officials.Party’s general secretary Rambir Bhatti released a press statement late at night, stating that “MC bureaucrats” were not allowing holding of a physical meeting of the House, which led to the boycott.“On October 16, BJP councillors had decided that the House meeting should be physical (in person) and not through a digital platform. The councillors, including Sood and Kumar, on October 18 reiterated the demand for holding a physical House meet. Kumar even informed the mayor about the party decision,” said Bhatti.Bhatti also alleged that MC officials were not allowing them to bring agenda of their choice, such as cut in water tariff. Tuesday meeting didn’t include it as an agenda. Contesting the claim, a senior MC official, who did not wish to be named, said: “They can always bring a table agenda if they think officials are blocking their agendas.”Just a month ago, a high drama was witnessed at the MC office in Sector 17 after a BJP leader allegedly slapped the commissioner’s private secretary. In turn, the BJP had accused MC employees of attacking the party delegation that had gone there to meet the commissioner. Counter complaints were filed in the case, but the matter was finally resolved.Sources said there is anger among BJP councillors against the mayor and MC officials for not calling a General House meeting in September, and not responding to their repeated requests.The mayor had recently recovered from Covid-19 and had even remained admitted to the PGIMER. “Even if the mayor was ill at the time, the officials should have called the meeting, which could have been chaired by the deputy mayor,” said a BJP councillor who didn’t want to be named.This is not the first time when the party’s internal feud has erupted in public. In the 2018 mayor elections, a rebel candidate stood against the party’s official choice.“It is extremely disappointing that the same people who were rebelling at that time are again playing petty politics in public against their own party mayor,” said a senior BJP leader, who didn’t want to be named.Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in the House, called it a political stunt. “The mayor and those who boycotted the meeting are in it together. It is simply to avoid facing opposition on crucial issues, such as steep hike in water charges and poor development record of the BJP. We demand mayor’s resignation.”Hardeep Singh of the Shiromani Akali Dal said, “We are ready to represent the people’s interests on any platform. BJP councillors should face other elected representatives in the House. It exposes BJP failures, particularly in preventing a steep hike in water charges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-left-red-faced-as-bjp-councillors-skip-mc-meet/story-nhiEHaebmgImzAoyoP5yZK.html
21-10-2020||City||64-year-old Mohali woman killed in road mishap||A 64-year-old woman was killed in a road accident on Tuesday after a pickup van hit the Activa scooter she was riding pillion on. The accident took place on Patiala road in Zirakpur.The deceased has been identified as Neelam, a resident of Dera Bassi.According to the information, after buying sweets, she was going to her relative’s house to wish them on the birth of a baby in Banur with her son Yogesh Sharma who was riding the Activa scooter.After the accident, she was rushed to a local hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. The driver of the pickup van fled from the spot.A case has been registered against the van driver, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/64-year-old-mohali-woman-killed-in-road-mishap/story-BacCjPHeI8ULq76Vmx5J0L.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||BA LLB 5-year course: Panjab University senator writes to V-C over objections in tentative merit list||Panjab University (PU) senator Jagdish Mehta on Tuesday raised objections against the tentative merit list of BA LLB 5-year course run by University Institute of Legal studies (UILS).Mehta wrote to PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and sought his intervention in the matter. The tentative merit list was uploaded on the website on Monday. The senator stated that he has received grievances from many students who had applied admission for the five-year law course.In his letter to the V-C, Mehta stated that due to introduction of subject weightage of legal studies at the last moment and not calculating the weightage as per the handbook of information of 2020 like the NSS and other certificates, they are at some disadvantageous position.“In this regard, I submit that the decision of subject weightage for the optional subject ‘legal studies’ as communicated through a letter on September 2, 2020, is totally arbitrary, illegal, discriminatory and in violation of rules and natural justice. On the face of it, the sudden decision of introducing subject weightage is an afterthought exercise only,” states the letter.He added that students have claimed that the calculation of NSS weightage has not been done as per the information booklet.Gurman Geet Kaur Pandey, a student from Chandigarh who has also applied for the BA LLB (Hons) five-year course has also written to the PU V-C raising objections over the tentative merit list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ba-llb-5-year-course-panjab-university-senator-writes-to-v-c-over-objections-in-tentative-merit-list/story-rFNfWS6P3Vfr74KBZUGKpO.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Heads roll in Chandigarh police dept day after shooting in Sector 25||A day after a criminal out on bail opened fire at a garments trader in Sector 25, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal issued a show-cause notice to DSP (central) Krishan Kumar for “lack of supervision”, while marking a departmental inquiry against Sector-11 station house officer Rajiv Kumar and putting Sector-24 police post in-charge sub-inspector Shiv Charan under suspension. Victim Sandeep, who is also a former president of the resident welfare association in Sector 25, has in fact alleged that sub-inspector Shiv Charan was behind the attack. “He was pressuring me to turn hostile in a case, but I had refused,” he claimed.“After the firing last night, I had asked the SP (City) Vineet Kumar to probe into the incident as well as the allegations. Based on the report, action has been taken against the three cops,” said the SSP.The main accused in the case has been identified as Vijay Kumar, who faces several criminal cases, including attempt to murder.Sources said the action has been taken against the cops as they failed to keep tabs on a criminal recently released on bail and freely moving in the area with a weapon. “They failed to check or gather information about the criminal moving around in their jurisdiction. Despite recent incidents of firings, no corrective measures were taken to avoid such a law and order situation,” said a senior police official, privy to the development. The incident occurred when Chandigarh Police are struggling to make a breakthrough in three back-to-back firings reported in the past 10 days, which left one man dead and triggered a gang war.Even UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had recently pulled up the police department for the deteriorating law and order. Following this, the SSP had warned all personnel, and had said that SHOs will be held accountable for any laxity under their jurisdiction. Victim accuse police post in-charge Sandeep was rushed to the PGIMER with two bullet injuries on Monday night , after two assailants walked into his garments shop and fired at him repeatedly. One bullet hit his shoulder and the other brushed past his head. Police recovered three shells from the spot. Police had claimed the firing was the result of an old rivalry between Sandeep and Vijay, who was identified on the basis of CCTV footage. However, Sandeep has alleged that he was attacked at the behest of the Sector-24 police post in-charge. The cop refuted the allegations.According to police, Sandeep was involved in illegal liquor trade, and had been earlier named in cases of gambling and rioting as well. “The allegations have been made against me as I curbed illegal activities, such as gambling and illicit liquor trade, in the area,” said SI Shiv Charan.Accused is a history-sheeter out on bail Accused Vijay Kumar was arrested in October last year, after he fired at a Sector-38 man. The two were gambling in Sector 25, when an argument erupted between them, leading to the shooting. At present, he was out on bail in this attempt to murder case. He is also facing a number of cases of gambling, liquor smuggling, rioting and assault at various police stations. Meanwhile, in the present case, he along with an accomplice has been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides the Arms Act at the police station in Sector 11. Sources said the accomplice has been identified, and raids are on to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heads-roll-day-after-shooting-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25/story-12XVAqgKvJmqmp3KOuKL5J.html
21-10-2020||City||Kharar-Mullanpur road: Travel time from Mohali to New Chandigarh to be reduced by 15-20 minutes||The road that will connect Mullanpur in New Chandigarh to Kharar on National Highway 21 will provide direct access to the towns of Ropar and Baddi in Himachal Pradesh to commuters coming from Ambala and Delhi, who would no longer be required to go through Chandigarh.The project was officially inaugurated on Tuesday by Sarvjit Singh, Punjab principal secretary, department of housing and urban development.The construction of the 200-feet wide road, that was delayed by four months, was allotted at a cost of ₹121 crore and had begun on October 10. Earlier, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, housing and urban development minister, was scheduled to lay the foundation stone. The road that will pass through Saini Majra, Thaska, Hasanpur and Palheri villages is expected to lead to development of these areas.The new road extension will begin from the dividing road of Sector 120/125 (NH 5), Sunny Enclave, and run till Mullanpur in New Chandigarh. The scope of the work includes provision of public health, civil and electrical services. The project is slated to be completed by the end of next year.The construction of this 8-lane stretch includes provision of a road culvert, one high-level bridge, laying of storm water drainage pipes and installation of street lights.This portion of the Airport Road will provide direct connectivity to New Chandigarh from the Chandigarh International Airport. The new road will help commuters avoid journeying through Chandigarh or Kurali while travelling between Kharar and Mullanpur.The travel time between Mohali and New Chandigarh is expected to be reduced by 15-20 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-mullanpur-road-travel-time-from-mohali-to-new-chandigarh-to-be-reduced-by-15-20-minutes/story-urK9Xo8QhQyQpjyIlUmWeJ.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala: Prisoner consumes sanitiser, dies||A 37-year-old undertrial died on Tuesday, a day after he consumed a bottle of sanitiser which he mistook for alcohol, inside the premises of Ambala Central Jail. The deceased has been identified as Ajay Kumar alias Ajju, from Nalagarh area of Solan, Himachal Pradesh. Jail SP Lakhbir Singh said Kumar was taken to Ambala City civil hospital where he was treated. “He had returned to the jail from the hospital. But later, his health deteriorated, and he was taken to the hospital again, where he died during treatment,” he said. Station in-charge, Satya Narayan, said, “The deceased’s autopsy will be conducted in the presence of a judicial magistrate, once his family reaches Ambala. The report will have all the details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-prisoner-consumes-sanitiser-dies/story-4k0xZKncfOj9yDWkiLKmYI.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Drug probe in Sushant Singh Rajput case: Court extends Showik Chakraborty’s judicial custody till November 3||The special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and other accused arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its probe into the drug angle to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s (SSR) death.The special court also remanded Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national who was arrested from a resort in Lonavala on Saturday, to judicial custody till November 3. Demetriades was arrested with a small quantity of drugs.Demetriades is the brother of a prominent Bollywood actor’s girlfriend and is allegedly a major supplier of all kinds of drugs in the city. He has allegedly supplied drugs to several peddlers, who in turn were in touch with Showik. Some of these peddlers have been arrested in the SSR death case.Showik was arrested on September 4 and remained in NCB custody till September 9. He was later remanded in judicial custody and has been in jail since.Showik was arrested based on a statement by Abdel Basit Parihar, who claimed that he used to procure drugs from arrested accused Zaid Vilatra and Kaizan Ebrahim on the instruction of Showik. NCB claimed that Showik, during questioning, had revealed names of several Bollywood celebrities and peddlers involved in the drug network.In his statement to the agency, Showik revealed that he used to “facilitate the delivery of drugs through Parihar by Ebrahim and Zaid”. “These deliveries used to be received by aids of Rajput and every delivery and payment was in conscious knowledge of Rhea and even some times payments and choice of drugs were confirmed by her,” his statement added.Showik’s bail plea was rejected, first by NDPS court, and later by the Bombay high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drug-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-court-extends-showik-chakraborty-s-judicial-custody-till-november-3/story-bD1qrhYoTYDTslRpHunGAP.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks TISS to join PIL to address begging problem in Maharashtra||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to be added as a party in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Pune resident seeking directions to state and local authorities to take action against syndicates that force children and women to beg on streets and traffic signals.The PIL also seeks provisions for the welfare of the children and women during Covid-19 pandemic and implementation of the Maharashtra Prevention of Begging Act, 1960.The court while observing that as the issues raised in the PIL were serious and important it was widening the scope to cover the entire state and directed the state to file an affidavit by November 23, stating the measures taken for rehabilitation of children and women indulging in begging activities and posted further hearing on December 1. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo moto PIL instituted by the HC in 2016 and a PIL filed by Punekar Dhyaneshwar Darwatkar, was informed by advocate Shekhar Jagtap that the plight of the children and women forced into begging continued unabated even though the HC had passed orders to curb it.Jagtap submitted that despite a specific direction to the state by an HC bench which included justice Kulkarni to devise a mechanism to rescue and rehabilitate children and women being forced to beg on streets and at traffic signals, nothing had been done. Justice Kulkarni concurred with Jagtap’s submission of begging continuing unabated and said he was very much pained to see children and women begging on the signal outside Mantralaya.Jagtap further reiterated that in the Covid situation also the children and women forced to beg had no relief and were exposed to the pandemic as they did not have any safe place to stay. He also submitted that the state should formulate a policy to provide skill training to such rescued persons so that they may start earning a livelihood.Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the bench that the state was not in a position to provide a livelihood to the rescued persons.After hearing the submission, the bench observed that as the issues raised in both the PILs were important and serious, it was expanding the scope of the PIL from Pune to the entire state and asked the state to file a detailed affidavit enlisting the measures it had taken to rehabilitate children and women who were into begging activity, by November 23. The court also sought the assistance of TISS and directed that it be added as a party to the PILs and posted them for hearing on December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-tiss-to-join-pil-to-address-begging-problem-in-maharashtra/story-RqVrJ3wChP5byWQ5c93wVL.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four shootings in 10 days, but no arrests||Four incidents of firing have been reported from different parts of the city in the last 10 days, but the police are yet to make arrests even though in many cases the accused have been identified.On October 11, 26-year-old Gurlal Brar, an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and former state president of Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was shot dead outside a mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1. Slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group had taken responsibility for the act.Meanwhile, the police are still awaiting custody of gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, who police said had arranged shooters and weapons. Police had rounded up a person who had provided logistical support to Brar’s shooters, but no arrests have been made so far.Within 24 hours of Brar’s murder, TikTok star Saurav Gujjar was shot and injured outside a nightclub in Sector 9. Police had identified the suspect behind the firing as Mouvis Bains, but despite raids, no arrests were made.On October 12, after threats were posted on a Facebook page of “bloodshed on the streets”, another of Bishnoi’s aides, Monty Shah, was booked for making a murder bid on a rival in Burail. Monty was booked for attempt to murder of his cousin Praveen Shah and bouncer Tirath, his former aide, who are witnesses in the murder case of a property dealer Rajveer, alias Sonu Shah. A chargesheet was filed against four people including gangster Bishnoi. Monty Shah has been on run since and the police have even announced a reward of ₹50,000, but have had no success so far despite raids.In Monday’s firing in Sector 25 at a garment trader now, police have identified the assailants, but no arrests have been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-four-shootings-in-10-days-but-no-arrests/story-WRPrnO8LbmJvOcykIriSkM.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: 2 ex-employees of Hansa Research Group arrested by Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police’s crime branch has arrested two former employees of Hansa Research Group Private Limited on Tuesday in connection with the television rating points (TRP) scam.The arrested accused have been identified as Ramji Dudhnath Verma, 41, and Dinesh Pannalal Vishwakarma,37. Verma worked with the group as its relationship manager from 2013 to 2015 and was arrested from Worli, said a crime branch officer. Vishwakarma was arrested on Tuesday evening from Mumbai airport for allegedly paying money to Umesh Mishra – who the police had arrested previously – for paying viewers to watch Republic TV, said officers. Vishwakarma was the team leader of other former Hansa employees Vishal Bhandhari, Vinay Tripathi and others who have been arrested in the case earlier. Hansa Research Group’s chief executive officer (CEO) Pravin Nijhara was also questioned by the police and asked to give the details of former employees of the firm.Eight people have been arrested by the Mumbai Police in the scam, which allegedly involves bribing homeowners whose TV viewing is monitored to ensure that certain channels get higher ratings. The ratings are a key influencer of advertiser preferences while placing commercials. The police claim this is a multi-crore scam.Meanwhile, crime branch officers have recorded the statements of Milan Ganatra, managing director of Ebix Cash Technology, over the issue pertaining to the sponsorship of Republic TV. Crime branch has now summoned three Republic TV employees, including the news channel’s chief financial officer (CFO) S Sundaram, executive editor Niranjan Narayan Swamy and distribution head Ghansham Singh on Wednesday to record their statements in the case, while the channel’s COO Priya Mukharjee has been summoned on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-scam-2-ex-employees-of-hansa-research-group-arrested-by-mumbai-police/story-gmt6dwzbw9cVNzFJEoneiM.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||53% Covid-19 patients from 30-59 age group, 5% children, teenagers: Mumbai civic body||Over 23% of Mumbai’s total Covid-19 patients are senior citizens above the age of 60, while 5% are children and teens, data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revealed. The bulk of Mumbai’s Covid-19 patients are in the age group of 50 to 59 years (45,779 cases), followed by 30 to 39 years (42,433 cases), and 40 to 49 years (42,345 cases). These form 53% of Mumbai’s total Covid-19 cases which stood at 241,939, as of October 18.Though cases among senior citizens are relatively fewer than in the working age group, the fatality rate is the highest in the age group of 70 to 79 years, which recorded 2,181 deaths of the total 17,009 cases, with a case fatality rate of 12.8%. This is followed by patients in 60 to 69 age group, which recorded 2,789 deaths in 32,483 cases, with a case fatality rate of 8.5%. The age group of 50 to 59 years has recorded 2,217 deaths of 45,779 cases, and a case fatality rate of 4.8%.Mumbai’s average case fatality rate is 4%. In children below nine years of age, there have been 4,257 cases and 14 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 0.3%, and in children and teenagers below 19 years of age, 8,957 cases and 30 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 0.3% has been recorded.A senior civic official from the public health department said, “Even among this, we have noticed there is a slightly higher percentage of men being infected than women, especially in the age group of 20 to 59 years. Our sero survey results indicated the same. This is because in a working middle class household, men venture out more. Senior citizens are more prone to severe symptoms and also have co-morbidities.”Meanwhile on Tuesday, the city recorded 1,091 cases, the lowest daily count since August 24, when Mumbai recorded 743 cases in a day. On August 25, Mumbai reported 587 cases in a day but this was attributed to a technical problem in the Indian Council of Medical Research portal, from where the numbers of extracted every day. The case tally now stands at 244,260. After 45 deaths on Tuesday, the toll surged to 9,864. There are now 19,553 active cases in the city. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 87%, while the overall growth rate is 0.73%. The doubling rate is 95 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/53-covid-19-patients-from-30-59-age-group-5-children-teenagers-mumbai-civic-corporation/story-MuUtjcoP2L9oYQUTGrWXdN.html
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress holds dharna outside Chandigarh MC’s office against water tariff hike||The Chandigarh Congress on Tuesday held a dharna protest with black flags outside the municipal corporation (MC) office in Sector 17 against the water tariff hike.Slogans were raised against BJP MP Kirron Kher, mayor Raj Bala Malik and BJP councillors. Congress workers put locks on the gates of the MC office, which even led to a minor scuffle between Congress workers and the police.Former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said that raising the tariff of a basic human need like water was an act against the people’s welfare.He said that BJP leadership was responsible for the MC’s financial mess, and criticised BJP for not pressing for the Delhi Finance Commission for grants for the city.Congress leaders demanded a physical meeting with the MC. UT president Pardeep Chhabra said that already the residents were burdened with increased and new taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-holds-dharna-outside-chandigarh-mc-s-office-against-water-tariff-hike/story-m3AqApBAFQbmDI4kGWSrmO.html
21-10-2020||City||Red sand boa snake rescued from Ambernath residential area||A red sand boa snake was rescued from a residential area of Ambernath city on Monday night.Prakash Gohil, who rescued the snake, claimed that finding this snake in residential areas was rare and there were chances of its illegal trading being carried out in the city. Gohil, 52 and a snake rescuer, informed the forest officials about the rescue.The red sand boa looks like it has two heads as its tail is shaped like a head.Gohil received a call from Jai Shiv Shrusthi apartment in Shivganga Nagar, Ambernath, on Monday night, as residents claimed they saw the snake inside the complex. When Gohil reached, the snake had left the compound. However he managed to rescue it from the premises.“The red sand boa has a huge value in international markets, amounting to lakhs and crores of Rupees depending on its weight. I caught a red sand boa for the first time. Trading of this snake is illegal. The forest officials have asked me to take the snake to them on Wednesday,” said Gohil. This snake is harmless. The one rescued is around four feet in length and 2.2 kg in weight. The boas are listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protestion Act, 1972, which protects the reptiles. This means that anyone found with the boas needs to provide proper documentation of the snakes. Failure to produce this will make them criminal offenders.Sand boas have various uses and hold significance mainly because of the myth and belief surrounding them. “While they are used for medicinal purposes, many have been using this for black magic,” added Gohil. A forest officer from Badlapur, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have asked the snake rescuer to bring the snake to us and we will cross check it and then further take the decision. Also, a parallel investigation will be done if there was any illegal sale and purchasing of this snake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/red-sand-boa-snake-rescued-from-ambernath-residential-area/story-DNeF9DYkDNLx3gSUGwJpxO.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Port Trust likely to introduce water taxi services in November||The Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) is looking to introduce water taxi services from the city’s domestic cruise terminal (DCT) at Princess Dock from next month. MbPT is planning to operate water taxis between Mumbai and Belapur, Vashi, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and Manwa initially. Water taxis will enable to reach Navi Mumbai in around 30-40 minutes, instead of around one-and-a-half hour taken currently by road. Officials said that they had shortlisted around six agencies to operate the water taxis, of which, one or even two operators are likely to start services soon. Captain Bhabatosh Chand, deputy conservator, marine department, MbPT, said that the charges for the taxi services will be determined by the operator. In February, MbPT started the roll-on/roll-off (Ro-Ro) passenger services from south Mumbai to Alibag, which proved to be a hit among passengers after it resumed services on August 20 after lockdown restrictions began to ease. According to M2M Ferries Pvt Ltd, which operates the services, more than 5,000 passengers, 1200 cars, 270 two-wheelers and cyclists have taken a trip on the ferry between August 20 and the first week of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-port-trust-likely-to-introduce-water-taxi-services-in-november/story-QoCogw1R7OxBKSqAVajbIK.html
21-10-2020||City||Non-Covid hospitals treating Covid-19 patients will be closely watched: TMC||The Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) health department will keep a tab on private non-Covid hospitals that treat Covid patients. The department will form two teams to survey all the private non-Covid hospitals in the next 15 days to check if Covid patients were being treated and also if the patients have been tested before being admitted. The decision was taken at the TMC general body meeting on Tuesday. In the meeting, the councilors alleged that most non-Covid hospitals were treating Covid patients. Moreover, they do not conduct a Covid test for these patients, and merely a blood test and X-ray were conducted.Shiv Sena corporator Meenal Sankhe, who highlighted the issue, said, “The health department had earlier taken action against some of the private hospitals for treating Covid patients without permission. However, the practice is still going on. Some hospitals do not undertake Covid tests; instead they rely on reports of blood tests and X-rays. These hospitals are trying to make profit by treating Covid patients without permission.” Sankhe said that this could affect non-Covid patients in the hospital. Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske added, “If the non-Covid Hospitals were treating Covid patients, this could lead to increase in the number of cases as other patients, their relatives and hospital staff could get infected. The corporation should keep a check on these hospitals.” He was seconded by all party corporators who demanded action. Dr. Raju Murudkar, health officer, said, “If any hospital is treating Covid patients, we will take action as per the law. We will form two special teams who will audit all the hospitals in the city over the next 10-15 days and take action against such hospitals. Moreover, if they have imposed exorbitant bills, action will also be taken for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-covid-hospitals-treating-covid-19-patients-will-be-closely-watched-tmc/story-T98uPFtiGy2S2KmqabstNN.html
21-10-2020||City||Duo arrested in Navi Mumbai for selling stolen mobile phones, branded goods||The Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested two men on Sunday for selling phones and branded clothes and undergarments on the road after stealing them from stores in Taloja and Koparkhairane. The police found 51 mobile phones and other accessories along with apparels together worth ₹1.17 lakh. The crime branch arrested the accused duo identified as Rizwan Khan, 28, and Javed Shaikh, 22, both residents of Kalyan. On October 16, the duo broke into a mobile phone store in Taloja and stole phones and accessories including bluetooth headsets, memory cards, data cables, chargers and wireless speakers. After storing them at their Kalyan house, they were selling a part of the products on the streets of Navi Mumbai at a cheaper price.On the same night, Khan and Shaikh also targeted an apparel store in Koparkhairane and stole several T-shirts, and undergarments of a popular brand. Khan always worked with new accomplices. As per his modus operandi, police said, the accused would steal from stores and then sell at cheaper rates. The crime branch received a tip-off from a resident who suspected the items to be branded as the price did not match the products. After verifying the information, the Unit 1 of the crime branch laid a trap and nabbed the accused. Police also recovered the stolen products from their house. “Khan, who has at least five cases of burglary against him in Thane and Navi Mumbai, often changes his looks to avoid the police from identifying him. Since he has many cases against him, he always takes precautions and would either sport a beard and change his hairstyles or don a cap,” said Rahul Rakh, assistant inspector, unit-1, crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/duo-arrested-in-navi-mumbai-for-selling-stolen-mobile-phones-branded-goods/story-9OKA0fXweyGXCs0NJbWUII.html
21-10-2020||City||GMADA introduces robots for cleaning manholes in Mohali||Making most of modern day technology, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) on Tuesday introduced ‘bandicoot’ robots that will clean the sewer manholes in the city, thus replacing the current inhuman practice of manual scavenging.The mechanism will not only improve sanitation in the city, it will bring a positive change in the conditions of sanitation workers.Sarvjit Singh, principal secretary, department of housing and urban development, Punjab, launched the robots at PUDA Bhawan in Sector 62, Mohali.Singh said the bandicoot robot can do every action that a sanitation worker performs inside the manhole. The robot is the world’s first manhole-cleaning machine developed under the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Swachh Bharat’ initiatives by an Indian startup Genrobotics, he added.The bandicoot robot can converge its diameter by using its legs to enter into the unseen depths of the manholes and pull out solid waste material with its specially designed human-comparable robotic arm and unclog the sewer system.Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, chief administrator, GMADA, said waste deposition had increased by almost 70% during the pandemic, adding that more plastic, masks, gloves, medicine bottles and syringes were ending up in the manholes. This had increased the instances of blockages and sewage-related work, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-introduces-robots-for-cleaning-manholes-in-mohali/story-m9d9dQccC8q6NShZEEkQQI.html
21-10-2020||City||Thane civic body launches helpline for recovered patients to access post-Covid care||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), which inaugurated a post-Covid Care Centre last week in the city, has come up with a helpline number that will make it easier for the recovered patients to reach out to it. The helpline number -- 86573 97952 -- will provide all details regarding the post-Covid Care Centre.The centre is situated at TMC building, Lodha Luxuria Complex in Majiwada. “After Covid patients are treated, there are various other issues that have come to the fore. These include difficulty in breathing, weakness and depression. The centre provides day-care facility wherein exercise and yoga centre is available at different slots. From counselling to pulmonary physiotherapy, every treatment is available at the centre for complete recovery. The helpline number will guide patients through the various facilities available at the centre,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-launches-helpline-for-recovered-patients-to-access-post-covid-care/story-havgEUM2mXIF7koGMc9KoM.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for sexually assaulting 12-year-old step-daughter||Malvani police on Monday arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting his 12-year-old step-daughter.According to the police, the incident took place on October 18 around 4am when the survivor and her mother were sleeping at their home in Malvani, Malad. The survivor’s mother told police that her husband covered her daughter’s mouth with his hand and sexually assaulted her.“When I woke up and saw my daughter crying. I found several bite marks on her person and she later narrated her ordeal. When I questioned him, my husband, he started hitting me and then fled from the house,” the complainant told police.“The survivor told her mother that she was also assaulted by her step-father a few months back, but she was scared at that time and didn’t tell that to anyone,” said an officer from Malvani police station.The survivor and her mother later visited Malvani police station and filed a complaint against the accused. “We have registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused under section 376 (punishment for rape), 376(2)(N) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3(a) (penetrative sexual assault), 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 5 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-12-year-old-step-daughter/story-BkqPEAFXbCJCFmOWZpogZI.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Formulate strategy to start FYJC admissions: Petition urges Bombay HC||An advocate, who is also a parent of a teenager, has moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions to the state to formulate a strategy to resume first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions.The petitioner has stated that as the process was stalled due to a September-9 interim stay on Maratha reservation by the Supreme Court (SC), nearly 2.3 lakh students in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including the petitioner’s daughter, were facing an uncertain future.The petition filed by advocate Vishal Saxena stated that due to the various delays, 2.32 lakh students including his daughter are under stress about securing admission and completing their syllabus for the year.In light of this, the petition was seeking directions to the government of Maharashtra to formulate a strategy to restart the admission process at the earliest as students and their parents have already suffered much due to the pandemic. Saxena moved a praecipe for urgent hearing of the petition and is expecting it to come up in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/formulate-strategy-to-start-fyjc-admissions-petition-urges-bombay-hc/story-rnBfYkvdm23zom3UtzxQdP.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government, Opposition at loggerheads over financial help for flood-affected farmers||While targeting Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Tuesday that the state government can borrow ₹60,000 crore to extend relief to the farmers instead of waiting for the assistance from the Centre. Revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat hit back, saying the delay in releasing the pending compensation payments under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) had left Maharashtra in a financial crisis.More than 10 lakh hectares of crops in central and western Maharashtra were destroyed in the retreating monsoon last week. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, who toured Solapur on Monday, will visit flood-affected villages in Osmanabad on Wednesday. BJP leader Fadnavis has been touring Osmanabad over the past two days. Fadnavis said at a press conference in Osmanabad, “The state is entitled to borrow ₹1.20 lakh crore from various sources as per the parameters set by the Reserve Bank of India. The state has so far raised only ₹60,000 crore and an equal amount still can be borrowed. The MVA government should borrow to help farmers who have sustained heavy losses,” he said, adding that he was ready to do whatever was required to assist the farmers. “I have written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, who heads a committee on Central assistance for natural calamities, to depute the Central committee to survey the losses in Maharashtra at the earliest. The Modi government is positive about the relief measures to the farmers,” he said.Fadnavis also said Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has been shouldering the responsibility of defending the MVA government, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. He played a video of Thackeray talking about last year’s unseasonal rain and reminded his estranged ally about their demand for financial aid to the farmers.On Monday, Thackeray had said that had the Centre released the GST compensation on time, Maharashtra would not have been compelled to ask for Central assistance for flood-hit farmers. On Tuesday, Thorat said, “Our compensation toward GST losses from the Centre has accumulated to ₹30,000 crore since April. We have borrowed ₹55,000 crore so far for salaries and other recurring costs amid the drop in revenue because of the lockdown. Maharashtra is one of the highest tax-paying states in the country, despite which the Modi government gives us stepmotherly treatment when it comes to financial assistance.”Meanwhile, Thackeray on Tuesday said the Union government should take permanent measures to ensure farmers receive compensation from insurance companies. During a meeting with Thackeray, the Banana Growers Association from Jalgaon claimed the conditions laid down by insurance companies benefit the companies and not farmers. Thackeray has instructed the agriculture department to convene a meeting with representatives of insurance companies immediately. “The crops and orchards are damaged due to various reasons. But it is very difficult for farmers to get compensation from insurance companies. The Centre should make permanent measures on this,” Thackeray said in a statement issued by the CM’s office.State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said that a committee with experts should be set up to study various models of crop insurance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-opposition-at-loggerheads-over-financial-help-for-flood-affected-farmers/story-xkocIqKJ1jYFf9xwCN5xGM.html
21-10-2020||City||Cheating case probe leads cops in Maharashtra to Gujarat man who killed wife, buried her body, planted seeds on it||Kashimira police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old Gujarat resident for allegedly murdering his wife a year ago. The murder came to light when the police was investigating a cheating case. “The couple, Ashish and Nikita Ukani, who lived in Kashimira before 2019, were booked in several cases of cheating after they had allegedly duped an Andheri firm of ₹15.65 lakh in a credit card fraud in September 2019,” said senior inspector Sanjay Hazare of Kashimira police. After the alleged fraud, the duo fled to Mota Varachha in Surat and later changed their names and mobile numbers to live in Gujarat, said the police. According to the police, on October 15 last year, Ukani took Nikita to his native village at Selana in Gujarat’s Amreli district. The couple was consuming alcohol late at night when an argument broke out between them over money. In a fit of rage, Ukani pushed Nikita into a nearby well and she drowned. A while later, he pulled her body out of the well from a rope and dug a three-foot pit in the field, the police said. Ukani then put rock salt inside the pit for the body to decompose soon and buried the body. He also scattered cucumber seeds at the spot to grow the plant to prevent any suspicion. The police registered a first information report (FIR) in the cheating case in last year in December against the couple and were probing the allegations against them made by the firm. A year later, they traced Ukani to Gujarat and he was arrested. “During his interrogation, he confessed to the cheating case, but began evasive answers when he was questioned about his wife who is a co-accused in the cheating case,” said Hazare. Later, he admitted that he had killed Nikita. “We exhumed Nikita’s body in the presence of a judicial magistrate from Gujarat and sent the skeletal remains for forensic analysis,” said Hazare. Along with the charges of cheating, the police also filed charges of murder against Ukani. He was brought to Mumbai and remanded to police custody till Wednesday. The police said Ukani used to message Nikita’s parents from her phone owing to which they did not find anything amiss. The police have also discovered that Ukani is involved in another cheating case, worth ₹2.4 crore, in Surat, and are investigating it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cheating-case-probe-leads-cops-in-maharashtra-to-gujarat-man-who-killed-wife-buried-her-body-planted-seeds-on-it/story-eDkQOccYLn47DhpmkEDyOO.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body corporators did not fare well: Praja report card 2019-20||The overall performance of elected corporators of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation – India’s richest civic body – dropped to 55.7% in 2019-20, from 60.2% in 2018-19, as they had to prioritise campaigning for their parties, with two elections in the year, over their regular functioning and governance, according to the white paper on 2019-20 released by NGO Praja on Tuesday. The average attendance of corporators was 72.6%, from 77% in 2018-19 and 80.7% in 2017-18. This is the lowest since their five-year term began in 2017. There was also a dip in the number of questions asked and their quality compared to citizens’ complaints. The number of questions asked by corporators fell to 2,270 in 2019-20, 2,571 in 2018-19 and 2,609 in 2017-18. Of the 2,270 questions asked by corporators, questions related to roads were the highest (326), followed by renaming of roads/chowks (253), education (151) and health (147). Praja’s white paper further mentions: “More corporators asked poor quality questions in this term – 133 (60%) corporators in 2020 report received poor grade (less than 50%) for quality of questions asked, while in the third year (2015) of last term’s report, 83 corporators received poor grade. 199 corporators (90%) deliberation on civic issues was poor (less than 50% score) as compared to the complaints made by citizens.”Further, 13 corporators asked zero questions in 2019-20, of which Congress’s Supriya More, Manisha Rahate of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Gulnaz Qureshi of the AIMIM have not raised a single question in their entire term since 2017. Harish Chheda (BJP) from Borivli was ranked the best corporator, followed by BJP’s Nehal Shah from Matunga and Shiv Sena’s Anant Nar from Jogeshwari securing third rank. Of the top 10 corporators, five are from the BJP, three from Congress and two from Shiv Sena. In BMC, Sena has 97 elected corporators, followed by BJP (83), Congress (29), NCP (8) and Samajwadi Party (6), followed by two from AIMIM and one from the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS).Nitai Mehta, founder and managing trustee, Praja Foundation, said, “Corporators act as people’s representatives in the government by speaking for their constituents and interests which makes their role extremely vital in a city’s functioning. It is our sincerest hope that the councillors in Mumbai focus their attention on the duties and responsibilities that they are already entrusted with and we hope this report card enables them to understand their strengths and weaknesses and work towards betterment of their performance in the coming years.”Mehta added, “Corporators have been in the forefront of ground-level relief and intervention in Covid-19 pandemic in many cities in India. Given the current structure of local governance in Mumbai, however, corporators have not been party to decision-making for the city in spite of being closest to the ground situation and having the most knowledge of the needs of their constituents.”The BJP on the other hand, said administrative work may have been affected owing to elections. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP corporator and group leader of BJP in BMC, said, “We have been taking up issues of the citizens at large every year and we also have five of our corporators in the top 10. However, elections lead to two things – party activities and imposition of code of conduct. This could have had some effect.”Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition in BMC and Congress corporator, said, “We have secured first rank once again, and this shows that though our numbers are lower than other parties, our quality of work has been much better. We have been actively playing the role of constructive opposition and at the same time taking up issues of our voters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-corporators-did-not-fare-well-praja-report-card-2019-20/story-GTA3YBQUtFYMOs10dN5IiK.html
21-10-2020||City||Jetty work in final stage, water transport between Navi Mumbai and Mumbai to start in 5 months||The much-delayed water transport services between Navi Mumbai and Mumbai is expected to start in the first quarter of the next year. The City and Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra (Cidco) has said that work on Nerul jetty is in its final stages and will be completed by March 2021.The Cidco, Bombay Port Trust (BPT) and Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) have planned a RoRo (Roll-on roll-off) service that will provide water transport from the city to Mumbai and Raigad.The water transport has been planned from Nerul to Bhaucha Dhakka and later from Nerul to Rewas, Mandwa. A water terminal has been developed at Bhaucha Dhaka by the BPT. The MMB had developed the terminal at Mandwa in Raigad and Cidco is developing the ₹111 crore terminal in Nerul.Thane member of Parliament (MP) Rajan Vichare inspected the progress of the work on Monday along with Cidco vice-chairman and managing director Sanjay Mukherjee. The inspection was attended by Cidco officials who briefed Vichare on the project.Vichare said, “I have been assured that the water transport from the jetty will start from March next year. It will help connect Mandwa to Nerul and Nerul to the Gateway of India.”He added, “This jetty will facilitate faster and cheaper transport to Mumbai and Alibag for the commuters. While it normally takes over two hours for the commuter, the time will be reduced to just 20-25 minutes. We are blessed with a long coastal belt in Thane district. Three more jetties have been planned to help connect Vasai-Vihar, Mira-Bhayander to Navi Mumbai as well.”Mukherjee said, “We are constructing the jetty and a marine terminal here at Nerul. Work on the project began in April 2018 and was to be completed in 24 months. However, there was a delay of 16 months owing to the clearances from the forest department and the Covid-19 pandemic.”He further added, “We are now targeting March 2021 for the completion of work. All the approvals are in place and the work is in the final stages. Once the jetty is ready, we will hand it over to MMB which will run the ferry services to Mumbai from Navi Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jetty-work-in-final-stage-water-transport-between-navi-mumbai-and-mumbai-to-start-in-5-months/story-hGiylhCzAhfciC8AbxnRKI.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Conduct physical meeting of standing committee on October 21: Bombay HC to Mumbai civic body||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to conduct a physical meeting of its standing committee on October 21, after it was informed that an application for the same was pending with the urban development department (UDD).The court upheld the contention of two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators, who petitioned for the standing committee meeting to be physically held as there were 674 items on the agenda to be discussed. The petitioners pointed out that if the meeting is held through video conferencing, the issues would be passed without due deliberation.The HC held that in the interest of the public, the 27 members of the standing committee along with a dozen officials should attend the physical meeting in the general body hall of the BMC headquarters at Fort while observing Covid-19 protocols.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Makarand Narvekar, member of BMC’s standing committee and Prabhakar Shinde, BJP group leader in BMC, was informed by advocate Jeet Gandhi that the meeting was being held after almost six months. Gandhi submitted that as per the agenda of the standing committee issued by the civic authority on October 16, a total of 674 items would be put up for consideration. He said that the petitioners were apprehensive that as the meeting was to be held through video conferencing, there would be no opportunity for them to deliberate on the issues and resolutions would be passed arbitrarily. However, senior counsel Aspi Chinoy along with advocate Joel Carlos for standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav, informed the court that the apprehensions of the petitioner corporators were unfounded as the issues would be taken up serial wise. Chinoy further submitted that as no standing committee meeting was held in the past six months, the list of 674 items was a backlog which was listed in the agenda and in no way meant that all were to be approved and passed on the same day.He assured the court that the items would be discussed sequentially and items remaining at the end of the day would be taken up in subsequent meetings of the committee.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC informed the bench that it had written to the UDD for permission to conduct a physical meeting on October 14. However, they were yet to receive a response. He added that the meeting could be held with the 27 members of the standing committee and a dozen officials in the general body hall of the civic administration building by observing all Covid-19 protocols, as the hall has a 180-seat capacity. After being informed by the UDD that they had received the application on Tuesday and would require time to decide on it, the court said that it was passing orders for the physical meeting of the committee to be held in the general body hall. The court further observed, “The BMC is doing so much to control Covid-19. If it does not hold the physical meeting, it will send out a wrong signal to the society that the BMC is hesitant.” The bench further said that it was taking the submissions of Chinoy as an undertaking and directed the civic corporation to conduct the meeting physically on October 21.BJP corporators met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to raise the issue of hundreds of civic work proposals being tabled at the standing committee meeting. Vinod Mishra, BJP group leader, said, “He supported our contention, and said that a physical meeting of clearing so many important proposals is important as they impact every Mumbaiites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/conduct-physical-meeting-of-standing-committee-on-october-21-bombay-hc-to-bmc/story-7VmU0Jyyq5ev6RF1VSO0iK.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||ED attaches gangster Iqbal Mirchi’s bank accounts, properties worth ₹22.42 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached seven immovable properties and bank balances in seven accounts totalling ₹22.42 crore, all belonging to kins of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.The fresh attachments include one cinema hall, a hotel in Mumbai and an under-construction hotel, a farmhouse, two bungalows and 3.5-acre land in Panchgani and bank balances, totalling to ₹22.42 crores, the ED has stated.The attachment was done under section 5 of PMLA.In the past, ED has attached assets totalling to ₹776 crore, including overseas assets valued at ₹203 crore in the case. Now the total attachment, in this case, has gone to ₹798 Crore.The central agency has initiated money laundering investigation against Mirchi and others on September 26, 2019.ED had arrested five accused persons including Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), and Humayun Merchant.A prosecution complaint has also been filed in the case on December 9 last year before the special PMLA court and cognizance of the same has been taken by the court.Open-ended non-bailable warrants have been issued against Asif Memon, Junaid Memon (both sons of Iqbal Mirchi) and Hajra Memon (wife of Iqbal Memon) for their role in the offence of money laundering.The ED probe so far has revealed that the DHFL allegedly extended loans to Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd, which purportedly routed money to Mirchi, who died in the UK in August 2013. The DHFL came under the ED’s scanner when the agency was examining three properties linked to Mirchi in Worli.The ED’s investigation has shown that in 1986, Mirchi, an aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, bought three properties from the Mohammad Yusuf Trust, an organisation that Mirchi allegedly used as a front to negotiate with several developers. In 2010, when Mirchi was based in Dubai, Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd bought three properties from him and later developed them.According to the ED, Mirchi signed agreements in 2010, in which he received 90 million dirhams for development rights of these properties. All these are proceeds of crime, ED had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-attaches-gangster-iqbal-mirchi-s-bank-accounts-properties-worth-22-42-crore/story-9Ymp265sJKJMe622oSFj9M.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Chaos over conducting school exams as Maharashtra education department fails to come up with uniform guidelines||In the absence of clear guidelines from the state education department on the conduct of exams, there is no uniformity in the way in which exams are being held across the state.While some schools are asking parents to submit solved answer sheets of students in schools, others are conducting exams with the help of Google forms. Several schools where students do not have adequate access to technology are struggling to conduct exams for such students. Recently, Shikshak Parishad, which represents teachers in the state, wrote to the education department pointing out the confusion that the lack of guidelines has led to. “Some schools have asked parents to physically submit answer sheets which is a very risky practice in the current situation. Many students are still in their hometowns, thus are facing difficulties concerning online education. Now, exams will add to the stress,” said Shivnath Darade, secretary of Shikshak Parishad. Several schools conducted their semester exams on Google forms and through different applications. “We had a lot of issues with the whole process because not all students were well-versed with the technology. Most of our students access online learning on their phones. For them to give their exams on phones is a bit difficult. We are hoping the government will come up with some solution for such students,” said the principal of an aided school in the eastern suburbs. Officials from the education department did not respond to calls and messages from HT.Parents said with all schools using their methods of conducting exams, it is not a level playing field for students. “Some are taking examinations very casually while others are very strict. This is unfair on students because they work very hard for the exams and ideally, there should have been some common format,” said Savita Mahipkar, a parent from Dadar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chaos-over-conducting-school-exams-as-maharashtra-education-department-fails-to-come-up-with-uniform-guidelines/story-DnywCfhfcuw3Z8EZmRBBEP.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||How Covid-19 lockdown put PhD dreams on hold, left aspirants in Mumbai struggling||For 34-year-old Akshay Raghavan (name changed), 2020 was the year “Dr” would be added as a prefix to his name. However, Covid-19 upended his dream. “The pandemic hit at a time when many PhD aspirants were ready to submit their final work to their respective universities. But lockdown was imposed, and that put an end to library/lab visits, fieldwork as well as basic internet facilities for many who got stuck in their hometowns,” said Raghavan, who is among the many aspirants who struggled to work on their PhD. After working on his thesis for more than four years, Raghavan had to wait till August to complete his fieldwork and add the finishing touches to his thesis. Now, he is waiting for his online viva appointment for the final submission, which will earn him his degree.While the 2020-21 academic calendar was reworked by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the pandemic has affected routine academic functions at universities and institutes across the country and institutions have struggled to provide students with appropriate facilities to complete their coursework. As students and higher education institutes grapple with the changes, among those reeling from the effects of the lockdown are PhD aspirants.Challenges during lockdown The lockdown put in place in end-March left several students in their hometowns and unable to return to the cities where they study. For many, working on their courses at home meant lack of proper e-learning resources; no access to science labs and/or libraries; poor internet facility, and other issues. “For most of us, the only access to research material is the university library, which was shut down from March till August. Even though the University of Mumbai (MU) has access to online journals, students were not given remote access during the lockdown and all this ended up delaying the submission of our final theses,” said PhD student Mandar Panchal.Many students were also affected by irregular disbursement of their fellowship funds. “Time and again we have taken up the matter of fellowship funds with MU authorities, but to no avail. In March, students staged a protest at MU’s Kalina campus and were assured by vice chancellor Suhas Pednekar of quick disbursement of fellowship funds. But six months later, students are still waiting,” said Shridhar Pendekar, a PhD candidate and member of the Chhatrabharati Student Organisation’s MU chapter.Phased approachIn July, the management of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) launched a “slow reboot plan” to restart research work in laboratories in a phased manner. As a first step, it asked around 128 PhD scholars and part-time Mumbai-based researchers if they were willing to resume their research or project work on campus. Between March and September, 169 defence examinations for PhD candidates were conducted and 138 theses were submitted for examination, said an IIT-B official. At the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), the institute approached its academic council and governing body, seeking extension of academic sessions for PhD and MPhil candidates. “Once lockdown was imposed, we encouraged all Masters’ students who finished their exams to head home and encouraged our research students, especially the ones who were in the writing and submission stage of their research work, to stay back in hostels and access the library and internet facilities in order to complete their work,” said Surinder Jaswal, deputy director and dean, School of Research Methodology, TISS, Mumbai.Online interviewsDuring the lockdown, TISS conducted an exercise of physical mapping of all their MPhil students to find out where exactly students were located. Online vivas were held for 196 out of their 200 MPhil students. Similarly, 70 PhD students defended their research projects in front of a team of external examiners and were awarded their doctorates during lockdown. “We annually manage to award around 35 PhDs every year, but this time round, double the number of degrees were awarded,” said Jaswal.In May, MU announced the first PhD degree awarded to a student after she defended her PhD thesis online, before external examiners, during the lockdown. By the first week of October, MU had conducted online vivas for 62 students, including two MSc research projects.“MU has a decentralised system in place where the research topics are approved by individual departments. Students therefore have been in constant touch with their mentors throughout the lockdown in order to continue work on their research. Since we had to keep the university campus shut for the first few months, some students found it difficult to work on their project. So we finally re-opened the library and some laboratories in August,” said a senior MU official.Every year, MU approves approximately 1,000 research projects based on their synopses and awards around 200-250 PhD degrees. “Last year, we awarded 250 doctorates and we hope to award similar number of degrees, if not more, this year,” said an MU official.Status of new PhD admissionsMU started inviting applications for the PhDs in March and received the highest number of applications since 2016 — 6,848 applications, including over 500 from students from other states. The total number of applications included 6,512 PhD students and 326 MPhil aspirants. “Since the start of PhD entrance test (PET) in 2016, this is the highest number of applications received by the varsity. However, in the last couple of months, we’ve received requests from students asking us to re-open the applications process. Once we’ve cleared the status of applications, we will announce dates of the PET exam too,” said a spokesperson for MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-covid-19-lockdown-put-phd-dreams-on-hold-left-aspirants-in-mumbai-struggling/story-vXJt4SWdj7afpaonSE01fP.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||88-year-old engineer and 15-year-old undergraduate student register for GATE 2021||An 88-year-old civil engineer from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and a 15-year-old undergraduate student from Rajasthan have registered to take the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), making them the oldest and youngest candidates for the competitive exam. GATE, an entrance exam for masters courses in science institutes, is being conducted by IIT Bombay this year. In addition to science students, the exam has been thrown open to commerce and arts students for the first time. “This year we have allowed third-year students of all courses — including science, commerce and arts — to apply,” said Deepankar Choudhury, organising chairperson and institute chair professor at IIT Bombay. More than 14,000 candidates from commerce and arts streams have applied for the exam this year.  A civil engineer from UP, born in 1932, has become the oldest GATE candidate, beating the record from two years ago when a 75-year-old had applied. “The beauty of the exam is that there is no age limit so anyone can take the exam with the minimum qualifying degree,” said Choudhury. The youngest candidate is a 2005-born instrumentation engineering student from Rajasthan. “We were expecting the minimum age would be a year lower. However, this candidate, who may be a child prodigy, has surprised us. He is in the third year of his engineering course,” Choudhury said. The GATE score is for admissions to Masters and doctoral programmes at IITs and Indian Institutes of Science (IISc), among other institutions. It is also a qualifier for placements in public sector undertakings and mandatory for many government scholarships and assistantships. More than 8.8 lakh candidates have registered for the exam this year. The exam will be held between February 5 and February 14, 2021. Candidates can choose from 27 subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/88-yr-old-engineer-and-15-year-old-register-for-gate-2021/story-tcTje9wv0zEen5UiKykKjO.html
21-10-2020||Mumbai||From today, all women can board Mumbai local trains||All women commuters can board local trains from 11am to 3pm and from 7pm onwards starting today as the Railways, after four days of letter-exchanges and friction with the state government, finally gave its approval on Tuesday. “I am happy to announce that Railways will allow women to travel on suburban trains from 21 Oct between 11am and 3pm & after 7pm. We were always ready and with the receipt of letter from Maharashtra government today, we have allowed this travel,” Railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted.I am happy to announce that Railways will allow women to travel on suburban trains from 21 Oct between 11 am to 3 pm & after 7 pm. We were always ready and with the receipt of letter from Maharashtra Govt today, we have allowed this travel.Mumbai’s local trains, used by around 8 million people daily pre-Covid-19, were suspended on March 23 after the state went into a lockdown to stop the spread of the virus. Some services, however, resumed on July 15, with the state allowing only essential services workers, differently abled people and cancer patients to use the trains. The Central Railway currently operates 706 daily services, while the Western Railway runs 700 services as against their regular of 1,774 and 1,367 respectively.On October 16, the Maharashtra government sent a letter to Central and Western Railways (who together run the Mumbai suburban network) to allow all women commuters to travel by train, mostly during non-peak hours. The Railways, however, was reluctant to do the same for the fear of crowding . While one of the ruling parties, Congress, blamed the Railway ministry, BJP as well as railway officials said they were being cautious. Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday sent a reminder to both zonal railways. Also Read: Congress questions BJP over delay in allowing women in local trains in MumbaiThe women commuters allowed in non-peak timings. will have to purchase tickets, but will not require QR code (as was the practice with employees from designated essential services). “Four ladies special local trains will be added from Wednesday. A total of six ladies special trains will be operated. Further increase in services will be done after inspecting the passenger flow.” said a senior railway official.“Between 11am and 3pm and after 7pm ,there will be no checking of women for QR code or identity card and only tickets will be checked, as all women are allowed. Others will be checked for QR code and identity cards in addition to valid tickets. Except for emergency category staff, as identified by the state and women (between 11 am and 3pm and after 7pm), others are requested not to rush to the stations,” said a statement from Central and Western Railway.After a round of meetings last month and early this month, Maharashtra on October 16 wrote to the general managers of Central and Western Railways to allow all women commuters to travel in non-peak hours in suburban trains. The letter, signed by Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation, was made public by the government. Also Read: 53% Covid-19 patients from 30-59 age group, 5% children, teenagers: Mumbai civic bodyThis was the first step by the authorities towards opening of the suburban trains, the lifeline of city, for the common people. The Railways, however, shot back a letter to the state government, saying it was not possible for them to allow the additional force immediately unless the assessment of possible passenger burden was done. The Railways had asked the state for an estimate of the increase in number of commuters, along with other modalities. “The timings can still be an issue. This is because commuters arriving on railway platforms before the permitted time schedule can lead to crowding,” said a railway official on Tuesday.The delay in resuming services shown by the Railways led to friction between state government and Railways over the last four days.Nimbalkar wrote another letter to the Railways, saying the decision announced by the state was in accordance with the multiple meetings held with all stakeholders including Railways. “Latest of the meetings was held on October 13 and chaired by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. The date of commencement was strategically chosen on weekend so that there would be no much of burden on the rail services. The Railways in its best capacity can assess the potential burden and plan accordingly,” the letter stated.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, who had intervened and had spoken to the secretary in the ministry of home affairs on Sunday to expedite the matter, wrote a fresh letter to Central and Western Railways again on Tuesday morning, instructing them to implement the decision at the earliest. Also Read: Railways suggest colour-coded QR system for Mumbai train commuters based on staggered office timings“As per the decision taken during joint meetings with all stakeholders, we have requested you to allow all women commuters to travel during non-peak hours from October 17. The decision is yet to be implemented. The women commuters may be allowed to board the trains at the earliest,” the letter read. The letter-war also saw a political blame game between ruling and opposition parties as Congress raised questions if the Railways was deliberately making the issue complex. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Tuesday said, “The state government held four meetings with Railway officials regarding allowing women commuters to travel by suburban trains in the MMR during non-peak hours from October 17. However, on October 16, railway authorities expressed their inability to give permission. There is a standard operating procedure (SOP) in place as far as train services are concerned. Why does Railways want a fresh permission?”Congress’s political attack came in the backdrop of BJP’s statewide protest last week for the demand of opening of temples in the state. The BJP tried to corner the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)and Congress, by touching religious sentiments. Sawant questioned why BJP leaders, who have been advocating for opening of temples, are silent over the delay in operation of railways for women. Keshav Upadhye, BJP spokesperson, said, “The BJP or any of its leaders had nothing to do with the issue. Railway Board took its decision in due course and following all procedures. We do not take allegations by Sachin Sawant seriously. ”BJP’s vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “There was nothing wrong if Railway ministry raised a few questions over the modalities to operate additional services and took some time to complete the procedure. The MVA government had goofed up during the operations of Shramik trains meant for the migrant workers in May. It could not even arrange for adequate number of passengers after a fleet of trains was made available by the Railway ministry. The Congress has no right blame us as it has snapped its ties with real issues related to the common man.” While welcoming the Railway decision, Sawant later said, “It was a deliberate attempt by BJP leaders to stop the implementation of the state government’s decision. The announcement by Railway minister Goyal does not mention tissues raised by the Railways and has simply says that they are beginning operations after request by chief secretary of Maharashtra. This means the issues and reasons raised earlier by Railways were a sham,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government has convened a meeting with Railways again to discuss allowing more commuters from private sector by rolling out staggering of office timings in near future. “Allowing women in non-peak hours is the first step towards unlocking train services for all. We are taking stock of how much crowd can the trains handle keeping in mind social distancing. This is also an attempt to encourage the private sector to go in for staggered work hours. In the next phase, we may allow men to travel at odd hours, to see if it works. Senior citizens and families could be allowed at non-peak hours. The meeting convened on Wednesday is in continuation of the series of meetings being held deliberately over staggering of office timings,” said a state government official. From Wednesday, a total of six women special trains will be operated. Women commuters that have a valid railway pass ahead of March 22 will also be allowed to travel by local trains. Local train services were suspended from March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-today-all-women-can-board-mumbai-local-trains/story-TZ5xCrEFhni4bkJSMQhXzL.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||A third of Delhi’s active cases in red zones, says fresh govt data||At least a third of the city’s 22,317 active Covid-19 cases were in containment zones as on October 18, compared to less than a fourth a month earlier, according to government data accessed that shows how a tweak in the strategy has allowed for more people to be under hard isolation at a time when outdoor activities have increased. The data, accessed by HT, also shows some variations in how various regions of the city approach containment -- West Delhi’s Shahdara and the New Delhi revenue districts have over two-third of their active Covid-19 in containment zones. In terms of absolute numbers of active cases in containment, northwest Delhi recorded the highest with 3,458 cases, followed by South Delhi at 2,937 cases. HT reported on September 20 that 19% of active Covid-19 cases were located inside containment zones as on September 16. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDistrict officials said the increase has been caused by a change in the containment zones strategy. Zones are now further compressed, at times to a single house unit. “Under the new policy, several residences which have more than one Covid-19 case in the family, assigned home isolation, have been notified as containment zones. The policy of micro containment zones has enabled districts to scatter containment zones to conform with the scattered nature of cases. So, there are more active cases inside containment zones now,” said a district surveillance official, who asked not to be identified. Containment zones are in a hard lockdown, with access controlled and any business activity banned. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, “The change in containment zone policy is an administrative intervention. It is, however, difficult to ascertain what proportion of percentage increase in active Covid-19 cases within containment zones can be attributed to this administrative factor. In general, the trend suggests that there has been transmission within containment zones and the government has to scale up contact tracing and surveillance in containment zones.” Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore said, “The 33% active Covid-19 in containment zones as of now against 19% around a month ago would not be a fair comparison in my opinion, largely because of the major change in policy as mentioned by the administration. The situation is similar to the sero-surveys conducted in Delhi, where change in sample selection methodologies led to significant diversion from expected trends concerning prevalence of antibodies. The Covid-19 curve across India is witnessing a downward trend – though at different rates in different states – and Delhi is no exception to that.” According to Delhi revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, the government is “aggressively creating micro containment zones in order to break the chain of transmission at the earliest. The policy is to test, isolate and treat more people. However, it is important to mention that the focus of the government is on creating smaller containment zones so that fewer people are affected and more active cases can be brought under scaled-up surveillance. The status of the containment zones are periodically reviewed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-third-of-delhi-s-active-cases-in-red-zones-says-fresh-govt-data/story-LjO4QoLytE1EAhOeuQNI4I.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to launch awareness campaign on green crackers, ensure their availability in market: Gopal Rai||The Delhi government has planned a massive awareness campaign to promote ‘green crackers’ (low-emission varieties) ahead of Diwali and also ensure that enough stock is available in the market to prevent sales of illegal, polluting varieties, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday. “We have had a few meetings with the agencies concerned to chalk out a plan to make green crackers readily available in the markets this time. We have also met wholesale cracker dealers over the last week. Our aim this year will be to improve awareness about the impact of cracker burning on air so that the spike in pollution levels around Diwali can be reduced,” said Rai.In 2017, the Supreme Court had banned the sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR ahead of Diwali. However, in 2018, the apex court conditionally allowed sale of fireworks that meet the standards of low emission and noise levels. It had also limited the bursting of firecrackers from 8pm to 10pm for Diwali and between 11:55pm and 12:30am on other occasions such as Christmas and New Year. The strict regulations were put in place in view of the extremely high levels of air pollution during winters, which peak critically during Diwali.In the last two years, despite the ban on the sale of crackers, the low availability of low-emission cracker varieties—till last year only ‘phuljhari’ (sparkles), rocket and ‘anar’(flower pots) were available in the markets—and the limited quantity of crackers, led to citizens using regular crackers after buying it from other sides. This led to a major spike in the pollution level post-Diwali. Last year, a day after Diwali, on October 28, the city’s ‘air quality’ plummeted to ‘severe’ category for the first time in the season. Rai said the government would launch a large-scale awareness campaign across the national capital to encourage people to use green crackers this time instead of buying the illegal polluting varieties that are sold illegally or brought from other states. Narendra Gupta, president, fireworks and general traders association, Sadar Bazar, who has been attending the government meetings as a representative of the traders, said they have assured the agencies that only the permitted varieties of crackers will be sold in the wholesale markets. “We were asked to keep a check on the illegal varieties of crackers in our respective markets and we have assured them that only green, low-emission crackers will be sold in our markets. However, in Sadar Bazar and in areas near Jama Masjid, a lot of temporary stalls are set up right before Diwali that sell Chinese varieties, which are polluting. The enforcement agencies will have to keep a tab on them,” Gupta said. Cracker sellers also said that unlike the previous years, where there was were only three varieties available in the market, this time the industry is more prepared. This year at least 60 varieties of crackers will be available in the market, they said. “The cracker industry is still recovering from the losses incurred in the last three years. This year, of 90 traders only 10 are expected to apply for licences. This is because for the last three years, the cracker business faced major losses and many small traders have not been able to revive their businesses,” Gupta said. Rai said that with the limitations on account of Covid-19, the focus of the government this time in tackling pollution in Delhi would be based on raising awareness to ensure more public participation in measures to curb pollution. “Pollution does not have a readymade solution. There are limitations this time but that does not mean we sit idle. We will put in all our efforts this time,” Rai said. Referring to the Delhi government’s “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” campaign, Rai said, “We think the pollution in Delhi affects all of us and all of us need to take the responsibility of resolving this issue. If we need a permanent solution, then the sources of the pollution will have to be controlled.I request people to turn off the engines of their vehicles if they spend more than 15 seconds at a traffic signal. It will save fuel and reduce pollution.” The campaign will be launched at 100 traffic intersections from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-launch-awareness-campaign-on-green-crackers-ensure-their-availability-in-market-gopal-rai/story-w8CZxayCaR4SrWIScyPf2J.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees 3,579 new Covid cases, highest in 25 days||Delhi reported 3,579 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the highest in 25 days. The number of cases of the infection has been on the rise again in the city, with over 3,000 cases being reported each day in the last week, barring Sunday, when comparatively lesser number of tests were conducted . So far, the infection has affected over 336,000 people in the city and killed 6,081. The city on Tuesday had 23,922 active virus cases.Not only the absolute number of cases, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – has also been on the rise. Delhi‘s has notched an average positivity rate of 6.1% over the last seven days, as compared to 5.5% the week before and 5.4% the week before that.. The number reflects ongoing transmission of the infection, with a positivity rate of less than 5% maintained over two weeks, an indication of control of the spread. On an average, 13,900 RT PCR tests were done each day during the last seven days, as compared to 10,471 the week before, and 9,536 the week before that. At its highest – October 16 – the city conducted 15,660 RT-PCR tests. The RT-PCR tests accounted for about 26.5% of the total tests that were done during the last seven days. This is higher than the 21.7% of the total tests it accounted for the week before and 19.2% the week before that. The alternate for the government is using rapid antigen test — which is cheap, easy to deploy in clinics and dispensaries, and gives results within 15 minutes. However, the rapid antigen tests are much more likely to throw up false negative reports for people who might actually have the infection. “The sensitivity – or the ability of a test to detect true positive cases – is as low as 50% in rapid antigen tests depending on how samples are collected. This is much higher for an RT-PCR test at about 80 to 85%. It could be lower – on average 70% -- depending on how the sample was collected, how it was transported, and how many probes were used in the test. But it will pick up more cases than the rapid antigen test. So, if you increase the number of RT-PCR tests, the number of cases and positivity rate is likely to go up,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-3-579-new-covid-cases-highest-in-25-days/story-rXerasv4wCQo4YMTqFUZ3K.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Bar licence of Delhi Gymkhana Club suspended||The Delhi government has suspended the bar licence of Delhi Gymkhana Club for “misappropriation of liquor”, after a routine inspection by the state excise department found that the club was allegedly involved in the sale of liquor even during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the city administration said on Tuesday. According to an order issued by deputy excise Commissioner Ranjeet Singh on Monday, the bar licence of the club has been suspended with immediate effect and the club officials concerned have been directed to appear before the excise department on October 27, for further proceedings in the matter. Other operations of the club will, however, continue as usual, senior government officials said. A detailed questionnaire sent to the email IDs of the managing committee members mentioned on the club’s website went unanswered till the filing of this report. An official who answered the phone said they are preparing a reply and would release it to the media soon. The Delhi government said the enforcement team of the excise department had inspected the club’s premises on September 17. “During the inspection, a bar sub-store was found in the club for which no approval of the excise department was taken. Further, a club official informed that some liquor stock was found to be missing from the bar sub-store as a former official had taken stock from there during the lockdown. This was done without bringing it to the knowledge of the manager or the members of the club’s managing committee,” a senior government official said. The order, which HT has seen, stated: “It is reasonably clear that the licensee was involved in selling of liquor during the period of lockdown in violation of this office order dated 21.04.2020, wherein all the licensees-wholesale, retail, hotels, clubs and restaurants were warned to refrain from indulging in the unlawful activities of sale of liquor during the lockdown.” In the order, the excise department has quoted the manager of the bar, who has accused a former office bearer of taking out at least 69 bottles of liquor during the lockdown. The order also mentions that the club management informed that office bearer was terminated from the club’s membership. HT contacted the former office bearer, who refused to comment saying he has approached court. “I have approached court against my illegal termination. The matter is subjudice,” he said. After being closed for over 170 days, bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants had reopened in Delhi on September 10 after the Centre released Unlock-4 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bar-licence-of-delhi-gymkhana-club-suspended/story-eBF3hQGKvooxMXM6QauW1N.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||Ensure patients are told about Covid-19 test results within 24 hours: Delhi High Court||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to declare the results of the Covid-19 tests within 24 hours. The court said it is completely “unacceptable” that the reports are coming as late as four days with no intimation to the patients who are kept in isolation till the report comes out. Citing the example of a court staff who got the Covid-19 test report in four days, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said it has been seen in several instances that the turnaround time has crossed four days which is not acceptable when the person is kept in isolation. It also said that the reports are not given on weekends.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The court was hearing a plea by a lawyer Rakesh Malhotra seeking to ramp up testing in the national capital. It has been passing orders at regular intervals to monitor testing in the city. On an earlier date, the court had asked the expert committee constituted by the lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to design a strategy for ramping up tests in the city. The committee had held a meeting and given certain recommendations, including delivering the reports within 24 hours and ramping up RT-PCR tests in the city. According to Delhi government data, over 4 million tests have been conducted in the city. A Delhi govt spokesperson did not respond repeated requests for a comment.On Tuesday, the court also said that the patients should be told about the test result immediately. Also Read | Lockdown gone, Covid-19 virus hasn’t, cautions PM ModiThe HC directed that the process be streamlined so that the reports are given within 24 hours. “When the mobile numbers of the patients tested have been taken, then the lab can easily send a message to the person intimating the result,” the court said, adding that the issue needs to be addressed at the earliest. Additional standing counsel Satyakam, appearing for the Delhi government, assured the court that he would take immediate steps. The expert committee in its report said that at present more than 80% tests are conducted by rapid antigen method and in few districts it is up to 90-95%. Currently test positivity is 4.3% by RAT and 20.33% by RT-PCR as on Sep 24, 2020. It said that majority of testing has been done in the camp settings (like railway stations, bus stand, crowded localities) and hence majority of people tested were asymptomatic. The committee recommended that all high risk patients, all elderly and those suffering with co-morbidities (in containment zones) should be tested,” the report said. It said that the tests should be conducted between the fifth to the tenth day (since the last exposure) if asymptomatic or as soon as symptoms start. It also said that the turnaround time of testing with results to be given within 24 hours and till the test result—suspected case should be kept in strict isolation. During the hearing, the court also asked ICMR and CSIR to update the status on the approval of the new testing technique Feluda and asked them to file affidavits. It also asked the Delhi government to submit the report of fourth sero survelliance, which is likely to conclude soon, to the court on the next date while cautioning it not to leak it to the media. The matter would be now heard on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-patients-are-told-about-covid-19-test-results-within-24-hours-delhi-high-court/story-EYJEPoUdr6QM2yhLAVk5jK.html
21-10-2020||Delhi||2 held for killing brother over property dispute, stuffing body in trunk||Two days after the body of a 35-year-old man was found in a trunk in outer Delhi’s Munak canal, police on Tuesday said they had arrested two men — brothers of the victim — and cracked the case. Police said the victim, identified as Dileep Jha, a resident of Raja Vihar in outer Delhi, was strangled by the two men following a dispute related to property. Police said Jha’s body was found stuffed in a lidless trunk in Munak canal near Haiderpur water treatment plant on Sunday. The body was sent to the mortuary in Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said during preliminary probe it was found that the clothes the victim was wearing, had a logo of a tailor shop named - ‘Yadav & sons tailor Samaypur’ written on it. On this, it was clear that the man was a resident of nearby area. Missing reports from Samaypur Badli police station and other nearby police stations were checked and one of the missing complaints matched the description of the person, whose body we found,” Sharma said. The complainant, Vivek Jha of Raja Vihar, was called to the police station. He was shown a picture of the body and he identified it as that ofhis elder brother. “To confirm his claims, other family members including the deceased man’s elder brother Satish Jha was also called. When statements of both the brothers were recorded, they were variations. The two changed statements frequently and their behaviour was suspicious,” Sharma said. He said, when they questioned the dead man’s wife, she told police that they used to live with the families of his two brothers in a two-storey building. She said her husband had an ongoing property dispute with his brothers due to which she had been living at her parent’s house for the past two months. She also said that last Wednesday her husband told her over phone that he feared for his life, police said. “On this information, the two brothers were again interrogated and were confronted with information shared by Dileep’s wife. This time they broke down and confessed to have killed their brother. Vivek Jha admitted that on Thursday, they had a quarrel with him. Vivek said Dileep was drunkand taking advantage of that fact, they strangulated him to death, put his body in a small iron trunk and dumped it iin Munak canal. He then got a missing persons complaint registered to avoid suspicion,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-held-for-killing-brother-over-property-dispute-stuffing-body-in-trunk/story-DBWgZqo6yGdmaML9JwKLmL.html
21-10-2020||Education||Braving odds, 569 Delhi govt school students crack NEET||A 20-year-old whose mother works at a doctor’s clinic, the son of an employee at a small book depot earning Rs 5,000 a month, and a first-generation learner who could not attend coaching due to his family’s financial condition -- these are among Delhi government school students who cleared the country’s most competitive medical and engineering exams -- JEE and NEET -- this year. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who lauded these achievers, said on Tuesday that 569 Delhi government school students cleared the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) -- the entrance exam for medical courses -- this year, the results of which were declared last Friday. “379 (67%) out of the 569 Delhi government school students who cracked NEET this year are girls. At least 48 of these students scored more than 500 out of 720 in NEET. At least 29 of these students are from Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in MolarBand, 24 are from SKV Yamina Vihar (C1) and 23 are from SKV Noor Nagar. Girls from Delhi government schools performed really well in the medical entrance test,” Kejriwal said. Among the students lauded by Kejriwal during a digital press conference was Tamanna Goyal, 20, who did not know about the existence of NEET till she passed from Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Rohini Sec-11 in 2018. She lives with her mother, a staffer at a private doctor’s clinic, and a younger brother, in Shahbad Dairy. She has scored 695 marks in NEET and secured 11th rank in the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category. “My mother works at a clinic and she wanted me to prepare for medical exams after I finished schooling. I got in touch with my school and they suggested I take entrance exams for a coaching centre to get a scholarship and I managed to get one. My mother is so happy now as I am going to be the first-ever doctor in the family,” she said. Khush Garg, 18, who secured the 709 all-India rank in NEET could not join a coaching class due to his family’s financial condition. A resident of Krishna Nagar, whose father runs a small shop in Shahdara, Garg said that with the help of his school teachers in RPVV Gandhi Nagar, he managed to clear NEET. “The coaching centres were asking for Rs 2-3 lakh and we could not afford that. I decided to start self-study. With the help of my teachers and a strict study schedule, I managed to crack the exam,” he said. Kejriwal said “talent isn’t determined by money”. “This is a testament that Delhi government schools are undergoing a revolutionary change and students from poor families studying in these schools are paving the way to success. I believe providing equal and quality education to all is the only way by which we can eradicate poverty from this nation, an issue we have been fighting for the past 70 years. These students are inspirations for all those who are pursuing their schooling. If these students with limited means can do it, so can you,” he said. “I want to promise to every student that they need not worry about financial resources. For all the students who cleared 12th and who lack resources for higher education, but have secured admission in colleges, the Delhi government has scholarships to offer, And any student, rich or poor, can get a loan amount of up to Rs 10 lakh without submitting any collateral, from the Delhi government and can exercise their right to education,” he said. This year, 443 Delhi government school students cleared the JEE (Main) and, of them 53 further cracked the JEE (advanced) for admission in IITs. Among these students were Ayush Bansal, 18, who will join IIT-Roorkee. Bansal’s father works at a book store in Nangloi and earns Rs 5,000 a month. A student of RPVV Paschim Vihar, he gives credit for his success to his school. “I could not join any coaching due to our financial condition but my teachers helped me so much in self-study. I want to work to become an entrepreneur and start some start-up after my studies,” he said. Sujata Tamta, principal of Molarband School where around 30 students have cleared NEET this year, said the school had created a system where every teacher would adopt 2-3 students of class 12 and monitor their performance throughout the year. “Most of our students are from very poor backgrounds and can’t afford coaching. With our initiative, we helped them prepare for the entrance exam on their own,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/braving-odds-569-delhi-govt-school-students-crack-neet/story-jNwYqitOhnbdOHigNbfWSN.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Murdered advocate’s phone was thrown in an MP-bound truck by assailants||The phone of deceased lawyer, Umesh More, was thrown into a truck heading towards Madhya Pradesh, after he was killed, the Pune police said in Monday. A day after the body was recovered, the police have confirmed the identity of the body found in Tamhini ghat to be of Umesh More, believed to have been murdered on October 1. The three arrested in the case include a lawyer identified as Rohit Dattatray Shende (32), a resident of Santnagar, Market Yard; and two others, identified as Kapil Vilas Falke (34), resident of Ramdasnagar Audut Housing Society, Chikhali; and Deepak Shivaji Vandekar (28), a resident of Salewad village in Ashti, Beed. Falke and Vandekar were present in the car which had a fake number plate on it, according to police. The phone of the deceased was found by the truck driver who switched it on in MP. The other belongings of the deceased, like documents and a bag, were found at a spot close to the charred body. “We are investigating multiple angles, besides the ACB case, and it is too soon to be speaking about the investigation,” said Sanjay Shinde, additional commissioner of police, Pune. The murder is suspected to be related to a case of corruption that was registered in 2018 based on the deceased lawyer’s complaint. It had implicated another lawyer who used to be his friend. Arrests were made by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB ) that had led to the arrest of Shende, for working as a middleman for the office of the deputy director (land records), and accepting a bribe of Rs 1.7 crore to get an order in an ongoing land suit. The land in question is 50,000 square feet located in the Parvati area. “The body was found around 85-90 km outside of Pune. Very little remained of the body. It was sent for the DNA test. Relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been added to the case,” said Suhakar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, Vishrambaug division, Pune. While the initial case was registered under Section 365 of IPC, after the recovery of the body, Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), and 364 (kidnapping with an intent of murder) of IPC have been added. While one police officer claimed that the body was confirmed based on the history of a surgery on the face, another officer claimed that the body was conclusively found to be More’s after two of the three arrested men confirmed the location of the body during isolated interrogations, unbeknownst to each other. Both the officers chose to remain anonymous while sharing the information. Three teams of Shivajinagar police station officials, along with crime branch and the cyber crime cell, were working on the case. The three men are in police custody until October 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murdered-advocate-s-phone-was-thrown-in-an-mp-bound-truck-by-assailants/story-lA2mdJRuQ7Yq4XozKVRcaM.html
21-10-2020||Pune||PMC plans free tablets for civic school students||Pune The Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) elected members, on Tuesday, proposed the distribution of tablets and other necessary materials to students in schools run by the civic body. This is to ensure the online learning of students in civic schools can take place without any impediments. The standing committee has approved the proposal. Standing committee chairman, BJP’s Hemant Rasne said, “Elected members are making such proposals. It is difficult to deny it immediately in the meeting. The standing committee approved it and sent it to the municipal commissioner for the administration’s opinion on it.” A senior BJP leader, on condition of anonymity, said, “Though the standing panel had approved the proposal for giving tablets to school students, it will not be easy to execute. PMC does not have the funds; and the second thing is, if the administration says yes, it would take time to purchase the same. In six months’ time, there is a possibility schools and colleges would reopen.” The tablets-for-all proposal is one among many sops that have been proposed in the recent months.Last week, a proposal to give Rs5,000 in cash to each saloon owner in the city, to counter the negative effects of the Covid-19 lockdown, was put forth.The municipal administration shot down the proposal.A senior civic official, also requesting anonymity, said, “It is getting very difficult to say no to such proposals, considering, the standing committee approves them. They know very well that without pressure from the mayor, or senior party leaders, the administration would never give positive feedback on such proposals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-plans-tablets-for-civic-school-students/story-RoHoO4PzgnY2f9FWk8asMP.html
21-10-2020||Pune||PMC clears Rs10.23 cr to shift pipelines on Navale bridge-Katraj chowk stretch||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved Rs10.23 crore for shifting water and drainage pipelines laid on Navale bridge to Katraj chowk road. The Public Works Department (PWD) has started the road widening work for the 3.88 km stretch passing through the city. As it is a national highway passing through PMC limits, MP Supriya Sule approved funds from the central and state governments. The project includes widening the existing 30m road between Navale bridge and Katraj chowk to 60m. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will also build a 7m wide service road and footpath. As the shifting of water and drainage lines come under PMC works, PWD writes to the civic administration offering to shift the pipelines if the latter release funds. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar placed the proposal before PMC standing committee and sought permission to hand over the cost. PMC Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Though the stretch is part of the highway, it sees city traffic. It would be better to shift the pipelines when PWD is carrying out the road widening works.” Kumar said, “NHAI is unable to speed up the road widening work because of the pipelines. The go-ahead from PMC will help the central body meet the project deadline.” With the expansion of city and development of Ambegaon and Vadgaon areas, the Navale bridge-Katraj chowk stretch which was once part of city’s outer roads became an important roadway. Absence of service road caused traffic snarls and road accidents on this busy stretch. Road plan for unhindered traffic flow Navale bridge to Katraj chowk: 3.88 km Existing road width -30 metre Proposed road width -60 metre Rs10.23 crore: Funds cleared by PMC for shifting of water and drainage lines 7m service road, footpath and retaining wall proposed at the stretch Rs 2,75 cr: Cost of shifting water pipelines Rs7.48 cr: Cost of shifting drainage lines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-clears-rs10-23-cr-to-shift-pipelines-on-navale-bridge-katraj-chowk-stretch/story-LLwHEcFhiImkkKJFBwFFlM.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Residents demand immediate assessment of flood-affected parts in Pandharpur||Pandharpur: The floodwaters have completely damaged the house of the Nazarkar family in Pandharpur. “Floods are not new for Pandharpur. We are always prepared when river water levels rise, but the October 14 flood was sudden. We did not get time to collect belongings and household things, and just ran to save our lives. We are yet to see any government official visiting us for panchanama (assessment),” said Shrikrishna Govind Nazarkar, resident of Kumbhar ghat area which was flooded during the torrential rains on October 14 and 15. More than 8,000 houses, shops and dharmashalas (rest houses) were submerged during the flood. Shubham Nazarkar, Nazarkar’s son and final year mechanical engineering student, said, “My final year exams are going on and all my study material is damaged. My engineering project related models and equipment are washed away.” The rising water damaged the shops on Tambda Maruti Temple road. Sudhir Vijay Karaskar, owner of Jagdish Pustak Bhandar, said, “The flood waters damaged half of the spiritual and traditional books at my store. I tried to collect some books when the water level started rising, but when it suddenly touched above 4 feet level, I ran to a higher plane. None of the government officials have come here for panchanama. With business already hit by the Covid pandemic, we hope that the government will provide us immediate financial help.” The flood affected parts in Pandharpur are Kumbhar ghat, Bhajandas chowk, Datta ghat, Mukhtabai Math road, Nath chowk, Kole Galli lane, Kranti chowk, Juni peth, Govind Pura, Sant peth, Ambedkarnagar and Kalika Devi chowk. Pandharpur is one of the most prominent pilgrim cities in Maharashtra where faithful visit to take darshan of Lord Vitthal. One of the dharmashala damaged due to flood was Ashadhi Dindi Mandal, Thane Dharmashala in Pandharpur. Kalyan Mulidhar Naravade, a worker at the dharmashala, said, “The occupants were very few because of Covid situation, otherwise this place is full during this time. We vacated the place the moment water entered the premises. It took us four days to clean the place from mud and slush. Some part of the wall is also damaged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-demand-immediate-assessment-of-flood-affected-parts-in-pandharpur/story-PXfqLS2Io6AMJZhwVixVCP.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Kumbhar ghat wall collapse: Kin of deceased blame low-quality construction for six deaths||Pandharpur: The relatives and residents of Kumbhar ghat area in Pandharpur have blamed the governing bodies for poor quality work of the ghats on Chandrabhaga river. Six people died on Wednesday (October 14) as a newly constructed wall on Kumbhar ghat collapsed due to torrential rains. Four of the deceased were locals. The residents are demanding audit from the state authorities of the beautification work at the ghats. “Work on various ghats on the banks of Chandrabhaga river has been going on for two years. The wall collapse happened at one of the newly built ghats. The stone bricks and material used for construction is of very poor quality. The government should now carry out quality checks of works done at Pandharpur as it is an important pilgrimage city of the state,” said Anil Abhangarao, deputy nagar president of Pandharpur. Four of the deceased belonged to the same family — Gopal Laxman Abhangrao (70), his wife Radhabai Gopal Abhangrao (60), their son Raju Gopal Abhangrao (34) and their grandson (daughter’s son) Sangram Umesh Jagtap (14). All of them are from Koli community (boaters and fishing community). Sachin Abhangrao, brother of deceased Raju, said, “It was his birthday on October 14. When we got to know about increasing water level we rushed to pull our boats from the river. I was also standing with them near the wall, but as I went ahead to help someone, the wall collapsed. I saw my family members dying in front of my eyes. The contractor appointed by the government is responsible for the poor construction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kumbhar-ghat-wall-collapse-kin-of-deceased-blame-poor-low-quality-construction-for-six-deaths/story-vlgpuCvUyVk1NxERExOlAO.html
21-10-2020||Pune||Caretaker-turned-thief tricked into arrest through social media chat in Pune||A 25-year-old former caretaker of a family in Sangvi was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for stealing gold and cash worth Rs 6.1 lakh from the household.The man was identified as Sandeep Bhagwan Hande (25), a resident of Walhekarwadi area of Chinchwad and a native of Gangapur in Aurangabad. He was arrested in a case registered on October 17 at Sangvi police station under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of Indian Penal Code.The police tracked his mobile location and made contact with him through Facebook. He responded to the Facebook message and arrived at Kalpataru chowk in Pimpri-Chinchwad where he was arrested, according to a statement issued by the police.“He was approached through a female person’s profile. So, he thought he was coming to meet a woman when he was arrested,” said senior inspector Ranganath Unde of Sangvi police station. The police have recovered 24 tola gold jewellery, and Rs 20,000 in cash, collectively worth Rs 6,15,000. A complaint was registered by Sangita Kankriya (52) of Rajyog bungalow in Kirtinagar area of New Sangvi where the theft was committed.The family informed the police about Hande who had worked for five days in September before leaving without notice. Hande worked for the family between September 21 and September 25 when he is suspected to have committed the crime. He was remanded to four days police custody on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/caretaker-turned-thief-tricked-into-arrest-through-social-media-chat-in-pune/story-7rY7jnfr4f0AYZp1MxAlEO.html
