22-10-2020||Mumbai||Biker booked for assaulting auto driver with dagger in Virar near Mumbai||A biker allegedly assaulted an autorickshaw driver with a kirpan (dagger) in Virar on Wednesday evening. In retaliation, the driver assaulted also the woman. Both the biker, Manjeet Kaur, 50, and the auto driver, Durgesh Patil, 35, have filed complaints against each other with Arnala Coastal police. Kaur has been booked by the police. A video of the incident went viral on Thursday on social media. Kaur, who was riding a scooter, came very close to Patil’s autorickshaw at Agarwal Circle in Virar (West). The duo got into an argument during which Kaur pulled out a dagger from her bag and threatened Patil. The latter then slapped and punched Kaur. Kaur then assaulted Patil with the dagger. Patil sustained minor bruises on his left abdomen. Later both of them approached Arnala police station. After hearing both sides, Kaur was booked Kaur under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon) of the Indian Penal Code. The police also registered a non-cognisable offence against Patil. No arrest was made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biker-booked-for-assaulting-auto-driver-with-dagger-in-virar-near-mumbai/story-pSQyfBAUf2HRLfAdqOAiBO.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||30-year-old Mumbai resident, his aide held for plotting own abduction for ₹1 lakh||Oshiwara police on Thursday arrested a 30-year-old Andheri resident who plotted his own abduction to extort ₹1 lakh from his brother-in-law along with his aide. The arrested accused Jitendrakumar Yadav, with the help of his friend Indrakumar Yadav, shot a video wherein he was seen tied to a chair and sent the video to his wife, who was in Uttar Pradesh, and his brother-in-law Sushilkumar Yadav, said police officers. The accused then sent a message and called Sushilkumar asking him to deposit ₹1 lakh in Yadav’s bank account.Upon getting the messages, Sushikumar approached Oshiwara police on Wednesday, following which a case of kidnapping was registered. A team led by sub-inspector Tushar Sawant started searching for Yadav. On Thursday morning, police found Yadav sitting in his car parked near Taraporewala Garden in Oshiwara. Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station, said, “We brought him to police station and questioned him about his kidnapping after which he confessed to the crime. We found the mobile phone, with the video, from his possession.” “We also found the chats where he had sought a ransom from Sushilkumar, his wife and other family members. During interrogation, he said he had borrowed money from someone but was unable to replay; this led him to plot his own abduction. He further said he took his friend Indrakumar’s help to record the video at his (Indrakumar’s) home. We have arrested Indrakumar too,” Bangar said. Apart from section 364A (Kidnapping for ransom) of the Indian Penal Code, Oshiwara police also added sections 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), and 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-year-old-mumbai-resident-his-aide-held-for-plotting-own-abduction-for-1-lakh/story-ZGoRUHwER2b0M30VcN4usK.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||As classes go online, IIT-Bombay collects ₹4 crore through crowdfunding to buy laptops, broadband for needy students||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), which is currently conducting its semester online, raised around ₹4 crore from its alumni as well as the public for its students who are in need of laptops, broadband and other infrastructure to attend the classes. Around 700 students have benefitted from the donations and are attending the online classes, said IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri. In June, the institute decided to move to online mode of instruction for the entire autumn semester in view of the safety of students amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In a survey conducted by the institute, many students across all programmes had stated that they did not have the facility to attend classes online. To help these students, Chaudhuri had appealed to its alumni and to the public to help the institute purchase laptops and broadband connectivity for such students. Chaudhuri said donors will be entitled to tax benefits under section 80G of the Income Tax Act. On Wednesday, Chaudhuri took to social media to share that the crowdsourcing initiative had been a success. A fourth-year energy science and engineering student from Baramati, Pune, who is a part of the institute’s racing team, thanked the sponsor for the laptop received through the funding. Chaudhuri said that the fundraising campaign would also continue for the incoming batch of students of the academic year 2020-21. “We are thankful to the donors who came in large numbers to support our students. We hope the campaign keeps going as the new batch of first-year students will soon join IIT-B, and some of them may possibly require support,” he said. Meanwhile, the institute is working to bring students and researchers back on campus in a phased manner. A committee has been set up to devise a ‘slow reboot plan’ and resume research work at the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-classes-go-online-iit-bombay-collects-4-crore-through-crowdfunding-to-buy-laptops-broadband-for-needy-students/story-1QqrQb0IJpwk0lF3UseoUM.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||75,000 women travel on local trains in Mumbai on Day 2||Railway stations in city witnessed a high number of women passengers at railway stations in the city, on Thursday. According to Central and Western Railways around 75,000 women passengers travelled by local trains on Thursday, with 35,000 on the Western Railway, and 40,000 on Central Railway. Booking counters at Diva, Nallasopara and Dombivli railway stations saw long queues of women commuters as only a limited number of them were open. People took to social networking website Twitter to complain about the crowding. “Only one ticket counter is open in nsp..no one is maintaining social distancing...government should think about this @WesternRly” tweeted @ImDarshanaS“Started locals for women but was there any complete homework? Corona hasn’t gone ... Is it time to tell the government? Diva railway station at 11.00 am @Central_Railway @GM_CRly @CMOMaharashtra @PiyushGoyal @OfficeofUT @rajupatilmanase.” tweeted @1987GawdeResponding to the complaints, the Railways has stated that additional booking counters were opened and the crowd was immediately managed. “Additional booking counters were opened immediately. We are studying the increase in passengers and wherever required opening additional booking counters.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Women commuters were permitted to travel by local trains by the state government under its Mission Begin Again from October 17. However, the Railways allowed women passengers to travel by local trains from Wednesday.Nearly 55,000 women commuters travelled by the local trains on Wednesday. They are permitted to travel without Quick Response(QR) code.Local train services resumed on July 15. Train services were earlier operational for employees working in essential services, differently-abled passengers and cancer patients. The Central Railway operates 706 local train services daily, while the Western Railway operates 704 local train services on its railway network. People from more sectors to be allowedAccording to the officials from the relief and rehabilitation department, the government is planning to allow people from the sectors that have workers travelling in non-peak hours. “After assessing the experience of allowing women to travel during non-peak hours for eight days, the decision over rolling out permission to other sectors will be taken. Employees from restaurants, services sectors travel during odd hours and can be allowed to travel early morning or late night. To encourage staggering of working hours, we have been allowing travel during non-peak hours. The timings are fixed for lawyers and court staff as per the policy,” he said requesting anonymity.Railways have also decided to allow private security guards wearing a uniform and carrying their official identity cards to travel by local trains from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/75-000-women-travel-on-local-trains-in-mumbai-on-day-2/story-pApnhTfUvC1pOyXf5rMb6I.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana initiates process to omit word ‘Punjab’ from its laws||Nearly 55 years after it was carved out as a separate state, Haryana has initiated the process to omit the word Punjab from its laws.The state government has constituted a committee to remove Punjab from nearly 237 Acts on the initiative of state assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta. Most of the acts are related to revenue and police departments and have the word Punjab in them, according to officials.Haryana was carved out as a separate state from undivided Punjab on November 1, 1966 under the Punjab Reorganisation Act. Haryana had adopted various acts which were already in force in undivided Punjab to run its administration. It was then resolved that the new state would be governed by the laws applicable in Punjab and it could make necessary amendments as per its requirements after two years.While a majority of the acts were amended over the years, Gupta had last month mooted the proposal to omit Punjab from the remaining acts.“Haryana is gearing up to do away with the name of the state of Punjab from its laws. The state government has constituted a Committee in this regard after the initiatives of Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Gian Chand Gupta,” a state government statement said here on Thursday.The committee constituted under the chairmanship of the legal remembrancer and administrative secretary of the law and justice department will review and examine the amendment of the subtitles of the acts, it said.The state government has informed the Haryana Vidhan Sabha Secretariat regarding the constitution of the committee which will submit its report to Haryana chief secretary, Vijai Vardhan, within a month.According to the order issued by Vardhan, the members of this committee will include the officer on special duty (OSD), law and justice department, deputy secretary of department of political and parliamentary affairs and OSD (rules) of general administration department.“Haryana had inherited the laws which were in Punjab’s name and the governance in Haryana has been based on these laws for the last over 54 years. The people of the state have been demanding to change the laws and add the name of Haryana,” the statement said. Gupta had held a meeting with the officers of the state government and of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat at the state assembly secretariat on September 24, in this regard. The speaker had instructed the chief secretary to formulate a plan to omit Punjab from all the state laws and the decision to constitute the committee was also taken in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-initiates-process-to-omit-word-punjab-from-its-laws/story-FwUW0ijUr5P0lBu3qcsQIK.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus cases continue to decline in Haryana||The coronavirus infections in Haryana continued its downward trend for the fourth consecutive week. Last week (October 12 to 18), as many as 7,878 new cases were reported in the state, a decrease of 399 as compared to the week before (October 5 to 11). Between October 5 to 11, as many as 8,277 infections were reported as compared to 10,096 reported the week before, a reduction of 1,819 cases. The state had reported 2,429 lesser infections during September 28 to October 4 as compared to the week before (September 21 to 27) and there was a decline of over 5,000 cases between September 21 and 27. The state had registered an all-time high of 17,616 cases between September 14 to 20. The decline in number of infections over the last four weeks has also brought down the active cases in the state. As on Thursday, there were 10,009 active cases. Testing also goes down The sampling done by health authorities to detect new infections has also witnessed a decline. The authorities tested 1,63,974 persons last week, a reduction of 22,849 samples from the week before when 1,86,823 persons were tested. Out of the 1,63,974 samples taken last week, about 1.05 lakh reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests and 58,743 rapid antigen tests were done. The reduction in testing has also resulted in reducing the rate of infection. As per the health department statistics, 18 of the 22 districts continued to have more than 200 total active cases and more than 15 active cases per lakh population, both critical values as per the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) parameters. Only Bhiwani, Nuh and Palwal have lesser number of cases on both counts (total active cases and active cases per lakh). Charkhi Dadri has more than 15 active cases per lakh population but less than 200 total active cases. The infection doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period is more than 28 days for each of the 22 districts, a desirable value as per the MoHFW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-cases-continue-to-decline-in-haryana/story-D34eISwJNfewUDHjJ1IcmN.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC to rope in two road consultants for utility duct study across Mumbai||In a bid to reduce the need to dig up the city’s roads for utility repairs and maintenance, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appointed two road design consultants to map all underground utilities and prepare a plan to shift all utilities to ducts. This is meant to ensure that any maintenance work on them does not damage the roads.Civic officials claim that repeated digging up of roads affects its upper layers and leads to water seepage. A proposal to approve the consultants’ appointment has been tabled before the BMC’s standing committee, which is scheduled to meet on October 26. A senior civic official from the roads department said, “Most of the time, utility agencies dig up roads without permission, in the wake of an emergency. This leads to deterioration of the roads. We realised that ducting of these utilities is essential so that if they have to be repaired, the roads will not be dug up.”As per the contract terms, the consultants will undertake a preliminary exercise of mapping the existing utilities, preparing designs and drawings for trench-free pavements with utility ducts, and preparing estimates of the project. The contract is for a period of five years. They will suggest priority locations where the mapping of utilities can be done on a pilot basis.There are 36 different utility agencies that dig up Mumbai’s roads – the highest in any Indian city – for repairing or maintaining lines of electricity, telephone, internet connections and cooking gas supply. The agencies dig up roads to lay their cables or for repairs, but when the time comes to fill them up, they do a shoddy job or leave it unattended for days.Several western countries have proper ducts for underground utilities that have entry points at regular intervals. The BMC is planning to have similar ducts across the city. Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Matunga, said, “It is a good idea to shift all the utilities to ducts, but why can they not do this when they take up road repair works. It is the same with footpaths where two different agencies work on roads and adjacent footpaths at different times, leading to uneven construction.”The design consultants have been assigned a set of 54 roads across the city to map utilities. These include some major roads like P D’Mello Road, Walkeshwar Marg, Belasis Road, Senapati Bapat Marg, Juhu Versova Link Road, Carter Road, SV Road and Malad Link Road. Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party MLA and group leader in the BMC, said, “This is a very important project, and ducting of utilities has been a long-pending demand. I will be demanding a proper presentation to be given to the standing committee on the entire project, and it should not be cleared without thorough scrutiny.”The BMC looks after about 2000km of the city’s roads, for which it takes up repair works every year. In its budget, the civic body had increased its allocation for road works by 25% this year. It had made a provision of ₹1,520 crore for more than 300km of road works.GFXRoads selected for underground utility ducting: P D’Mello Road, Walkeshwar Marg, Belasis Road, Senapati Bapat Marg, Juhu Versova Link Road, Carter Road, SV Road and Malad Link Road. Total roads- 54Digging up of roads affects its upper layers and leads to water seepage which damages the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-rope-in-two-road-consultants-for-utility-duct-study-across-mumbai/story-X43XqJD0FozvORtYORDDuI.html
22-10-2020||City||Congress to move private members bill in Haryana assembly||The Congress has decided to move a private members bill in the upcoming Haryana assembly session, commencing from November 5, seeking punishment for firms or traders buying farmers produce below the minimum support price (MSP).Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “The bill will guarantee that the farmers produce will be procured at MSP and any person or firm found purchasing below this price will face a criminal case. We will see how many MLAs will disagree with our bill. The Centre’s bill will be applicable in Haryana after the government disables the contract farming law which was passed in 2007 during my regime,” Hooda said.He said the ruling party is misleading people about the contract farming law, which was implemented during his tenure as the chief minister in 2007. “The contract farming rule framed by my government says the agreed rate or contract rate shall not be less than the MSP of the proceeding year. Where there is no MSP and no agreed rate, the amount of security shall be calculated at the rate of 15% of the prevailing market rate of agreement,” he said, while asking the ruling party if the new laws have such provisions to protect farmers.Speaker to decide if the bill will be tabled or not: KhattarReacting to Hooda’s claims, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said he does not know about the private member’s bill and when such bill was last brought in the assembly. “We will check whether any contract farming law is still applicable in Haryana or not. The Speaker will have to decide whether to table the private bill or not.”“The Punjab government has passed bills which gives guarantee of MSP for paddy and wheat crops. However, the Haryana government is already purchasing Bajra, moong, mustard seed, wheat, sunflower and paddy crops on MSP. Our government is purchasing most crops on MSP and the neighbouring state has passed a bill for two crops, which are purchased by the central agencies,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-to-move-private-members-bill-in-haryana-assembly/story-71z3M5p0CHBOZkV7bBQVnO.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases below 10,000 for fifth day in a row||For the fifth consecutive day, Maharashtra reported a daily Covid-19 caseload of under 10,000, with 7,539 new cases on Thursday. However, there are concerns about the case fatality rate (CFR), with some districts recording spikes in reported deaths. The state’s overall CFR has been constant at 2.64% for the last five days. Maharashtra’s tally of positive cases touched 1,625,197 on Thursday, of which 150,011 are active. The state also reported 198 deaths, pushing the death toll to 42,831. So far, 84,02,559 tests have been carried out in Maharashtra, of which 75,066 were conducted in the last 24 hours. The state’s positivity rate is 19.34%.On Thursday, Mumbai reported 1,463 new cases of Covid-19, taking the city’s tally to 247,332, of which 17,505 are active cases. With 49 fatalities reported on Thursday, the city’s death toll stands at 9,961. There has been a gradual dip in reported cases from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which saw 1,302 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday.The rate of infection in Pune district has also decreased. On Thursday, the district reported 885 new cases of Covid-19 and 14 fatalities. Pune city reported 367 new cases, while its rural areas saw 343 new cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 175 cases. Nagpur city reported 354 new cases and 13 deaths, while rural areas of Nagpur reported 122 new cases and seven fatalities.Despite a steady decline in recorded cases, some districts in the state have seen a jump in Covid fatalities between September 15 and October 15. While the absolute number of deaths has gone down from 6,768 in the last two weeks of September to 4,534 in the first two weeks of October, CFR has spiked in some areas.A health department official, requesting anonymity, said, “If the denominator [confirmed cases] is reducing, CFR will remain higher. CFR will gradually decrease. The positive here is that we are not reporting deaths in the range of 350-400, which we did in September.”Districts such as Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Sindhudurg, Satara have seen spikes in recorded deaths between September 15 and October 15. Sindhudurg had 42 deaths on September 15, which rose by 180% to 118 on October 15. Chandrapur had 62 deaths on September 15, which climbed to 203 in October 15 — a jump of 227%. Gadchiroli recorded a five-fold increase in the same period, with the number of deaths rising from five to 25.“Some districts added their numbers late and therefore, it is seen during that period. Besides that, late tests and delayed admission in hospitals are also reasons for increase in deaths in rural parts,” said the health department official. On Thursday, 16,177 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recovered Covid-19 patients in the state to 14,31,856. Maharashtra’s recovery rate is 88.10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-cases-below-10k-for-5th-day-in-a-row/story-1CDxpa0LS8v91UjP3ppapN.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: MERC orders inquiry, report expected in 3 months||Taking suo moto cognisance on the Mumbai power outage earlier this month, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has ordered an independent inquiry into the incident. The investigating committee has been directed to submit a report on the matter within three months prior to which an interim report is expected in a month.In its order released on Friday, MERC stated that the committee needs to “verify and analyse the submissions of all parties, to find out the root cause of the incident, to examine the adequacy of protection systems/islanding system, etc, and to verify the adequacy of responses of all concerned.” The committee also has to probe if generation and distribution companies followed protocol for restoration of power supply to the city. In a separate notification, MERC stated that the committee would include retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Dr Sudhir Kumar Goel as chairman, V Ramakrishnan, ex-member of the Central Electricity Authority and Dr Faruk Kazi, head of the electrical engineering department at the Veermara Jijabai Technical Institute. It has also directed the parties involved or the distribution companies to conduct and submit internal inquiries to the commission, and the committee constituted by it. MERC, on Wednesday, had conducted a hearing with the distribution companies on the power outage that crippled Mumbai and its adjoining areas on October 12. Many areas in the city and the metropolitan region did not receive power for almost 15 hours. According to the order, the committee will also suggest remedial measures on a medium-term basis and corrective actions to avoid such incidents in the future. State energy minister Nitin Raut has also ordered an inquiry by a six-member committee to examine the reasons which led to the massive outage. Plan to set up 1,000 MW gas power unit at Uran State energy minister Nitin Raut on Thursday asked the Maharashtra State Energy Generation Company Ltd (Mahagenco) to set-up a 1000 MW gas power unit at the Uran Gas Turbine Power Generation to support Mumbai’s growing power demands. He asked the state’s generation company to submit a project report at the earliest. At present, Mumbai’s peak power demand is close to 2800MW, which is expected to increase to 500MW by 2030. Currency the Uran station has a capacity of 672MW which can be increased with already available infrastructure, a statement issued by Raut’s office stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-merc-orders-inquiry-report-expected-in-3-months/story-BL65UQwGQdcSqJAO3cqaiL.html
22-10-2020||City||Palghar mob lynching case: 32 of 50 arrested on Wednesday sent to 14-day judicial custody||Dahanu judicial magistrate MV Jawale on Thursday remanded 32 people arrested in the Palghar lynching case to 14-day judicial custody, even as the remaining 18 accused will be produced before the same court on Friday, said Amrut Adhikari, counsel for the accused. All the accused are lodged in the Palghar sub-jail and will undergo Covid-19 tests as per protocol, said Adhikari. Meanwhile, justice PP Jadhav, the Thane special sessions court judge, on Thursday postponed the bail application hearing of 62 other accused to November 3 after state’s special prosecutor Satish Maneshinde wanted the three investigative officers who registered the three first information report (FIRs) to be present in the court. The judge has asked the three officers to be present in the court on November 3. The Maharashtra crime investigation department (CID) on Wednesday had named 208 new accused and arrested 50 more people in the April 16 lynching case in which a mob attacked two sadhus and their driver. Kalpvrush Giri, 70, Sushil Giri, 35, and driver Nilesh Telgade, 30, were dragged out of their vehicle and thrashed by the mob in Gadhchinchale village, about 110 km from Palghar, after the villagers suspected them to be thieves. Until now, a total of 366 accused have been arrested, of which 11 are juveniles. Of these, 37 accused, including nine juveniles, have been released on bail, as the CID in its charge sheet did not name their involvement in the lynching. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ram Kadam on Thursday, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanded that the case be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as the state CID was “not making any progress” in the lynching probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-mob-lynching-case-32-of-50-arrested-on-wednesday-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/story-xwt6lQmnGCyKS6Zm7wpc2I.html
22-10-2020||City||NV distilleries chairman confesses to supplying illicit liquor to Haryana, other states||NV distilleries chairman Ashok Jain has confessed to supplying illicit liquor to Haryana and other states, two days after he was arrested from his Delhi office by police officials. Panipat deputy superintendent of police (DSP headquarters) Satish Vats said Jain has confessed to supplying illicit liquor to other states without valid permit of the excise department with the help of liquor smugglers. “The distilleries were legal but the work was illegal and the involvement of more people cannot be ruled out,” he said.Jain was booked after recovery of illegal liquor in Samalkha of Panipat a year ago. He has been sent to five-day police remand by the court.Police officials associated with the investigation said Jain was questioned in the presence of liquor smuggler Bhupinder Singh. However, the DSP said Jain did not confess that he supplied the liquor with the help of Bhupinder Singh.The DSP said, “It has not been established yet that the liquor recovered from Bhupinder was manufactured in Jain’s distilleries. We have three more days to interrogate him and will share information after the completion of the police remand.” The findings of the Special Enquiry Team (SET) constituted to investigate the alleged liquor scam revealed that several cases of illegal liquor were reported in Haryana during April 1, 2019 to May 10, 2020, involving people associated with M/s NV Distilleries.Several FIRs were also registered following the seizure of illicit liquor. These include FIR 143 at Mulana police station in Ambala after the recovery of 1,800 cases of illegal liquor, FIR 222 at Sadar Police Station in Kurukshetra following the seizure of 14,100 liquor bottles manufactured at M/s RS distillery located in Chandrao of Karnal district, FIR 302 at Sadar Police station in Kurukshetra following recovery of 10,104 bottles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nv-distilleries-chairman-confesses-to-supplying-illicit-liquor-to-haryana-other-states/story-tiJNYnXPFLWk38qFt6payL.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Khalid petitions court, says not being allowed to step out of jail cell||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid, who is in judicial custody in connection with his alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots, on Thursday claimed that he was not being allowed to step out of his jail cell in Tihar, where he is currently in judicial custody, and nor was he being allowed meet anyone. He alleged that he was being kept in a “sort of solitary confinement”.“I have not been allowed to step outside at all. I am alone in my cell. No one is allowed to meet me. It is practically a sort of solitary confinement. I am not well for the past three days. Why am I given this punishment? I reiterate that I need security but it cannot be that I have to be in my cell all day,” he said.“Security does not mean that I should be punished like this,” Khalid told a Delhi court during the hearing, being held virtually in view of Covid-19 protocols. When contacted by HT, jail authorities dismissed the allegations. Director general (Delhi prisons) Sandeep Goel said, “These allegations are absolutely wrong. He is in a single cell. There are many other prisoners in adjoining cells.”Khalid told the judge that he was being confined with no interactions with anyone on the orders of the additional jail superintendent. Khalid also said he has not been keeping well for the past few days and as he was confined to the cell at all times, he was suffering both mental and physical discomfort.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat summoned the jail superintendent and posted the matter for further hearing to Friday. Khalid was on Thursday produced before the court at the end of his judicial custody in connection with the Delhi riots case registered against him. A Delhi court, on September 24, had sent Khalid to judicial custody till October 22. He has been accused of hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots in north-east Delhi in February, which had left 53 dead over 400 injured. On Thursday, the police moved an application to keep Khalid in judicial custody for another month.The court will pass an order on this petition on Friday.During the proceedings, the judge also pulled up assistant jail superintendent (Jail No 2) Pradeep Sharma for not un-muting the microphone when Khalid told him that he wanted to speak to the judge. Khalid alleged that the official told him that the mic will be unmuted only if the judge permits it.“If an undertrial wants to say something, then un-mute the mic and let him speak or you tell us that he wants to say something,” the judge said.When Khalid’s counsel, advocate Trideep Pais, told the court that no adverse steps should be taken against him by the jail authorities for putting forward his grievances, the judge told the jail officer, “Khalid should not be punished for putting forward his grievances. You should take care of it.”On October 17, the court had directed the Delhi Police to give adequate security to Khalid after the former JNU student sought security on account of his “ideological differences and dissenting opinion”.Khalid’s lawyers and parents have denied the police’s allegations. His friends have said that Khalid was targeted for being a prominent face of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests. His lawyer had told the court last month that while Khalid was against the CAA, he was not involved in the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/khalid-petitions-court-says-not-being-allowed-to-step-out-of-jail-cell/story-zryy7KR5MaZOGfSEJ1DpjP.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||DU third cutoff on Saturday, some popular courses may still be open||Officials of several Delhi University (DU) colleges on Thursday said some popular courses, including English, political science and BCom, are likely to be available in the third cutoff list, scheduled to be released on Saturday evening. Over 74% of the 70,000 seats in DU have already been filled after the two cutoff lists.As many as 51,198 of the 70,000 seats across all categories have been taken across 61 colleges (excluding St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary) till Wednesday. The figure is likely to go up since the remaining candidates, whose applications were approved by colleges may pay the fee and complete the process till Friday night. At Miranda House, over 700 seats were filled by Thursday. Officiating principal Bijyalaxmi Nanda said, “Seats will be available in some departments, including English, economics and physics, and some courses of BA (programme) in the third list. However, admissions will be closed for some courses such as political science, sociology, and geography.”At Ramjas College, where over 1,150 seats have been filled after the second cutoff list, admissions are likely to remain open in Political Science (Hons) in the third list. At Aryabhatta college, seats will be available in BCom (Hons), BCom (Programme) and English (Hons) in the third list. The college will close admissions for history and political science. Ramanujan College has carried out 1,000 admissions in the first two cutoffs and it has closed admissions in some courses including psychology, BCom (Hons) and BCom (Prog).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-third-cutoff-on-saturday-some-popular-courses-may-still-be-open/story-Tc48ddGzNCpmSXLqRKXxnI.html
22-10-2020||City||Sisodia for scrapping class 10, 12 boards after NEP is implemented||New Delhi: Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday suggested that board exams of classes 10 and 12 should be scrapped after the complete implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Addressing NCERT’s (National Council of Educational Research and Training) 57th general council meeting, Sisodia also said the syllabus of all classes should be reduced to 50% for this session in view of the pandemic. According to a statement issued by Sisodia’s office, the deputy chief minister gave some important suggestions to realise the vision of NEP 2020. Concurring with Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on the “transformative value of NEP 2020”, Sisodia said the transformation should be holistic and not piecemeal. He said it is about “time we introduce multi-year, stage-wise classes and external assessment at the end of each stage, replacing the existing year-wise classes and two board exams in classes 10 and 12.”“The NEP can attain its full potential if the existing one year, per grade system is removed. It means, instead of an existing class system where all children of a class move together in all subjects despite being at different learning levels, the multi-year stage will help children move as per their learning needs in different subjects at their own pace. He said a stage-wise curriculum with a clearly stated learning goal in terms of knowledge, skills, and values should be created,” the statement read.The Delhi education minister suggested there is no need for the class 12 board exams as the National Testing Agency (NTA) is mandated to conduct entrance exams for admissions in higher education institutions. Expressing concern over the current academic session, which has been disturbed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Sisodia suggested that the syllabus on all classes should be reduced to 50%. “He suggested that next year’s entrance exams such as JEE, NEET should be based on this reduced syllabus to align with the current year’s class syllabus. He suggested CBSE should not hold class 12 board exams before May 2021 so that students get some more time to study. Generally, the exams are held in February and March,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-for-scrapping-class-10-12-boards-after-nep-is-implemented/story-tT7nxa34nN7lfC3hgD2dNJ.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||Delhi boy reunited with family in Gurugram after six years||A boy who went missing from Ghitorni in Delhi, when he was three years old, was traced to a child care institute (CCI) in Gurugram last week. On Thursday, he was reunited with his parents after six years by the recently launched missing cell of the Gurugram Police. The boy was counselled to deal with emotional trauma, said officials. The police said the boy had gone missing from outside his house while his parents were away for work on April 6, 2014, and the police had registered a case of kidnapping at the time at Vasant Kunj police station in New Delhi. The Gurugram police had found the boy in DLF Phase-1 and had sent him to the CCI in Sector 35. Despite repeated attempts, the boy could not be identified as he could not tell them the names of his parents. Sonia Yadav, member of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that the teams from police and CWC had tried to locate the family members from nearby areas but did not succeed. “His information was uploaded on Zonal Integrated Police Network (Zipnet) but we could not get any leads. The boy was regularly counselled as he was not emotionally well and required regular counselling sessions. He hardly interacted with anyone in the CCI and started his regular schooling in a private school,” she said. The police had launched a special cell in September to reunite children with their families. The members were asked to meet all the children, take details from CCIs and to check Zipnet. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the police teams have visited five CCIs since September and have interacted with more than 50 children. The teams, while using Zipnet to match missing children’s photographs with children found at various CCIs in the city, identified the boy by matching his photos to a Delhi missing boy and approached the Vasant Kunj police station to take all details,” he said. The police said they informed the station house officer of Vasant Kunj and later Ghitorni police stations, who, in turn, informed the parents of the missing boy, who lived in a farmhouse in Ghitorni. They reached the CCI immediately and identified their son. Rao said the CWC informed the Delhi counterparts and handed over the child through them. “Our aim is to reach out and reunite all missing children with their family members. We tried to counsel the boy before meeting his parents on Thursday. It was a joyous occasion for the family, which is originally from Madhya Pradesh. Our efforts are on to trace other missing children from all CCIs through the face recognition tool on Zipnet and restore them to their family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/delhi-boy-reunited-with-family-in-gurugram-after-six-years/story-b9lD0BBqvRiZNq9F6zJrNJ.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt announces mega festive package for employees||The Delhi government on Thursday announced a “mega festive package” for all its employees as a token of appreciation for their work during the Covid-19 pandemic and the hardship faced by them due to the nationwide lockdown.Announcing the package through a press statement, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government will give cash equivalent of leave travel concession (LTC) to all its employees, apart from an advance “special festive package”. The cash equivalent of LTC will be given to Delhi government employees by way of reimbursement if the employee opts for this in lieu of LTC in the block of 2018–21.“The employees who are entitled to business class airfare will get ₹36,000 LTC, followed by ₹20,000 for the employees who are entitled to an economy class airfare. The employees who are entitled to rail fare of any class will get ₹6,000 as LTC,” Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, said. It has also been decided that a special festival package of advance will be accorded to all the Delhi government employees for any important festivals up to March 31, 2021. An amount of ₹10,000 will be paid to the employees as advance, under the initiative, he said.“The special cash package has been announced in a bid to boost the consumption expenditure and incentivise employees. The Delhi government is very hopeful that through these steps it will bring some ease to lives of the employees and they will be able to happily celebrate the upcoming festival with their family,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-announces-mega-festive-package-for-employees/story-zGjbhvyeCXgEWeN1Ukfz4I.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||14 societies to get genset exemption||At least 14 residential societies that are reliant on diesel generator (DG) sets for electricity are likely to get exemptions till November 30 from the ban imposed by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca).Senior state officials privy to the matter, however, said the chief minister will take a call on the deadline on Friday. Based on the meeting, final reports will be submitted to Epca. DG sets are banned under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) implemented from October 15 to tackle air pollution levels during winter.Earlier this week, Epca chairman Bhure Lal directed the Haryana power department to submit a comprehensive affidavit on power supply to societies still reliant on diesel gensets. Epca also asked the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) to fix a time frame for setting up power connections to such residential societies.On Thursday, environmentalist Sunita Narain, an Epca member, said, “Epca has received communication from Haryana government that they are finalising deadlines and getting affidavits from builders. Chief minister has called for a meeting on Friday to finalise the deadline, which will be given to Epca.”At present, 17 societies in Gurugram are dependent upon DG sets, out of which 14 are in the list for getting exemptions.Trilok Chand Gupta, additional chief secretary, power, who is also the chairman of HVPNL, said, “At least 14 societies have given detailed reports with charts explaining the reasons for the delay in the connection and the final deadline sought by them to set up the electricity infrastructure. Some have sought two weeks’ time or months’ time. The department has planned to go for November 30 as the final deadline for these residential societies.”He said that in affidavits, developers have given four to five different timelines to reach to the final process of electricity connection. “They have to apply for a tender, submit bank guarantee, land and facility to set up the power sub-station to finally switch from DG set to regular connection. Based on their reports, the department has planned to go with November 30 as the deadline, which will be finally confirmed by the chief minister tomorrow (on Friday),” said Gupta.According to him, three builders have not submitted deadlines, citing fund deficiency for setting up electricity infrastructure. “From December 1, residents living in these societies will have to bear the brunt as they won’t be allowed to run diesel gensets,” said Gupta.He said that until last year, there were problems on the part of the distribution company, which have been resolved this year. “From 80 residential societies running on DG sets in 2019, the number this time has come down to 14. The state, at present, has surplus power of 4000 Megawatt (MW). Nearly 8000 MW is being transmitted by the HVPNL,” Gupta said.As reported by the HT earlier, this is the fourth consecutive year that Gurugram is likely to get an exemption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/14-societies-to-get-genset-exemption/story-TxvUFJaC12Qqy7wzoNFfrK.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG to involve residents in Grap implementation||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is looking to create a mechanism to share hourly or bi-hourly air quality index (AQI) updates of the city’s 24 monitors with residents so that they can assist in spotting sudden spikes and inform them about environmental violations, such as waste burning, construction with uncovered materials, and large-scale constructions during the ban.Currently, after spotting sudden spikes in air pollution levels of any of the 24 monitors, the staff at the MCG’s lab inform the enforcement wing officials on the ground to scan areas within the radius of the local monitor for environmental violations.However, officials said that with the cooperation of residents, checks on such illegal activities can be curbed at a faster rate. “Through greater participation of residents, our scale of monitoring violations will also increase manifold and this way we’ll be able to keep a check on violations causing air pollution. We are working on a mechanism to share quick-time data of our air lab with residents of Gurugram,” said Chahat Sanghvi, consultant, MCG.Sanghvi highlighted that the MCG has a toll-free number — 18001801817 — and an email address — grap@mcg.gov.in — to which residents can report pollution-related incidents.Since the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures in the city, the MCG has issued 96 fines from October 15 to 22, amounting to around Rs 20 lakh. Of the 96 violations, 61 were of dust mitigation, 15 of construction and demolition (C&D) waste, 14 of garbage burning, and six of illegal waste dumping.“Besides setting up mechanisms for letting residents know about spikes in local pollution levels, the MCG should also create a system through which residents who lodge complaints are informed of the action taken against the offender and the fine which was levied, so that residents feel that their cooperation is resulting in making a difference on the ground,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council, an umbrella body of the city’s residents’ welfare associations (RWAs).The MCG has increased its focus on involving residents for effective Grap implementation over the last week.On October 17, during an internal meeting, the MCG had set a four-hour deadline for its officials to address complaints regarding garbage burning and a 12-hour deadline for any complaint related to construction and demolition (C&D) waste materials.The MCG’s air lab officials also have the role of monitoring the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) Sameer app to ensure that all social media complaints related to dumping of waste, garbage burning, dumping and other pollution-related matters are resolved within the given timeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-involve-residents-in-grap-implementation/story-NcMFGkImCGWoL8Btj7i2RO.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||Area near Belvedere Tower Metro station most polluted spot in city: MCG data||The locality surrounding the Belvedere Tower Rapid Metro station is the most polluted while the Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park is the least polluted of the 24 locations where air quality monitors are installed in the city, according to the data compiled by the air lab of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) from October 15 to 22.The five most polluted spots across the city are Belvedere Tower Rapid Metro station, Sector 51, Vikas Sadan, Sector 42, and TERI Gram, while Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, Rezang La Chowk, Shyam Chowk, Vatika Chowk and Ghoda Chowk are the five least polluted spots.Gurugram recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 215 (‘poor’) on Thursday, a slight improvement from an AQI of 263 on Wednesday.On October 15, the day the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures were implemented across the National Capital Region (NCR), the MCG opened an air lab at its Sector 42 office to monitor air quality index (AQI) of monitors installed across various points in the city.MCG officials said that the rationale behind opening the lab was to spot sudden spikes in pollution levels, which could be caused by localised actions such as burning of waste and biomass, and large-scale constructions, as well as to inform their enforcement wing officials to scan the areas to curb such violations.“Through constant supervision of AQI data at regular time intervals and analysing the same, we have been able to gauge a daily pattern of AQI. Thus, whenever there is a sudden spike in the AQI data of a location, especially during non-peak traffic hours, workers at the air lab relay this information to enforcement wing officials on the ground, who then scan the area to see if localised environmental pollutions are causing this rise and accordingly, start fining violators,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.The MCG has a five-member team working out of its Sector 42 air lab.“While scrutinising data of Sector 51, the second-most polluted spot in the city — already identified by the pollution control board as a pollution hot spot due to biomass, waste and plastic burning being a common practice — we observed a sudden spike in pollution levels earlier this week. We immediately sent this message to enforcement wing officials on the ground, who were able to spot two areas where open burning of waste was being done and accordingly, doused the same,” an official with the air lab said.Another rationale behind opening the air lab was for officials of MCG, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), to interpret which areas need the highest concentration of remedial measures and accordingly, allocate their resources for water sprinkling, dust clearing, and higher supervision of environmental pollutants.“The air quality monitors have been installed at key traffic junctions to give us constant reading of localised air-quality index in such areas. We use the data, to interpret areas where remedial measures are needed to bring the AQI levels down,” said MD Sinha, additional chief executive officer, GMDA.Citing an instance of allocating resources based on data, a senior MCG official said that due to a high concentration of vehicles at the Sirhaul toll, air pollution levels in areas located in close proximity tend to be high. The average AQI at Belvedere Tower Rapid Metro station, located near Sirhaul toll, is 294, the highest in the city.“After realising that the air quality in areas such as Belvedere Tower is one of the worst, we have increased mechanised cleaning of stretches, sprinkling of water on trees and roads in such areas, besides increased supervision of environmental violations,” the MCG official cited above said.Anup, a member of Belvedere Park RWA, said, “When we wake up in the morning, there is always a pungent smell outdoors, which is not just limited to the stubble burning season but something which is sporadically prevalent throughout. The high levels of pollution in the area could be caused due to high volume of vehicles on the Cyber City-Sirhaul toll stretch and from the industries located in nearby Udyog Vihar. However, these are just assumptions and officials need to do a proper survey of the area to find out the exact reasons.”MCG officials also said that they use the air lab data on a periodic day basis to check for biggest rise and drop in localised pollution levels. Citing an example, an official said that the biggest drop in AQI in the city was at TERI Gram, from 298 on October 18 to 190 on October 22. Similarly, at Sector 14, the AQI rose from 116 on October 18 to 354 on October 22. Sachin Panwar, a Gurugram-based air quality expert, who is currently an air-quality consultant with the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), said that numerous factors determine the AQI at different locations within the city. “Factors such as wind speed, altitude, temperature fluctuation, biomass and waste burning, concentration of vehicles, vary from one place to another within a city. The same is true for Gurugram as well,” said Panwar.Panwar said that these factors also play a major role in the overall AQI reading in areas such as Vatika Chowk, which, despite having a high concentration of vehicles from the national highway and state highways merging there, is far less polluted than the lush-green TERI Gram.The average AQI reading at Teri Gram is 225, while the average AQI reading at Vatika Chowk is 86.“The waste plant and rural areas where instances of biomass and waste burning are common are located in close proximity to TERI Gram which results in it having a high AQI reading. In contrast, Vatika Chowk, despite having a high volume of vehicles, does not have any waste processing plant or rural villages in close proximity. It is located in an open area and the wind speed tends to be high, which results in pollutants not settling there,” said Panwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/area-near-belvedere-tower-metro-station-most-polluted-spot-in-city-mcg-data/story-3f3ZplmnVpzrhVu19Xr4KL.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||One monitor in each sector the aim, as agencies ramp up installations||Until December of 2019, the city only had two air quality monitors, a number which currently stands at 24. With the objective of installing a monitor in each sector to keep a constant check on localised pollution levels, public agencies have added 22 more such monitors over the last 10 months, and aim to add 140 more.The Beta Attenuation Monitoring (BAM) air quality monitors at Vikas Sadan, installed in 2012, and Gwal Pahari, installed by India Meteorological Department (IMD) in 2018, were the city’s only air quality monitors until last December.In January this year, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) installed 20 of its own low-cost monitors, procured through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, for real time monitoring and localised remedial action.GMDA has installed these monitors at Vatika Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, Sector 32, Mayfield Garden, Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, Sector 42, Sector 47, Sector 30, Sohna Chowk, Ghoda Chowk, Sector 14, Atul Kataria Chowk, Sector 18, Rezang La Chowk, Atlas Chowk, Shyam Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Belvedere Tower Metro station, TERI Golf Course at Bandhwari, and TERI retreat centre at Bandhwari.“For the first one year, we will be simply analysing the data from the monitors, based on which we will create a set of scientific guidelines and parameters upon which a regular low-cost monitor should be operating. These monitors will help us compile a data on areas where pollution levels are high so that we can accordingly execute remedial measures there,” said MD Sinha, additional chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA.Sinha said that the 20 monitors are part of GMDA’s long-term plan of installing 140 monitors, one in every sector of the city. “Once we know the parameters and guidelines for operating a low-cost monitor, we will replicate the same at all corners of the city. Currently, the entire process is at a pilot stage,” said Sinha.Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) also installed BAM monitors in March this year at Sector 51 and TERI Gram, in addition to the monitor at Vikas Madan.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer of HSPCB, clarified that the daily air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram is calculated by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) based on the average AQI of the four monitors (three of HSPCB and one of IMD).“The BAM monitors have one of the highest standards in terms of measuring different types of air quality along with precise accuracy. Besides AQI, they calculate parameters such as PM 2.5, PM 10, wind speed, wind direction, other polluting gases such as carbon, sulphur and nitrogen. Based on all our monitors’ data, CPCB calculates the average AQI of the city,” said Singh.As per both HSPCB and GMDA officials, the low-cost monitors, cumulatively, cost less than Rs 25 lakh while one BAM monitor costs around Rs 1 crore. A GMDA official privy to the matter said that the accuracy of a low-cost monitor is around 90-95% of a BAM monitor.“Instead of spending in excess of Rs 20 crore for setting up of BAM monitors, we felt it was more practical to use these funds for pollution remedial measures. If the accurate AQI reading at a particular point is 300 and it is reflecting as 295 on the low-cost monitors, it makes little difference to us, as we aren’t using it for scientific purposes. We want to simply use these monitors as a reference point, to understand which are the areas across the city which are high on pollution levels and allocate our resources accordingly to bring them down,” said a senior GMDA official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-monitor-in-each-sector-the-aim-as-agencies-ramp-up-installations/story-5wTV0uBzxxoGVOgx3ZI8wL.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||Man nabbed with 280 kilos of marijuana worth Rs 40 lakh||Police on Wednesday night arrested a 35-year-old man for smuggling 280 kilograms of marijuana worth Rs 40 lakh from Agra in Uttar Pradesh for distribution in Gurugram. A manhunt has been launched for the man’s supplier from Agra, who allegedly sold the marijuana to the arrested suspect, police said. According to the police, they acted after receiving a tipoff about a man who was transporting marijuana procured from Uttar Pradesh to Gurugram. Based on these inputs, two police teams were deployed near a private hospital in Sector 49 on Wednesday night, when the suspect unloaded the jute bags from a vehicle and was about to board an autorickshaw. The suspect was surrounded by officers of the Palam Vihar crime investigations unit and asked to surrender, said police. The arrested man was identified as Bhupinder Singh alias Vishnu, a resident of Shahganj in Agra of Uttar Pradesh. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that when they checked the bags they found marijuana in packets that had been covered with a dirty cloth. “The teams questioned Singh and he revealed that he was a drug peddler and was involved in supply of narcotics from UP to Gurugram for the last three years,” he said. Police said after the drugs were recovered, they questioned the suspect and got to know crucial details of the organised crime and how he allegedly used to run his business and who was the main kingpin delivering the marijuana to him in UP. Singh, with the help of his associate, used to allegedly pack the drugs in small packets of 10-100 grams. Police said they have received information of his suppliers in area, but the end users are yet to be identified. According to police, the suspect has a prior arrest record in cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in Gurugram and in different districts of Uttar Pradesh. Sangwan said they are also probing the distribution network in districts where the consignment was headed. “Singh said he had bought the consignment for Rs 40,000 and was going to sell it for Rs 5 lakh. He used to sell nearly 300 kilograms of marijuana every month to different drug peddlers across the city and also was in touch with peddlers of Rajasthan and Nuh,” he said. The suspect was produced before a court on Thursday and was sent to two days police remand, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-nabbed-with-280-kilos-of-marijuana-worth-rs-40-lakh/story-lCVHMkjgd6lC473Gl2hhtI.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||Duo rob woman of gold, cash on pretext of lift||Two men posing as cab drivers duped a 51-year-old woman of cash and jewellery on the pretext of offering her a lift from Rajiv Chowk to Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh on Wednesday morning. The victim, Popri Kaur, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, was asked by the driver and his associate to remove her gold jewellery and put it in a paper bag along with her cash, due to increased robberies in the area. She was driven around in the cab for about 20 minutes and dropped off at Subash Chowk, when she realised that the duo had switched the bag with another that had artificial gold ornaments.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the victim had returned from her daughter’s house in Delhi and was waiting at Rajiv Chowk for public transport. Two men in a cab approached her and offered her lift. “Kaur told them she was heading towards Ferozepur Jhirka, to which they said they were also going towards the same area. She boarded the cab and sat on the rear seat. After travelling for three kilometres, they asked her to keep her jewellery and cash in a packet, and to keep it in her bag. They told her that the police teams were inspecting the area as robberies had increased,” he said. After realising that she had been duped, she borrowed a mobile phone from a passerby and called the police control room, following which a van escorted her to Sadar police station. The complainant also said that the street was busy at the time of the incident. On her complaint, the Sadar police filed an FIR under sections 379 (theft) , 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code on Wednesday evening. Sangwan said that a team of police and crime branch has been formed to trace the robbers, and that patrolling has been intensified in the area. The police suspect the role of a Delhi-based gang, which has been active in the area for the last month. The gang members pose as cab drivers and target women waiting for transport between Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk during the morning rush hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/duo-rob-woman-of-gold-cash-on-pretext-of-lift/story-LjaCScRo21JaskvEY1n4qK.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||Covid cases in district may surge due to festive rush, warn health care officials||The trajectory of Covid-19 cases in the city is likely to go upwards in the next few days, said district health department officials, citing reasons like rush in market and public places due to festive season and the prevalence of other Influenza like illness, like H1N1, due to changing weather conditions. Health department officials said they were now focusing on increasing the number of tests in rural areas of the district and bring them at par with urban areas to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in the coming weeks.The department officials said that the number of daily new cases have again started showing an uptick, after having reached a plateau earlier this month. For the second day in a row, more than 300 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday. On Thursday, 324 new cases were reported, up from Wednesday’s 304. It is almost after a month that the number of daily cases have shot up above 300.Data available with the district administration shows that the daily positivity rate of cases is fluctuating between 10%-11%, while the average positivity rate is around eight percent. Until the first week of October, the test positivity rate was seven percent. “In June, the test positivity rate of the district was 18%. Although the daily numbers can increase, the target is not to let positivity rate get as high as it was in June this year,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Going by the strategy — “test, track and treat” — Yadav said that to test and track people who are not coming forward, the department has been holding camps in areas which had not been covered earlier. “It mostly includes rural areas,” said Yadav, explaining that it is likely that people from rural pockets will come out in large numbers during the festive season. “In urban areas, people are coming for walk-in tests, with some of them even getting tested twice or thrice. Now, we are targeting rural areas like Bhora Kalan, Kasan and rural pockets where camps were not organised frequently,” said Yadav. Dr MP Singh, nodal officer for camps and containment zones, health department, said that earlier 70% tests were being conducted in urban areas and 30% in rural areas. “From October 19, we have been doing almost an equal number of tests in urban and rural zones,” Singh said.Health officials said that these camps will be helpful for people who are developing flu like illness due to changing weather and rising air pollution. “Already there is an increase in the footfall of patients in government hospitals reporting respiratory illness due to poor air quality. Therefore, evening camps are being conducted for people who cannot visit hospitals during day time due to office hours. They can easily get themselves tested in these camps,” said Yadav, adding that two testing vans had been deployed for the purpose.According to him, from November till February is crucial time for H1N1 infection, where patients have almost similar symptoms like Covid-19. Yadav said that the department has been working on a plan to start screening and testing of H1N1 to prevent burden on the existing health infrastructure. Currently, in Gurugram the total count of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus has touched 26,500. However, active cases are 2,568, out of which 2,380 are in home isolation and 172 are in home isolation. The Covid-19 toll stands at 196, with one fresh death reported on Thursday. The recovery rate is almost 90% and the cases are doubling every 79 days, according to the daily health bulletin prepared by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-cases-in-district-may-surge-due-to-festive-rush-warn-health-care-officials/story-35SI706UVc83TWl3nc1QVK.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||NTA to reconduct JNU entrance exam for MPhil, PhD in Historical Studies for section of candidates||The National Testing Agency (NTA), the nodal body that conducts competitive entrance exams in the country, on Thursday announced that it will reconduct the entrance exam for admission to MPhil and PhD in Historical Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for a section of students on October 28. These student candidates, who had appeared in the evening shift on October 6, faced some technical issues while attempting the computer-based exam, officials said. The NTA has informed aspirants of the new date through text messages, which read, “Dear candidate, due to technical reason the Computer Based Test (CBT) for the programs of study of JNUEE 2020, M.Phil and Ph.D. Historical Studies... requires re-examination. While we regret the inconvenience, we intend to provide a fair and equal opportunity again to all candidates who appeared for the above-mentioned programs of study.” “It is in this regard that a re-examination...will be held on October 28, 2020. The revised admit card for re-examination will be available on the JNU-NTA website shortly,” the message continued. NTA director-general Vineet Joshi said around 700 to 800 students will have to take the exam again. “Not all students will have to reappear in the exam. Only those who had taken the exam in the JNU entrance exam (JNUEE) for historical studies on October 6 in the evening shift will have to reappear. Some technical issues were reported in that shift and the NTA always believes in giving fair and equal opportunity to all candidates,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nta-to-reconduct-jnu-entrance-exam-for-mphil-phd-in-historical-studies-for-section-of-candidates/story-hGQI9RbYWcRW0nIS53eH9J.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Why hasn’t govt started e-registration of legal documents, HC asks Delhi chief secy||The Delhi high court Thursday asked the Delhi chief secretary to file an affidavit on why a system can’t be put in place for the e-registration of legal documents such as property deeds and wills, etc., while stating that the government attitude towards e-registration is “completely averse”. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan made the remarks after it was informed that the Delhi government is yet to start the online registration of legal documents, despite the pandemic and social distancing norms in place. The high court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Gaurav Gambhir claiming that sub-registrars in the national capital are refusing to register wills and other documents of senior citizens, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women by citing the risk of Covid-19 infection. Gambhir had told the court, during the last hearing on August 31, that Maharashtra, West Bengal and Haryana have all started online registration of legal documents, thereby doing away with the need for the citizen to go to the sub-registrar’s office“Your attitude appears to be, “we will do what we feel like”….You are not doing online registration of legal documents at all. As we are doing online filing of cases, and recording evidence via video conferencing, we want you (Delhi government) to also move towards an electronic system. We want to reduce the human interface between your officials and the public,” the bench said. “We do not want the public to go to the sub-registrar offices and stand in queues, especially during the pandemic. There are many other benefits also of e-registration,” the bench said. The court further said if applying for passports, filing tax returns, submitting board exam forms by class 10 and 12 students, etc., can be done online, and if in all such cases the documents can be verified electronically/ digitally, “then why cannot the government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi?” It then directed the chief secretary to file an affidavit before the next date of hearing, answering the points raised by the bench and keeping in mind its earlier orders in the matter. The bench will further hear the matter on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-hasn-t-govt-started-e-registration-of-legal-documents-hc-asks-delhi-chief-secy/story-RIhKvLBQ7ID6HTvgXBUG2K.html
22-10-2020||City||Raghav Chadha meets Puri over pending dues of CPWD, DDA||New Delhi: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday met union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri over pending water and sewerage dues of two agencies under the ministry -- the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and Delhi Development Authority (DDA).“While CPWD and the DDA had cleared dues up to Rs 102 crore, a major amount is still pending. The CPWD owes Rs 110 crore to DJB while DDA is to pay Rs 106 crore,” Chadha said in a statement.“While it’s commendable how all government departments have come together to fight Covid-19, we cannot overlook the paucity of funds, which is a huge challenge for all government departments at present. If the DJB gets its dues from the two government departments, it will help in taking up several projects that have been in the pipeline,” Chadha said. The DJB had issued notices to seven government departments to recover its pending dues from them last month.HT tried to reach out to Puri for a comment but there was no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raghav-chadha-meets-puri-over-pending-dues-of-cpwd-dda/story-JdHgQtiulAlbFYRt3s985I.html
22-10-2020||Noida||Noida Authority slaps penalties worth Rs 4.08 lakh on polluters||The Noida Authority on Thursday said it has slapped penalties worth Rs 4.08 lakh on private contractors and other entities here that were found violating guidelines and rules to combat air pollution.Private contractors Chennai MSW and Waste Management Corporation, both engaged with waste collection, were slapped penalties worth Rs 1 lakh each for rule violation, while two bulk waste generating entities were levied a fine of Rs 1.50 lakh for not installing waste processing units on their compounds, the Authority said.The continued action against polluters has come in the wake of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) coming into force amid deteriorating air quality in Delhi-NCR, even as the air quality in Noida remained in the “very poor” category on Thursday.“Varying amount of penalties were imposed on other offenders, including those keeping construction material in open. Altogether, penalties worth Rs 4.08 lakh were imposed on Thursday over violation of guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the GRAP,” it said in a statement.The Authority said 250 tonnes of construction and demolition waste was picked up from various locations in Noida on Thursday and sent to the processing plant in Sector 80.Road stretches measuring 110 kilometres were sprinkled with water, while another 243 kilometres on 67 routes were cleaned mechanically, it said.Footpaths and streets measuring 55 kilometres were cleaned during the night using water treated by sewage treatment plants, it stated.The Noida Authority had slapped fines worth Rs 2.20 lakh on Wednesday, Rs 4.14 lakh on Tuesday, Rs 5.65 lakh on Monday, Rs 3.37 lakh on Sunday and Rs 11.15 lakh on Saturday on various private contractors and entities for violating pollution guidelines and rules here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-slaps-penalties-worth-rs-4-08-lakh-on-polluters/story-XFGjDwPjB1L3JQiPZOLlHK.html
22-10-2020||City||Neighbours booked for assaulting Greater Noida resident’s pet dog||Three members of a family were booked by the Greater Noida police for allegedly assaulting their neighbour’s dog in the Ecotech 3 area on October 17.The complainant was identified as Rajesh Nagar, a resident of Baidpura who worked as a security officer for a highrise in Greater Noida West.“We were busy with the Navratri puja. At around 7.50pm, my 12-year-old nephew realised that our American bulldog was missing and he then heard him howling in pain. We realised the noise was coming from our neighbour’s house and we immediately rushed there. We found our dog battered and took him to a hospital in Bisrakh. Our neighbours had lured him to their house on the pretext of giving him treats and then they attacked him brutally,” said Nagar.He said that the dog had suffered multiple injuries and required three days’ treatment.“These people had attacked our dog almost a month back as well by throwing a brick at him but we had resolved that issue. We don’t know what their issue with our pet is. They are involved in some sort of black magic and have threatened us with political connections as well,” he said.The family alleged that when they approached police, their case was not registered and it was only after much insistence that an FIR was lodged against the three suspects at the Ecotech 3 police station under relevant sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Police officials said that a probe in the matter is underway and that the medical examination was inconclusive.“The suspects claim that the dog had found his way into their house and they were only defending themselves. A thorough investigation of the case is going and we will take necessary action soon,” said Bhubhanesh Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Ecotech 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neighbours-booked-for-assaulting-greater-noida-resident-s-pet-dog/story-dUyitWEoPb3x7ZMropDhQL.html
22-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: One more suspect nabbed in Sector Pi 3 bank robbery case||Police on Thursday morning arrested one more suspect in the bank robbery case in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Anuj Kumar Dubey, 26, a resident of Sadarpur in Noida’s Sector 45. At least ₹41,430 and ₹20,000 in fake currency notes were recovered from his possession.The case pertains to October 6, when four men had entered the Sector Pi 3 branch of the Indian Bank branch, held the security guard at gunpoint, and looted ₹2.15 lakh from the drawer of a cashier and ₹1.75 lakh from a businessman who had visited the bank to deposit the money.HT had reported Thursday that an encounter had taken place in which one of the suspects, Amit Kumar, had been arrested while his accomplice had managed to escape. According to the police, it was Anuj who had managed to flee Wednesday night, but was caught early Thursday.Throwing light on the sequence of events, Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the police had received information about two suspects on the move on a motorcycle near Sector Sigma 3 at 8pm. “On Wednesday evening, a team from Sector Beta II police station had been deployed. The team had signalled the two suspects, who were on a motorcycle, to stop for checking but they opened fire and tried to flee,” he said. The police returned fire in which Amit had received a bullet injury in his left leg and had fallen off the motorcycle, officers added. The team arrested him while Anuj managed to escape.The police continued the combing exercise in nearby areas, the ADCP said. On Thursday morning, they received information that Anuj would be on the move on a motorcycle near the TS roundabout in Greater Noida. “A police team was deployed at the spot. When signalled to stop for checking, the suspect tried to speed up after opening fire at the police team. The police also returned fire in which he was injured in his left leg,” he said. Police have recovered a countrymade gun and a stolen motorcycle from his possession. He was wanted in eight criminal cases including robbery, Arms Act, attempt to murder, etc, the police said.Pandey said that Anuj had allegedly deposited about ₹40,000 of the stolen money in a bank in Noida. Police have found that the mastermind of the bank robbery is allegedly Devraj Chaudhury alias Cheeta, a resident of Khedi Bhanota village in Greater Noida. A reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest has been announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-one-more-suspect-nabbed-in-sector-pi-3-bank-robbery-case/story-zj4YHAMTgSdJedZgojl8lK.html
22-10-2020||City||Noida police provides self defence training to 60 women||Noida Police started a three-day self-defence training session for 60 women in Surajpur police line on Wednesday.The candidates, which included trainee constables and residents from Noida and Greater Noida, would be trained various techniques and combat skills to defend themselves in case of attack with knives or other weapons. GB Nagar’s deputy sports officer Poonam Vishnoi headed the programme under Mission Shakti, a state government initiative to bring down crime against women. Vishnoi said that the aim of the programme was women empowerment. “The self-defence training and techniques are important to defend oneself when in need. We focus on physical training as well as mental training, which is significant as one has to first promptly assess the threat and then apply the techniques,” she said. “There are instances when women are harassed. We train them on how to defend themself if confronted with a knife or gun wielding attacker. We teach them how to turn the weapon’s direction and snatch it from the attacker. We also train them in hand-to-hand combat,” said Vishnoi, a recipient of UP government’s Laxmibai Bravery Award. “Half of the participants are trainee police personnel and the rest are residents. The three day programme is held from 7 am – 9 am in the Surajpur police line,” she said. The week-long Mission Shakti programme comprises of four steps - awareness generation, women empowerment, enforcement, and prosecution. The programme was launched on October 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-police-provides-self-defence-training-to-60-women/story-hZjeO9qZZmrWCgWgo6BBBJ.html
22-10-2020||Noida||After ‘mass conversion’ by Karhera residents, Ghaziabad police files FIR for promoting enmity between groups||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday registered an FIR against unidentified persons for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, in connection with an alleged conversion incident at Valmiki Basti in Ghaziabad’s Karhera earlier this month. In the FIR, based on a complaint by a Sahibabad resident, it has been alleged that alleged that at least 236 Dalits embraced Buddhism on October 14 to protest the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old woman Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, which has sparked outrage across India.Senior district and police officials, along with the Sahibabad MLA, had rushed to the Valmiki Basti on Wednesday after they had come to know about the alleged conversion. Locals allegedly showed them conversion certificates and raised local issues, besides demanding justice for the Hathras victim.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had on Wednesday denied that the Hathras issue was raised before him.He had, however, ordered an inquiry by an additional district magistrate (city) on the basis of which the administration released their report of findings late Wednesday.The signed report had stated that there is no evidence of religious conversion at Karhera; the conversion certificates which were shown had no names, correct address or even any serial number, besides the date of issuance of the certificates; there are some certificates which are blank and have no details filled in and the local residents have raised their local issues in their memorandum of demands, which mention no issue of conversion.“We have filed an FIR in connection with the (alleged religious conversion) incident after a man from Pappu Colony in Sahibabad gave us a written complaint. The matter is being investigated and an FIR has been filed against unidentified persons,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (Sahibabad).Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, did not take calls when approached for a response on Wednesday and Thursday. The FIR lodged at Sahibabad police station mentions two IPC sections, 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill, etc).“Regarding the conversion, the related certificates mention no names, date, addresses or serial numbers and anyone’s name can be written on them. It seems it is a criminal conspiracy intended to promote violence and hatred..,” the complainant alleged in the FIR.Pawan Valmiki, who headed discussions with the district officials on Wednesday, said he converted to Buddhism on October 14 and had never met the complainant.“We communicated to the district officials about our decision to adopt Buddhism, when they came here on Wednesday. There are some politicians who are unnecessarily dragging the conversion into a controversy and need to apologise. The certificates have proper names, date, etc., on them while the address mentioned is stated only as Ghaziabad. We have no links with any political party or any agenda but we have heard that an FIR has been filed in the incident,” he added. Aman, 26, his brother, said rumours were spread about locals of Valmiki Basti having “links to Pakistan and even funding from a political party”. “This is all we heard ever since Wednesday. Anyone can come to our house and see the conditions we live in. I worked as a motor mechanic with a small roadside shop. My shop was shut during the lockdown. My brother and I are left with no jobs. Anyone can come and check my family’s bank accounts to see if there has been any funding from anyone. Even at this age, I have no bank account in my name,” he said. “My brother, his wife and my parents also converted to Buddhism on October 14. We did not get anything being a Dalit. So, we converted. But now there is an FIR. I find no reasons for it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-mass-conversion-by-karhera-residents-ghaziabad-police-files-fir-for-promoting-enmity-between-groups/story-7RPHw7519SjJhOkw94FjmJ.html
22-10-2020||Noida||Since Grap came into effect, Noida has issued fines totalling ₹27 lakh for causing pollution||The Noida authority has so far imposed nearly Rs 27 lakh in fines since October 15 when the graded response action plan (Grap) was implemented in the city to contain air pollution.The authority is acting against violators daily and imposing the penalty against whosoever is found violating rules -- banning of diesel generator sets, compulsory dust control system and other measures -- across the city, said officials.Grap was put enforced as the smog started to envelope the Delhi-NCR, including Noida. Although the authority was lenient on the first day of the implementation, the subsequent days saw its officials and project engineers inspect construction sites. As per the guidelines from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and also the national green tribunal (NGT), ever contractor, realtor and individual engaged in construction work has to make sure that the construction material lying on city roads or plot should be covered with a green sheet, water to be sprinkled on materials regularly and vehicles transporting material should be properly covered. Apart from this throwing garbage or burning it in open is also an offence.“Our teams are out on the field daily to ensure the rules are being followed at the sites. If our team found violating the rules then it takes required steps and impose penalty,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty of the Noida authority monitoring the implementation of Grap on the ground.On Friday it imposed Rs 42,500 penalty against eight persons for flouting norms, on Saturday Rs 11.15 lakh against 23, on Sunday Rs 3.37 lakh against 19, on Monday Rs 5.65 lakh penalty against 16, on Tuesday Rs 4.14 lakh penalty was imposed against 17 and on Wednesday nine were fined Rs 2.20 lakh. The penalty ranged from Rs 500 to Rs1 lakh depending on the violation, said officials.In six days, the authority has acted against over 100 violators that include vendors, shop owners, contractors, companies and individuals except the realtors. The authority said that the most of the realtors’ construction activities were shut due to the economic crisis that the realty sector faced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority has also started collecting and treating the construction and demolition waste at its plant set up at sector 80, where they recycle the waste.On Sunday the authority collected 180 tonne of construction waste, on Monday it collected 100 tonne waste and on Tuesday it collected 350 tonne of waste out of which bricks, tiles and slab among other products are made, said officials. To reduce air pollution the authority has been cleaning city’s all main roads with mechanical sweeping machine and sprinkling treated water on dust on roads.“The Noida authority should intensify the action against the violators because many still flouting rules and do not cover the construction material. And also the road cleaning exercise should be improved,” said NP Singh president of Gautam Budh Nagar district development RWAs (DDRWAs), an umbrella group of RWAs in district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/since-grap-came-into-effect-noida-has-issued-fines-totalling-27-lakh-for-causing-pollution/story-Lj24A3Sr7Ds6ku1SjbOqqI.html
22-10-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad air in ‘very poor’ category, may remain there for next 3-4 days||The air quality index (AQI) in the three cities of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida deteriorated on Thursday stood in the ‘very poor’ category as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s bulletin. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the weather played an important role in turning the air foul and that the hazy conditions are likely to persist for three more days. According to the CPCB, the AQI of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida was recorded at 308, 318 and 328, respectively, all in the ‘very poor’ category.’ The wind speed had drastically reduced on Thursday, said IMD officials, which resulted in pollutants being trapped in the atmosphere. “Overcast conditions on Thursday led to an increase in moisture content (but not enough to force pollutants to settle). The wind speed was high initially with easterly winds blowing at about 6-8kmph in the morning, but the direction changed to north-westerly and the speed dropped to about 0-3kmph. So, the dispersal of pollutants did not happen. It is likely that the conditions will remain the same for another three or four days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. As a result of the prevailing conditions, all four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad, two in Greater Noida and three of four in Noida were recording readings well above the AQI value of 300(‘very poor’ category) at 7pm Thursday. One station of Noida did not show reading due to technical reasons. The forecast by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) on Thursday said that calm surface wind conditions will lead to low ventilation, meaning low dispersal of pollutants. “It is forecasted that the air quality will be in the ‘poor’ to marginally ‘very poor’ categories on October 23 and 24. A significant increase in stubble fires in Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions with Safar synergised stubble fire counts stood at approximately 1428 yesterday, the highest this season so far. However, as the boundary layer wind direction is not fully favourable for pollutant transport towards the Delhi region, the Safar model estimate that the stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 9% for today,” the Safar said in a statement. According to official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory, a Division of Agricultural Physics, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, the instances of stubble burning in the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh stood at 11,320 during the period from October 1 to October 21. The figure is high considering that the three states accounted for 6,777 and 6,190 fires during the same period in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The officials of UP pollution control board (UPPCB) also attributed the sudden rise to meteorological conditions. “There has been no spike due to any local conditions in the city. The higher range of pollution is primarily due to prevailing meteorological conditions. On our part, we are taking up pollution abatement measures and also carrying out enforcement drives,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida. Utsav Sharma, the regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad, also said slow wind speed led to the hike in pollution. “The wind speed was almost zero during the major part of the day and this led to saturation of pollutants and lesser dispersal. Locally, we are carrying out checks at industrial units, farms and construction sites. After we recommended penalty against the contractor taking up the work at CISF-Road in Indirapuram, the contractor has covered the open areas,” he said, adding that the PM2.5 levels also increased as a result of meteorological conditions prevailing on Thursday.“Exposure to PM2.5 has both short and long-term impacts -- in the short term it can cause irritation in the eyes, nose and throat, as well as coughing, sneezing and shortness of breath. However, prolonged exposure to PM2.5 can cause more serious and permanent respiratory problems such as asthma, chronic bronchitis and heart disease. Research shows that every 10 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) increase in PM 2.5 increases mortality between 3%-26%, chances of childhood asthma by 16%, chances of lung cancer by 36%, and heart attacks by 44%,” said Dr Gyan Bharti, pulmonologist, Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-air-in-very-poor-category-may-remain-there-for-next-3-4-days/story-frHjNBacQrcb6FzSrcHgYO.html
22-10-2020||City||Four LDCA office bearers booked for fraud||The city police on Thursday booked four office-bearers of Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) for misappropriation of funds.The accused have been identified as Vinod Chitkara, honorary general secretary of LDCA, Rajinder Nath Mahajan, president, Rajiv Bajaj, honorary treasurer, and Satish Garg. The FIR was registered at Division Number 8 police station, following the complaint of Naresh Marwaha (ex-joint secretary), alleging fraudulent activities in the day-to-day working of the association and misappropriation of funds.Confirming this, Division Number 8 SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said that the four accused have been booked under Sections 409, 419, 420, 465, 467, 471 & 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The FIR states that Rajiv Bajaj had submitted an undertaking that he had resigned from the LDCA in 2016, and since then he was not working as the honorary treasurer. But, certain documents pertaining to the year 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20, showed that even after resignation, Rajiv Bajaj was still working as the treasurer of the association.According to the FIR, it is alleged that for many years, neither the annual general meeting nor the elections of LDCA were conducted.“Though the said meeting was not conducted, in the minutes of the meeting, it was specifically mentioned that the officials were present and their signatures were collected later,” said Marwaha in his complainant.Marwaha said, “I never left the association. I saw the corruption and reported it to the president. But none of the officials paid heed to my complaint. After this, I stopped going to the ground. Since 2003, budding players have been burdened with fee charges, even as the LDCA has all the required funding and equipment to support them.”“When I filed the complaint, the officials gave false statements in the police station saying that I was released from the association as a result of the 2015 elections, although no such elections were conducted. When I challenged them to show the proof, they had nothing to substantiate their claims,” said Marwaha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-ldca-office-bearers-booked-for-fraud/story-LYC5vW1fkRBwU5jCDXOmWK.html
22-10-2020||City||Ensure social distancing, mask-wearing at events: Ludhiana police chief tells organisers||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday directed Ramlila committees from across the city to keep enough stock of masks and provide them to visitors attending the event.Organisers will have to ensure that visitors maintain social distancing of at least two metres. Further, each person has to go through a mandatory thermal scanning before entering the venue.People suffering from a cold or other flu-like symptoms have been advised to stay at home and not venture out in public during the festive season.Agrawal said that the police department will penalise those found violating Covid guidelines.He said the drive will be intensified to curtail the second wave of Covid-19 spread. He also appealed that people should cooperate and wear masks to stop the virus from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-social-distancing-mask-wearing-at-events-ludhiana-police-chief-tells-organisers/story-3CWIEuXooRLF3m8nlNJeNN.html
22-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Vehicle lifter arrested, 18 bikes recovered||The police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters, with the arrest of one person, while a hunt is on to nab his aide. Eighteen two-wheelers have been recovered from the accused.Joint commissioner of police Bhagirath Meena said that while Gulshan, 24, a resident of Raiya village in Ferozepur district has been arrested his accomplice Ranjit is on the run.The accused had rented out the stolen vehicles and sold some of them to people living in nearby villages.He was arrested from Gurdev Nagar following a tip-off. He had stolen vehicles from Sarabha Nagar market, BRS Nagar market, Ferozepur Gandhi market and Pakhowal road. Gulshan, who was earlier working as a mechanic, was previously booked in a drug peddling case and was out on bail since April last year, the police said.Sharing the modus operandi, Meena said that the duo used to travel by bus and on reaching Ferozepur road they used to visit isolated areas and steal two-wheelers parked there using master keys.Gulshan had stolen a Bullet motorcycle from Gurdev Nagar on October 17. During the checking of CCTV footage, the police were able to identify the accused.After receiving the input, cops arrested Gulshan and raided Ranjit’s house who managed to escape.Meena said that both the accused were drug addicts and Gulshan confessed to having stolen the vehicles to fulfil his drug needs.The accused was presented before the court that sent him to police custody.The cops are also probing the involvement of people who had bought the stolen vehicles from the accused. The accused had stolen nearly 22 motorbikes. The police have also shared the vehicle number and their chaises details on Facebook so that people could identify their vehicles.Besides Ludhiana, the accused had stolen vehicles in Moga and Jagraon.A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-vehicle-lifter-arrested-18-bikes-recovered/story-xXIbuvgAYb4eFRLkHxipKK.html
22-10-2020||Noida||Active cases declining in Uttar Pradesh, say health officials||The Uttar Pradesh health department on Thursday said all 75 districts in the state had crossed their peak Covid-19 cases and were now witnessing a decline. Amit Mohan Prasad, UP additional chief secretary (health), on Thursday, however, cautioned people against laxity. He said that there was a decline in active cases too -- from a peak of 68,235 on September 17 to 29,131on October 22. “Different districts had peaked at different times thanks to the efforts and different strategies that we had adopted,” Prasad, said. “This has resulted in active cases in the entire state decline over the past 35 days.”HT analysed the seven-day average of daily cases data provided by the state health department from July 24 to October 22. It revealed that the peak for Ghaziabad was on September 17 at 263 average new cases over seven days and for Gautam Budh Nagar, it was September 11 with 219 cases. The official records from the state Covid-19 control room also indicated that it was around mid-September when the two districts had the highest number of active cases and the highest single day spike of cases. On September 14, Ghaziabad had the highest number of active cases at 2126 just two days after it hit the highest single day spike, at 303 cases. Gautam Budh Nagar district 2008 active cases on September 13, which was its highest, while its sharpest spike was on September 10 with 251 cases. “Since then we saw a decline in active cases and our positivity rate has also declined. However, it is a time when residents have to take extra precautions against Covid-19 and continue it further,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts. “We also observed that incidence of cases was very high during the middle of September. Thereafter there has been a decline in active cases and fresh cases. We are, however, continuing with regular testing and surveillance to check spread of infection,” said an officer from the Ghaziabad health department who wished not to be named. Meanwhile, independent experts said that the state was following the national trend of decline in cases. “But it cannot be surely said that further peaks my not come. Such instances have been observed in other countries as well. The infection may arrive again as long as we have a large proportion of susceptible population available,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “A change in weather can also aggravate infection as micro-organisms are more active during low temperature. So, people must take every precaution even though the records show decline in number of new cases.”“After mid of September there is decline in cases and the severity of infection has also reduced. We have observed that people are recovering fast. Still, we cannot say that the trend is of recovery has started even though the figures tell us that there is decline in number of fresh cases. So, wearing face masks, frequent hand washing and social distancing should be practiced for long and it would be better if we make it part of daily routine,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/active-cases-declining-in-uttar-pradesh-say-health-officials/story-BQDk3O5kr3v62eaP0TkCAM.html
22-10-2020||City||Of 10,000 farm fires in Punjab this year, 25% recorded in last 2 days||Patiala The number of stubble burning cases in Punjab has crossed the 10,000 mark this season, which is double the figure for the corresponding period last year. Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana, recorded 2,758 farm fire cases on Wednesday and Thursday, which nearly 25% of the total 10,775 incidents recorded this season. Last year, 4,085 cases were reported for the same period, while the number was 3,229 in 2018. For the last three years, Punjab government has been taking measures to check farm fires by giving subsidy on the machinery to handle in-situ and ex-situ stubble management, spending above ₹500 crore on subsidy in last two years. Paddy straw burning is a yearly phenomenon, leading to war of words between states and even ire from the apex court. This year again, the Supreme Court has appointed one of its retired judges to monitor stubble burning. On Thursday, Tarn Taran recorded highest 240 farm fires, followed by 224 in Ferozepur, more than 100 each in Patiala and Gurdaspur. Pathankot recorded only 3 farm fire cases, the lowest for a district. Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts account for almost 30% of the total cases reported so far, said a Punjab Pollution Control Board official. With only 60% of the crop harvested, the number of farm fires are expected to peak in the next two weeks. “The number of farm fires will multiply in the next two weeks, when Punjab will record highest cases of the season. Usually the trend starts picking after October 25 and decline after November 10,” said an official of agriculture department. He said that farmers are not adhering to the advice of the government. Meanwhile, PPCB secretary Krunesh Garg said the Punjab government was working overtime to tackle the menace through awareness and other measures. “Farmers are using machinery for in-situ an ex-situ management. And those who are burning straw will be made to pay environmental compensation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/of-10-000-farm-fires-in-punjab-this-year-25-recorded-in-last-2-days/story-zJ59OSVVUTfTqaDU8arGeP.html
22-10-2020||Noida||Recoveries outnumber new Covid-19 cases in October in Noida||The number of recoveries is now more than new and active cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease detected in the month of October so far in Gautam Budh Nagar district. While as many as 3,816 Covid-19 patients have recovered between October 1 and 22, the number of new cases detected in this month so far is 3,442. However, the number of deaths due to Covid-19 recorded in this month so far in the district is 13, which has become a matter of concern for health officials.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that early tracking has proved beneficial in raising the recovery rate. “If somebody tests positive and the treatment begins on time, it will automatically raise the recovery rate and lower the case fatality rate (CFR). On September 30, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the district was 88.15%, which has gone up to 93.46% on Thursday,” he said.On the district’s testing rate, the DM said: “Our testing rate per million per day is over 1,750, which is much better than other best districts in north India. Besides, when commercial and business activities have been permitted to reopen, the rising recovery rate indicates that we are going in the right direction to control the pandemic,” he said.Chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, Dr Deepak Ohri said that all those patients, who succumbed to Covid-19 in October in the district, had co-morbid health conditions as well. “The infection becomes fatal if the infected patient has some other serious ailments such as cancer, kidney failure or heart diseases as well. Despite 13 deaths in October so far, the district’s CFR is 0.40%, which is much better than the state’s CFR of 1.46% and national CFR of 1.68%,” he said.The CMO further said that teams of doctors are continuously following up on infected patients, whether they are in home isolation or admitted in Covid-dedicated facilities in the district. “Not only that, the testing is being carried out at war level. We hope that in October, we will cross the testing figures of last month, which was 75,442,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-19-cases-in-october-in-noida/story-ZER6wcEwX25CP4SWCQi2aN.html
22-10-2020||Noida||G Noida authority to give loans to street vendors who suffered losses due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Greater Noida industrial development authority (GNIDA))will give loans to street vendors whose livelihood has been affected due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme.The scheme will be available for street vendors, who are operating in the city and in need of working capital. Those who need financial assistance can apply under the scheme from October 22 to October 28. Under the scheme, a vendor can get up to ₹10,000 loan for one year at subsidised interest rate of 7%, without collateral.“The street vendors, who want to get the financial assistance can apply for the scheme and then the authority will process the applications and do the needful as per policy,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, GNIDA. “However the scheme will be only for vendors registered with GNIDA and to whom GNIDA has given a license to operate in the city.”Each vendor looking for the financial help needs to submit Aadhaar card, bank account number linked with Aadhaar, two passport size pictures and a document related with business if it is available.Around 500 street vendors are registered as they have a license said GNIDA. In Noida there are at least 3000 licensed street vendors.GNIDA’s senior manager working in each working circle will accept the applications from the street vendors. “The banks will charge usual interest rate as prevailing in the market. We will do verification of all street vendors to check if they are having a license and registered with us or not,” said Chandar.The authority said interested vendors can apply either at senior manager office located in each circle or at main administrative office in sector Knowledge Park-IV. Street vendors were earlier during the Covid 19 pandemic were provided with ₹1,000 financial aid during nationwide lockdown as their businesses were shut.“The working capital of ₹10,000 will help us because our business was completely shattered due to Covid 19 pandemic,” said Ram Prakash a street vendor who operate in sector 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/g-noida-authority-to-give-loans-to-street-vendors-who-suffered-losses-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-NqjrdWjZq9UcvFhOixOilM.html
22-10-2020||City||Only 8 Dussehra committees seek permission for Ravana Dahan in Ludhiana||While Navratra celebrations have already taken a hit due to the Covid pandemic, Dussehra celebrations are also expected to be a low-key affair this time. Only eight committees have so far come forward to seek permission for Ravana Dahan in the city. Last year, Ravana Dahan was held at around 80 locations in the city, but this year most Dussehra committees have decided not to celebrate the festival fearing Covid-19 spread. The number of committees applying for permission may increase in the coming few days, but Dussehra celebrations are still set to remain subdued. Keeping in mind the safety of residents, the Dussehra committees of Model Town extension, Focal Point, Basant Avenue among others have decided not to organise Ravana Dahan this year as it will be an uphill task for organisers to manage the gathering.President of Focal Point Dussehra committee, Sushil Bedi said, “There is a lot of risk in organising Ravana Dahan this year. So we have decided not to organise it.” General secretary of Krishna Mandir Trust, Model Town extension, KP Gosain said that the administration has allowed committees to organise the event with limited gatherings and amid precautions. “But if anything wrong happens, the administration will take action against the organisers only. It is difficult to manage the crowd at any event that is being organised in the open, so we have decided not to organise Ravana Dahan in Model Town extension this year,” he said.Meanwhile Dussehra committees of Daresi, Upkar Nagar, Aggar Nagar, among others, have decided to celebrate the festival but with limited gathering. No Ramlila fair will be organised this time and the size of effigies has been reduced.Chairman of Aggar Nagar Dussehra committee Subhash Gupta said, “We will be organising Ravana Dahan and effigies of Kumbhakaran and Meghnath would also be burned. But the event would be held in presence of limited gathering and only the area residents would be allowed to participate in the event. The size of effigy has also been reduced from 40 feet to 15 feet.”Member, Shri Ram Lila Committee (Daresi), Dinesh Marwaha said that they will broadcast the event through social media and local cable operators.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “Only eight committees have applied for permission this year as compared to 80 last year. Permission has been granted to all the committees and they have been directed to limit the gathering and a maximum of 50% gathering will be allowed as per the capacity of the ground. Further, wearing masks, social distancing, hand sanitisers, thermal screening of visitors etc will be necessary and the committees will also have to depute volunteers to manage the crowd.” Residents are also advised to avoid gathering during Dussehra celebrations as the pandemic is not yet over, said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-8-dussehra-committees-seek-permission-for-ravana-dahan-in-ludhiana/story-dlC83nBKS8M876pztIY6LP.html
22-10-2020||City||Cyber fraud: J&K govt summons Facebook India head to appear in person||Taking cognisance of a complaint filed under the IT Act, by a Jammu resident Vivek Sagar, secretary of the information technology department in J&K government Simrandeep Singh directed Ajit Mohan, the head of Facebook India, to appear in person before the adjudicating officer on November 12 in a case of cyber fraud.The complaint was filed through advocate Deepak Sharma of the J&K high court. The notice for appearance among others was also issued to Rajiv Jain, director Bajaj Finance Ltd, Pritesh Lahoti and Dinesh Kadam, director Quadrant Televentures Ltd.The notice was issued after a complaint was filed by Vivek Sagar under Section 46 of the Information Technology Act against Facebook India and others for allegedly cheating him.The complainant alleged that Facebook and other respondents violated the provisions of the IT Act and defrauded him of Rs 20,700. The complainant had applied for a personal loan of Rs 1.50 lakh at 4% interest on September 9 after seeing an advertisement of Bajaj Finance Ltd on Facebook, which was promoted by Quadrant Televentures Ltd. His online application was received and confirmed by Bajaj Finance and then was asked to deposit a processing fee of Rs 1,500, followed by GST of Rs 9,900 and TDS of Rs 9,300. “When he sensed that something was wrong, he registered a complaint with TRAI which makes this a foolproof case against the accused,” said advocate Deepak Sharma.“By acts of omissions and commissions on the part of respondents, the complainant has suffered not only financially but also mentally. The respondents, by making contraventions of the provisions of the IT Act, caused undue loss to the complainant by dishonestly inducing the complainant to transfer an amount of Rs. 20,700 into the bank account number of the respondent,” their complaint read.“For inquiry into the allegations levelled by the complainant, you are hereby directed to appear in person before the undersigned office on November 12 at 11am,” the notice read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyber-fraud-j-k-govt-summons-facebook-india-head-to-appear-in-person/story-BryNaD6rXOowcm9U0yJX8M.html
22-10-2020||City||J&K’s Covid cases cross 90,000 mark||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 10 deaths and 584 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday taking the total number of positive cases in the UT to 90,166.Officials said 392 people tested positive in Kashmir and 192 in Jammu.Of the 10 fatalities, six were in Kashmir division and four in Jammu taking the total death toll to 1,412. The number of patients who recovered from Covid-19 reached 80,802 in Jammu and Kashmir after 710 people were cured of the disease. The recovery rate rose to 89.6%, the highest so far.The active cases in Jammu and Kashmir dropped to settle at 7,952 owing to the 710 cured patients - 311 in Kashmir and 399 in Jammu.Of the total deaths so far, 944 were in Kashmir and 468 in Jammu. August has witnessed 326 deaths, 478 fatalities in September and in October so far, 231 persons have lost their lives due to Covid .The recovery rate has continuously improved in the past one month. So far, in October, 23,878 patients have been cured as against 15,096 fresh infections.October has also witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. As against an average of 1,245 daily novel coronavirus cases in September, October has recorded an average of 686 cases daily till date.Also, in terms of fatalities, the average daily deaths in October are around 11 against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT so far has crossed 21 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 103, followed by 22 in Kishtwar.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 127 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 104.Srinagar tops the case tally with 18,247 cases and 340 deaths followed by Jammu district with 16,555 cases and 243 deaths.Till date, 6.37 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 19,765 in home quarantine, 7,952 in isolation, and 51,461 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.57 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-s-covid-cases-cross-90-000-mark/story-phvNrJmpo79ZyqpIbppHFK.html
22-10-2020||City||PoK refugees observe Black Day in Jammu, seek retrieval of territory from Pak, China||Hundreds of Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) refugees gathered at Vikram Chowk here under the banner of SOS International — an organisation of PoK displaced persons — to observe Black Day on Thursday.Black Day is observed on October 22 every year to mark Pakistan’s invasion of Kashmir in 1947. On this day (two months after Partition), Lashkars armed with axes, swords and guns backed by Pakistan Army attacked Jammu and Kashmir and unleashed atrocities on men, women and children, according to the Indian Army.A two-minute silence followed by prayer was held in the memory of those who had sacrificed their lives during the invasion.“Around 70,000 unarmed civilians were butchered, women were abducted, raped and horrible atrocities were unleashed upon Hindus and Sikhs,” said SOS International president Rajiv Chuni.“Without any help or aid from the government, our third generation is suffering now. The J&K state cabinet proposed Rs 25 lakh as ex-gratia grant to each family affected by 1947 invasion, reservation to the wards of displaced persons from PoK in professional and technical education colleges and 8,500 government jobs for unemployed youths. We are surprised that the Centre has not even touched the second and third components of the recommendations and only the first component of the package has been partially released, which in itself is a joke,” he said.Kundan Lal, one of the participants alleged that the central leadership often made tall claims to retrieve PoK but failed to stop the China-Pakistan-Economic-Corridor. “We had houses and properties in PoK, but India did nothing to take back what is rightfully ours. It’s high time that the same was restored to us,” he demanded.Jammu Kashmir Unity Foundation, a think tank of intellectuals and prominent persons, held a webinar titled ‘Pakistan Invasion: Not a Tribal Raid’.After recalling the sequence of events that led to the carnage of the people of J&K in 1947, the panelists demanded that Centre should approach the International Court of Justice to ensure a global-level censure and punishment of Pakistan for inflicting genocide on the people of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pok-refugees-observe-black-day-in-jammu-seek-retrieval-of-territory-from-pak-china/story-rZXes1FKxbP14czz0eFnXP.html
22-10-2020||City||Army lodges FIR against 4 for submitting ‘fake’ documents||The army lodged an FIR against four candidates on Thursday for allegedly furnishing fake documents to get recruited.“The army recruitment office, Jammu, had conducted two open recruitment rallies for recruitment in 2019-20 at Talwara in Reasi and Samba. Four candidates hailing from Doda and Jammu had come up in the final merit list and the candidates had submitted their Class 10 and 12 certificates from the Uttar Pradesh Education Board, and the Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education,” said a defence spokesperson.“The same were forwarded for verification to the departments concerned, which had responded that the ‘candidates are not registered/certificate have not been granted by the said Board/ details submitted by the candidates is in variation with the documents held by them’. Based on this, an FIR was lodged by the army recruiting office, Jammu, at Pacca Danga police station in Jammu for further investigation,” he added. The army has appealed to candidates to desist from such unfair means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-lodges-fir-against-4-for-submitting-fake-documents/story-Vv5Qn24dV5IYP29v0xTkwK.html
22-10-2020||City||NGO director arrested, Srinagar MC officials booked on ‘fraud’ charges||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Srinagar, arrested Zaheer Abbas Bhatti, who is working as Director of Social Welfare of India in a case pertaining to allegations of fraud, corruption and embezzlement of public money under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan.Earlier, a joint surprise check was conducted by ACB to look into the allegations against an NGO, Social Welfare India, and officials of Srinagar municipal corporation pertaining to construction of individual house hold latrine (IHHL) units under Swachh Bharat Mission.In a statement, an ACB spokesman said that it was established that vide an agreement, 218 IHHLs and nine twin storage pits were to be constructed by the said NGO.Srinagar MC commissioner got the matter verified and submitted physical verification report stating that the said the IHHL and twin storage pits have been constructed as per SBM/SMC guidelines, subsequent to which an amount of Rs 38.81 lakh was released in favour of the NGO.The spokesman added that during probe, it came to fore that not even a single unit was constructed by the said NGO and the engineering wing of the MC had submitted a false completion report to the higher- ups thus facilitating release of huge amount of money in favour of the NGO.He said that a case was registered in ACB Srinagar branch against officials of the MC which included the then MC executive engineer Maroof Ahmad, the then MC junior engineer Javaid Iqbal Shah, and officebearers of the said NGO – director Zaheer Abbas Bhatti and general secretary Ishrat Ashraf Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-director-arrested-srinagar-mc-officials-booked-on-fraud-charges/story-1RY9A2i7PWyjhaLGT4XGxK.html
22-10-2020||Admission||DU help desk jugglery: Online classes on, yet assisting aspirants seeking admission||Every day senior students of Delhi University from different parts of the Capital come from various colleges to volunteer at the help desk set up by Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) at North Campus. The admission season is on, and the aspirants of the varsity have practically only this one means to clarify their doubts about how to get into the varsity of their dreams! Amid the pandemic, armoured with face masks and sanitisers, and holding their phones in one hand to be able to attend the online classes, these senior students spend the day helping out as many as 25-30 aspirants daily. These student volunteers sort out numerous problems that the DU aspirants are facing in the online admission process. And alongside, they manage their assignments and online classes as well. “There were times when I was sitting on the help desk and had to excuse myself to mark my attendance, and attend an online lecture. But I never gave up. Being a DU student, I know the ground level and mainstream circumstances and challenges that a student faces especially during admission time. Therefore, I’m always willing to help not only students for admission but everyone I can, regardless of what I get in return. I feel happy in helping others,” says Lovnish Prajapati, a student of Rajdhani College.The volunteers say they have signed up to help because of myriad reasons. “I registered to help at the student desk and become a volunteer because I knew that this time the digital influx of the admission applications would be immense. Many DU aspirants might miss out on key points of information, and as a result may miss out on admission to DU altogether! In order to give these students more chances to make it to their dream college, if I’ve to wear a mask and gloves and brave the pandemic, so be it! At least someone will get good education at the end,” says Anu Sehrawat, a student of Miranda House.  Delhi University Students’ Union ( DUSU )put up a help desk for DU aspirants & grievances regarding UG merit based admissions that have started today. Considering all Covid-related precautions, Volunteers helped students With regard to admissionsA post shared by  DUSU (@dusuofficial) on Oct 12, 2020 at 10:18am PDTSome say that the service of frontline workers, during Covid-19, has inspired them to serve others in times of need, even if it means that they need to put their health at risk. “Doctors, professors, policemen, delivery persons, and relief givers have helped us all sail through the hard hitting wave of Covid-19. Their courage, endurance and compassion overwhelmed me and encouraged me to pay back in every possible way to the students and do my bit for the right to education in our nation,” says a student on condition of anonymity, adding, “I was admitted to the hospital for medical emergency, but continued to help through digital means. Students faced problems regarding fee submission, incomplete certificates and others. Since this was the first time that DU has introduced a completely online admission process, there is lot of chaos. And I feel it’s my responsibility to help aspirants in such times. I’m managing my studies, assignments and online classes side by side. I help by the day and study by the night.” There are both online and offline help desks organised amid the pandemic to help in the admission process. Akshit Dahiya, president, DUSU, says “Exceptional times call for exceptional tasks. During the admission process, we made a team of 500 students studying in DU, to help all aspirants with admission related queries in both online and offline mode. In the online help desks, we provided multilingual helplines and in offline help desks we follow all Covid precautions putting the health of volunteers as priority.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/college-admissions/du-help-desk-jugglery-online-classes-on-yet-assisting-aspirants-seeking-admission/story-VBAJabdNfM3d1hIwje6yrI.html
22-10-2020||City||223 fresh Covid cases, five deaths in HP||Himachal Pradesh recorded 223 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday taking the state tally to 19,844. Death count mounted to 279 with five more patients succumbing to the contagion. Two fatalities were occurred in Shimla and one each in Chamba, Kangra and Kullu. Among the new cases, 44 were reported in Shimla, 38 each in Kullu and Mandi, 18 each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, 16 in Solan, 13 each in Chamba and Sirmaur, eight each in Kangra, Una and Lahaul-Spiti, and one in Kinnaur. There are 2,623 active cases in the state whereas the tally of cured reached 16,914 with 231 recoveries being recorded on Wednesday. And the recovery rate is at around 85%. The state has conducted over 3.57 lakh tests till date. Solan is the worst affected district with 3,502 cases, followed by Kangra where 2,836 people have been detected positive till date. The graph of infections is rapidly increasing in Mandi where the tally has reached 2,572. Sirmaur has 2,191 cases, Shimla 2,108, Una 1,494, Bilaspur 1,179, Kullu 1,169, Hamirpur 1,142, Chamba 1,083, Lahaul-Spiti 304, and Kinnaur 264.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/223-fresh-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-hp/story-PmiwQ0vT05dJ6iT7UMr0fN.html
22-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Bike-borne men snatch trader’s bag with ₹70,000 in broad daylight||In yet another broad daylight snatching incident, two bike-borne men waylaid a businessman at the elevated road near Master Tara Singh College and fled away with his bag containing Rs 70,000 after thrashing him. Narrating the incident, Pardeep Kumar, an auto parts trader, said that on Thursday afternoon after withdrawing Rs 70,000 from Punjab National Bank at Millargunj Chowk, he was going towards Jalandhar Bypass on his bike and as he reached near Master Tara Singh Memorial College, two masked men on a bike, intercepted him and asked him to pull over.The accused asked Kumar to hand over his bag to which he refused. The accused then thrashed him in the middle of the busy road and fled the scene after snatching his bag containing Rs 70,000.The victim raised the alarm and tried to chase the snatchers but they managed to escape. Kumar said that the accused whose faces were covered were riding a black motorcycle.Joint commissioner of police (joint CP) Bhagirath Meena said that the matter is being investigated.Sources said that police are still gathering more details from the victim, as his statement has loose ends. Strangely the incident took place on a busy elevated road but no one offered help to the victim. There is a heavy police presence on both sides of the elevated road, but still, the accused managed to flee, an official said.The cops are checking the CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bike-borne-men-snatch-trader-s-bag-with-70-000-in-broad-daylight/story-bMOWSvF2ZcTWhVgeLViiBJ.html
22-10-2020||City||Leh hill council polls record 65.12% turnout, results on Oct 26||Elections to the sixth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh, on Thursday recorded a poll percentage of 65.12%, marginally low by 0.5% compared to the last edition in 2015.Additional district commissioner Sonam Chosjor, also the returning officer, said, “Out of 89,789 voters, 58,471 voters exercised the right to franchise, recording a poll percentage of 65.12. In the last elections in 2015, 65.17 percent voting was recorded.”He informed that Sku Markha recorded a poll percentage of 83.59 percent where 601 voters out of a total of 719 turned up at the polling booths.Similarly, Turtuk constituency logged an impressive 77.91 percent polling as 2,677 out of 3,436 cast their votes. Lingshet constituency recorded 76.45 percent with a voter turnout of 1,565 out of total 2,047.Chosjor said that there were no untoward incidents during the day-long polling at 294 booths and voting was held peacefully in all the 26 constituencies across the district.“We had made all the arrangements in advance. Polling parties along with polling material and security personnel had reached the 294 booths set up beforehand,” Chosjor said.Out of the 294 polling booths, 15 were identified as hypersensitive and 45 as sensitive.Total 94 candidates were in the fray for the 26 seats, the results for which will be declared on October 26.The ADC also informed that as a special arrangement for elderly voters above the age of 65 and for the differently-abled, the administration had reached out to them on October 13 and 14 for advance casting of votes. “Our teams took personal ballots from them at their homes,” he said adding that around 1,000 elderly voters including 104-year-old Abe Tsering of Kunjus had availed the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leh-hill-council-polls-record-65-12-turnout-results-on-oct-26/story-1os0FuUPJZFfbxGdmN5oqM.html
22-10-2020||Gurugram||Air quality dips in NCR, Gurugram relatively better: Govt data||The air quality remained “very poor” in large parts of Faridabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad while it was relatively better in Gurugram in the National Capital Region on Thursday, according to a government agency. There was heavy concentration of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants in the air of the four immediate neighbouring districts of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. In Faridabad, the AQI was recorded at 362 at the station in Sector 11 followed by 321 both at New Industrial Town and at Sector 30 and 297 at Sector 16A, according to the CPCB data at 8 pm. In Gurugram, an AQI of 313 was recorded at the station in Sector 151 followed by 285 at Vikas Sadan and 213 at the Teri Gram, while it was 158 at NISE Gwal Pahari, it showed. In Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Noida, the AQI was 351 at Sector 62 followed by 330 at Sector 1, 325 at Sector 116, while the station at Sector 125 showed “insufficient” data for the last 24 hours. In Greater Noida, an AQI of 373 was recorded in Knowledge Park V and 314 at Knowledge Park III, according to the CPCB figures. Adjoining district Ghaziabad’s Loni had an AQI of 372 at 8 pm followed by 367 at Indirapuram and 312 at Sanjay Nagar and 321 at Vasundhara, it showed. The worsening of the air quality comes even as the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) has been implemented in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) from October 15 to check air pollution, which spikes around this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-dips-in-ncr-gurugram-relatively-better-govt-data/story-DiLg6ibxPcwF9Y2BWrrREK.html
22-10-2020||Kolkata||Met office predicts heavy rain in South Bengal on Friday||The Met office predicted heavy to very heavy rain in the southern districts of West Bengal on Friday, the day of Maha Saptami of Durga Puja, as the well- marked low-pressure area, formed over the west-central Bay of Bengal in the last two days, turned into a depression.A Met office bulletin said on Thursday that the system is likely to cross an area between Sagar Island in the state and Khepupara in Bangladesh by October 23 afternoon and turn into a deep depression.The low pressure is currently lying centred about 180 km south-southeast of Paradip in Odisha, 350 km south- southeast of Sagar Island and 490 km south-southwest of Khepupara, the bulletin said.Under its influence, light to moderate rain or thundershowers is likely to occur in many places of various districts of South Bengal and heavy to very heavy rain at one or two places in North and South 24 Parganas districts.One or two places of Purba Medinipur district is likely to witness heavy to very heavy rain on October 22 and 23, the bulletin said.Heavy rain is also predicted at one or two places in Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia districts during this time.The weathermen advised fishermen not to venture into the sea from October 22 to 24 and asked those who are already there to return as the condition of the sea will be “rough to very rough” till October 24.In coastal areas, the wind speed will be around 40-50 km/hour.In the city and adjoining Howrah and Hooghly districts, the wind speed is likely to reach 30-40 km/hour on October 23, the day of Maha Saptami.The bulletin also cautioned about water logging in some parts of Kolkata and Municipal areas of coastal districts on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/met-office-predicts-heavy-rain-in-south-bengal-on-friday/story-xDoOvY0y49hkHZqI0w3QeK.html
22-10-2020||City||Political corruption slowly creeping into BJP, says former Himachal Pradesh CM Shanta Kumar||Known for ruffling feathers in his own party, veteran leader and former chief minister Shanta Kumar has kicked up dust again stating that “political corruption” was slowly creeping into the BJP.He was referring to a plea against him and Vivekananda Medical Research Trust (VMRT), which he heads. Filed by a Palampur resident, Bhuvnesh Chand Sood, the plea was rejected by the high court on October 16.VMRT runs a multi-specialty hospital and a naturopathy institute in Palampur, the hometown of the veteran leader.Kumar alleged that the plea was filed on the behest of some BJP leaders. “I was deeply hurt. I would not have minded much had the case been filed by Congress or any other political opponent. This was done by my own party people,” he alleged.However, the court has done justice by rejecting the plea, he added.He said this mischievous act was to belittle him in the eye of the public. Kumar said that the daughter-in-law of one of these leaders got treatment at the trust-run hospital and the person called him up to compliment the good work being done by the trust.The 86-year-old, however, did not name any leader. “I can sue the petitioner for defamation, but I have no ill-will towards him or anyone,” he said.It is worth mentioning that the high court while rejecting the plea had said, “What we can, therefore, prima facie, infer is that the petition has been set up as a dummy and the petitioner has, therefore, indulged in public mischief for oblique motive.”The petitioner had alleged that the trust had committed a fraud by setting up a commercial hospital instead of charitable.BJP state chief refuses to comment When asked about Shanta Kumar’s remarks during a press conference at Palampur, BJP state president Suresh Kashyap refused to comment claiming that he had no knowledge of the statement given by the veteran leader. He, however, downplayed the reports of infighting in the party. On the friction between Jawalamukhi MLA Ramesh Dhawala and state party organising secretary Pawan Rana, Kashyap said that some differences occur in such a large family and they are resolved on the party platform.Also Read | Kangana invites Shanta Kumar, Bali to brother’s marriageEx-minister Anil Sharma alleges harassment Meanwhile, former power minister Anil Sharma has accused the state government of harassing him and his family. Interacting with the media in Mandi, Sharma alleged that cops misbehaved with his son Aayush at the border when he was coming home during the lockdown.He alleged that power supply to his house was repeatedly snapped at midnight when Aayush, his wife and children were staying in Mandi. Sharma said he filed a complaint at every possible level but no action was taken.Sharma had joined the BJP just ahead of 2017 assembly polls and became a minister in the Jai Ram Thakur-led government. However, he stepped down after his elder son Aashray Sharma contested Lok Sabha polls on Congress ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-corruption-slowly-creeping-into-bjp-shanta-kumar/story-LRvoyK8xxHrzEhEhn5DryN.html
22-10-2020||City||Nadda hits out at Punjab govt over protests against farm laws||BJP national president JP Nadda on Thursday made a veiled attack on chief minister Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government over the protests against Centre’s farm laws.Nadda was speaking on the sidelines of the virtual foundation stone laying ceremonies of six district party offices coming up in Palampur, Dharamshala, Nurpur, Dehra, Sunderngar and Kullu.Addressing BJP leaders virtually, Nadda said with the farm laws enacted by the central government, farmers are no longer bound to sell their produce in specific markets. “Farmers of Punjab were being misled by some people for their political interests,” he said.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the inspiration behind building the party’s offices in Himachal.Nadda recalled that when PM Modi was in-charge of the party affairs in Himachal in the 90s, the state BJP unit was functioning from two flats.“I am proud to say that of the proposed 719 district offices, work on 432 has been completed, 73 are awaiting inauguration, and 196 are under construction,” he said.In Himachal, he said, foundation stones of two offices have already been laid and that of six were laid on Thursday. “The work should be completed in a time-bound manner and these offices should be equipped with all the modern facilities,” he said.Stating that a party couldn’t function without karyakarta (worker), karykram (programme), karyakarini (executive), kosh (fund) and karyalaya (office), he said a party office functions round the clock and ideological grooming takes place here.Nadda said it was due to the timely and bold decisions taken by PM Modi that India fought the virus more effectively compared to most advanced countries.He also listed the schemes by the Modi government which provided relief to the needy and poor during the pandemic.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and former CM Shanta Kumar attended the event virtually while Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami and state party president Suresh Kashyap were present at the Palampur venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nadda-hits-out-at-punjab-govt-over-protests-against-farm-laws/story-FkkP3417wFWGW72bWwBg1M.html
22-10-2020||City||Congress spreading lies about farm laws: Anurag Thakur||The recently enacted agriculture laws would change the farmers’ economy and its opposition was unwarranted and uncalled for, said Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur here on Thursday.He chided Congress for spreading falsehoods on the agriculture bill and said people would not be misled by these attempts. He said Congress was anti-people and had always misguided the people for its own gains and benefits.During its six-year tenure, Thakur said, the PM Narendra Modi-led government had made a record increase in support price of various farming commodities and had paid Rs 75,000 crore to the farmers under the minimum support price.The Union minister said farmers will always get the benefit of minimum support price and a sum of one lakh crore rupees has been made in the budget for infrastructural development in the agricultural sector.Earlier, the minister inaugurated the building of a civil hospital constructed at a cost of around Rs 5. 66 crore at Nadaun and also unveiled the online community building at Bhadrol village and the Mahila Mandal Bhawan Baihar.While addressing the people, he said the central government had given projects worth several hundred crore rupees to the state including national highways to change the lifestyle of the people and the inauguration of Atal Rohtang tunnel at Manali was an example of that.He informed that Himachal has been provided an interest-free loan of Rs 450 crore for 50 years. A huge budget has also been given for capital expenditure.Thakur said that Hamirpur was the only Lok Sabha constituency in the country which has been given three medical institutes by the central government. Of this, Rs 1,100 crore is being spent on AIIMS in Bilaspur, 550 crore on PGI’s satellite centre in Una and Rs 322 crore on medical college in Hamirpur.State health and ayurveda minister Dr Rajiv Saizal said Himachal has emerged as a leading state in the field of health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-spreading-lies-about-farm-laws-anurag-thakur/story-DzAzKRrA1jX1HF0VoRiLAM.html
22-10-2020||City||Solve internal rift before slamming Oppn, HP Cong tells BJP||The BJP should resolve its internal rift before making adverse remarks about the opposition, said Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore here on Thursday.Rathore said that senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar’s statement that politics is getting polluted in the state BJP unit is a huge message in itself and clearly indicates the growing discontent among leaders within.The state Congress chief said Shanta Kumar’s statement cannot be taken lightly. He said that today some BJP ministers in the state have become unbridled and the situation between the government and the bureaucracy is becoming confrontational.Attacking the central government, Rathore said it is doing its best to suppress the voice of the farmers in the country. He said the Congress will continue the farmers’ fight till the Centre withdraws its black laws.Reacting to the students’ movement going on in Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Rathore said that HPU administration should talk to the students and accept their genuine demands. He accused the HPU V-C of arbitrariness and acting like a dictator. “The V-C should let go of his ego and listen to the struggling students and resolve their issues,” the Cong leader said.Rathore said the panchayat elections in the state should be conducted before snowfall in the upper regions. He said that since the state government completely failed to carry out development works in the state, the BJP would see a crushing defeat in these elections.He alleged that every section of the state was unhappy with the present regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/solve-internal-rift-before-slamming-oppn-hp-cong-tells-bjp/story-fJWOrRZ26W2qRejlGAnlzH.html
22-10-2020||City||HP minister lashes out at Cong for misleading farmers on agri laws||Urban development and cooperation minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Thursday lashed out at Congress stating that it was misleading farmers on the agrarian laws which were meant to revolutionise the agriculture sector in the coming times. He said the opposition party was acting as a lobbyist for anti-farmer forces.In a statement issued here, Bhardwaj said, “Congress is misleading the farmers and playing in the hands of the people who had earlier been exploiting the agrarian community.”He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government has been working towards doubling farmers’ income and has also initiated several schemes and programmes. “After realising the needs of these laws, the government took the call. But Congress could not digest it as it does not want farmers to come out of the shackles of a fragmented system,” he said.The minister said Congress and others joining them to oppose these laws were not the well-wishers of farmers but acting at the behest of middlemen.“The newly enacted laws are not going to harm the farmers, but will give them the freedom to market their produce,” he said.Bhardwaj said Congress is claiming that the new laws will hit APMCs, but during the UPA rule, it had been advocating abolishing the APMCs and even promised the same during the 2019 general polls,” he said.The minister said the APMCs and marketing board will continue to function as usual. “These bills are not about MSP and there will be no change in government procurement under MSP. It allows the development of private mandi infrastructure in the state and ensures seamless market access to farmers,” he said.“It will improve the agribusiness supply chain and curtail price fluctuation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-minister-lashes-out-at-cong-for-misleading-farmers-on-agri-laws/story-DN5daEtbMCRXJbv5SKzMaP.html
22-10-2020||Pune||PMC issues work order for Ambil Odha retaining wall; encroachments a hurdle||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has finally accepted the standing committee’s proposal to build a retaining wall along Ambil Odha for which the civic body has now issued the work order to a contractor. However, given the encroachments at various places along the Ambil Odha,a stream that flows through Katraj, Dhankavdi and Sahakarnagar areas, it will be difficult for contractor to complete the wall on time. Last year, the wall was washed away during the September flash floods wreaking havoc in the area. The floods claimed 26 lives of which seven were residents of Tangewala colony in Sahakarnagar. Additional commissioner Shantanu Goyal visited Dhankavdi, Katraj and Bibvewadi on Wednesday after signing the orders for construction of a three km retaining wall. The superintendent engineer incharge for the project (name withheld on request due to office rules), said, “Work order has been issued and there are twenty spots which have been selected. The work will take place under phases and the work mobilisation will take place in the next few days. An estimated cost of Rs 10 crore is being spent for the first phases which would cover 10km of the nullah area in a few months time ”The administration has allocated Rs 20 crore for the construction of the retaining wall and the tendering process is underway for the same. The tendering process came under cloud as the PMC had not completed the land acquisition process for the construction work and currently only 60 per cent of the land has been acquired. Goyal had visited the area to take into consideration the acquisition of the remainder area for the wall construction work. Corporator Ashwini Kadam, said, “The work order for retaining wall tender has still not been issued and administration is completely lax in handling the issue. Despite witnessing last Sept 25 deluge, no progress has been made on ground. On October 18, it was a repeat of last year’s nightmare and despite, informing the administration about the retaining wall work, they have not bothered to complete the work.” Additional Commissioner Goyal said that instructions have been issued to start the construction work at the earliest as the standing committee has already given approval for the said project. However, elected representatives alleged that both MP Supriya Sule and deputy CM Ajit Pawar had issued a stern warning to the administration regarding inaction and inordinate delay in carrying out the construction work. The administration is also mulling over removal of the illegal constructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-issues-work-order-for-ambil-odha-retaining-wall-encroachments-a-hurdle/story-V61lDGasvyiNWH7vDibNnI.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi government set to launch large scale campaign to reduce pollution from October 26||Environment Minister Gopal Rai highlighted his party’s efforts to reduce air pollution in Delhi after inaugurating the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign as part of Delhi government’s ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh’ (War Against Pollution) initiative on Wednesday.“Cars being switched off at red traffic lights can reduce vehicular pollution by 15-20 per cent. Our government will work to curb internal pollution sources but for external sources like increasing stubble burning, we’re requesting Centre and neighbouring states to help,” Rai said. “From October 26, we are starting a big campaign in 70 constituencies of Delhi where awareness drives will be launched to raise awareness regarding air pollution and its solutions for the citizens of Delhi. We will put all our efforts to control internal pollution. I request everyone to collectively participate in our campaign to reduce air pollution and make the environment safe for everyone,” the minister added. Civil defence volunteers were seen giving roses to people and requesting them to participate in the campaign and follow the traffic rules, especially to switch off the engine of their vehicles while waiting at the red light.Drivers switched off their vehicles’ engine at traffic signals as part of the Delhi government’s ‘Red Light On, Vehicle Off’ campaign to curb air pollution. “This drive will not only reduce pollution but save fuel as well,” an Environment Marshal deployed near ITO traffic signal told ANI.Meanwhile, Anand Sharma, ADG, IMD expressed concerns over the rising air pollution levels in the national capital.“Both PM 10 and PM 2.5 levels will increase on October 24 and coming days, resulting in poor air quality. Due to calm winds and stable atmospheric conditions, pollutants are not getting dispersed off, so they remain suspended in the air,” Anand Sharma, ADG, IMD on Delhi-NCR air pollution said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-set-to-launch-large-scale-campaign-to-reduce-pollution-from-october-26/story-dB4wRakBTOvOSQypsFrbbM.html
22-10-2020||City||Slain militant’s portrait installed at Golden Temple museum||AMRITSAR The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday installed portraits of Babbar Khalsa militant Mehanga Singh Babbar and traditional Gurbani singer Avtar Singh Parowal who were killed during the Operation Bluestar, at the Central Sikh Museum of the Golden Temple complex. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal unveiled the portraits in a brief event at the museum. He also honoured the family members of Babbar and Parowal with ‘siropa’ (robe of honour). Longowal said, “The Sikhs will never forget the army attack on Sri Harmandar Sahib and Akal Takht Sahib.” The SGPC chief also urged the members of Parliament from Punjab to take up the matter of reopening of Kartarpur corridor with the Union government and in Parliament. Meanwhile, a painting exhibition will be organised from November 12 to 15 at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall to mark the centenary of the apex gurdwara body’s inception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slain-militant-s-portrait-installed-at-golden-temple-museum/story-pmuxXoN9EcMowdK1Ivte6K.html
22-10-2020||Noida||GB Nagar: 180 fresh Covid cases take tally to 16,489; death toll at 66||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar rose to 66 on Thursday with one more fatality, while 180 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 16,489, official data showed. The number of active cases rose to 1,105 from 1,090 on Wednesday, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the brighter side, 165 more patients got discharged during the period, taking the overall recoveries in the district to 15,318, sixth highest in the state, it showed.The district’s death toll reached 66 with a mortality rate of 0.40 per cent from 0.39 per cent on Wednesday, according to the official statistics.The recovery rate of patients dropped slightly to 92.89 per cent from 92.91 per cent the previous day, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active cases in UP came down to 29,131 from 29,364 on Wednesday, 30,416 on Tuesday, 31,495 on Monday and 32,896 on Sunday, while the overall recoveries reached 4,27,937 so far and the death toll linked to Covid-19 climbed to 6,790, it showed.  The recovery rate of patients in the state stood at 92.25 per cent on Thursday, slightly up from 92.17 per cent on Wednesday, according to government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-180-fresh-covid-cases-take-tally-to-16-489-death-toll-at-66/story-vP32M8eU6YnBVtnUnwCI6I.html
22-10-2020||Pune||‘Saheli’ helpline for lone women passengers travelling from Pune railway division||In a bid to have constant connection with women passengers travelling in long distance trains and have safety arrangements in place, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Pune railway division has started a new initiative, ‘Saheli Helpline’. RPF policemen, including women constables, will check the entire train before it starts, register names and contact details of women passengers who are travelling alone or with children. Throughout the journey, they will be in contact with the RPF team. The railways started running several long distance trains starting from the Pune railway station over the past week and it was observed that most women travel alone, which included young girls, elderly women or with children. To make their travelling experience safer and help them during emergencies, the initiative has been started. “We kicked off this initiative on Wednesday which is for the safety of women passengers, in all the trains originating from the Pune railway station and our RPF staff goes along with the train. So, before the train starts, we survey the entire train, identify women passengers who are travelling alone and take their contact and address details. Our female RPF constables talk to them and make them comfortable about travelling alone and till the last destination we are in constant touch with them. Also, we keep on passing their details to the next railway division from where the train is going to pass along with all the emergency contact numbers, which are given to the passenger,” said Ashwani Kumar, senior RPF police inspector in-charge of Pune railway station. Welcoming this decision of RPF, Ruchi Pant, a passenger, said, “It is a very good initiative taken up by the railway police, I regularly travel to my hometown, Delhi, from Pune and during the travel, female passengers who are alone have to face many problems. There are eve teasing incidents, robberies and other problems. This will make sure that women passengers are more comfortable and safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/saheli-helpline-for-lone-women-passengers-travelling-from-pune-railway-division/story-d4e16pVdIyoNZsu5a7HrVN.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to address student grievances at admn block||Taking note of students’ demands, Panjab University has made arrangements to address their queries related to examinations and results at the entrance of the administrative block on campus.Officials from the examination branch will also deal with queries regarding degrees and confidential results. This comes a day after students from various colleges held a protest at the administrative block, seeking redress of several issues related to examinations and results.PU’s controller of examination Parvinder Singh said four officials will address the students’ requests on a rotational basis at the entrance of the administrative block.While the offices at the block are functional, public dealing is not permitted to avoid the risk of spread of Covid-19.College students on Wednesday had protested at the university campus and sought that retests for the third and fifth semesters should be conducted in March instead of December.They demanded that confidential results should be given to students directly. On this, Singh said they had set up an e-mail address where students can seek their confidential results.They also sought that results after re-evaluation marked as RL (result later) should be declared immediately.Meanwhile, students associated with the National Students Union of India (NSUI) submitted a memorandum to the university on Thursday. They said students, whose results were marked as RL had not been provided information on why the results were delayed.Regarding the reappear exams of passed out students, no official notice had been released till now, the students submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-address-student-grievances-at-admn-block/story-xAtosbgQc9TYdB56NKZIpI.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant Chautala accuses Punjab CM of cheating farmers by passing farm bills||After Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday also accused the Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of cheating farmers of Punjab by passing agriculture bills in the state assembly.“I request Punjab chief minister not to cheat farmers. If they’ve to bring a law, then they should’ve brought it for crops produced at large level by farmers, which sell at a lower rate than minimum support price (MSP) in the market,” Chautala told reporters.Yesterday, a war of words began between Kejriwal and Amarinder Singh, after Delhi chief minister responded to a tweet by CMO Punjab in which Punjab chief minister accused both the Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal of “double standards”.Kejriwal and Amarinder Singh took swipes at each other on Twitter over the agriculture bills passed by Punjab assembly with the Delhi CM accusing the Punjab CM of “enacting a drama” and “befooling people”.Punjab Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution rejecting three farm laws enacted by the central government as also the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill with the chief minister later leading a delegation to the Governor VP Singh Badnore urging him to give his assent to three bills passed by the assembly.Also Read: Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh in war of words on Twitter over farm bills passed by Punjab assemblyPunjab is the first state to reject the three farm laws which were enacted after passage of relevant bills in the monsoon session of parliament last month.The assembly passed three bills “unanimously” to “protect MSP and check hoarding of foodgrains”.The House also passed by voice vote an amendment to CrPC for exempting farmers from the attachment of land up to 2.5 acres.The assembly passed Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dushyant-chautala-accuses-punjab-cm-of-cheating-farmers-by-passing-farm-bills/story-NmL4DpKvqfWTaSND92sD1J.html
22-10-2020||Jaipur||International betting racket used religious chants as codes, busted||Jai Mata di, Jai Govind dev ji, Balaji Maharaj ki jai, etc, may sound like common greetings or chants to seek divine blessings, but were being cleverly used to refer to WhatsApp groups and codes by some Rajasthan bookies, running one of the biggest online betting rackets, which was busted in a raid by a special team of Jaipur police on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, leading to the recovery of Rs 4.18 crore in cash and arrest of two persons.Jaipur city police commissioner’s special team (CST), which cracked the case, claimed the bookies were using such nondescript codes and names during the betting operation to hoodwink the police and to ensure there was no leakage of suspicious information. “As the cricketing season is on, the CST team was collecting information on the organised gang involved in betting. In the past two weeks, two raids were done by the CST and local police, in which transaction details of crores of rupees were obtained. After further developing inputs obtained in previous two operations, the CST team members, Dwarka Prasad, Mahipal and Rajesh Kumar, came to know that bookies, part of an international betting racket, were ready to disperse off crores of rupees earned so far during the ongoing cricket leagues,” said Anand Shrivastava, CP, Jaipur city police. Acting on the tip-off, the CST and the local police raided a residential complex in Kotwali police station area and arrested two persons identified as Randheer Singh (45), a native of Rajkot district and Kripal Singh Jodha alias Ankit Jodha (41), a native of Ajmer. Rs 41,880,500 in cash, two cash-teller machines, nine mobile phones and a calculator was recovered from the possession of the accused. They were booked under Section 420 (cheating), 419 (cheating through personation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of the IT Act and Rajasthan Public Gambling Ordinance. “During the investigation, it was found that the WhatsApp groups and social media groups formed by these bookies, to maintain the transaction records, were given misleading names such as Jai Mata di, Jai Govind dev g, Balaji Maharaj ki jai, Khoriyar Mata ki and also names of other Indian gods and goddesses to avoid any suspicion. Code word ‘kilo’ was used to denote a lakh and ‘chicken’ was used to denote a crore. These accused were very secretly operating their groups,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional CP, crime. Lamba added that the betting racket was operated by an international bookie identified as Rakesh Rajkot, through his website diamondexch.com. Rajkot lives in Dubai. “To disperse of the money earned through betting, Rajkot and his other aides had opened a banking enterprise named as RC Enterprise, which had 321 branches operational across Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Bhavnagar, Mumbai, Kacch , Junagarh and Bhavnagar. In Jaipur, the center in Kishanpole market was operated by Rakot’s manager, identified as Randheer Singh,” the additional commissioner said.Explaining their modus operandi, another police official said that kingpin Rajesh Rajkot would give ‘Lines’ to various administrators-- of his betting syndicate—located in different cities, through his website diamondexch.com.‘Lines’ in their betting lingua franca meant credit lines for setting rates on winning, losing, average scores per session etc. Rajkot had distributed ‘super master Id’ to his local men in every city, allowing them to hand out ‘master Ids’ to rope in more bookies. These ‘master Ids’ enabled around thousands of punters, who could then place bets using the website. Every account had a fixed credit limit, said the police official.Further investigation in the case is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/international-betting-racket-used-religious-chants-as-betting-codes-busted/story-1qB5IL8wO6BOpXEuZmpewJ.html
22-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Kedarnath receives season’s first snowfall||Bringing cheer to pilgrims and locals, Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand received the season’s first snowfall on Thursday.The India Meteorological Department said elsewhere in the state, very light rainfall or snowfall was likely at isolated places especially in higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Bageshwar, and Pithoragarh districts. Despite the cold weather, devotees have continued to visit the Kedarnath shrine. After the Covid-19-related restrictions were eased, the number of pilgrims visiting the shrine has increased. Officials said 3,000 pilgrims are allowed to visit the shrine daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-kedarnath-receives-season-s-first-snowfall/story-ftAn3GfDNHZJRe3b6DAwCM.html
22-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government writes to speaker, special session for farm bills likely from November 2||To introduce bills to counter the three farm laws framed by the Centre, the Rajasthan government has written to the assembly speaker asking him to call for a special session from November 2. The state government does not have to approach the governor for permission to convene a session since the last one in August was adjourned, not prorogued. The fifth session of the 15th assembly had started on August 14 and adjourned sine die on August 24. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal said, “We have written to the speaker and the session is likely to begin from November 2.” On the issue of asking for the governor’s approval, he said the last session was adjourned and not prorogued, hence the speaker could resume the session. Also Read: Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh in war of words on Twitter over farm bills passed by Punjab assemblyA senior official, on condition of anonymity, said the draft of the bills had been prepared and sent to the law department. The bills were along the same lines presented by the Punjab government. There were some changes, such as the one where state bills allow private entities to buy farm produce or enter contract farming, as the Central law envisaged, but the purchase from farmers has to be on minimum support prices (MSPs). There would be penal provisions on those paying less than MSPs. The farmers would have the right to discontinue the contract after its tenure is over, he said. On Tuesday, the Punjab assembly had passed farm bills and pledged to protect the interests of state farmers, who were concerned about the Central legislations, which they said might deprive them of the government-fixed MSPs for their produce and put them at the mercy of big businessmen. In Punjab, MSPs are provided for wheat and paddy, but in Rajasthan, seven crops—wheat, gram, mustard, moong (lentil), urad (black gram), soyabean and groundnut—are covered under MSPs.Also Read: Agri reforms: The disjunct between the right ends, wrong meansBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Satish Poonia said the Congress was not just confused about the issue, but also about its leader and leadership, reiterating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured farmers that MSPs, Mandi system etc. would continue. The Modi government was committed towards doubling the farmers’ income, he said. Poonia added the Congress did not want the condition of farmers to improve, that they were happy to oppose laws brought in by the Modi government in the interest of the farmers. “By calling an assembly session against these welfare laws, the Rajasthan chief minister wants to show his commitment and loyalty towards Congress chief Sonia Gandhi,” he said. Refuting the BJP’s allegations, Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said the party was committed towards farmers and the poor of the country. Through the farm reforms, the government of India had interfered in the state’s jurisdiction, which was not in the farmers’ interest. The state government would be bringing in laws to ensure that the farmers are protected and their produce is purchased on MSPs. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said agriculture was a state subject and the Central government should not have attempted to frame laws. This portrayed a trust deficit between state and centre, especially states ruled by non-BJP parties, which was a matter of concern. In July, the Rajasthan governor had returned three cabinet proposals on grounds that the assembly session be called on a 21-day notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-government-writes-to-speaker-special-session-for-farm-bills-likely-from-november-2/story-NY2ZdkwBPeL7PUwMyVRxUK.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Nine more arrested in Rs 20 crore MD seizure case in Pune||The crime branch officials of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested nine more persons, including a Nigerian national and a Chhota Rajan aide, in connection with the Rs 20 crore mephedrone (MD) racket that was busted earlier this month.The accused arrested by police used to manufacture drugs at a factory in Ranjangaon MIDC and sold them at high prices in various markets in Pune and Mumbai.While the PCMC police have already seized mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 20 crore in the market, other material worth Rs 90 lakh was confiscated and properties worth Rs 75 lakh has been attached this week.PCMC police chief Krishna Prakash said that the arrested persons had planned to start the second drug manufacturing factory in Palghar district of Thane and had bought two-acre land from the proceeds which they had earned by selling the banned 112kg MD.“Earlier, we had arrested five persons with 20 kg MD worth Rs 20 crore on October 7. After that we had formed six teams to further investigate the case and unearthed the racket,” said Prakash.During the course of the investigation, it was revealed that the accused had conspired to manufacture MD at a defunct factory, Sanyog Biotech Pvt Ltd, at Ranjangaon MIDC. They had manufactured 132kg of MD in December 2019 of which they sold 112kg and 20kg has been seized from their possession. The kingpin behind the drugs racket has been identified Tushar Suryakant Kale, who is a resident of Borivali and has been linked to the Chhota Rajan gang and another notorious criminal Rakesh Shrikant Khanivdekar alias Rocky of Vasai. It is a major breakthrough and such crackdowns will continue to break the back of the criminal syndicates operating in the region, said Prakash.Among the nine fresh arrests, police have apprehended a Nigerian national identified as Jubu Ukodo, a resident of Vasai, who has been charged with selling the 112kg of MD. He had earlier served 10 years’ imprisonment in Kolhapur jail in a drugs case. He has also been accused of tampering with a visa document and a separate case will be filed against him, investigators said.On October 7, the large scale racket was busted after senior police inspector Shriram Pol had received a tip off regarding the operations of the syndicate. Following the input, the police team had nabbed Anandgir Madhugir Gosavi (25), Chetan Fakkad Dandavate (28), Sanjiv Kumar Bansi Raut (44), Akshay Shivaji Kale (25), and Tausif Hasan Mohammad Taslim (31), on Chakan-Shikrapur road wherein 20kg of MD were seized from their possession. Akshay Kale had kept the drugs at his house and they were seized while he was going to sell them in the market.As the investigation progressed, the PCMC police arrested Kiran Rajguru, Ashok Sankpal and Kiran Kale who informed them that drugs were manufactured at Sanyog Biotech Pvt Ltd in Rajangaon MIDC. Accordingly, the factory was raided, contraband recovered and sealed. Tushar Kale and Khanvidekar emerged as the gang leaders and separate teams were deployed who searched for them at different places in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Vasai, Nasik and Palghar.Tushar Kale and Rocky had planned about setting up a drug factory despite being in jail and had hired Ashok Sankpal’s Sanyog Biotech company, which was defunct. Kiran Kale who works as a director with another company in the same area had intervened with Sankpal and the other accused in the case . A meeting was held at his office where it was decided to produce MD at the rate of Rs 60,000 per kg. Tushar Kale had paid Rs 67 lakh as advance money for buying a large quantity of drugs. The police have frozen all their bank accounts and also attached two-acre land in Palsai village in Palghar district .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-more-arrested-in-rs-20-crore-md-seizure-case/story-5SmQzfNZdL0AGBI45JQOmI.html
22-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest department to procure sound guns to deter wild animals from entering villages||The Uttarakhand forest department authorities have decided to purchase sound guns from Indore in Madhya Pradesh (MP) in a bid to prevent wild animals from entering into villages, forest officials said. Kundan Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO), Haldwani forest division, said, “We have decided to buy five sound guns from Indore in MP. The cost of each gun is Rs 50,000.” There are many villages under the Haldwani forest division, which is adjacent to five forest ranges such as Chhakata , Nandhaur, Jaulasal, Danda and Sharda. Villagers living on the fringes of these forest ranges are under constant threat from wild animals to their lives and properties.Also read: Uttarakhand forest department uses solar repeller technique to check movement of wild animalsVillagers often fall prey to leopards, wild boars and other wild animals, including elephants. “Usually, the forest department guards conduct patrolling to prevent man-animal conflict in these villages. But such measures are not enough to prevent wild animals from entering these villages,” said Kumar. “Sound guns can act as a deterrent. There is a loud noise within a radius of upto 250 metres (m), when sound guns are fired in the air. The loud noise is likely to scare away wild animals. This is a simple and effective way to shoo away wild animals from entering these villages,” the DFO said. “In the first phase, five sound guns will be bought. The guns will be distributed among the staff working in Chhakata, Danda, Nandhaur, Jaulasal, and Sharda forest ranges in a bid to prevent man-animal conflict,” he added. Rampant leopard and elephant attacks continue to claim human lives in these areas.In September, a woman (55) was killed in an elephant attack in Nainital district, when she had gone to an adjoining jungle to cut grass. On August 30, a man (47) was trampled to death by an elephant in Devchauri range of the Ramnagar forest division, when he had taken his cattle for grazing in a nearby forest.Earlier in June, Bhuwan Ram (51), a forest guard was killed by an elephant at Karakot in the Haldwani forest division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-forest-department-to-procure-sound-guns-to-deter-wild-animals-from-entering-villages/story-zB1NwNWW42PRfw9xKYwbNK.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab’s Amritsar extend rail blockade till next week||Farmers in the Majha region of Punjab on Thursday decided to extend the rail roko agitation for a week even as farmer organisations in other parts of the state lifted the blockade for goods trains till November 5 following the Punjab government’s bid to block the Centre’s farm laws. The state core committee of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which holds sway in the border districts, said the farmers would continue the blockade at Devidas Pura village in Amritsar district till next week when a decision is taken. The farmers have blocked traffic on the Amritsar-Delhi route for the past 29 days. KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the agitation has been extended in view of the indifferent attitude of the Centre. “The next course of action will be announced on October 28 after a meeting of the state core committee,” he said. “As far as the movement of goods trains is concerned, our sit-in at Devidas Pura will not affect the transportation of essential goods as there is an alternative route for these trains from Beas to Tarn Taran to Amritsar. We have postponed the blockade at Basti Tenkan Wali in Ferozepur till the next meeting, so the movement of goods trains will not be affected on that route,” he said. Reacting to the Bills and resolutions passed in the Punjab assembly, he said the farmers supported the resolution rejecting the farm laws of Centre but the Bills were contradictory. “On the one hand, the Punjab government passed a resolution to reject the Centre’s laws, while on the other, it imposed tax on purchase of farm produce outside mandis and allowed the farmers to move court in case of any dispute arises,” he said. He criticised Congress workers distributing sweets after the passage of the Bills. “The Punjab government has passed the Bills and resolution under pressure of the farmers’ agitation. We have not achieved our goal which is the revocation of the three farm laws of the Centre. Till we don’t achieve the goal, our agitation will continue,” he said. Pandher said that a gathering of farmers will be organised at Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar on Friday. Meanwhile, the blockade on the rail track near Butari station in Amritsar district has been lifted for goods trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-in-punjab-s-amritsar-extend-rail-blockade-till-next-week/story-BklmM1QXjiIBlTWsaJQFpN.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Katraj receives most rainfall in past 5 months in Pune||Katraj has emerged as the suburb in the city that has received the most rainfall in the past five months (since June 1).  Katraj recorded 1,157 mm rainfall followed by Lohegaon which recorded 1,052 mm rainfall while Pune city stood at third place with 1,047 mm rainfall. The fourth position was occupied by Pashan which recorded 990.3 mm rainfall followed by Warje recording 987 mm at fifth while Kothrud stood at sixth position with 986 mm rainfall. The data was compiled by Ashay Measurements Private Limited, a private weather data monitoring company based in Pune, that provides weather reports to the Pune municipal corporation (PMC). Rakesh Nalawade, chief technical officer (CTO) of Ashay Measurements, said, “Intensity of rain is very high in Katraj. On October 14, it recorded 152mm in a day, the highest this reason.” IMD’s head of weather, Anupam Kashyapi said, “It was the impact of cyclone Kyaar over west-central and adjoining northwest Arabian Sea which ledi to heavy rains. This year too, factors like October rainfall, withdrawal of monsoon, global warming, and frequent cyclones have been responsible for rains in Pune and the adjoining areas.” Kashyapi neither confirmed nor denied the data released by Aashay.October rainfall of the city 2009 – 104.7 mm 2010 –262.8 mm 2011—200.4 mm 2012—144.5 mm 2013 – 34.7 mm 2014— 25.9 mm 2015— 76.7 mm 2016—80.4 mm 2017 – 180.9 mm 2018 – 36.1 mm 2019 – 235.5 mm *IMD source||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/katraj-receives-most-rainfall-in-past-5-months-in-pune/story-FYymVa9GKVSJbSTdcWRl8K.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Dine-in operations at restaurants likely to be extended till 11:30pm in Pune||Despite the unlock in progress, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) continues to have some restrictions in place with regards to timings and social distancing norms in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. City restaurants until October 5 were only allowed to provide takeaway services, but now have been given the nod to resume dine-in operations. Restaurants have now appealed to the civic body that the current dine-in timings, which are currently until 10pm, should be extended till 11:30pm. Siddharth Shirole, MLA from Shivajinagar said, “The Pune restaurant association had approached me and they had requested me to help them extended the timings to allow dine-in facilities until 11:30pm which currently is 1pm. I have spoken to the PMC commissioner who has promised me that the deadlines will be extended post the Dussehra festival.” Pune restaurant and hoteliers association, in their letter to the civic body, stated, “In these dire times of financial crises it would be helpful to allow dine-in timings up to 11:30pm daily. The current take away or parcel businesses constitute only a small percentage of the business, also the dine-in operations which are limited until 10pm has deferred customers from walking into restaurants as they will be forced to leave at 10 pm.” The letter also states that many will remain unemployed if the current 10pm deadline remains. The letter has given references of Navi Mumbai Municipal corporation (NMMC), Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) which have extended the dine-in operations until 11:30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dine-in-operations-at-restaurants-likely-to-be-extended-till-11-30pm-in-pune/story-NsYVn7fvb4JiF5xjj9ik9H.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Couple reveal burden of being first Covid cases in city, call for positivity in difficult times||The Pune couple who were first to test positive for the Covid-19 infection in the city after returning from a trip to Dubai in March 2020 have revealed that the infection has taught them value for life and brought them closer as a family. From facing social isolation from neighbours, taunts for being well off, the family reveals the hardships and the positivity they gained in the past seven months. Since the first two cases in March, Pune district has reported over 3.25 lakh cases, of which 2.81 lakh have recovered, 6,562 were declared dead and currently, 37,613 are active cases. The couple informed HT that they have stopped watching Covid news. “We have stopped watching the news and even following the reports as it brings back bad memories for the family. All we want is to look forward in life towards a better life,” said the 43-year-old woman, who returned along with her husband and daughter from Dubai on March 1, 2020. The woman said it was her first trip to Dubai and it was special as it was to celebrate our 25th wedding anniversary. “It was wonderful until we reached home. We were perfectly alright, we were not checked at Dubai or the Mumbai Airport where we disembarked,” recalls the housewife. It was after some days that the husband who is 51-years old developed a fever and suggested going for a check-up. “We were not told by anyone but we went on our own and then immediately put in isolation, we were not informed of anything nor were told what we had,” said the wife. It was on March 9 that the couple tested positive for Covid-19, while their 24-year-old daughter tested positive on March 10, 2020. According to the wife, the past seven months have been of introspection and looking back. The family feels that these are bad memories which are just an episode they would not like to revisit. Instead, the family feels that Covid-19 has taught them to value life, brought them closer as a family. The husband was also the first one to donate plasma and was thrilled when he helped two patients recover from the virus. It helped him rethink the ordeal and also be happy for helping the society at large. “When we were in isolation at the Naidu hospital, there was neither network nor any connection to know what was going on, my children were in a separate isolation ward and had no idea of knowing what was happening to them or to us. I spent a lot of time crying and was afraid, but my husband was calm and he believed that things would be alright,” she added. According to the woman, since they were the first couple, the doctors had no idea of how to deal with them. “For the first two days after detecting the virus, no one came to their ward nor was there any kind of prescription or treatment. Then we were given medicines for four days and doctors would come to check upon us. We were shifted to the general ward after five days and after 17 days, we were allowed to go home,” she said. There was another ordeal waiting for them when they reached their society from the hospital. The news of them contracting the virus had reached their neighbours who now looked at them differently. “I felt bad to be treated like that but some of our friends stood by us and were there to welcome us back. This ordeal made us feel guilty as if we were the cause for many of the problems that arose due to Covid-19, but looking back, it could have happened to anyone,” said the wife. Dr Sudhir Patsute, medical superintendent, Naidu Hospital blamed the media for creating hype and causing fear among people. “We are already experienced in dealing with diseases and such cases, and were ready to accept any case, since we had been learning from China that Covid-19 was mild and also asymptomatic. So, when we got the first couple, we were very cautious in our approach. They had come back from Dubai, it was frightening for the laymen but with the readings, it helped understand the mortality and morbidity rates, we knew it was not Ebola virus,” Patsute said. “Here we knew 98 per cent of patients will be safe, but as all diseases, we took precautions,’’ he said. The 24-year old daughter of the couple who is an IT professional said she learnt to be patient. “I am an extrovert like my father and we are a very social family who loves going for outings and travels, but this ordeal made us think of being happy with what we have. All I know is that if you test positive for Covid-19, then take it positively and look at quarantine as an extended holiday. My father is the source of all things positive and he taught us to relax, meditate and to be happy,” the daughter of the couple said. Looking back at the incident, the girl revealed that almost everyone made the family feel guilty for bringing the disease back home, but it could happen to anyone. “We faced a lot of negativity from senior citizens, faced taunts on being well off, that we wanted to travel, but we learnt to ignore these and lead a better life,” she said. The wife recalls that while leaving the hospital after the treatment, the doctors informed them that they had a mild level of coronavirus and was not at all scary, with all of them being healthy. “We were not even prescribed medicines after the isolation period, and the look of surprise on the visiting doctor from Sassoon, when informed that we were off medicines, was indeed funny, now that we recall when she prescribed multivitamins as medicines,” the 43-year old said. The family feels that the first thing that any person should do if detected with Covid-19 is to support them and be positive and don’t let depression get to you. “Take the precautions seriously and wear the mask and carry a sanitiser, it is the new way of living,” the family said. Patsute said the medical staff are now relieved from the pressure of the past six months.“But, we are ready for the virus to reach its peak again in January 2021. We expect some cases to rise from what we learnt from H1N1 that diseases take time to disappear. With Covid-19, it will continue until one or two years, or it is not humanely possible to eradicate the disease, but a good vaccine can help.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/couple-reveal-burden-of-being-first-covid-cases-in-city-call-for-positivity-in-difficult-times/story-VU23ZBXHFeZ0sMCFMb7KOK.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Pune administration, hospitals cautious despite vacant Covid-19 beds||Despite many private hospitals now having vacant beds available which they can put to use like in the pre-Covid times, the hospital’s board has decided not to appeal to the administration to waive off the price restrictions. The board has said that although currently, the cases might be going down, it is likely that there might be a surge following Diwali season in November for which the city needs to be prepared. According to the Covid care centre dashboard, as of Wednesday, of the 7,637 vacant chargeable beds in private hospitals, 4,937 are vacant and of the 289 ventilators, 123 are vacant. With more than 50 per cent of the allocated beds now vacant, the hospitals are allowing treatment of non-Covid19 patients. However, they are not ready as of yet to appeal to the government to give up the requisition of beds under the epidemics act. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, hospital board of India and Indian Medical Association (IMA) Pune chapter said, “It is true that the allocated Covid-19 hospital beds are now vacant, however, we have not yet appealed to the government about giving up the requisition as we all are aware that the second surge is just around the corner in the month of November. After Diwali, both the hospitals and the administration is expecting a surge and so it would be unnecessary to give up the requisition just for 10-20 days. The beds need to be available for this surge so that there is no last-minute rush or shortage of beds like last time.” He also added that although these vacant beds are allocated for Covid-19 patients as they are now vacant the hospitals are admitting non-Covid-19 patients temporarily. “During a verbal communication with the administration too, we agreed that it would not be right to open up all the private hospitals as earlier but it was also decided that private hospitals can use the vacant beds for non-Covid19 patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-administration-hospitals-cautious-despite-vacant-covid-19-beds/story-fxyzBQ4deFRwy67Wo4ZZGN.html
22-10-2020||Dehradun||Leopard that killed 13-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Nainital declared man-eater||Uttarakhand forest department declared a leopard a man-eater on Thursday morning after it had killed a teenage (13) girl in Nainital district on the previous day.TR Bijulal, a divisional forest officer (DFO) of the Nainital forest division, said, “It appeared that the leopard has become a man-eater the way it had attacked the girl. The leopard dragged the girl from the place, where it had attacked her, to inside an adjoining jungle. Local residents protested after the attack and urged the Uttarakhand chief wildlife warden to declare it as a man-eater. The permission was given on Thursday morning.” The forest department has installed a cage in the area, where the incident had occurred, and deployed a team to track the leopard’s movement. Also read: Uttarakhand’s first radio-collared leopard found crossing Ganga near HaridwarThe incident had taken place at Tusrad village under the Okhalkanda block in Nainital district on Wednesday evening. The leopard had attacked the girl, when she was going to the adjoining jungle to fetch fodder along with other villagers. This is the seventh person, in the age group between 7 and 14 years, in the hill state to have been killed in a leopard attack in the past one and half months. On October 15, a girl (11) was killed by a leopard at Jaspur in Udham Singh district, when she was playing with her siblings outside her house. On October 11, a girl (7) was killed in a leopard attack in Tehri Garhwal district, when she went to the washroom outside her house. On October 7, a girl (7) was killed in a leopard attack outside her house in Berinag division of Pithoragarh district. On October 1, a teenage boy (14) was killed in a leopard attack in Pauri Garhwal district, when he took his cattle for grazing in an adjoining forest. On September 24, a girl (11) was killed in a leopard attack in Pithoragarh district, when she was working near her house. On September 19, a girl (7) was mauled to death by a leopard, when she was playing near her house in Almora district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/leopard-that-killed-13-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-declared-man-eater/story-7hpsuThXVX0k8tnf85ApGO.html
22-10-2020||Education||DU pro-VC removed from post a day after clearing Registrar’s appointment against VC’s decision||Delhi University (DU)’s pro-vice-chancellor PC Joshi was removed from his position on Thursday a day after he cleared the appointment of a new registrar even as vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi had appointed another person for the job. Geeta Bhatt, a member of right-wing teachers’ group National Teachers’ Democratic Front (NDTF), will replace Joshi.“Dr Geeta Bhatt, Director, Non- Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) has been appointed as Pro-VC, the University of Delhi in place of Prof PC Joshi, Department of Anthropology, with immediate effect till further orders. Dr Geeta Bhatt will continue to discharge her existing responsibility in addition to this appointment. This is issued with the approval of the competent authority,” said PC Jha in a notification.The joint registrar’s office appointed Jha as the registrar with Tyagi’s approval on Wednesday.Joshi had been serving as in charge of the university as the pro-vice-chancellor in absence of Tyagi since June. Tyagi has been on medical leave.Joshi did not respond to calls and texts for comment.Jha told HT that Joshi went ahead with the university’s Executive Council meeting and appointed a new registrar even as he had been appointed the same day. “The VC [Tyagi] has decided to replace Joshi with Geeta Bhatt. I will continue to hold the position of the registrar. I will soon join...”Earlier, on Wednesday two factions--one backed by Tyagi and another by Joshi--appointed separate people as the registrar. By the end of the day, Joshi appointed a third person to the key post.The chaos began when the joint registrar’s office issued a notification on Wednesday morning naming Jha as the director of the university’s south campus and as interim registrar from October 21. Hours after the appointment, Joshi wrote to Jha accusing him of “illegally occupying” the registrar’s office. “In case you are not vacating the office immediately, you will be forcibly moved out of office and action initiated against you,” Joshi said in the letter to Jha.Joshi later held the Executive Council meeting, where a resolution was passed to appoint Vikas Gupta as the registrar. Suman Kundu, who had been working as the acting registrar since September 2, presided over the meeting.The meeting was later declared “invalid” in an unsigned email issued by the registrar’s office on Wednesday night. “A notification... was issued by the Registrar, Prof. P.C. Jha with the approval of the competent authority, for postponing the Executive Council meeting scheduled on October 21, 2020 for revision of agenda items. However, Prof. PC Joshi, Pro-Vice-Chancellor decided to go ahead and conduct the meeting of the Executive Council…. This is in complete violation of the above mentioned notification. This meeting, therefore, is illegal and void,” said the email.On Thursday, the registrar’s office on the university’s North Campus was double-locked --one by Jha and another by Joshi’s team, said an official, requesting anonymity.Tyagi did not respond to calls and texts.Bhatt said she joined as the pro-vice-chancellor on Thursday.Balaram Pani, the Dean of DU Colleges, said the university’s highest decision-making body, the Executive Council, needs to pass a resolution naming Bhatt’s as the pro-vice-chancellor as per the statutory rules. “The EC [Executive Council] has to clear each and every appointment as per DU’s rules and regulations. This is very unfortunate that a new pro-vice-chancellor has joined the office without EC’s approval. We request the Union education ministry to intervene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-pro-vc-removed-from-post-a-day-after-clearing-registrar-s-appointment-against-vc-s-decision/story-7ppuwLNdaWGMMpSrLR21MP.html
22-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Baghpat S-I suspended for keeping beard sans permission||An Uttar Pradesh police sub-inspector has been suspended for growing a beard allegedly without the department’s permission. Intezar Ali, the sub-inspector, was posted at Baghpat’s Ramala police station.Manoj Singh, the public relations officer of the Baghpat police, cited the police manual and said only Sikhs are allowed to keep a beard while all other policemen have to be clean-shaven. “If any of them wants to grow a beard, they have to seek permission from the department,” he said. Singh added Ali was issued a notice to seek permission from the department but he did not comply.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: DRI recovers 1.5kg of heroin worth Rs 4.5 crore in MuzaffarpurBaghpat police superintendent Abhishek Singh ordered Ali’s suspension on Wednesday.Ali insisted he has been trying to seek permission for keeping the beard since December but to no avail.Maulana Zulfikar, the state president of All India Imams’ Association, called Ali’s suspension a violation of his right to practice his religion as per the Constitution. “Beard is associated with Islam and therefore Ali has the right to grow it.”Opposition Samajwadi Party leader Susheer Pawar said police personnel must maintain discipline but questioned why Ali’s request for permission did not get any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-baghpat-s-i-suspended-for-keeping-beard-sans-permission/story-ti7lb9Edk5txMvJ7SMBeUK.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||‘Not allowed to meet anyone’: Delhi riots accused Umar Khalid tells court||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid, who is in judicial custody in connection with his alleged role in Delhi riots, on Thursday claimed that he is not being allowed to step out of his cell or meet anyone, alleging that it is a form of solitary confinement.“Security does not mean that I should be punished like this,” Khalid told a Delhi court during a hearing. He said that this is being done on the orders of additional jail superintendent.Khalid also said that he is not well from the last few days and due to the orders to keep him confined to the cell all the time, he is feeling discomfort, not just physical but also mental.The court then summoned the jail superintendent, and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.On October 17, the court had directed the Delhi Police to give adequate security to Khalid. The order came on a petition filed by the JNU student seeking adequate security because of his “ideological differences and dissenting opinion”.Khalid was arrested under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the communal violence that took place in Northeast Delhi in February this year.A Delhi court had on September 24 sent Khalid to judicial custody till October 22. At the end of the custody today, the police moved an application to keep Khalid in the judicial custory for another month.The court will hear the matter on Friday and is expected to pass the order of Delhi Police’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-allowed-to-meet-anyone-delhi-riots-accused-umar-khalid-tells-court-about-solitary-confinement/story-5sz7z6jt2gsjFiOOUkmMcL.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Women commuters crowd booking office||Long queues of women passengers were witnessed outside Diva and Nallasopara railway stations on Mumbai suburban network on Thursday. From Wednesday, women commuters have been allowed to travel by suburban trains during non-peak hours in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Booking counters saw long queues of women commuters as only a limited number of them were open.People took to social networking website Twitter to complain about the crowding. “Only one ticket counter is open in nsp..no one is maintaining social distancing...government should think about this @WesternRly” tweeted @ImDarshanaS“Started locals for women but was there any complete homework? Corona hasn’t gone ... Is it time to tell the government?Diva railway station at 11.00 am @Central_Railway @GM_CRly @CMOMaharashtra @PiyushGoyal @OfficeofUT @rajupatilmanase.” tweeted @1987GawdeResponding to the complaints, the Railways has stated that additional booking counters were opened and the crowd was immediately managed. “Additional booking counters were opened immediately. We are studying the increase in passengers and wherever required opening additional booking counters.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-women-commuters-crowd-booking-office/story-xwhxfCVmAT8P6nlVlMDw5J.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Police detain BJP leaders in Jalandhar after launch of Insaaf March against Amarinder govt||Punjab BJP leaders were detained for an hour and a half on Thursday afternoon soon after they launched the Insaaf March in Jalandhar to protest the alleged atrocities on the Scheduled Caste community in the state. Police stopped state BJP president, Ashwani Sharma, Union minister of state Som Prakash, former state president Vijay Sampla, general secretary Jiwan Gupta, and former state minister Manorajan Kalia among others at Surya Enclave and took them to Circuit House, where they held a protest and termed the move as a bid to suppress the voice of Dalits. The march was to culminate at chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence in Chandigarh. Former minister Manorajan Kalia said that it’s the duty of the police to maintain law and order, “instead they are crushing our democratic rights”. “The Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal also took out marches over the past few days, then why didn’t the police stop them? We were detained just because we raised a voice against atrocities on Dalits and the scholarship scam by cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who has been given clean chit by the CM,” Kalia said. Party general secretary Jiwan Gupta said, “We will continue our fight against the Congress government.” Police authorities said that the BJP leaders were detained to avoid a faceoff with farmers protesting against the new farm laws as recently state BJP president Ashwani Sharma’s car was attacked by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-detain-bjp-leaders-in-jalandhar-after-launch-of-insaaf-march-against-amarinder-govt/story-znAjjkwtE9nAqtq88yAhRJ.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court dismisses Tahir Hussain’s bail plea||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the bail application of Tahir Hussain, the suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor from Nehru Vihar, in the three first information reports (FIRs) registered against him in connection with the north-east Delhi riots that had broken out in February.The court observed that during the communal riots Hussain had held a powerful post of a councillor. “It is prima facie apparent that Hussain abused his muscle power and political clout to act as a kingpin in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration,” the court said.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said that there is enough material on record to presume that Hussain “was present at the spot of crime and was exhorting the rioters of a particular community and as such, he did not use his hands and fists, but rioters as ‘human weapons’, who at his instigation could have killed anybody”.Also Read: Delhi riots: Umar Khalid’s judicial custody ends on October 22Hussain’s legal counsels have in the past denied all the allegations and said that he was a victim of political rivalry. Hussain had in his interviews before his arrest had said that he was a riot victim and not an accused. He had also claimed that his family members had to flee the neighbourhood during the riots because they were feeling unsafe. “It is common knowledge that the dreary day of February 24 saw parts of north-east Delhi gripped by a communal frenzy, reminiscent of carnage during the days of partition. Soon, the riots spread like wildfire across the smoke-grey skyline of the national capital, engulfing new areas and snuffing out several innocent lives. The Delhi riots are a gaping wound in the conscience of a nation aspiring to be a major global power,” the judge said in his 18-page order.The judge, while dismissing the bail plea, said that the allegations against Hussain are “extremely grave in nature”.He said “even if there were no direct acts of violence attributable to the accused, he cannot shy away from his liability under the provisions of the sections invoked against him, particularly on account of the fact that his house became the hub for the rioters and rabble-rousers to unleash the worst communal riots since the partition in Delhi.”He added: “The spread of riots on such a big scale in such a short time is not possible without a premeditated conspiracy. At this stage, I am reminded of a famous English saying that goes ‘when you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire’ ”.The judge said: “When the applicant (Hussain) is at the receiving end, he cannot pass the buck. He cannot plead that he had no role to play since he did not participate physically in the riots. It is prima facie apparent that the applicant abused his muscle power and political clout to foment communal violence in the area.”Delhi Police’s Special Cell has charged Hussain for rioting, murder and inciting rioters. He has also been charged for hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots and funding the communal carnage. Several civil society members and student activists have criticised the Delhi Police for its lopsided investigation into the riots, which had claimed 53 lives and left around 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-tahir-hussain-s-bail-plea/story-xGS6ioyQ9gCgshd9kfFpIO.html
22-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: DRI recovers 1.5kg of heroin worth Rs 4.5 crore in Muzaffarpur||In a joint operation, sleuths of the Directorate of Intelligence Revenue (DRI) and the Railway Protection Force (RPF), recovered a huge haul of drugs worth Rs 4.5 crore from the bogie of a Delhi-bound express train at the Muzaffarpur railway station late Wednesday evening.The raiding team also arrested a woman who was carrying the contraband with her. One of her male co-passengers was released after a primary investigation as they recovered nothing objectionable from him.Muzaffarpur DRI sources said that they were tipped off about huge consignment of heroin packed in two bags being carried by the woman. “We alerted the RPF, seeking their help in arresting and recovery of the drug. As soon as the Delhi-bound Awadh Assam Express reached the Muzaffarpur railway station, we started a search operation. We first detained he woman and a man from a first-class AC coach. She was carrying 1.5 kg of heroin and its estimated cost in the international market is Rs 4.5 crore,” said DRI sources.Also Read: Over 40 narcotics gangs active in Noida, shows data“We took both the detained persons in our office at Maripur and interrogated them. The man said he had nothing to do with the situation. Nothing objectionable was recovered from his possession. However, the woman told us that a man had handed over the packets to her saying that they were to be delivered to someone at Hajipur railway station. The receiver would have come to the woman to get the packets,” said the source.Raids are on to nab the would-be receiver at Hajipur. “Raids are also being carried out at Dimapur, Nagaland, as the woman was given the packets by a Dimapur-based businessman,” said the DRI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-dri-recovers-1-5kg-of-heroin-worth-rs-4-5-crore-in-muzaffarpur/story-JEJlwUNK4zRRHiW8uUTnfP.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||100 striking doctors, paramedic staff in Delhi move agitation to Jantar Mantar||Around 100 doctors and paramedic staff from three North Corporation-run hospitals -- Hindu Rao, Kasturba Gandhi and Rajan Babu hospital -- who were on a “partial strike” for the past 18 days demanding their pending salaries, moved to Jantar Mantar on Thursday. The protesters threatened to sit on a relay hunger strike if their demands are not heard. They said they have been on a partial strike because they don’t want patients to suffer, but if they are not paid their dues even this month, they will be forced to go on a complete strike. The doctors were holding a three-hour pen-down strike every day for the last 18 days. Also read: SC disposes of plea seeking payment of salary to doctors, healthcare workers Shouting slogans against the BJP-ruled municipal corporation, the agitating doctors and paramedics demanded their basic right to be paid for their work. They were last paid in June.“We are just asking for our dues. How are we expected to keep working without being paid for months? How are we supposed to run our houses? We have been on Covid-19 duty risking our lives and are still not being paid,” said Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, president, resident doctors association, Hindu Rao Hospital.The paramedic staff of nurses and technicians said they have been running their houses on loans from moneylenders or friends. “Everyone has easy monthly instalments or rents to pay. We have been forced to come out on strike, as we have run out of our savings. This has gone on for so long yet there’s no assurance as to when we will get our dues,” said Santosh Singh, a nursing staff at Kasturba Hospital.The cash-strapped civic body had earlier this month said it didn’t have enough funds and had sought time till November-end to pay off the dues. Services at the hospitals have been affected because of the strike.North MCD mayor Jai Prakash did not immediately respond to a request for comments. The copy will be updated when the mayor responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-striking-doctors-move-agitation-to-jantar-mantar/story-XfPhnU6PjxaqMsVgaNym0O.html
22-10-2020||Lucknow||Worried about hygiene of prasad at temples, UP govt launches operation BHOG||To ensure that devotees get hygienically prepared, healthy and safe Prasad at langars, bhandaras and bhogs at places of worship, Uttar Pradesh food safety and drug administration (FSDA) has launched the ‘blissful hygienic offering to god’ (BHOG) project in the capital city of Lucknow. “Religious places are an integral part of the Indian society and the food served at these places is considered pure. But one has to also take care of safety. The FSDA wants all religious places to maintain hygiene while preparing prasad. That is why vendors selling prasad outside temples will be trained to prepare it hygienically,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, designated officer FSDA, Lucknow.He said that in the first phase, four temples- Hanuman Setu, Aliganj Hanuman temple, Mankamneshwar temple and Gulacheen temple in Aliganj-- and one Gurudwara at Ashiana have been selected for the training of prasad and bhog vendors as per food safety regulations.“Our aim is to create awareness about best practices right from purchasing raw material to serving the food. We just want them to follow some simple things. For instance, cooks who prepare ladoos would be expected to wear gloves, aprons or caps, clean the utensils daily and use quality food material,” Singh said. The FSDA will also certify the prasad prepared by the shops in front of these temples. The quality report would be shared with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and those not following the norms will face action. Also Read: With 3 months left for it to begin, security personnel for Kumbh Mela to arrive in phases“The project was conceived in 2015 when Sanjeev Patil, the CEO of Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai, Maharashtra found that foreign pilgrims were sceptical about the hygiene of the prasad and refused to eat it. The first pilot project was started at Siddhivinayak temple,” Singh added. Singh made it clear that the project doesn’t aim to interfere in the daily work of temples. However, it would train prasad vendors and handlers and carry out routine inspection of temple kitchens. Also Read: UP: Allahabad High Court grants bail to journalist Prashant Kanojia“FSDA would be doing routine inspection of temple kitchens. However, some temples are sceptical about the whole concept of inspection but we can assure everyone that the department will only guide them for safe food practices and not interfere in their daily activities,” he said. However, a temple office-bearer said on condition of anonymity, “Temples already take care of hygiene whenever the bhandaras are organised. While we haven’t got anything against the initiative, at the same time, it should be ensured that the food safety department cannot dictate terms to temples over the preparation of bhog.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/worried-about-hygiene-of-prasad-at-temples-up-govt-launches-operation-bhog/story-rJbVEhohRRJ096YdRUzj3H.html
22-10-2020||Education||Chaos in Delhi University over the appointment of Registrar||Two Delhi University (DU) factions backed by the vice-chancellor and acting vice-chancellor appointed separate people as the registrar on Wednesday. By the end of the day, the acting vice-chancellor appointed a third person to the key post even as many questioned the legality of the meeting where the appointment was made.The chaos began when the joint-registrar’s office issued a notification naming PC Jha as the director of the university’s south campus and as interim registrar from October 21. “He has been appointed as Director South Campus in place of Prof Suman Kundu… with immediate effect till further orders. He will also act as Registrar, University of Delhi, as an interim arrangement, with immediate effect till further orders,” the notification said.Also read: 74% seats filled in DU colleges but fewer admissions in reserved categoriesOfficials familiar with the matter said vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, who has been on medical leave, backed Jha’s appointment. Hours after the appointment, PC Joshi, who has been in charge of the university as the acting vice-chancellor in absence of Tyagi since June, wrote to Jha accusing him of “illegally occupying” the registrar’s office.“In case you are not vacating the office immediately, you will be forcibly moved out of office and action initiated against you,” Joshi said in the letter to Jha.Joshi later held a meeting of the university’s executive committee, where a resolution was passed to appoint Vikas Gupta as the registrar. Suman Kundu, who had been working as the acting registrar since September 2, presided over the meeting.Joshi, who is the chairperson of the committee in Tyagi’s absence, also announced that Kundu would act as the director of the South campus and will also work “as acting registrar till permanent/new registrar joins duty”, contradicting the joint registrar’s notice.The DU Teachers’ Association called the events of Wednesday “unprecedented chaos”. Rajib Ray, the head of the association, called the removal of one official and “threatening letters” extremely disturbing. “While one registrar occupied the office, the other was acting as member secretary of the scheduled meeting of the executive council, which the former had cancelled/postponed. This has never happened before in the history of the university.”Pankaj Garg, a former DU academic council member, said the controversy is going to diminish the university’s image as an Institute of Eminence.Rajesh Jha, an executive committee member, confirmed Gupta’s appointment during the panel’s meeting. “The meeting started after a long wait following the letter of appointment for a new registrar and director South Campus...”Tyagi and Joshi did not immediately respond to HT requests for comments. The story will be updated when they respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/chaos-in-delhi-university-over-the-appointment-of-registrar/story-dCnB5ipK9kPGbjV1XbqXgN.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Moga Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal injured in car accident near Ludhiana||The Congress MLA from Moga, Dr Harjot Kamal, and Moga Improvement Trust chairman Vinod Bansal were injured in an accident near Doraha in Ludhiana early on Thursday. They were returning to Moga from Chandigarh when their car crashed into another vehicle on National Highway number 5, police said. Both Dr Kamal and Bansal suffered fractures and were admitted to a private hospital in Moga. Doctors confirmed that Dr Kamal was injured in the right thigh and lower back. The driver of the car suffered multiple fractures and was rushed to Fortis Hospital in Ludhiana. Bansal’s son suffered minor injuries. Dr Kamal was in Chandigarh for three days to attend the Vidhan Sabha session convened to counter the Centre’s farm laws. No security personnel was with them when the accident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moga-congress-mla-dr-harjot-kamal-injured-in-car-accident-near-ludhiana/story-Xvh0mulZEKBzcUwXAs1lYI.html
22-10-2020||City||Maharashtra: Centre’s panel issues advisory for forest staff during Chandrapur tiger capture||The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) authorities have issued an advisory to Maharashtra chief wildlife warden (CWLW) to ensure the forest department’s employees’ safety following allegations by activists that the staff was being used as bait to trap an elusive male tiger (RT1). NTCA recommended the use of only “human dummies with a bent posture” as bait and not humans while capturing the tiger and asked for a report at the earliest regarding the allegations.So far, the Maharashtra forest department authorities have failed to capture RT1, who is said to have killed eight people and injured three others since January 2019 at Rajura in the Central Chanda forest division in Chandrapur district. The CWLW has renewed the capture order four times since February.HT had reported on October 18 that forest staff members have been stationed inside two camouflaged cages that are located 40 metres away from the main trapping area with a calf as bait since October 11. The cages are located under a bridge at compartment 170 near the core Rajura forest area. The state forest department authorities have categorically denied that human beings were being used as baits.However, the method to capture the elusive RT1 drew flak after a letter issued by the Rajura range forest officer (RFO) stated that the forest staff would be deployed daily between October 11 and 18 from 8 pm and 6 am and “seated in bait cages”.NTCA’s advisory letter, which was shared with the CWLW on October 19, stated that two wildlife welfare groups and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) such as Earth Brigade Foundation and Prakriti Foundation had drawn the former’s attention citing news reports published from Nagpur regarding the alleged use of frontline forest staff as bait to capture RT1. “It is requested to ascertain the veracity of the media articles and take the necessary corrective action, if required. An action taken report in the matter may be submitted to this authority (NTCA) at the earliest,” read NTCA’s letter.SP Yadav, member secretary, NTCA said, “While we are yet to receive Maharashtra’s response on the allegations, we reiterate that all efforts should be made to trap the tiger as per our guidelines. We will independently verify the allegations and ascertain whether all norms have been followed during this operation.”NR Praveen, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Chandrapur, said, “We have not received any advisory from the NTCA yet, but we maintain that there is no breach of the guidelines. Human beings have not and are not being used as bait.”Forest officials, who are heading the operation to capture RT1, said they had made progress using the method. “After a gap of almost 16 days, RT1 made its way to the large trapping area under the bridge late at night on Tuesday, where we have kept a calf as bait. The tiger was just a few feet away from entering the makeshift cage, and our staff was ready in their respective cages located 40 m away to trap the animal. However, at the last minute, the elusive tiger decided to make a hasty retreat,” said Arvind Mundhe, deputy conservator of forest (Central Chanda).“We are certain that the tiger will come to the area again. We are sticking to our plan of capturing the animal,” he added.Wildlife activists said any operation to capture the tiger after sundown was against NTCA’s guidelines. However, Mundhe maintained that the forest staff was unable to spot the animal during the day.Activists alleged that the Maharashtra forest department did not have expert teams comprising wildlife biologists, local trackers, skilled, trained wildlife veterinarians, camp elephants and mahouts to capture wild tigers on the move.“Worse, the total lack of coordination and mismanagement in the RT-1 capture operation. The low-ranking forest guards and temporary staff, who sit inside cages, at night, allegedly for their own safety with live baits, are hoping to capture the predator in its natural habitat. God forbid, if the tiger retaliates and there are any injuries to the staff, the department will promptly issue orders to kill it,” alleged PV Subramaniam from the Earth Brigade Foundation.WHAT MAHA FOREST OFFICIALS SAY THEY ARE DOING?Forest staff members have been stationed inside two camouflaged cages near a trapping area located under a bridge since October 11 to catch the elusive RT1. A calf has been left as bait for RT1. At compartment number 170 in the core Rajura forest area, the caged forest staff is perched on elevated structures covered by leaves on either sides of the main trapping area. The small cages are situated 40 m away from the bridge. The staff is holding onto a rope pulling up the steel gate of the main cage, which is to be used for trapping the animal. The plan is to pull the ropes the moment the tiger steps into the cage, shut the gate, and then quickly mobilise a team of veterinarians, who are stationed 200 m from the trapping site. The veterinarians are expected to tranquilise the feline within 10 minutes after it is caught. The department has roped in 25 Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) officers, 35 employees from the Central Chanda forest division and three veterinarians, each of whom will be assisted by seven staff members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-centre-s-panel-issues-advisory-for-forest-staff-during-chandrapur-tiger-capture/story-VIW806VEtmJfVAy9sQBFtN.html
22-10-2020||City||Khasi students’ body targets Bengalis; Meghalaya government on alert||A simmering tension between Meghalaya’s indigenous Khasi community and the minority Bengalis coupled with alleged inflammatory acts by the outsiders has rung alarm bells in the corridors of power in Shillong.The looming crisis has led Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma to weigh in, as he appealed to the public to maintain peace and harmony. Sangma’s reaction came after the Khasi Students’ Union (KSU) staged a protest against the proposed visit of the representatives of the All Bengali Youth and Students’ Organisation (ABYSO) and cited that it is an attempt to interfere with the state’s internal affairs.The KSU has blamed ABYSO of trying to disrupt peace in the tribal-dominated north-eastern state.The protests by the members of the KSU North Khasi Hills District and KSU South Khasi Hills District on Wednesday were held at Toll Plaza, Pahammawlein in Ri Bhoi district and Sohra in East Khasi Hills district.Also Read: Human rights body notice for Meghalaya govt over deaths of 877 infants in 4 monthsThe students’ body had launched a poster campaign at prime locations of Shillong on Wednesday. However, the police swiftly moved in and removed the provocative posters.Meghalaya Police tweeted late evening and appealed for peace among all sections of the society and not to pay attention to the swirling rumours. The state government, which is facing a law and order challenge amid the Durga Puja festivities and the upcoming Christmas celebrations, is pulling out all stops to ensure peace and tranquillity prevails in Meghalaya that has been hit hard by a growing trust deficit between the tribals and the non-tribals. The ABYSO, led by Chandan Chatterjee, had sought permission and security to visit Ichamati in East Khasi Hills district to take stock of the alleged “institutionalised harassment” of non-tribal women and children.The state government has denied the allegation levelled by ABYSO after a probe was conducted by the district administration.CM Sangma said on Wednesday that the government has decided to talk to the different warring groups in a bid to resolve the “confusion” and “misunderstanding” over the Ichamati imbroglio. “We are in the process of talking to all the stakeholders, including the Central government,” Sangma told media persons on Wednesday.Also Read: Meghalaya minister sounds alarm over leak from uranium effluent tanks in remote villageThe Ichamati incident was the offshoot of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 protests that had engulfed the state earlier this year.The protests had culminated in the death of a staunch KSU activist, Lurshai Hynniewta, on February 28, when clashes between the Khasis and the Bengalis had erupted following a public meeting by the students’ union supporters. Ichamati is located on the Indo-Bangladesh international border and is a trade route for export of limestone to the neighbouring country.Sangma said the government is communicating with all the parties concerned in a bid to ensure that the law and situation does not aggravate. “Normalcy will be restored by holding talks with all the parties,” he said.The CM owned up to the fact that the Ichamati had snowballed into a row a few months ago, but assured that the misgivings were addressed by his government. He sounded confident about finding an amicable solution to the ethnic unrest.“We are on the job. We are trying to ensure that we get a handle over the provocative comments being made by various groups,” Sangma added.P Jyrwa, under secretary, home (political) department, Meghalaya, wrote to ABYSO’s Chatterjee on Tuesday and stated that the government did not recommend visits to Ichamati by the organisation or other non-governmental organisations (NGOs).She informed that the state government had conducted an enquiry into the matter and a report on it was submitted to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).The enquiry was ordered by East Khasi Hills deputy commissioner. Representatives from the District Child Protection Committee were a part of the probe panel.“The report found that there are no cases of harassment faced by the residents of Ichamati and particularly women and children,” Jyrwa asserted.She also cited that the report did find that there were instances of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced economic hardship faced by the local residents. “The state government is aware of the ground realities and has initiated adequate steps to alleviate the hardship faced by the Ichamati residents,” Jyrwa said.Besides, the issue of non-renewal of the trading licences of the residents has been taken up with the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) authorities by the East Khasi Hills deputy commissioner, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khasi-students-body-targets-bengalis-meghalaya-government-on-alert/story-FkMwtGx0ZLUUcM6RyZBWDN.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Centre notifies protected buffer around Maharashtra’s Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary||The Union environment ministry has published the final notification for the buffer area around Maharashtra’s 351.16 sq km Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur district. The final eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the sanctuary now will have an area of 250.6 sq km spread across 200 m to 6.01 km against the originally proposed 230.6 sq km in the draft notification of 2019. The 20 sq km accounts for a 9% increase in the protected area.The notification was published on October 15 and made public on Wednesday.There are 41 villages in the notified ESZ in Kolhapur and Vaibhavwadi Sindhudurg districts. “The minimum extent of the ESZ (200 meters) was due to the non-availability of forest land near Kurli village of Sindhudurg district. However, we have managed to protect much more area than in our draft notification towards the western end of sanctuary. With this, over 70% of existing area is protected around the sanctuary,” said V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest (Kolhapur).Also read: Maharashtra re-examines ‘wetland’ status for Navi Mumbai flamingo havenLocated towards the southern hills of the Sahyadri range of the Western Ghats in the catchment areas of Shahu Sagar and Laxmi Sagar reservoirs, the sanctuary is home to 264 bird species (migratory and resident), 47 species of mammals, about 59 species of reptiles, 20 species of amphibians and 66 species of butterflies across the mixed landscape of semi-evergreen, evergreen and tropical deciduous forests. Important wildlife there includes the leopard cat, common palm civet, common mongoose, Indian wild dog, sloth bear, Indian giant squirrel, elephants, gaurs, tigers, and leopards.“The extremely close vicinity of RWS [Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary] to human habitation and ongoing developmental activities necessitates the requirement of proper safeguards and control over such activities. It is necessary to conserve and protect the area, the extent, and boundaries … from an ecological, environmental and biodiversity point of view and to prohibit industries or class of industries and their operations,” the ministry said in its final notification.Establishing an ESZ around a wildlife area helps conserve the ecosystem since only agriculture, small scale industries, and minor infrastructure work are permitted in an ESZ. Mining and red category industries are prohibited. “The final notification enhances protection for this zone. Now the deemed ESZ of 10 km will cease to exist. This will help in the execution of development projects in a smooth manner outside the notified area while stressing the importance of stringent measures in the notified area. It will overall strengthen wildlife conservation and ensure mining and pollution-causing industries are prohibited in the notified ESZ,” said Ben.Activist Satyajit Chavan said, “This is a welcome decision as peripheral areas around the sanctuary were being eyed by the mining lobby. We hope other areas such as the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi corridor will also get similar protection.”Similar to other ESZ notifications, a list of prohibited, regulated, and promoted activities have been listed in the final notification. It has called for the preparation of a zonal master plan within two years from the date of publication for the protection of the ESZ. An ESZ monitoring committee headed by the Kolhapur district collector has also been constituted. “The monitoring committee will ensure proper enforcement of allowed, regulated, or prohibited activities in the ESZ,” said a Union environment ministry official, requesting anonymity.In December 2018, the Supreme Court directed the ministry to declare ESZs around 21 national parks and wildlife sanctuaries without buffer zones. “We have finalised the ESZs around almost all sanctuaries and national parks. We now aim to propose more protected areas including conservation and community reserves,” the ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-notifies-protected-buffer-around-maharashtra-s-radhanagari-wildlife-sanctuary/story-B64AVytPNwajMRnJoPxk8I.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi air quality likely to improve today with change in wind direction; worsen over weekend||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) is likely to improve slightly on Thursday because of a change in wind direction, but will worsen over the weekend. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the AQI at 6 am on Thursday was 251, which fell in the poor category. AQI between 201 and 300 is considered in the poor category.Delhi’s average AQI was 256 on Wednesday. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast that the wind direction would change to north-easterly on Thursday, which could lessen the impact from stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh (UP).However, they warned that the AQI would worsen on Friday and Saturday (October 23-24) due to reduced wind speed. Also read: Staff crunch threatens to derail pollution fight in Delhi“We are expecting that the AQI will worsen because of a reduction in the wind speed from Friday. The AQI may touch the lower end of the very poor category,” said a senior scientist. The average wind speed is likely to remain up to 10 kilometres per hour (kmph) and may even reduce further over the next three-four days. Slow wind speed and a drop in temperature are not favourable for dispersion of pollutants, they added. The national capital’s minimum temperature on Wednesday had dipped to 14.3 degrees Celsius (C), four notches below normal. The maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees C, two notches above normal. The minimum and maximum temperatures would be around 14 and 35 degrees C, respectively, over the next three-four days, the scientists said.As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), and the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’ (MoES) air quality forecasting wing, the AQI would worsen in the national capital over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-likely-to-improve-today-with-change-in-wind-direction-worsen-over-weekend/story-vNkZQhbsdBhTRevp34kySO.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: No adverse effect of Oxford University vaccine on 163 Mumbai volunteers during clinical trials, says BMC||As many as 163 volunteers in Mumbai have participated in clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine produced by the University of Oxford and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may enrol an additional 50 before concluding the selection process of the pan-India trial in Mumbai. Both BMC-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and BYL Nair Hospital started clinical trials of the vaccine last month in Mumbai . “We are planning to include 50 more volunteers, 25 each from the two hospitals, for the trial. We are expected to run the trial on 200 volunteers. But if experts believe 163 candidates are enough for the conclusion of the second phase, we may stop selecting more candidates,” said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), each volunteer is covered with Rs 1 crore life insurance if they die due to any side effect during the trial. Also, they have Rs 50 lakh medical insurance if they develop any adverse effect from the vaccination. “So far, none of the participants has not had any adverse effect,” said Kakani. Also read: Mumbai’s doubling rate crosses 100-days mark, says BMCThe vaccine induces a strong immune response. It provokes a T-cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with Covid-19) response within 14 days of vaccination and an antibody response within 28 days.Every participant has to undergo RT-PCR (Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test to check if they are carrying Covid-19 pathogen. Then, through rapid antibody testing, the participants are cross-checked if they were infected with the virus in the past. Most participants are between the age group of 20 and 45 years. In the second week of September, both hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the Drug Control General of India granted permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to seek final approval from their ethics committees before starting the process of screening volunteers. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume –partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-no-adverse-effect-of-oxford-university-vaccine-on-163-mumbai-volunteers-during-clinical-trials-says-bmc/story-Z4DV9ZIOcrdtahRCGPMykN.html
22-10-2020||City||Gang of thieves busted in Mohali||With the arrest of four persons and recovery of three cars, three bikes, an illegal weapon and drugs, the police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang. The accused were identified as Sagar of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, Kishan of Ram Darbar in Chandigarh, and Rahul Kumar and Sukhman Singh of Lalru Mandi in Mohali.Addressing the media persons, Mohali superintendent of police (SP, city) HS Virk said the Phase-11 police team and the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) led by inspector Sukhveer Singh had conducted the operation.As per police, Sagar was held on October 17 at a naka on the railway station road in Industrial Area, Phase 9. On checking, the police found 200g marijuana, two daggers, a hand metal cutter, four keys of vehicles and four mobile phones.His arrest led the police to Kishan, who was in possession of a Hyundai Accent car, a TVS Apache bike, 13 banned injections and an LCD TV.Rahul and Sukhman were nabbed on October 19. An Alto car, a Bullet, a Splendor motorcycle, a country-made .315 pistol along with five live cartridges, two LCDs, a Zen car and a laptop were recovered from them.Inspector Sukhveer Singh said the accused used to sell the stolen articles in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and other states. The four were produced before a local court on Wednesday and sent to police remand till Friday, he added.A case was registered under Sections 20-61-85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 25 of the Arms Act and 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-thieves-busted-in-mohali/story-e3UnmF4uwQiHcVd53q8ZRK.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER administers Covid vaccine on 100 volunteers||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Wednesday said the first dose of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine was administered on 100 volunteers as a part of human clinical trials being conducted here.The institute has so far screened 143 candidates for the vaccine and there has been no major side effects among the volunteers so far.PGIMER is now preparing to administer a second dose from October 23, which is given after 28 days of the first dose.Interestingly, a 64-year-old senior professor of the institute has also volunteered for the trials. “Since I am a patient of hypertension and diabetes, I wanted to see how patients of my age would respond to the potential vaccine,” the professor said.The doctor has completed 23 days without any side effect after the first dose and will be administered the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-administers-covid-vaccine-on-100-volunteers/story-6ZiVoxVrtTYeQLiSOgOc6I.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three held for harbouring Monty Shah||The police have arrested three persons for providing shelter to Monty Shah, who is a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and was involved in extortion, firing and contract killing.The accused were identified as Parwinder Wadhwa, 26, Virender Soni, 26, and Deepak Wadhwa, 28, hailing from Hanumangarh, Rajasthan.“The trio were sleeper cells of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang and harboured notorious Monty Shah, helping him with a motorcycle to escape arrest in Rajasthan,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh.The trio had provided logistics and ammunition to accused Monty Shah for firing at bouncer Tirath and his cousin Parveen Shah, who are key witnesses in the murder of Sonu Shah on October 12.The accused were produced before a court; two of them were sent to police remand till October 24, while Deepak was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-three-held-for-harbouring-monty-shah/story-JMztBr0Kh3nxV6UJTkztHM.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The measure of his days||His routine stayed the same for more than 50 years. Every day he would be in his tailoring shop, working with the fabrics, the sewing machine, the inch tape and the scissors. On Sundays he would stay at home.The ritual never changed despite the ups and downs of life, including the passing away of his wife and two of his four sons.But then, the coronavirus arrived.Nathuram Ahuja hasn’t been out of his home in Gurugram’s Ram Nagar for eight months. His shop in the Sant Lal Market building, in Sadar Bazar, hasn’t opened since the first pandemic-ridden lockdown began in March.“In tailoring, you have to be very close to your customers as you take their naap (measure) for fitting... but now you have to stand as far away from people as possible if you want to stay safe,” says Mr Ahuja, his voice laced with exasperation. At 85, he falls in a category of people to whom the coronavirus infection can be potentially lethal. His loving family has urged him not to step out of the house under any circumstances. Mr Ahuja has obliged. “There are little grandchildren at home.... I’m trying to be safe, so as not to pass any disease to them... otherwise what has to happen will happen.”Mr Ahuja’s dimly lit shop appears like a world suspended in some other era. During a brief visit last year, the place was crammed with aged objects that resonated with beauty as well as utility. The customised wooden closet, with its long wide glass window, instantly transported the visitor to those old days when pieces of furniture were handmade by carpenters one had personally known for long.“The shop is closed but I’m paying the rent every month.”The gentleman talks of his legs, that have started to ache lately. “I felt more fit when I would go to the shop daily, and sit there even if there was no work... now I just eat and lie and my body has started to rust and hurt.”He wakes up every morning at 6. The rest of the family is asleep at that hour. He turns on the water pump, takes his bath, perform his pooja with a special emphasis on Lord Hanuman, and finally sits down to read an adhyaya (chapter) of Bhagwad Geeta. “My bahus (daughters-in-law) give me breakfast at 10.30.... I have two rotis and subzi in the morning, two rotis in the afternoon and two rotis at night.”All day long, Mr Ahuja thinks of “these times and this life that has to be lived.” The only distraction he permits himself is in the evening, “when I watch a half-hour TV show on Sai Baba.”He goes to sleep by 9.30.Suppose the vaccine arrived in a few months and coronavirus became history, would Mr Ahuja again resume his former life, or has he grown a tad too used to staying at home?The gentleman replies immediately: “I will at once open my shop.”This Wednesday noon the market corridor has some of its shops open. But Ahuja Tailors is lying shuttered..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/the-measure-of-his-days/story-5G1bWlWSgBv1jPDQFLigBO.html
22-10-2020||City||Badnore administers oath to 2 Punjab info commissioners||CHANDIGARH Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday administered oath of office to Anumit Singh Sodhi and Maninder Singh Patti as members of state information commission in a virtual ceremony held from Punjab Raj Bhavan. Sodhi is the son of Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi. Earlier, chief secretary Vini Mahajan sought the permission of the governor to start the swearing the ceremony. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, along with his cabinet colleagues Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, also attended the virtual ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badnore-administers-oath-to-2-punjab-info-commissioners/story-gUyXUkaEFsZG9UThmIkgeL.html
22-10-2020||City||Activist Gorakhpuria’s first death anniversary on October 23||A Smriti Sabha will be held in Gorakhpur village of Fatehabad to remember social activist Krishan Swarup Gorakhpuria on his first death anniversary on October 23. He had passed away at the age of 73 last year following a brief illness. The activist had done extensive work for girl child education, and led social movements against purdah system, honour killing and superstitions, besides lending his voice to oppressed farmers and workers. During the 1975 Emergency, Gorakhpuria had to go underground for 18 months. When the police could not arrest him, they kept his father, Chaudhary Ram Singh, in custody for a week. Gorakhpuria’s son Mintu Ram said senior politicians, social activists and residents of his native village will be attending the remembrance function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/activist-gorakhpuria-s-first-death-anniversary-on-october-23/story-14R67O3YwiB2t4J2RwiArM.html
22-10-2020||City||Armed men loot Rs 7 lakh from PNB branch in Jhajjar||Five masked men looted Rs 7.11 lakh at gunpoint from a Punjab National Bank (PNB) branch at Jhajjar’s Machhrauli village on Wednesday. The men, wearing black masks, came around 11am and took away the cash after brandishing guns at 20 customers and bank employees. They also allegedly fired a few rounds in the air. As per eyewitnesses, the robbers snatched a weapon from the security guard before entering the bank. “Three miscreants , who barged into the bank threatened the customers and bank staff . They also fired shots in the air outside the bank,” an eyewitness said. The robbers committed the crime in 7-8 minutes and fled the spot in motorcycles.Jhajjar SP Himanshu Garg said five teams led by DSP Naresh Kumar have been formed to investigate the case and arrest the robbers, who are at large.The entire episode was caught on closed-circuit television cameras installed in the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-men-loot-rs-7-lakh-from-pnb-branch-in-jhajjar/story-F83iZ4m33cmJj1sKDYCcUJ.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sexual harassment case: HC allows PGIMS student to sit for exam||The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed a physiotherapy student of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, whose name had cropped up in a case of sexual harassment of a resident doctor, to sit for exams. The student, Dheeraj Gulia, was rusticated by the College of Physiotherapy, Rohtak, when incident had come to light. The incident was reported on July 21 and an FIR registered on July 26. Gulia was subsequently rusticated by the college administration on July 27. Gulia submitted in the high court that all allegations are against one Gaurav Khatri and the woman had not levelled any allegations against him even before the judicial magistrate.In the challan too, submitted on August 31, he had not been named by the police, he had told court, adding that despite all this, on the basis of the sexual harassment committee report, he was rusticated. The high court while seeking response from the state by November 5, has stayed his rustication and directed that he be permitted to sit for the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sexual-harassment-case-hc-allows-pgims-student-to-sit-for-exam/story-WtTmJnkxpcW5EdZXkjW8AN.html
22-10-2020||City||Hooda hints at handing over reigns of party to next gen||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday hinted at bringing the next generation to lead the Congress during the next assembly elections.Speaking to a packed crowd during a workers’ meeting at Gohana, Hooda said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers are claiming that in the next elections, the Congress will seek votes in the name of Hooda but hand the steering wheel to other leaders.“I want to tell them that no one can snatch the steering wheel from me. I am not an arrogant man but I am making such claims on your (public’s) behalf,” said the former chief minister of Haryana.He further said that the Baroda bypoll may be his last election as he is getting old and wants the next generation to take the lead. “You have blessed me several times. This time, I urge you to forfeit the security deposit of the BJP candidate (Yogeshwar Dutt). Our candidate Indu Raj hails from a poor family and the Haryana chief minister asks who knows the Congress candidate. CM sahib, no one knew you when you were elevated to the power,” Hooda said.EC’s distancing norms go for toss at meetingBaroda is the only constituency in the state going to the polls on November 3 amid Covid-19 pandemic, but the election commission’s guidelines of limit on gatherings was openly flouted by the Congress. Nearly three thousand people visited the meeting, which turned into a rally and most of them were present in the meeting without face masks. The ruling BJP government too violates the rules by organising such large gatherings. Avnish Yadav, poll observer, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooda-hints-at-handing-over-reigns-of-party-to-next-gen/story-S94gjp4lpBI3pc5iYBQcCL.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land case: SC asks Haryana to name officials who excluded land parcels from deemed award||The Supreme Court has asked the Haryana government to furnish names of officials who passed orders for excluding land parcels from the deemed award, ordered by the apex court, in Gurugram’s Manesar. These land parcels were apparently excluded on account of execution of collaboration agreements between landowners and developers after August 27, 2004, the day Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act was notified to acquire the land. The apex court has also sought to know the present status of development at the site with pictures. The apex court was hearing a prayer seeking clarification whether its 2018 judgment, would also cover land parcels purchased prior to notification of Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act but transferred by landholders between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010 by way of collaboration agreements in favour of other parties.The top court had restrained three real estate developers and landowners from creating fresh third-party rights on 268 acres which was once sought to be acquired for creating an industrial township in Manesar in Gurgaon but was dropped from the acquisition by the Congress regime in 2007. The 268 acres was a part of the 688 acres being acquired for public purpose and dropped during the Congress rule. A CBI investigation was ordered in 2015 and the decision to drop acquisition proceedings was set aside by the apex court in 2018. The apex court had also ruled that 688 acres shall vest with the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and all licenses granted in respect of lands covered by the deemed award of August 26, 2007 will stand transferred to HSIIDC. Realtors claim their land outside the scope of SC order Senior advocate Dushyant Dave who appeared for Paradise Systems said the land purchased by his client was well before the issuance of Section 4 notification and was part of Section 6 declaration. However, it would be outside the scope of judgment and as such his client was entitled to develop the land, Dave said. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade who appeared for Frontier Home Developers supported Dave’s submission and stated that the factual contours in the case of his client were identical. Counsel for Karma Lakeland Brijender Chahar, accepted that his client was the holder of the land on the day when Section 6 notification was issued. He said that collaboration agreement in the case of his client was executed before Section 4 notification was issued. In its October 13 order, the apex court said for facilitating the decision, the state government should submit whether there are similar such cases as well. “Orders passed by the state government in respect of three land parcels should also be placed on record. The government should also submit whether any appeals or revisions were preferred against the original orders. Copies of the orders must be furnished and names of the officials who passed the orders must be disclosed,” the apex court said.What did the SC order in 2018: The August 24, 2007 decision to drop acquisition proceedings for 688 acres of land in Manesar and around was set aside and was termed as a clear case of fraud on power. Award for this land deemed to have been passed on August 26, 2007. The 688 acres shall vest in HSIIDC and all licenses granted in respect of lands covered by the deemed award of August 26, 2007 will stand transferred to HSIIDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-case-sc-asks-haryana-to-name-officials-who-excluded-land-parcels-from-deemed-award/story-EaeWPW0GGZHtkBX6As19yH.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 14 fatalities, 1,193 new infections||Haryana recorded 14 fatalities due to Covid-19 and 1,193 new cases on Wednesday, while 1,070 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin. The death toll has reached 1,674 (1,154 men, 506 women) and the tally of people tested positive stands at 1, 53, 367. While three patients died in Hisar, two each lost their battle to the infection in Gurugram, Yamunanagar and Panchkula. Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Panipat districts recorded one fatality each. With 1, 070 recoveries on Wednesday, the number of those cured of Covid-19 rose to 1,41,506 and the number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 10,187. The number of critical patients has come down to 196, of which 29 are on ventilator support. As per the bulletin, the case doubling rate in Haryana further rose to 44 days and the fatality rate is 1.09%. Gurugram reported 304 new infections, Faridabad 187, Rewari 68, Hisar 104, Sonepat 66, Rohtak 29, Sirsa 36, Yamunanagar 29, Bhiwani 46, Jind 29, Palwal 25, Jhajjar 50, Mahendergarh 41, Fatehabad 13, Kurukshetra 33, Panchkula 30, Karnal 14, Nuh 6, Kaithal 18, Ambala 25, Panipat 23, and Charkhi Dadri 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-14-fatalities-1-193-new-infections/story-w4cFOPZs20WJamZyAFB3nN.html
22-10-2020||City||Police Commemoration Day: Jobs for kin of slain cops in state by Nov 1, assures Khattar||In a significant development for dependents of 50 slain police personnel, whose kin are yet to receive ex gratia benefits, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that one member of each of these families will be provided a government job by November 1 this year. The CM announced this while speaking at a ceremony to mark the Police Commemoration Day at Police Lines, Moginand, in Panchkula on Wednesday. On October 21, 1959, ten soldiers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had lost their lives in an ambush attack by Chinese soldiers while they were patrolling the Indo-Tibetan Border in Ladakh. Since then, October 21 is observed as the Police Commemoration Day. CM Khattar said that at present, only 50 ex gratia cases are pending in the police department. “I have talked to the director general of police (DGP), Manoj Yadava, and decided to give a government job to one family member each of the 50 police personnel under the ex gratia scheme of the state government by November 1,” he said. The state government has implemented a new ex-gratia scheme for the state government employees. Under this scheme, if an employee dies before the age of 52, one of his or her family members will be provided a job in the government. While paying rich tributes to 264 martyrs of Central Armed Police Forces, including two from Haryana Police, who sacrificed their lives during the last one year, the CM said that this day is dedicated to the bravehearts who sacrificed their lives to maintain the unity and integrity of the country and ensure the security of life and property of citizens. He added that the compensation amount provided to the next of kin of deceased police personnel has been increased from Rs 17 lakh to Rs 30 lakh under the Accidental Insurance Death Cover. Khattar also appreciated the role of Haryana Police for working as frontline corona warriors. He said more than 2,500 police personnel got infected with Covid-19 in the line of duty. Out of these, six have lost their lives. Rs 30 lakh ex gratia to cops killed in Sonepat The chief minister also announced that the family members of SPO Kaptan Singh and constable Ravinder Singh, who lost their lives in an attack by anti-social elements during night patrolling on June 30 in Sonepat, would be provided an ex gratia amount of Rs 30 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-commemoration-day-jobs-for-kin-of-slain-cops-in-state-by-nov-1-assures-khattar/story-s2WcPNb3tiUIIceopSxzMK.html
22-10-2020||City||Hisar jailbreak: Mastermind held, plotted escape to kill prime witness in murder case||Police have caught the mastermind behind the Hisar juvenile escape case.The accused is a 21-year-old, who was also an inmate at the observation home in Hisar, from where the 17 juveniles escaped on October 12.Police are now probing how the accused, who is no longer a juvenile, was putting up at a home for minors (below the age of 18) in conflict with law.Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said the 21-year-old, who is from Rohtak, had plotted the escape with three other inmates. While two of them have been nabbed, the third accomplice is yet to be arrested.The 14 other inmates had taken advantage of the melee to escaped. Police are yet to trace 10 of the 17 juveniles who had escaped.During interrogation, the 21-year-old told the police that his main aim was to kill Bainsi village sarpanch, Krishan Kumar, who is the prime witness in the murder case against him. The inmates have been booked under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-jailbreak-mastermind-held-plotted-escape-to-kill-prime-witness-in-murder-case/story-yXTzp6EdqyLWqIWmkSm9hP.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers allow passage of goods trains till November 5||Punjab farmer bodies on Wednesday announced the easing of their three week-long ‘rail roko’ agitation by allowing passage of goods trains in the state, a day after the assembly passed four bills and a resolution to negate the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre.“We have decided to allow only goods trains from today till November 5,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala of BKU (Dakounda) after meeting of 30 farmer organisations in Chandigarh. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh welcomed the announcement, saying it was in the interest of the state’s economy and its revival. He said the farmers had shown their love and concern for the people of Punjab with this move as it will allow the state to get its much-needed coal supplies. Farmers, who have been protesting since September 24, however, said passenger trains would not be allowed and their representatives would keep vigil at the railway stations.Patiala said the protest outside the premises of state BJP leaders and gherao of business establishments owned by the corporate houses would continue until November 5. “The next course of action will be announced in a meeting fixed for November 4,” he added. On the four Bills passed by the assembly, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said it was a “big achievement” of farmers’ agitation. “It has happened for the first time that a special session of the assembly was called and the bills were passed under pressure from farmers. It has marked a beginning of big political movement and it could spread to other states also,” he added. Rajewal said the farm bodies are prepared for a long fight. Darshan Pal, president of Krantikari kisan union, said they are considering lifting gherao of fuel stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-allow-passage-of-goods-trains-till-november-5/story-1uHTENBSdewhyGeoTfsRBN.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government discusses staggered office timings; decision on allowing all in Mumbai local trains likely to be taken soon||To permit private employees to travel by local trains, the state government on Wednesday discussed the implementation of staggered office timings, along with the introduction of colour-coded quick response (QR) based system for the suburban railway network.Vijay Wadettiwar, relief and rehabilitation minister said that the decision over allowing all passengers will be taken soon. “We have been assessing the possibilities of allowing opening up of the train travel in a phased manner and prioritising sectors. The citizens of Mumbai will not be made to wait longer,” he said.According to the officials from the relief and rehabilitation department, the permission to all passengers to travel in locals immediately was not possible.“We have been identifying the sectors that can be prioritised for the travel and at the same time would not put a burden on the train services. After assessing the experience of women commuters travelling in non-peak hours for next week, another segment of commuters is expected to be allowed. We may choose essential services like pharmaceuticals, food industries to be allowed board locals,” the officer said.The officer further stated that a few other sectors like restaurants, call centres may be allowed to travel on non-peak hours so that the services do not get burdened. He also pointed out that though both railways have been operating more than 40% of their total pre-Covid services, the passengers allowed currently are not in the proportion. This means there is room for more passengers to be allowed at least in non-peak hours.Central and Western Railway authorities along with passenger unions suggested the change in the office hours to reduce crowding inside local train compartments.“The government is concerned and wants to permit everyone to travel by local trains. We suggested the change in shift times until the coronavirus pandemic lasts. The change in office hours will drastically reduce overcrowding. The state government can only ask the private sector companies to implement change in the office hours.” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association who attended the meeting.“We have received inputs from associations representing jewellery, passengers today. The rolling out of the plans will help the suggestions we received from them. Instead of regulating any sector, we want to encourage them to go for the staggering of the office timings.” said the official from the relief and rehabilitation department.Railway officials also suggested the implementation of adopting a colour-coded QR based ticketing system.Commuters would be provided time slots within which they can travel for work. These time slots would be designated different colours and could be displayed on the QR code on tickets and travel passes. Passengers will be allowed to commute during the particular time slots available to them.“The Kolkata Metro is having the colour coded QR based systems which can also be introduced on the local train network here. We have recommended the same to the state government. It could be helpful once trains resume for the general public.” said a senior railway official who attended the meeting.However, the state government officials stated that the implementation of colour coding could not be possible because of the quantum of passengers. “The colour coding and booking of the tickets that are being implemented by Kolkata Metro may not be applicable here in Mumbai for the huge quantum of passengers.” said a state government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-discusses-staggered-office-timings-decision-on-allowing-all-in-mumbai-local-trains-likely-to-be-taken-soon/story-sqscu2O3syvJxI72i0JjpL.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Survey of flood damage almost over; Maharashtra chief minister hints at relief before Dussehra||Amid growing demand of compensation for a massive crop loss suffered due to retreating monsoon, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the spot survey to ascertain the damage is nearly complete and hinted that the compensation could be announced in a couple of days. Thackeray toured Osmanabad district on Wednesday and visited some flood-affected villages.Farmers from more than 10 districts of central and western Maharashtra have sustained heavy losses to harvest-ready crops on more than 10 lakh hectares. Crops of soybean, sugarcane, cotton and pulses like moong, urad have suffered major losses. Solapur, Sangli and Satara in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad, Latur and Beed in central Maharashtra saw maximum rainfall last week. More than 60 people died due to downpour in these districts last week.Thackeray refrained from announcing any financial aid during the visit but said that nearly 80% of spot inspections have been completed by the district administration and the state cabinet will meet on Thursday or Friday following which an announcement is expected.“The spot inspections are nearly 80-90% completed; we have got an estimate. In a day or two, the [state] cabinet will meet. Whatever we decide will be to bring your life back on track,” Thackeray told a group of farmers gathered in a village in Kategaon taluka of the district.Later, speaking to reporters, the chief minister said, “My nature is to carry out work properly. To start something with much show and then get stuck in between is of no use. Similarly, announcing something which I cannot do, is also useless. While I am speaking to you, the work on finalising compensation is on in Mumbai. Day after its Dussehra, then Diwali will follow, in the time of festivals I will not allow my people to have tears in their eyes.”Thackeray lamented that in the absence of Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation due from the Centre, the state was unable to announce an immediate relief package. He added that the state government is also looking at borrowing funds for giving out financial aid to farmers.“A large sum of the fund is yet to come to us from the Centre. If the money that is owed to us would have been in our hands, then we would have given aid as Telangana has done. The GST compensation owed to us is our right and it must be given to us. Once that comes, we can make changes but so far there is no sign of it. In such a scenario, we are exploring all options including borrowing funds. We will decide on it a day or two,” the chief minister said.In a response to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who had replayed old video clips of Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar wherein the two leaders had gone to flood-affected areas when Fadnavis was the chief minister in October last year and demanded compensation without spot surveys.Thackeray, during his visit to flood-affected areas, had demanded a compensation of Rs 50,000 per hectare for crop losses. “Yes, my clip is viral, but when I demanded that there was no Covid or the GST was not stuck. I am sincerely saying that whatever is possible to do for our farmers we will do it,” he said.The CM also said that he has no time to look at the Fadnavis’ criticism where he had termed CM’s behaviour as “flippant”. “I don’t have time to listen to their criticism. My attention is towards my farmers and my people, I don’t have time to look at these ‘thillar-chillar’ (loose change),” he told reporters in Osmanabad.The chief minister said that they are also going to meet representatives of insurance companies as there are some issues with crop insurance scheme in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/survey-of-flood-damage-almost-over-maharashtra-chief-minister-hints-at-relief-before-dussehra/story-qrtCNIZgs8l8YmU0i4g3mO.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows Jains to serve meals to devotees in temple dining halls during Ayambil Oli||In a relief to the Jain community, the Bombay High Court on Wednesday allowed them to conduct the ritual of feeding devotees during the nine-day Ayambil Oli or Ashwini Navapada festival in their temple dining halls. The community had approached the court through Atma Kamal Labdhisurishawji Jain Gyanmandir Trust and stated that the as feeding devotees was a mandatory annual service for community members, they should be granted permission for the same. The trust assured the court that the dining ritual would be held only in those temples that had dining halls admeasuring nearly 1000 sq feet and 40 persons would be admitted in the hall per hour. The court accepted the assurance but directed the community to follow SOPs issued by the state government for the functioning of restaurants during the pandemic. A division bench of justices S J Kathawalla and V G Bisht while hearing the petition was informed by advocate Praful Shah that the nine-day festival commencing on October 23 till October 31 was part of the mandatory religious rituals of the community wherein members were offered meals over the entire period of the festival. Shah informed the court that the community was cognizant of the pandemic situation but were willing to abide by court orders. He also submitted that on its part the community would ensure that the meals would be distributed only in those temples which had a dining hall admeasuring 1,000 square feet. He added that the community would also ensure that at any point of time only 40 devotees would be admitted to the hall during the meal distribution. When asked to respond, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that the state was not inclined to permit the community and it was on the court to decide. Kumbhakoni further submitted that after the state allowed trains and restaurants to start functioning, it had come to know from the staff that none of the social distancing norms or Covid-19 protocols were being observed. Hence, the state was opposing the petition. After hearing the submissions the court observed, “We are aware that it is not possible. But it cannot be time immemorial,” said justice Kathawalla and said that in light of the submissions by the petitioners it was allowing it to observe the Ayambil Oli rituals. The court further reiterated that the community members would only have access to the dining hall and not the temple and all protocols laid down by the state government for restaurants would have to be observed during the nine-days. The court also sought a list of temples which had dining halls of the specified measurement and to ensure that meals were not distributed in smaller halls and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-jains-to-serve-meals-to-devotees-in-temple-dining-halls-during-ayambil-oli/story-C9w6LJavq5ljUz6okqDQ2N.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai university’s IDOL to conduct separate BA, MA final year exams for those appearing for CET||The Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), University of Mumbai, will conduct separate exams for students who will take their common entrance tests (CET) for law and physical education. Final year examinations of BA and MA students of IDOL scheduled to be held on November 2, 3 and 4 are overlapping with CET for admission to law and physical education. Granting relief to students appearing for both exams, IDOL will allow such students to take the exam on November 6, 7 and 9 instead. Almost 44 papers of BA final year 34 papers of MA will be held during these three days. For those who will be appearing for the CET, it is mandatory to register with IDOL by sending an email to email given by Idol at onlineexam2020@idol.mu.ac.in. Such students must send their name, name of the exam, seat number, contact details and the name of the paper to the email ID. It is also mandatory for students to submit a copy of their hall tickets to IDOL through the email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-s-idol-to-conduct-separate-ba-ma-final-year-exams-for-those-appearing-for-cet/story-kExT2buha2vGtXVgOhqmpK.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||PEC will not conduct exams of previous semester||Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, will not be conducting pending examinations of the previous semester, which were stalled due to the Covid-19 outbreak, and instead grade the students as “pass” or “fail” on the basis of their performance till March.The decision was approved by the PEC senate on Wednesday. The pending examinations of BTech second and fourth semester were planned to be held this December, but the students had opposed it.The deemed to be university had earlier scrapped the examinations of the graduating batch, and instead assessed them on the basis of their performance till March.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said that while assessing the students’ performance, any assignments submitted by them during online classes held amid the lockdown will also be considered.The senate has also approved that the examinations of the ongoing semester should be postponed and held after Diwali (November 14). The exams were earlier scheduled to start from November 2, and were postponed on the demand of students, who held two meetings with the director in October.Meanwhile, the institute has decided to take online exams of international students who are not in India at present.Proposal to make internship optional postponedThe senate in its meeting postponed the decision on making the sixth-semester internship optional as well as other proposals under the new undergraduate curriculum being framed by PEC. The credit-wise breakup of the new curriculum was approved in the last senate meeting, after which several committees were constituted to finalise the structure. The committees had also proposed that students be allowed to change their discipline on the basis of the academic performance at the end of the second semester.“The senate decided that before taking any decision on the recommendations, feedback should be taken from the departments,” said Sanghi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-will-not-conduct-exams-of-previous-semester/story-PB869IQjjJurBj7ywNbdDO.html
22-10-2020||City||Navi Mumbai civic projects to be monitored by Cidco||As per the directions by managing director (MD) of City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), its vigilance department would henceforth be monitoring all the civic issues of the areas maintained by them, but comes under the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC). In a statement issued by Cidco MD Sanjay Mukherjee, it has been mentioned that all the civic services in Navi Mumbai would now be under the purview of their chief vigilance officer. “We would be doing the internal coordination with PCMC for all the civic issues in the areas maintained by Cidco but falls under the civic body,” said chief vigilance officer Shashikant Mahavarkar, Cidco, said. Till now, the vigilance department looked into the financial affairs of Cidco, wherever an internal enquiry was needed. It coordinated with the police department in case of any legal suits or cases registered by or against Cidco. “Initially, people had to approach the nodal officer or the chief engineer of the area for any civic issue like bad roads or water problems. Now those issues would be monitored by an IPS cadre officer. The solution to the problems would be more effective and faster,” Cidco public relations officer Priya Ratambe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-civic-projects-to-be-monitored-by-cidco/story-M0H1zY6bYlsEdEzFYpS93H.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for rape, forcing victim to abort||The Dahisar police on Wednesday arrested a 39-year-old man on charges of rape and causing miscarriage without consent. The case was registered on Tuesday after police received a written application from the victim stating that the accused had raped her from 2009 to 2020 on fake promises of marriage. According to complainant’s statement, she stays at Mira Road and had become friends with the accused in 2009. She had been in a relationship with the accused since November 2009, and since then he raped her by promising to marry her. She also claimed in her complaint that the accused sexually assaulted her by spiking her breakfast. Last year when she informed him about her pregnancy the accused asked her to abort the foetus, stated the complaintThe accused then got her pregnancy aborted. Recently when she realized that the accused was giving her fake assurances of marriage, she decided to report the incident and approached Dahisar police.An officer from Dahisar police station said, “Following her complaint we registered a first information report (FIR) under section 376 (2)(n) [commits rape repeatedly on the same woman], 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence), and 313 (Causing miscarriage without woman’s consent) of Indian Penal Code and arrested the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-rape-forcing-victim-to-abort/story-u7Onr1Dkf6ffhY3rdDBcmN.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: 4 more succumb in Chandigarh tricity, 163 test positive||The tricity on Wednesday recorded four Covid-19 deaths and 163 fresh cases.In Chandigarh, 54 cases surfaced, taking the tally to 13,795.No death was reported, keeping the toll at 208. As many as 118 patients were discharged, with which the number of those cured and active cases reached 12,842 and 744, respectively. In Mohali, two people died while 79 tested positive. The toll stands at 229, while the number of cases in the district has climbed up to 11,880, of which 598 are active. As many as 11,053 patients have recovered, 98 of whom were discharged on Wednesday.Panchkula, too, recorded two deaths, while 30 fresh cases surfaced. The district has reported 6,900 cases so far, of which 6,557 have been cured and 109 have died, leaving 234 still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-4-more-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity-163-test-positive/story-ZoJQJANdofkrSTznX97nqI.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House meet row: More embarrassment for mayor as BJP backs councillors||A day after facing the ire of her party councillors, Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik on Wednesday remained under attack from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership.State party in-charge and organisation secretary Dinesh Kumar came out in support of the agitated councillors, who had cornered the mayor by boycotting the municipal corporation’s General House meet on Tuesday. Adding to Malik’s embarrassment, Kumar said: “The mayor should have accepted the councillors’ demand for holding a physical meeting instead of sticking to her decision of a virtual meeting.”Stating that the organisation is supreme and each individual should listen to the party consensus, Kumar said: “We tried to convince her, but she remained adamant, and said the next meeting would be virtual. If she can be insistent, the organisation can also state its opinion and follow through.”In an unprecedented move, 18 of the 20 BJP councillors on Tuesday boycotted the House meeting, forcing Malik to adjourn it for lack of quorum. Even the city party chief and councillor Arun Sood didn’t attend the meeting, while all the Opposition members were present. Left red-faced, Malik had stated that she didn’t know about the party’s decision to boycott the meeting.‘No action planned against her’However, Kumar ruled out any action against Malik for not toeing the party line. “There is no question of taking action against anybody. But the next House meeting will be a physical one. In virtual meetings, no conclusive decisions could be taken, and even proper discussion didn’t take place,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, Arun Sood said that he has informed the party high command about the entire incident, and it is up to them to decide on the future course of action.Sources said a section of BJP councillors are pushing for bringing a no-confidence motion against Malik in case the next meeting is also virtual. Malik’s one-year term ends in around two months.Elected as a councillor on the Congress ticket in the last House, Malik had joined the BJP in 2014, and got re-elected in 2016. She didn’t comment on the issue. BJP attacks MC commissioner tooCarrying on with their attack on MC officials, the BJP on Wednesday targeted commissioner KK Yadav, accusing him of discriminating against party workers and working under the influence of Congress.Chandigarh BJP general secretaries Ramveer Bhatti and Chandrashekhar, in a press statement, said: “Despite locking the government building (during a protest at the MC office on Tuesday), Congress leaders have faced no action, whereas when BJP workers go to meet the MC commissioner, they are made to wait unnecessarily and false complaints are lodged against them.”Taking a jibe at Yadav, Bhatti said he fears of coronavirus infection only when a meeting of 35 councillors is to be organised in the assembly hall, but had no fear when so many people (Congress workers) gathered outside the MC building.Responding to the allegations, Yadav said: “I am sincerely doing my duties as laid down by the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meet-row-more-embarrassment-for-mayor-as-bjp-backs-councillors/story-FehucjUOH7CYU4Xs7XS1hK.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man who supplied bike to Gurlal Brar’s shooters held in Chandigarh||After struggling for 10 days to make a breakthrough, Chandigarh Police on Wednesday finally arrested a Mohali man for allegedly supplying a motorcycle to the duo who gunned down gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide Gurlal Brar outside a mall in the Industrial Area past midnight on October 11. Identified as Gurvinder Singh, alias Dhadi, 23, of Rurki Pukta village in Gharuan, Mohali, the accused has also named the two shooters.“He had provided the motorcycle used by the shooters to commit the crime. The shooters have been identified as Neeraj Chaska and Mani,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. Gurvinder was in a Hyundai i20 when he was arrested following a tip-off at a special naka near the Poultry Farm Chowk on Dakshin Marg near Hallomajra. He had earlier been arrested in a drugs case in Kharar this year, but was released on bail to decongest jails amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said police. Hours after Brar, 26, was shot dead, slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group had taken responsibility, claiming that the murder was executed to avenge the death of an aide, who was killed at a fair in Kotkapura, Faridkot, in 2017. That murder was executed by the Bishnoi gang, and Brar had reportedly conducted the recce.“Gurvinder disclosed that he along with his friend Gurmeet Singh, alias Geeta, of the same village were asked by Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who is running the Bambiha gang, to provide a motorcycle with fake number plate to the shooters,” said Chahal.As the bike was old, the two got it repaired and fitted a fake number plate on it. They handed it over to the two shooters at Sunny Enclave in Kharar on October 8, and were constantly in touch with them through WhatsApp audio and video calls, said police. The two are drug addicts and also supply drugs. They were also arrested on the charges of murder bid in Kurali in 2018 and remained in jail for about eight months, where they came in contact with other criminals, said police. All about the gang rivalryWhile Gaurav Patial planned the murder, the shooters, arms and ammunition were arranged by gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, alias Baba, from behind bars, said police.After Bambiha’s encounter, Dilpreet along with Sukhpreet, alias Budha, had been running the gang. Gaurav took over the operations after Dilpreet got hooked to drugs.While Dilpreet was arrested in a police encounter in Chandigarh in 2018 and is lodged in Ropar Central Jail, Gaurav is calling the shots from Armenia. Sukhpreet had also escaped to Armenia, but was extradited and is in jail at present.Running an extortion racket, the Bambiha group are at loggerheads with Lawrence Bishnoi and Sampat Nehra gang, both of whom are also lodged in different jails. Chandigarh Police have already sought the production warrants of Dilpreet and Sukhpreet, while Gaurav’s extradition is in process. More about Gaurav Patial, alias LuckyIn May 2012, a case was registered against Gaurav for the murder of kabaddi player Saudagar Singh, who was axed to death in full public view outside the district courts complex in Phase 3B1, Mohali. He was sentenced to life term in September 2015, but jumped parole. In July 2014, he was named in another murder case in Mohali, and was declared a proclaimed offender In January 2018. His name figures in the wanted list of the Mohali police. He along with Dilpreet was also involved in the firing at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma in Mohali in April 2018, and had allegedly collected ₹20 lakh protection money from the singer. How police traced the accusedThe practice of writing the mobile number of the violator on the traffic challan slip helped Chandigarh Police trace the accused, Gurvinder Singh.After Brar’s murder, police had found a black 150cc Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle bearing a Chandigarh registration number at the mango orchard in Sector 28. On reaching an address in Sector 41 on the basis of the vehicle number, police hit a dead end as they found a 220cc bike with the same number. Tracing the engine and chassis number of the recovered bike, police found the original owner in Rupnagar, who had sold the bike to a man in Fatwan village of Mohali. The vehicle was further sold in 2014 through an agent in Kharar, but he did not have the details of the buyer. So, the probe again hit a dead end.However, during verification, police found a traffic challan dated December 10, 2016, wherein the said bike (PB-12-Q-2660) had been impounded from one Kulbir Singh.The Ludhiana address on the challan slip was found to be fake, but police managed to trace Kulbir through the mobile number written on it.Kulbir told police that he had given his bike to one Gaganpreet Singh of Rurki Pukta village in Gharuan.Gaganpreet was apparently hospitalised when accused Gurvinder and Gurmeet, of the same village, took his motorcycle and handed it over to the shooters with a fake registration number plate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-who-supplied-bike-to-gurlal-brar-s-shooters-held-in-chandigarh/story-1GBIDDW0mLyQOYNZdAWKlJ.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Bombay HC raises concerns over ‘investigative journalism’ by news channels||The Bombay high court (HC) while questioning the News Broadcasters Federation (NBF) on why no suo motu action was initiated with regards to complaints against the alleged media trial in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, also asked Republic TV how its statements asking the public to decide on who should be arrested in the case amounted to ‘investigative journalism’. The court while hearing responses of various news channels on the allegations made by the petitioners in the various public interest litigations (PILs) against them was informed that the reporting was not intended to influence or prejudice the minds of the judges or the court, and that the contentions of the petitioners were unfounded. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the responses of NBF, was informed by advocate Siddharth Bhatnagar that the self-regulating authority had been abiding by the standards set out in the Cable TV Regulation Act just like other such bodies. Bhatnagar submitted that various courts including the Supreme Court had refrained from interfering in the existing mechanism. Bhatnagar, however, was unable to respond to the court’s query as to why NBF had not taken any suo motu action against member channels after receiving complaints of media trial being conducted in SSR case. Thereafter, advocate Malvika Trivedi for Republic TV responded to the allegations and sought to clarify that the submissions made by the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) regarding Republic TV walking out of NBA due to harsh action initiated by them was not true. She submitted that Republic TV left NBA as there were some disagreements between the NBA authorities and Republic TV on the issue of a reporter who initially worked with another channel but later joined Republic TV. She, however, added that it was just a clarification and would not have any impact on the ongoing case and hence would not go into the details of the disagreement. Trivedi then countered the claims of the petitioners that the channel had tried to malign the name of the Mumbai Police by accusing it of not carrying out proper investigation in the case. “There were some lacunae in the investigation by the Mumbai Police which the Supreme Court observed and hence allowed the investigation to be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),” she said, adding that it was Rajput’s family that demanded transfer of the investigation. She also said that the public was also curious to know the real facts. She further submitted that the reporting was part of the investigative journalism undertaken by the channel. The court, then, referred to the hashtag ‘arrest Rhea Chakrobarty’ which was publicised by the channel and sought to know whether asking the public on who should be arrested was ‘investigative journalism’. Trivedi responded saying that it was on social media. “These are public tweets and public opinions. The petition does not ask for relief pertaining to this. I am only saying that there is a reason and context of these tweets. Any person, who is aggrieved and has a locus standi, can approach the self-regulatory authority and get relief.” The bench then, assuring the channel that the bench was not singling it out, sought to know why the channel took the stand that it was a murder while investigation was underway in the case to decide whether it was a homicide or suicide. The court also asked if the stand taken by the channel was oart of ‘investigative journalism’.Trivedi then drew the court’s attention to previous cases wherein the media had played a vital role in investigations and had also received applauds for contributions based on which arrests were made. “The Supreme Court has appreciated the work done by Republic TV in one of the cases,” said Trivedi. While continuing hearing responses of other channels, the court observed that it did not intend to throttle the voice of the media, but expected the media to exercise restraint while reporting on sensitive issues and not cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ which was referred to by the petitioners. The court will continue hearing the matter on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-bombay-hc-raises-concerns-over-investigative-journalism-by-news-channels/story-FGD9eKGcQ82WiIvVdtL97N.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||14-year-old boy nabbed for raping 11-year-old girl in Navi Mumbai||A 14-year-old boy has been apprehended by Panvel City police for raping an 11-year-old girl. The incident took place on October 13. The juvenile accused has been charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.According to the police, the accused was known to the survivor. The girl lives with her younger brother and her mother, who is a widow and works as domestic help. The boy’s father is a daily wage labourer. On October 13, while her mother was at work, the girl stepped out to buy groceries and met the 14-year-old on her way home. Inspector Shatrughan Mali of Panvel City police station said the boy lured the girl by saying they would play together, but took her to the terrace of the building where he lives and raped her. “The boy threatened the girl that he would kill her brother if she told anyone about the incident. The girl was scared as she and her brother were home alone, and she assumed the accused could harm her brother as well,” said a police officer.On October 16, the girl complained of pain in her abdominal and told her mother she had been raped. The mother took her to a doctor and then, on October 17, she filed a complaint with the police. The 14-year-old was apprehended the same day and has been handed over to his father. The police are waiting for permission to present him before the juvenile court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-year-old-boy-nabbed-for-raping-11-year-old-girl-in-navi-mumbai/story-njd320MrMZb6KDa8wSygyN.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s doubling rate crosses 100-days mark: BMC||For the first time in seven months, the doubling rate for Covid-19 in the city has crossed the 100-day mark. On Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said Mumbai’s doubling rate is now 102 days and the average growth rate is 0.69%. BMC calculates the doubling rate by analysing seven days’ data.On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,609 new cases and 48 deaths. The city’s Covid tally stands at 2,45,869 with 20,216 active cases. The death toll is 9,912 and so far, 2,15,269 have been discharged after being treated for Covid-19. The city’s discharge rate is 87.5% and the fatality rate is 4.03%. BMC is conducting approximately 15,000 tests daily and the overall growth rate for Covid-19 in the city has come down from 8-10% in March-April to 0.69% in October. According to BMC, the city’s doubling rate — the number of days it takes to double the number of new cases of Covid-19 — was as low as three days on March 11. More recently, the doubling rate was 93 days on August 25 and came down to 54 days on September 14, when there was a surge of infections after Ganeshotsav and other festivals. In October, the doubling rate has steadily increased from 66 days on October 1 to 69 days on October 10, and 102 days on October 21. The doubling rate is highest (above 130 days) in areas like Worli, Byculla, Mazagaon, Parel, Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim. In Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli and Goregaon, the doubling rate is below 80 days.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “The fight is a collective fight and we all need to collectively fight the virus. Our aim is mission zero and we are taking every step towards it.” BMC said campaigns like ‘Mission Zero’ and ‘My Family, My Responsibility’, aimed at detecting and treating the infected, have helped control the spread.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based doctor, advised caution. “The doubling rate is calculated by taking the average of seven days, and this is why the indicative figure is higher. However, this doesn’t mean cases are going down. The number of cases has been only going up over the past two months owing to increased testing. Hence, citizens still need to take utmost precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-doubling-rate-crosses-100-days-mark-bmc/story-H967Ge5Q0gnalEyfq6bcWK.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud: Mumbai civil court refuses to restrain Republic TV from using ‘Hansa report’||The Mumbai civil court on Wednesday refused to restrain Republic TV and its anchor Arnab Goswami from using internal documents of Hansa Research Group Private Limited, referred to as ‘Hansa report’, in connection with TRP fraud. Hansa Research Group had last week filed a suit against the channel and Goswami for use of internal documents and publishing it on the channel to prove the its innocence in the TRP scam, and urged the court to restrain Republic TV from using the documents further. In the suit, Hansa claimed that after the Mumbai police commissioner’s announcement about the TRP scam, the channel used parts of the reports to prove their innocence, and said that the documents referred by the channel were internal documents. It is claimed that the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) and Hansa Research Group had prepared a draft detailing the facts of the TRP case to file a formal complaint with the Mumbai Police. The draft was shared only with BARC officials as it was an internal communication between BARC and Hansa Research. Hansa Research Group claimed that a draft prepared by its employees, which was yet to be approved by authorised officials, could have been accessed by the channel which, in turn, used it to prove their innocence without Hansa’s consent. The group further claimed that the paper shown by the channel as ‘Hansa report’ was an internal communication and was not for public consumption. In view of this, the group claimed that the use of the document and referring it to as ‘Hansa report’ is causing tremendous damage to its reputation, and sought that the channel be restrained from using it further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-mumbai-civil-court-refuses-to-restrain-republic-tv-from-using-hansa-report/story-VaFNJx9ih5DvSb3oHvB9xI.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP Fraud: Mumbai crime branch probes role of two more TV channels||Mumbai Police’s crime branch while investigating the television rating points (TRP) fraud has found the involvement of two more channels — a movie channel and a news channel. The involvement of the channels in the fraud came to light during the questioning of two former employees of Hansa Research Group Private Limited — Dinesh Vishwakarma and Ramji Varma, who were arrested on Tuesday. Both the accused have been remanded in police custody till October 23. Inspector Sachin Vaze, who is heading the CIU (criminal intelligence unit) and is also part of the investigating team, said, “Vishwakarma and Varma revealed that they were working for a movie channel, and had distributed money for TRP manipulation. Another news channel’s name also came up during an inquiry. Both the channels were allegedly involved in manipulating TRP”. “We have not added both the channels’ names in the first information report (FIR) yet. We are conducting an inquiry and once the evidence is found, their names will be added and action will be taken against them,” said a senior crime branch officer. Meanwhile, crime branch also added four new sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the case which includes section 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant), 179 (refusing to answer public servant authorised to question), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 204 (secreting or destroying any document to prevent its production as evidence) of IPC. Vaze confirmed that the sections were added. “The sections are added in the FIR because some people are not cooperating in the inquiry and did not come to join the investigation after being summoned,” he said. On October 6, crime branch had registered a FIR into the fraud at Kandivli police station under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and had arrested four accused — Vishal Bhandari, 20, a former Hansa employee; Bompalli Rao Mistry alias Sanjiv Rao, 44; and Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema owners Shirish Shetty and Narayan Sharma. Meanwhile, crime branch on Wednesday recorded the statement of three senior Republic TV employees, including the news channel’s chief financial officer (CFO) S Sundaram, executive editor Niranjan Narayan Swamy and distribution head Ghanshyam Singh. They were asked to come again on Thursday for further inquiry, said a crime branch officer. The channel’s COO Priya Mukharjee was summoned on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-mumbai-crime-branch-probes-role-of-two-more-tv-channels/story-bJ3JikDjEuzLjn3kt8eaNK.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching case: Maharashtra CID names 208 new accused, 50 arrested||The state criminal investigation department (CID) on Wednesday named 208 new accused in the April 16 Palghar lynching case and arrested 50 more people. The arrested accused will be produced before the Dahanu court on Thursday, confirmed Amrut Adhikari, who will be representing the arrested. So far, 355 people have been arrested and 11 minors were apprehended in connection with the case. Later, 28 accused and nine minors have been released on bail as the CID in its charge sheet did not name them for their involvement in the lynching. The bail hearing of 62 accused in the case will be heard by special sessions judge PP Jadhav at Thane on Thursday, said Adhikari.Meanwhile, five months after Gaurav Singh, former SP of Palghar, was sent on compulsory leave by home minister Anil Deshmukh, he has now been posted as the superintendent of the Maharashtra Police Academy in Nashik by the home ministry, according to an order dated October 14.Singh was asked to proceed on compulsory leave on May 8 after the CID took over the investigation into the incident wherein two seers and their driver were lynched to death by a 1,000-strong mob. Kasa police, which was handling the investigation, had come under strong criticism for mishandling the probe.Singh had then suspended two officers who were part of the investigation. However, the state later sent Singh on compulsory leave. An online petition was undertaken to get Singh back to Palghar.The state also dismissed the service of the then Kasa police in-charge assistant inspector Anandrao Kale, slapped compulsory retirement on two policemen, and penalised 15 constables for dereliction of duty.The state government, in response to a petition in the Supreme Court seeking handover of the case to a central agency, had last Wednesday said that no dereliction of duty was found from Singh’s side and thus, he was given a clean chit. Singh had reached the spot within an hour after the crime and had taken necessary action against the officers, the Apex court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-case-maharashtra-cid-names-208-new-accused-50-arrested/story-fntT5EuB6vwJPDPgz8p5jO.html
22-10-2020||City||Maharashtra government binds CBI to take its approval before probing cases from state||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday withdrew the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe cases in the state, making it mandatory for the Central agency to seek the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s permission before taking up cases within the state’s borders. Vineet Agrawal, principal secretary (special), home department, confirmed an order to this effect was issued. Maharashtra became the fourth state to issue such an order, after West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan.CBI, which functions under the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946, will have to approach the Maharashtra government for permission to investigate on a case-by-case basis, another senior bureaucrat, who did not want to be named, said.Maharashtra’s move came a day after CBI decided to probe the alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRP) after registering a first information report (FIR) on the recommendation of the Uttar Pradesh government. Earlier this month, the Mumbai Police shone light on the alleged scam. They are probing three channels, including Republic TV. The state police have registered an FIR for cheating and criminal conspiracy, among other charges, and arrested eight people. “The Maharashtra government cannot stop CBI from investigating the TRP case registered on the recommendation of the Uttar Pradesh government; it cannot stop CBI from interrogating people in this particular case. However, now CBI cannot take over the Mumbai Police’s FIR in the TRP case without the state government’s approval. Wednesday’s decision seems to have been taken to stop CBI from taking up their TRP case,” a retired CBI official, who asked not to be named, said. “It will be interesting to see how courts react [if there is a legal dispute] in two separate cases on the TRP issue...” the official said.CBI did not officially comment on Maharashtra’s decision. A senior agency official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said “regular withdrawal of general consent by states for conducting probes in their territory makes the agency’s work difficult”. He, however, said that the state’s decision will not affect ongoing probes. “It’s a settled law that once consent has been given for a probe, it cannot be withdrawn. But from now, for any new probe against any government official — be it Central or state government official — we will need to approach the Maharashtra government. For example, if we have to investigate an officer of the Mumbai Port Trust, we will have to seek the state’s nod. Also, the state government cannot block probes ordered by high courts or the Supreme Court.” Shrihari Aney, a former advocate general of Maharashtra, too, said the move will not affect ongoing cases (such as the one into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput). He added that CBI can seek an appropriate court order if it intends to investigate a case in Maharashtra if the state government denies consent. “I see this [the move] as the result of a turf war and ego clash. Because if it is only about investigation, then it would take a textbook course regardless of the agency. But when it comes to a point where a particular agency will probe and not the other, it is an ego tussle, which is coupled with political motives. Often it is an investigation not comfortable to somebody or an investigation that is prompted by the interest of political parties. When the police lose their substantial independence and become pawns in the larger game of political parties then such a situation arises. This happens on both parts – state as well as Centre,” Aney said.The decision came against the backdrop of a tug of war between the state’s police force and CBI in at least two high-profile cases. Before the TRP case, the Mumbai Police were locked in a jurisdictional tussle with the Centre and CBI over the death of Rajput, who was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what the police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. A political controversy erupted after a Bihar Police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family in Patna alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart. The probe was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of the Bihar Police’s first information report (FIR) filed on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.A Maharashtra minister, who requested anonymity, said the increasing interference of the Central government in policing forced the state government to make such a move. “We saw what happened in the case of Sushant Singh Rajput matter...Policing is a state subject. The hijacking of cases to undermine the authority of the state government every time cannot be tolerated,” he said.In late 2018, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh withdrew the general consent to CBI for investigations, alleging that the Centre was misusing the agency to harass opponents. However, the government of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, which came into power in Andhra 2019, reversed the decision. Chhattisgarh, ruled by the Congress, withdrew the general consent to CBI in January 2019. And in July 2020, the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan followed suit. CBI comes under the DSPE Act and it requires states to give the agency a general consent to act against central government employees within a state as public order and police are under the purview of state governments, which routinely renew the permission under section 6 of the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-binds-cbi-to-take-its-approval-before-probing-cases-from-state/story-VQ58tTcrzhK6f5ZlR8yR8H.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Indian Army more experienced at higher altitudes than PLA: Lt Gen Hooda||During a a virtual meet on “The future of Indo-China Relations” organised by Chandigarh University, Gharuan, on Wednesday, Lt General Deependra Singh Hooda (retired) said the Indian Army has more experience operating at higher altitudes than the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China.Hooda, former general officer commanding-in-chief of the Indian Army’s northern command, said, “Both India and China have deployed huge number of army personnel who are prepared for long term eyeball to eyeball situation. But, the Indian Army has a tactical advantage, as they have been operating at higher altitudes and hilly terrains in harsh winters for a long time.”“Although a series of military, diplomatic and ministerial level talks have taken place between the two countries, PLA has refused to disengage at ground level and maintain status-quo at Line-of-Actual Control (LAC). Both nuclear powers cannot afford to have a full-fledged war,” he added .The virtual meet was also attended by national security experts and senior administrative officials of the Punjab Government .Bharat Karnad, national security expert and emeritus professor, centre for policy research, said, “India needs to increase its defence spending as the gap between China and India’s defence budget will touch $500 billion by 2030 as per studies.”Rahul Bhandari, secretary of higher education, water resources, mines and geology, government of Punjab, said, “Currently, there is huge trade imbalance between India and China which can be ascertained from the fact that Chinese products have 2.7% penetration in Indian markets while Indian goods have merely 0.1% penetration in China. 68% of pharmaceutical formulations and 90% of antibiotic medicines in India are currently being sourced from China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indian-army-more-experienced-at-higher-altitudes-than-pla-lt-gen-hooda/story-rJf7gyYMxYEDh0In6Lke9N.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse quits: NCP’s gain, but is it BJP’s loss?||As anticipated for several months, Eknath Khadse has finally quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). There was suspense whether he would join the Congress or the NCP though it became clear in the past few weeks, as he was in constant touch with top NCP leaders. He did not get desired response from Maharashtra Congress leaders, while NCP chief Sharad Pawar offered him political rehabilitation, it seems. But then is 68-year-old Khadse’s decision to quit the BJP and join the NCP a big deal in state politics? Khadse, who comes from Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra, was one of the prominent leaders of the BJP in the state. He played a major role in making north Maharashtra a stronghold of the BJP. He was also seen as party’s Other Backward Class (OBC) face along with Gopinath Munde. The position he occupied in the past 15 years shows his importance in the party. He was a minister in the first Sena-BJP government in the state and handled finance, irrigation and higher education department in different period. He was the Opposition leader in the state Assembly between 2009 and 2014. He handled significant departments along with the revenue department in Fadnavis government and was considered number two in the state cabinet after the chief minister, till he had to resign in 2016. In his five-year tenure as the Opposition leader in state Assembly between 2009 and 2014, Khadse led the attack of the Opposition BJP-Shiv Sena on the then Congress-NCP government. In the run-up to the state elections in 2014, Khadse was part of the state BJP’s core leadership team that included Devendra Fadnavis, Pankaja Munde, Vinod Tawde and Sudhir Mungantiwar. As the BJP won power in 2014, Khadse was expecting his selection as the chief minister, but the party leadership handpicked Devendra Fadnavis. A fuming Khadse was given revenue and a bouquet of portfolios, but he continued to be bitter about the “injustice meted out to him”. The cold war between him and Fadnavis went on for some time, till Khadse got embroiled in corruption allegations in 2016. He was accused of misusing his position as a revenue minister to help his family in a land deal in Pune. Though he denied any wrongdoing, Khadse was made to resign and a probe was initiated by the Fadnavis government. Khadse could never return to the cabinet. A judicial probe was conducted in the allegations, but the report was not revealed by the Fadnavis government. Khadse insisted that none of the allegations made against him were proved. At the same time, Fadnavis encouraged Girish Mahajan, a BJP minister from Khadse’s Jalgaon district. Over the next couple of years, Khadse was cut to size not just in the party, but also in local politics of north Maharashtra. It was during this time that Khadse started expressing unhappiness with the party openly. To make it worse, he was denied Assembly ticket by the BJP in 2019 elections. Instead, his daughter Rohini was fielded. She lost to an independent candidate. Also Read | ‘BJP should think why its foundation stones are coming off’: Uddhav Thackeray on Khadse’s resignationKhadse blamed “party insiders” for her loss. For the past one year, he was expecting rehabilitation by way of nomination to the state legislative Council from the BJP quota, but the party disappointed him. Since then, he was in touch with NCP and Congress leaders.The recent appointments of other two unhappy leaders in the BJP, Vinod Tawde and Pankaja Munde, as national secretaries of the party, proved to be the last straw on the camel’s back. With the NCP offering him political rehabilitation, Khadse seems to have taken the decision to join the Pawar-led party. So is it big loss for the BJP and a major gain for the NCP?For the NCP, Khadse’s entry will be beneficial. The party doesn’t have strong leaders in north Maharashtra, except Chhagan Bhujbal. Khadse’s influence in Jalgaon and other parts of the region could help the party win Assembly seats. He is a prominent leader of Leva Patil, an OBC community, which has strong presence in north Maharashtra. The party hopes to get the support of the community in coming elections. In Khadse, the party also gets a prominent OBC face along with Bhujbal, Jitendra Awhad and Dhananjay Munde. Above all, the NCP would be expecting Khadse to launch an attack on Fadnavis. A veteran BJP leader coming from OBC background targeting Fadnavis and accusing him of sabotaging his career could be politically troublesome for the latter. As far as the BJP is considered, the party had anticipated that Khadse would quit sooner or later. In the past couple of years it has nurtured Leva Patil leaders such as Jalgaon MP Umesh Patil and district president Suresh Bhole. Besides, it has already encouraged Mahajan, who was a local rival of Khadse. BJP leaders also point out that barring one or two, most party legislators in north Maharashtra are not followers of Khadse. The party is a bit wary of the fallout of Khadse targeting Fadnavis. “Khadse has blamed only Fadnavis and has avoided criticising anybody else in the party. The reaction of BJP leader Mungantiwar who stressed the need for introspection in the party is an indication that a section within the BJP is not happy with what is happening,” opined political analyst Hemant Desai. “It remains to be seen if this section becomes more vocal now and questions sidelining of leaders such as Khadse, Munde and Tawde under Fadnavis’s leadership,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-leader-eknath-khadse-quits-ncp-s-gain-but-is-it-bjp-s-loss/story-HFzIcNQOxAFWrnsyjSYAGM.html
22-10-2020||City||Long wait for Mohali’s poor to get accommodation||Five years ago, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had reacquired 230 acre land from 46 builders to build 22,000 housing units under the economically weaker sections (EWS) housing policy. But due to the authority’s inability to finalise its EWS policy, which had begun two years back, the poor of the district have been left in the lurch.GMADA chief administrator Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the policy had been framed and sent to the finance department for comments, and after that it will be placed before the cabinet for final approval.As per the proposal made in October last year, in the first stage GMADA will build 5,000 houses in four of its townships on 54-acre land—on 13.49 acres in Aerocity, on 17.48 acres in IT city, on 3.6 acres in ECO-City-1 and on 20.17 acres in Eco–City-11.As many as seven houses will be built with four floors including the ground floor on one acre of land. The house will be sold to the poor at ₹10 lakh per house. Earlier, the houses were to be built by private builders, but considering their non-seriousness, a decision was taken in 2013 that GMADA will build the houses.EWS policy revised thrice in 12 yearsIn a 2008 cabinet meeting, the policy to construct EWS houses was approved, but most builders had shirked from the responsibility. Thereupon, GMADA had taken possession of the land earmarked for EWS houses from private builders. Currently, GMADA has 25 mega projects and more than 100 approved colonies under its ambit.In its 2013 notification, the housing and urban development department had told PUDA and other development authorities that if builders approved by PUDA failed to make houses for the EWS category, they should transfer the land to the government.Again in 2016, it was approved that the land transferred to GMADA by builders may be utilised by the authority for other purposes and the money earned from that shall be used for construction of houses for the poor.Surinder Singh, former SAD councilor of MC Mohali, said that the sad part was that even after 12 years, GMADA was not aware of the pattern on which to construct the houses. The poor are being deprived of their houses, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/long-wait-for-mohali-s-poor-to-get-accommodation/story-Eo5MD3LOuBu1kTmTcnrNQJ.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse out, Maharashtra BJP to see more protests?||The exit of Eknath Khadse, 68, – a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) veteran and a prominent other backward class (OBC) face in Maharashtra politics for four decades – squarely blaming Devendra Fadnavis, who calls the shots in the state BJP, is unlikely to pose any trouble for the former chief minister, but could lead to murmurs of protests from other camps against him. Khadse, who joined the BJP in the 1980s, became the sarpanch of Kothadi village in 1987. He was one of the key leaders in MADHAV (which stoods for ‘M’ali, ‘Dha’ngar and ‘V’anjari communities) formula under which party leader Vasantrao Bhagwat brought many OBC leaders to the party fold. Khadse belongs to the Leva Patil community which falls under OBC and has a sizable population in north Maharashtra. He was elected as an MLA from Muktainagar for six consecutive terms since 1990. Khadse, in a press conference announcing his switch to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday, said barring Fadnavis, he had no grievance against any party leader from the state or on national level. He said Fadnavis targeted him to the point that he was compelled to take the decision of quitting the party. He alleged that during the BJP rule in the state, Fadnavis tried to finish him politically by lodging false cases such as molestation against him using the government machinery. Minutes after his exit, senior BJP leader and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said the party needed to introspect. “It is shocking, unexpected and distressing development. Khadse is an aggressive and magnanimous politician and his discontent could have been resolved through dialogue. I still feel he should not have taken this step,” he said. Mungantiwar’s statement assumes significance as he belongs to the Nitin Gadkari camp within the party, which is upset over being deliberately sidelined. Fadnavis, however, called Khadse’s allegations “half-truth”. “Everybody knows the facts of the criminal case lodged against him. I would not say anything at this juncture. In any such move, there needs to be a villain, Khadse has chosen me. It is true the party suffers damage even when an ordinary worker quits. But it doesn’t stop it from its progress,” he said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said of late, many senior leaders have been sidelined, denied tickets or cut to size. “Pankaja Munde, Vinod Tawde and Chandrashekhar Bawankule are some of them. Khadse’s resignation may prove to be a blot on Fadnavis’s leadership as he has been directly targeted. It remains to be seen what more Khadse has in his armoury against Fadnavis,” he said. Fadnavis has been key decision-maker in the state unit of the party for the past six years. “He has command over the state unit, with the blessings from the central leadership. Minutest of the decisions are not taken without his nod or keeping him in the loop. Khadse’s exit is a big blow for the party, but it would not hurt Fadnavis’s leadership immediately. The actions against Khadse were not taken by Fadnavis alone or without the approval of the national leadership. So Khadse’s attack will hardly have any effect on Fadnavis,” said a senior party leader. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said Fadnavis had in the past given clarifications to all allegations levelled by Khadse on Wednesday. He said the party unit tried its best to retain the senior leader, but could not succeed. The party however chose not to criticise Khadse. “Nobody would say that he did not contribute to the party’s growth in Maharashtra. He was respected within the party. He was also made a minister between 1995 and 1999 and later in 2014, whenever the BJP was in power. However, criticising him will not look good for us. Besides, we will not antagonise the Leva Patil community by targetting him. The Leva Patils have a significant presence in north Maharashtra and they respect him,” said another BJP leader. “We wish him luck.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-out-maharashtra-bjp-to-see-more-protests/story-xCrGexsON2mPiiGu8neHeM.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Panjab University’s South India Coffee House auctioned for ₹1 lakh per month||More than a year after announcing closure in June 2019, the famous South India Coffee House at Panjab University’s Student Centre was auctioned on Wednesday for ₹1,03,000 per month for a period of five years.Seven more shops of PU were auctioned for a period of five years. The base price for the auction of the coffee house was ₹50,000. No bid was received for a chemist-cum-instruments shop at PU’s dental college in south campus, which was also to be auctioned on Wednesday.The coffee house, which was opened in 1975, had announced its closure last year due to a decrease in footfall and consequent losses. The number of employees, too, had gone down from six to three.The cafeteria was a prominent space for students and academicians to eat, socialise and discuss for several years. After its closure, the PU administration had asked the University Institute of Hotel and Tourism management (UIHTM) to run a cafeteria or bakery in the space, but they had declined the offer and the space remained closed for more than a year.In November last year, a committee that had finalised the conditions for renting out the South India Coffee House had also proposed that the cafe should become a multi-cuisine restaurant with a new menu of at least 20 new food items in addition to the South Indian food items that were served at the iconic cafe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finally-panjab-university-s-south-india-coffee-house-auctioned-for-1-lakh/story-K3T0UWZHUW5i0TpUy2PAoM.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Extension of affiliation: Panjab University asks pvt colleges for salary statements||The affiliation committee of Panjab University on Wednesday sought salary statements and proof of disbursement from private colleges seeking extension of affiliation this year. The panel also sought a report on action taken by the colleges to fulfil the conditions mentioned by inspection committees in previous years for grant of affiliation. This year, colleges were asked to apply online, as physical verification is not possible amid the pandemic. PU has more than 190 affiliated colleges and over 100 colleges are granted temporary affiliation every year. A member of the panel said, “The colleges have been asked to give salary records till September with proof of disbursement. Many complaints have been received that some colleges have not paid salaries to teachers, which is a basic criteria for extension of affiliation.” More than 100 colleges have applied for affiliation this year. On Wednesday, the cases of colleges in Chandigarh and Hoshiarpur were taken up. The panel has sought also asked for reports on conditions of making appointments and infrastructure from colleges who were directed to fulfill these conditions in the previous years. During inspections conducted in colleges seeking affiliation in the previous years, the number of faculty members, necessary equipment and infrastructure were verified. This data was then placed before the affiliation committee of the university. ‘Varsities have sent incomplete reports’ A member of the panel said, “The data sent by most colleges is not complete and we have asked them to send proper reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/extension-of-affiliation-panjab-university-asks-pvt-colleges-for-salary-statements/story-5czKi1FTgTx5jNMwC0S4eK.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Steep rise in prices of onions, tomatoes, potatoes in Mumbai pinches pockets||The unseasonal rain has led to a sharp rise in prices of onions, tomatoes and potatoes, main ingredients in a majority of Indian food items, adding to the strain on household budget of citizens. The prices of onions have risen to ₹80-90 for a kg from ₹60 last week. The rate of tomatoes has risen to ₹80 for a kg from ₹60, while price of potato has increased to ₹50 a kg from ₹40. The retreating monsoon hit parts of western Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan last week, wreaking havoc on the standing crops which were waiting for harvesting. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is surveying these areas to assess the damage and provide relief to farmers. Shankar Pingle, director, Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), said there is a shortage of essential items. “Vegetables are brought from Solapur, Sangli, Pune, Satara and Nashik, which are hit by unseasonal rain. The crop has been destroyed, so there is an erratic supply of vegetables,” said Pingle. He said it will take at least 20 days for things to stabilise and the rates to come down. Citizens feel the price hike has come at the worst time. “How can any household manage without these three items,” asked Naghma Khan Hashmi, a media professional from Oshiwara. “For the past seven months, we hardly earned anything due to lockdown. This hike is unbearable, especially for the poor,” she said, adding the state government should intervene. Hotels and restaurants also rue the situation.“The proposed hike has increased our overall costs and we can’t pass this on to our consumers. We have just started our eatery and any increase in rates means loss of consumers,” said Raghav Pai, partner, Saffron Kitchen, a takeaway joint at Powai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/steep-rise-in-prices-of-onions-tomatoes-potatoes-in-mumbai-pinches-pockets/story-rtYJ0Stz0QkMppnjqHT5jI.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police seek cancellation of a club’s licence||The senior superintendent of police (SSP) office wrote to the deputy commissioner, Chandigarh, for cancellation of the licence to operate Newcleus Hospitality that runs Parra Club in the Industrial Area. On October 11, 26-year-old Gurlal Brar, an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and former state president of Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was shot dead outside a mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1.Brar, before his murder, had visited Parra for celebrating the birthday of his female friend, and the club has been closed ever since that night.The letter written by the SSP office pointed out that the club was violating guidelines of the Chandigarh administration and providing free food and drinks to miscreants. Police had also listed five FIRs registered against the club while recommending cancellation of its licence immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-seek-cancellation-of-a-club-s-licence/story-0AvpeqAEYcNrNVpW8Bz7LO.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse quits BJP, blames Devendra Fadnavis; set to join Sharad Pawar-led NCP||Disgruntled senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse on Wednesday quit the party to join the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). In a significant political development on Wednesday afternoon, NCP’s Maharashtra unit chief Jayant Patil announced that Khadse would join the party on Friday. The NCP is likely offer the 68-year-old leader a ministerial position in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Khadse’s daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse, who is the BJP MP from Raver in Jalgaon, however, will not quit the party. Khadse, considered a prominent leader of Maharashtra BJP, is from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. An important leader of Leva Patil, a farmer community that has a significant presence in north Maharashtra, Khadse was unhappy with the party since he was made to resign as minister in 2016 due to graft charges. On Wednesday, he alleged he was forced to quit the party and blamed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. “I am resigning from the primary membership of the party due to personal reasons,” Khadse said in his resignation letter sent to state BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Wednesday.Khade said, “I have no grievances against any other leader from the national or state leadership. I am upset with Fadnavis, who made the police take up false cases against me. One such case of outraging the modesty of a woman was registered against me on the orders from Fadnavis who was CM and home minister. Similarly, corruption cases in Bhosri (Pune) land deal were lodged, although nothing came out of it. I urged my party leadership and Fadnavis on various platforms to give me reasons for the punishment, but I never got a reply.”Fadnavis called Khadse’s allegations “half-truths” and said he will speak at an appropriate time. “Everybody knows about the facts of the case lodged against him [Khadse]. I would not say anything at this juncture,” he said. “In any such move, there needs to be a villain. Khadse has chosen me for it. It is true that the party suffers damage even when an ordinary worker quits. But it doesn’t stop the party from its progress,” he added.On his grievances with Fadnavis, Khadse said that he even tried to raise the issue with the Central leadership and told them about deliberate attempts to defame him, but to no avail. “I then got the message that I will not get justice here. I even submitted proof of conspiracy by the party leadership to defeat Rohini Khadse, my daughter, in the Assembly elections last year. No action was taken,” he said.He said he was singled out in the party over graft charges. “There are at least 60% leaders in the party who have faced corruption charges. Some of them were given ministership, post of leader of Opposition, but action was taken only against me. Except the allegations of corruption levelled during our government, I never faced such charges before in my political career of 40 years,” he said.State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said Khadse’s decision was unfortunate, but defended Fadnavis. He said, “Devendraji has already clarified about the action taken by his government in each of the cases against Khadse. What Khadse has been claiming now is his version and should not be taken at face value.” Patil insisted that the party would have resolved the grievances the leader had.Khadse was the revenue minister in the Fadnavis-led BJP government, but was forced to resign in June 2016 after he faced allegations of corruption in a case involving purchase of land by his family members in Pune. He was denied a party ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections. The dissident leader was in touch with top NCP leaders for quite some time. Jayant Patil said Khadse had informed him some time back that he had decided to leave BJP.“Senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse, who has played a significant role in the growth of BJP in Maharashtra in the last around four decades, has decided to leave his party. He had informed me about his decision sometimes back. This has paved the way for his induction in the NCP. Khadse will formally join the party on Friday afternoon,” Jayant Patil said.Khadse wants political rehabilitation and is keen on a ministerial berth. NCP insiders said the party top brass is considering a proposal to induct him as a minister and give him the agriculture portfolio.According to a proposal under consideration, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad could be asked to resign and appointed as state NCP chief.The NCP will have to exchange his portfolio with Sena which has the agriculture department. All this will be possible only if Sena agrees to swap portfolios, said a senior NCP leader. Currently, Jayant Patil is holding the state unit chief position as well as the one of water resources minister in the MVA government. Dada Bhuse from Sena is the state agriculture minister.“NCP leadership believes that Khadse comes from rural Maharashtra and would prove very useful if given a portfolio related to the same,” said a senior NCP leader, requesting anonymity.“His joining will help in strengthening the party in north Maharashtra and among the Other Backward Class (OBC) communities, particularly Leva Patil community,” he added.“His joining the party will make NCP stronger as Khadse has vast experience on many issues. His followers are spread across the state, but a large number of people from Jalgaon and north Maharashtra region follow him,” said Jayant Patil.Patil, however, said there has been no discussion on inducting Khadse into the ministerial council. “Today we are talking about his (Khadse) induction in the NCP… He has not put any such condition. NCP chief Sharad Pawar always awards responsibilities to those having capabilities,” he said.In case, if Sena didn’t agree to give agriculture department then NCP is also considering a reshuffle of the departments it has got as its share as an ally in the MVA government, said NCP insiders.However, the Sena, too, is considering to drop one minister to induct Ravindra Waikar, a Mumbai MLA from Jogeshwari (East) Assembly constituency, considered a close confidante of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, insiders said.With Khadse, a few other BJP leaders may join the ruling party that was facing mass exodus in the run-up to the state Assembly elections last year.Patil said that many other BJP MLAs and leaders, who support Khadse and believe in his leadership, wanted to join the NCP. However, the decision on their induction is yet to be taken. “We don’t want unnecessary elections during the coronavirus pandemic as elected representatives will have to resign from their respective positions and thus decisions about them will be taken at an appropriate time. However, others can join the party soon,” the state NCP chief said.Apart from Khadse and his followers, there are many other senior BJP leaders who are also interested in joining the NCP. The state NCP chief said that he already had discussions with a few of them recently and their names will be declared soon.However, Khadse’s daughter-in-law and Raver MP Raksha Khadse will continue to be with the BJP. She will not be joining the NCP, both Khadse and the state NCP chief, cleared.According to his close aides, Khadse is expected to get a berth in state legislative council from the governor’s quota. The MVA government is yet to take a decision on recommending names to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for appointing 12 positions of member of the legislative council.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray praised Khadse and asked BJP to introspect on why foundation stones are leaving the party when the party’s success is at a peak. “Eknath Khadse is coming into the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi family and we welcome him. Khadseji has a unique identity; he is a warrior and a straight-forward leader. Khadseji was one of the leaders with Gopinathji [Munde], Pramod ji [Mahajan] who planted roots of BJP in Maharashtra. When a person like him, who formed the base of the party, leaves the party, then the BJP should introspect and ask [themselves] while climbing the peaks of success, why the foundation stones are coming off.”“Earlier, we (Shiv Sena) [left the NDA], the Shiromani Akali Dal also left the alliance recently. Now Khadse is also not with the BJP. Hence, the BJP should think about it. I was once a friend of the BJP, it is my friendly advice and duty to alert them,” he said.Political analyst Prakash Bal said that Khadse joining NCP will help the party only to some extent. “It is going to help the NCP in north Maharashtra only to some extent as I have a doubt whether Khadse’s clout has remained as it used to be in the past few years. We will have to wait and watch how much beneficial he is going to be for the NCP,” Bal said.On Monday, Pawar had hinted that Khadse may join the party. Commenting on the reports about Khadse’s entry to the NCP that have been doing rounds for several weeks, he has said Khadse’s capability and work cannot be overlooked, but the political decision has to be taken by him. He also praised the senior BJP leader saying that Khadse has been the most effective leader of Opposition he had seen in over two decades.(With inputs from Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-quits-bjp-blames-devendra-fadnavis-set-to-join-sharad-pawar-led-ncp/story-8EZYXs6QI2vvmwnVg9pweI.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Police Commemoration Day: Tribute paid to fallen cops in Chandigarh||A parade was organised on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day at the police station ground in Sector 17 on Wednesday in memory of police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty. A two-minute silence was also observed in memory of the fallen police officers.Sanjay Baniwal, director general of police, Chandigarh, along with other police officers, paid homage to their departed colleagues at the memorial site. Tribute was also paid to six Chandigarh Police personnel, inspectors Jagjit Singh and Sucha Singh, sub-inspector Amarjit Singh and assistant sub-inspectors Amarjit Singh, Lalu Ram and Amin Chand who lost their lives while discharging their duties. Mohali admn pays homagePolice Commemoration Day was also observed at the district administrative complex in Mohali. District sessions judge RS Rai, IGP Amit Prasad, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, SSP Satinder Singh and other police personnel paid homage to police officers who laid down their lives in the line of duty. “The police are responsible for the internal security of the country. In the last one year, 264 police personnel have sacrificed their lives for India. The nation will forever remain indebted to these heroes.” said IGP Prasad. SSP Satinder Singh said we should work diligently to fulfill our duty irrespective of the consequences.Why it is celebrated?On October 21, 1959, 10 soldiers of the Central Reserve Police Force had lost their lives in an ambush by Chinese soldiers when they were patrolling the Ladakh area on Indo-Tibetan Border. Since then, October 21 has been observed as Police Commemoration Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-commemoration-day-tribute-paid-to-fallen-cops-in-chandigarh/story-v9ILi1isQHF4vnQjAIGx4O.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Actor Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli Chandel summoned to join sedition case probe in Mumbai on Oct 26, 27||Actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have been summoned to record their statements at the Bandra police station on October 26 and 27, respectively, in the case registered against them for sedition and allegedly promoting enmity between different communities. The police had filed a first information report (FIR) last Saturday, a day after the Bandra metropolitan magistrate court issued an order for the same.Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 9, confirmed that summons had been issued to the sisters. “We have issued notice and have asked them to join and cooperate with Bandra police in the investigation,” said Trimukhe.Acting on a complaint lodged by a casting director, Munawarali aka Sahil Sayyed, metropolitan magistrate Jaydeo Y Khule on October 17 issued an order, directing Bandra police to initiate criminal action against the Ranaut and Chandel after observing “prima facie cognisable offence has been committed by the accused”. Sayyed, in his complaint, said Ranaut’s actions “created a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and even created a communal divide and rift between people of two communities.” His complaint added that Kangana has been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”. The casting director further alleged that Chandel, who also works as manager of the actor, has also tweeted highly objectionable messages, intended to create a communal rift.Khule, while ordering an FIR, had noted in his order, “On prima facie perusal of complaint and submissions, I found that a cognizable offence has been committed by the accused… Thorough investigation is necessary by the expert, search and seizure is necessary in this case.” The sisters were booked on Saturday under sections 124(A) (sedition - to bring or attempt to bring into hatred or contempt, or excite or attempt to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, language etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class, by insulting it’s religion or religious beliefs) along with section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).After the case was registered, Ranaut had tweeted, “Who all are fasting on Navratris?...meanwhile another FIR filed against me, Pappu sena in Maharashtra seems to be obsessing over me, don’t miss me so much I will be there soon #Navratri.” Meanwhile, her lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee, had said, “The order passed by the learned magistrate shall be legally dealt with on ‘merits’ as per procedure of law. Right of speech and expression should not be construed as promoting communal disharmony. Having personally known Kangana I can firmly say that she is not against any religion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-kangana-ranaut-sister-rangoli-chandel-summoned-to-join-sedition-case-probe-in-mumbai-on-oct-26-27/story-7f19CRBYUFtyJoVI5mHzWO.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports under 10,000 Covid cases for fourth day in a row||Maharashtra, for a fourth straight day, reported under 10,000 new Covid-19 infections as 8,142 fresh cases on Wednesday took the tally to 1,617,658. With the addition of 180 more fatalities, the toll went up to 42,633.Mumbai, too, continued with its decline in new cases by clocking 1,609 new infections, taking the tally to 245,869 and toll to 9,912 with 48 more deaths reported on Wednesday. Of the 180 deaths reported on Wednesday, 91 were from past two days, 37 from past week and remaining 52 were from the period before it, according to the state health department statement. After Mumbai, the highest number of deaths, 21, were from Pune (3 in city, 9 in rural parts and 8 in Pimpri-Chinchwad), followed by 15 in Nagpur and 9 in Sangli. Pune clocked 1,406 new infections, including 442 in city, 734 in rural parts and 230 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Nagpur clocked 447 cases, Nashik 330, while Ahmednagar added 294 new cases. By adding 3,117 new infections, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) retains its top share (38.29%) in the state’s tally. The state’s recovery rate improved to 87.51% after a whopping 23,371 patients were reported to have recovered in 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,415,679. State has 158,852 active patients, highest being in Pune (30,570) followed by Thane (27,677) and Mumbai (20,216). State authorities, who have been projecting a spike in cases over the next few weeks in view of the onset of winter coinciding with the festive season and unlocking rolled out, have instructed to aggressively implement its outreach drive. “The first phase of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ has helped us in bringing awareness among the people over the pandemic protocol and personal hygiene. We have been getting good results and this has helped us in containing the spread. We have details of almost everyone with comorbid conditions. We have directed the district administration to monitor the vulnerable sections of society, so as to treat them early,” said an official from the state health department. State authorities are wary about the drop in the rate of tests conducted for the detection of the infection. The daily average of the tests in October has dropped to 72,442 from 88,209 tests per day in September. “It is a good sign that even the positivity rate in October has dropped to 15.12%, but it does not mean that the state should decrease tests. We have been insisting on increasing number of tests,” said a member of the state-government appointed task force for the clinical treatment of patients.Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread, said, “If the people take due precautions related to personal hygiene and follow the protocol, the surge may not be as high as we witnessed in September. With almost everything having been opened up, 70% of the population has not been exposed even today. So if we follow the protocol, I think we will continue with the plateau till January and by February onwards they will drop further to the baseline of the curve.”76, 259 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours at a positivity rate of 10.67%. State has 24,47,292 people in home quarantine, while 23,312 are institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-under-10-000-covid-cases-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/story-s2qmNU1KHoQQzBzioAKrXJ.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department makes it mandatory for teachers to attend training on child rights||The Maharashtra education department has made it mandatory for teachers across the state to attend a three-day-long training on child rights and protection in order to create awareness in schools. The online training session is being held between October 20 and 22, and schools have been asked to ensure 100% attendance of teachers. “Ensuring the physical and psychological wellbeing of children is the responsibility of the state government. Teachers have to ensure that the rights of students are protected, and should spread the word in their respective schools,” read a circular issued by the education department last week. On the first day of training, however, teachers reported several glitches. “Many were not able to register despite trying multiple times. Even the video link which was given to teachers did not work,” said Uday Nare, teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri. An official from the education department said, “The training saw good attendance from teachers. Those who missed it can watch the video later.”Teachers have been urging the department to come up with ways to reach out to students who had poor or no internet access. “Right to education is a very important right of students, and when they are not able to join online learning, it is a violation of that right. We hope that the department addresses this issue,” said a teacher from a suburban school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-makes-it-mandatory-for-teachers-to-attend-training-on-child-rights/story-Fg16M7FZvGqb7Pdg0mckuN.html
22-10-2020||Mumbai||55-year-old accused in five theft cases in Mumbai in the 90s acquitted||A sessions court on Wednesday acquitted a 55-year-old man in five cases of theft lodged between 1991 and 1995. The man, who suffers from paralysis, was arrested in March last year after he jumped bail in 1995. As per the prosecution’s case, the accused, Sanjay Bodhe, was booked in five cases of house trespass and theft between 1991 and 1995 by Matunga police station. The prosecution claimed that he was arrested on September 20, 1995, and released on bail in 1995. Since then, he did not return to attend the case hearing. “He has been acquitted from all five cases by the court for want of evidence,” said Bodhe’s lawyer RG Gadgil. In one of the cases, Bodhe, with the help of another accused, entered a wine shop and fled with cash, jewellery, liquor and other valuables on January 16, 1991. He was booked in four similar cases of robbery by Matunga police station. The prosecution had pleaded that a non-bailable warrant was issued against him in 1999 and in January 2005, Bodhe was declared a proclaimed offender. However, he was not traced and his file was stored in the court as dormant until March 2019. With efforts of the police, the case was reopened and Bodhe was traced to Satara. He was arrested in March 2019 and booked in all five cases. He was in prison since his arrest. While seeking bail for him earlier, Gadgil had pleaded that the accused is suffering from paralysis and is seriously ill. His bail plea was, however, rejected by the court which observed that he could abscond again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-year-old-accused-in-five-theft-cases-in-mumbai-in-the-90s-acquitted/story-T3pc0yr2y1EHbPkITjmfML.html
22-10-2020||City||51-year-old Thane constable succumbs to Covid-19||A 51-year-old constable from Vartak Nagar police station died while being treated for Covid-19 on Wednesday. His death has taken the total toll in Thane police commissionerate to 28. According to a Vartak Nagar police officer, the constable was on duty during the pandemic. On October 9, he fell sick with a fever and cold. S Gaikwad, senior inspector of Vartak Nagar police station, said, “We immediately asked him to conduct the Covid test. After his report came positive, we helped him to get admitted to Vedant Hospital. During treatment, his oxygen levels could not be increased and he died on Wednesday morning.” The constable is survived by wife, mother and three children. So far, 28 Thane police personnel have lost their lives to Covid-19, and a total of 1,513 personnel and 179 police officers have tested positive. Around 100 officers are still in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/51-year-old-thane-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-zt6xh96tvwVJQ20g2IU1DO.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man impregnates 14-year-old niece, held||The police here have arrested a man for raping his 14-year-old niece after she was found to be 14 weeks pregnant.The incident came to light after Childline 1098 received an alert about the pregnant minor. The girl, who is a school dropout, complained of belly ache, following which she was taken to a local dispensary and referred to GMSH-16, Chandigarh. Upon medical examination, the child was found 14 weeks pregnant.Childline 1098 project director Dr Sangeeta Jund interacted with the child and her parents and a case was registered against the accused who had been raping the minor for the past one year. The accused raped the child multiple times and threatened her with dire consequences in case she shared her ordeal with anyone. The girl’s pregnancy was medically terminated on October 20, 2020.“The probability of sexual offences against girls increases when they are at home and not going to schools,” said Childline 1098 director Col Ravi Bedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-impregnates-14-year-old-niece-held/story-0wT1VmF8UyP91J2UExYoqL.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||New Covid-19 cases touch 26-day high in Delhi as RT-PCR tests rise||The Delhi government on Wednesday conducted 16,629 RT-PCR tests, the highest ever in a single day of the more accurate tests that are considered gold standard for detection of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Delhi reported 3,686 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, the highest in 26 days, taking the total number of infections in the city to 340,436. The national capital recorded 47 new Covid-19 fatalities taking the total death toll in the city to 6,128.The number of cases of the infection has been on the rise again in the city, with over 3,000 cases being reported each day in the last week, barring Sunday, when comparatively lesser number of tests were conducted.The record in the number of real-time polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR tests, continues a recent trend of increasing share of these tests. RT-PCR tests accounted for 28% of the total 59,064 tests conducted in past 24 hours.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOver the past week, more than 27% of the tests were done using this method up from just about 18% in September when the Delhi government had massively scaled up testing along with the rising cases of the infection. Now, the government has been ramping up the RT PCR tests over the last two weeks.The Delhi high court had earlier questioned the government on why the more accurate RT-PCR tests were not being performed to full capacity. The alternate rapid antigen tests are cheap, easily deployable in clinics and dispensaries, and gives results within 15 minutes. However, the downside is that they can give false negatives, or miss positive cases.Since RT-PCR tests have a higher sensitivity, their increased use by the Delhi government has led to an increase in number of cases and positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among total tested.An average positivity rate of 6.2% was recorded in the last seven days as compared to 5.5% the week before. During the last seven days, 3,269 new cases were reported each day on average as compared to 2,777 cases the week before.Also Read | Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain bats for plasma therapyHowever, the number of hospital admission have remained almost the same during the last two weeks when the number of cases went up, indicating that more asymptomatic cases were detected using the RT PCR tests. “The sensitivity of an RT-PCR test is much higher than that of a rapid antigen test, so it will pick up more cases. This is the reason any symptomatic person who tests negative on the rapid test must get an RT-PCR for confirmation. So, if you increase the number of RT-PCR tests, the number of cases and positivity rate is likely to go up,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-cases-touch-26-day-high-in-delhi-as-rt-pcr-tests-rise/story-Fisj1KOnYPbshW1zxoGqaO.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||74% seats filled in DU colleges but fewer admissions in reserved categories||Fewer admissions have taken place in undergraduate seats reserved for the economically weaker sections (EWS) and scheduled tribe (ST) categories in Delhi University’s (DU) first two cut-off lists, according to data shared by the varsity. Only 15% of seats reserved for EWS students in DU colleges were filled till Tuesday, while a slightly better 21% enrolment was recorded in the ST category.Around 74% of the available 70,000 seats have already been filled in colleges in the two cut-off lists.As many as 15,698 applicants across all categories completed the admission process in 61 colleges (excluding St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary) on the last day of admissions for the second list on Wednesday. The number is likely to increase as around over 7,500 students, whose applications were approved by the colleges, can pay fees and confirm admissions till Friday night. Around 35,500 students were admitted under the first cut-off list. This means, around 51,198 out of the 70,000 undergraduate seats available across DU colleges have been filled.According to the reservation policy of India, 50% of the total seats are reserved for other backward classes (OBC) (27%), SCs (15%), and STs (7.5%) in government educational institutions and government jobs. Last year, the Centre had also introduced a 10% EWS quota.According to official data of actual admissions (students paying the fee after approval), of the available 7,000 EWS seats, only 1,055 had been filled till Tuesday. Around 85% seats are still vacant. Similarly, of the available 5,250 seats for ST candidates, 1,103 have been filled. The situation is slightly better in the SC and OBC categories, with around 33% of seats having filled in each segment. Hansraj Suman, chairperson of DU’ SC, ST, and OBC teachers’ association, said a major reason behind this is the very high cut-off for reserved category students. “There is a marginal difference between general and EWS category students. The cut-offs for the SC, ST, and OBC categories are also high. The colleges should fix lower cut-offs for these categories to fill the seats,” he said.Zero admissions had taken place in the ST and EWS categories in several courses in many colleges in the first list. For instance, Lady Shri Ram (LSR) college did not have any EWS admission in 12 out of the available 22 courses and no ST admission in 14 courses, shows data available on the college’s website In Hansraj College, no EWS student enrolled in 12 out of 24 courses offered in the first list and no ST student took admission in at least 10 of these courses.Several colleges witnessed minimal admissions in the EWS and ST categories in the second cut-off list. For instance, Rajdhani college had no EWS admissions in 22 out of the 26 courses till Wednesday evening -- the last date to apply for the second cut-off -- and had only one across 26 courses in the ST category. Rajdhani college principal Rajesh Giri said, “We will take care while setting the third cut-off and will focus on filling the vacant seats in these categories.”Ramjas College had around 1,110 admissions by Wednesday. Of them, 590 were in the reserved categories -- 84 in ST and 19 in EWS. Principal Manoj Khanna said, “We have decent admissions in OBC, SC, and ST categories. In the upcoming cut-offs, we will focus on filling the EWS and remaining reserved seats.”DU’s dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said, “The university will assess the situation after five cut-off lists and in case seats in reserved categories still remain vacant, it will conduct special drives to fill them.”The third cut-off will be released on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/74-seats-filled-in-du-colleges-but-fewer-admissions-in-st-ews-categories/story-7za4sMNmPlogYOVRSeZ7CM.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||CS assault case: Court orders police to provide Kejriwal, Sisodia copy of witness statement||The Delhi high court on Wednesday set aside a sessions court order, allowing chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia to access the statement of one of the witnesses in the case related to alleged assault on former chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018.Justice Suresh Kait said, “It is the prime duty of the investigating agency to do free and fair investigation, and bring all the evidences collected in the notice of court without pick and choose.”It directed the trial court to consider statement of the chief minister’s former advisor, VK Jain, recorded on February 21, 2018 which is part of police’s records in the form of a “case diary’, and place on record at the time of passing the order.“The investigating agency has no power to appreciate the evidence, it rests with the court,” the judge said in his 37-page order.The court’s judgment came on a plea filed by Kejriwal and Sisodia, alleging that the prosecution(police) withheld Jain’s statement recorded on February 21, 2018, as it did not suit the prosecution’s case and helped in falsely implicating the petitioners.Appearing for the CM and his deputy, senior advocates N Hari Haran and Dayan Krishnan told the court that the copy of the statement ought to have been supplied to them as it is a part of the case diary. The senior counsels contended that even the statement of V K Jain dated May 9, 2018 which is part of the charge sheet says, “….in continuation of the statement dated 21.02.2018”, which shows that the police is concealing the facts.Appearing for the prosecution, standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra said the police in its status report had contended that Jain was called to the police station on February 21, 2018 and he was examined on that day, but no statement under section 161 Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was recorded.Jain’s statement under section 161 CrPC was recorded only on February 22, 2018 and May 9, 2018, it had told the high court.It said that there is some typographical error in the recording of the statements on May 9, and the statement was in continuation of February 22 and not February 21 as mentioned in the charge sheet.However, the court did not agree with these contentions, stating that trial court in its order July 24, 2019 had recorded that on perusal of case diary it shows that Jain was examined in the police station on February 21, 2018.The high court further said that while prosecution has completely denied that no statement was recorded on February 21, 2018, the case diary mentions that a statement was recorded on that date.“Thus, the stand of prosecution cannot be accepted which is contrary to their own record,” the high court said.The court also said the opinion of the trial court stating that since oral examination of Jain was recorded on February 21, 2018 as per the case diary, it cannot be provided to the accused, is “perverse”.“The aforementioned opinion, in my view, is perverse because of the reason that the statement dated February 21, 2018 is not oral but a written one and said statement has been mentioned in various other documents and …..”Following this, the court ordered that the statement be considered by the trial court during the framing of charges since it is a part of the case diary. The matter is listed in the lower court where the judge is hearing the arguments on framing of charges.The Delhi police had on February 20, 2018 filed a first information report (FIR) based on former chief secretary Anshu Prakash’s complaint, in which he had alleged that he was called by the Kejriwal’s advisor, VK Jain, for a midnight meeting to discuss release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi.Prakash said that he was manhandled and assaulted in the course of the meeting. Police filed the case after the chief secretary was examined by a team of doctors at the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital.The legislators and the senior minister of the Delhi government have denied the allegations. The party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj has accused Prakash of making false allegations at the behest of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cs-assault-case-court-orders-police-to-provide-kejriwal-sisodia-copy-of-witness-statement/story-Bi34fRroWm8XVg7YBjw8UL.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain bats for plasma therapy||New Delhi: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that over 2,000 people have benefitted from plasma therapy in Delhi, a day after reports that Centre was considering to remove it from clinical management protocol for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), “A study done by ICMR and AIIMS did not see any breakthrough maybe. But our trial is underway and it is of course being done with the permission of ICMR. We have seen benefits of the therapy, with over 2,000 people having received convalescent plasma from our bank at ILBS. I have myself benefited from the therapy,” said Jain in an interaction with media. ICMR had conducted a pan-India study to determine the role of plasma therapy, and the Union health ministry had added it as one of the investigational therapies in the national protocol for treating Covid-19 patients.However, Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had said on Tuesday, “We have had discussions at the National Task Force (NTF) and we are discussing further with the Joint Monitoring Committee. This (plasma therapy) may be deleted from the national guidelines.”  The trial conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research across 39 sites for the effectiveness of the therapy in Covid-19 patients, showed that there were no difference in the proportion of patients who progressed to severe disease and those who died between the group that received convalescent plasma and the other who received standard care without plasma.Convalescent plasma therapy is a well-established method used to treat infections and autoimmune diseases. For Covid-19, a blood component called plasma that is rich in virus-fighting antibodies is taken from patients who have recovered and given to those still fighting the infection. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the removal of the therapy from the protocol would be a “perfunctory act”. “To remove Convalescent Plasma Therapy from Clinical Management Protocol based on a single study (i.e. ICMR Trial) in which even antibody titers of the plasma were not taken into account is a perfunctory act — in a situation where no definitive therapy exists till date,” Chadha tweeted. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The world’s largest observational study on Convalescent Plasma Therapy conducted on 35,322 Covid patients by Mayo Clinic reported favorable outcomes with lower mortality in patients who received the therapy early in the course of disease with higher levels of antibodies,” he tweeted. The study by Mayo clinic shows that the seven-day mortality rate reduced in patients transfused within three days of diagnosis as compared to those who were given the therapy later, especially if the donor had high levels of antibodies.  Reviewing the effectiveness of the therapy, Dr Manish Soneja, additional professor in the department of medicine at AIIMS, said, “The PLACID trial from India shows that the results were pretty similar in the group that received plasma therapy and the group that was given standard care. There were some limitations of the study such as many of the patients who were given the therapy already had high levels of neutralising antibody (that prevents the spread of a particular virus, Sars-CoV-2 in this case) at admission. However, this replicates the real-life situation with the facility for testing for neutralising antibodies not available in most places.” “As for globally, a Chocrane (a library of collated medical evidence) that has looked at 19 studies shows that the therapy is not effective in reducing the all cause mortality. Improvement in clinical symptoms wasn’t really there,” he said. However, after ICMR had released the data from its trial Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) which is coordinating Delhi’s plasma trial said, “The ICMR study actually reconfirms the findings of our small study – it shows that the oxygen requirement went down in the patients who received plasma therapy, the duration for which they remained breathless reduced, and the group that received plasma tested negative for the virus quicker than the control group. What needs to be factored in is that the therapy was administered late, after two days of symptoms in most trial participant; it works best when given early. Also, many of the donors in the study did not have a high titre (concentration) of the neutralising antibodies,” Dr Sarin had said. “For the study, the all-cause mortality at 28-days has been considered, I think a shorter duration has to be chosen because mortality could be because of other complications as well,” he said. A large-scale study of 400 participants is currently underway at Lok Nayak hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in collaboration with ILBS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-health-minister-bats-for-plasma-therapy/story-vjIEA62swK9JVCvq90K0eK.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Covid positive woman goes missing from AIIMS||A 20-year-old woman allegedlry went missing after testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at AIIMS on October 18, police said on Wednesday, adding that her husband is also missing after filing a missing person’s complaint a day later. A case has been registered in connection with the incident and teams have been formed to trace the missing couple, they said. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the man filed the police complaint on October 19. He told the police that his wife went missing from the hospital after she was tested positive for Covid-19 and the AIIMS staff asked her to get herself admitted to the dedicated Covid facility. However, during the enquiry, police found the woman had left the hospital and reached her rented home in Zamrudpur in south Delhi, about which the husband knew, said the DCP. “The woman then left for her parental home in Morena in Madhya Pradesh. Despite knowing her whereabouts, her husband approached the police and cooked up the story. But when we found that he was lying, he also fled,” said DCP Thakur. A case has been registered under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) at the Greater Kailash Police Station. Thakur said that the man worked as a housekeeping staff in a restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-woman-goes-missing-from-aiims/story-rrDTGKdnQxROwkC16egexI.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Caution in the air as Durga Puja begins with symbolic rituals in Delhi||It was an emotional moment for Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of Safdarjung Enclave’s Matri Mandir Durga Puja, when at 6am on Wednesday, the temple priests began chanting verses to install the holy urn (‘kalash sthapana’), marking the beginning of this year’s Durga Puja.For decades, this ritual would be followed by lifting of the cloth covering the imposing idol of Goddess Durga after which worshippers would make a beeline for the next four days to get a glimpse of the deity.Every year, Delhi would see over 600 big or small Durga Puja pandals, which this year has been reduced to around 50 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. None of these pujas are a grand affair like previous years. There are no pandals, cultural performances or fairs. And no idols in majority of the places.“It is really unfortunate that there is no Durga Ma and we have only the kalash puja, which our committee has decided to do every morning till October 25 to keep the festive feeling alive. People’s health is more important. Otherwise, our pandal would always witness a footfall of thousands every day during the puja week,” he said.Instead of an idol, the committee has created a 12-feet artwork of Goddess Durga slaying the ‘Coronasur’ (the Corona devil).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith no mega festivities happening and people asked to view the live streaming of rituals on social media, many committees have decided to distribute whatever donations they have received to people worst hit by the lockdown.In fact, many puja committees did not do anything on Wednesday.Mrinal Kanti Biswas of the Purbanchal Bangiyo Samiti, an umbrella body of 38 Durga puja committees in East Delhi, said it is probably for the first time that Durga Puja has become a private affair because only limited people are allowed.The size of the idols has also reduced. “Delhi used to have 16-feet or even 20-feet idols of Durga, but this time the maximum height will be just about five feet. Two metal tanks -- one at Mayur Vihar Phase 1 Kali Bari and the other at Purbasha Kali Bari IP Extension -- have been built for immersion in of idols in east Delhi,” he said.The Kali Bari Durga Puja at Mandir Marg is one of the rare places that has a mini-pandal, an idol and has kept it open for all visitors. But this will be without the usual fanfare such as food and stalls as per Delhi Disaster management authority rules.“Everyone is welcome, but no material offering will be accepted. Bhog will be served to members and those who give donations in packed boxes. Unlike other committees, we have not made it a members-only event. On Wednesday evening, we live streamed Durga Devi’s amantran (invite) ritual, though there were around 6-7 visitors and a group of dhaak players,” said Swapan Ganguly, general secretary of New Delhi Kali Bari.FOCUS ON RESTAURANTS AND MARKETSDelhi revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said teams have been formed in all 11 revenue districts to conduct surprise inspections at major points with chances of large congregations, with focus on temples, restaurants, markets, etc.“More than 100 teams in all revenue districts will monitor if Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is being followed. Venues that have permission to hold functions will be inspected to check if videography from the start to the end of the event, temperature checks and social distancing as per DDMA rules are being done. Each approved event will have a nodal officer from our revenue department deployed on the spot,” Gahlot said.The Delhi government’s excise department on Wednesday directed clubs, hotels, liquor shops and restaurants to ensure strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs). The assistant commissioners (enforcement) has been asked to deploy teams to check compliance of SOPs at bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants, a senior excise official said.Also Read | PM Modi to celebrate Durga Puja with people of West Bengal via video conference on ThursdayThe Delhi Police said it apart from anti-terror and crowd-control measures, they directed their personnel to ensure all guidelines are followed. Apart from pandals and Ramlila venues, the police have deployed personnel at prominent places such as Chhattarpur temple, Kalkaji Mandir and Kali Bari in south Delhi, Hanuman temple and Gauri Shankar temple in north Delhi and the Karol Bagh Hanuman temple.“One ACP along with two inspectors and two platoons (nearly 50) of personnel are deployed round-the-clock at the Chhattarpur and Sai Baba temples. As far as Covid-19 measures are concerned, the temple managements will ensure wearing of masks, proper markings, social distancing, signages, and regular announcements. Our staff will educate devotees also. Those found violating the norms will be prosecuted,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Anti-terror apparatus and barricades will be placed at strategic locations. Police vehicles will make announcements, asking people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands.At crowded markets such as Chandni Chowk, Sadar Bazar, Lahori Gate, the police have taken measures in view of rising footfall. “Vehicles are not allowed in the Sadar Bazar market,” said DCP (north), Anto Alphonse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/caution-in-the-air-as-durga-puja-begins-with-symbolic-rituals-in-delhi/story-DjBBPwCA1Z3WZB36P48QbO.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: AQI rises slightly, may plunge to ‘very poor’ by weekend||With a rise in stubble burning in neighbouring states, Delhi’s air quality deteriorated slightly on Wednesday though remaining in the ‘poor’ zone. The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 pm bulletin recorded the average air quality index (AQI) at 256, as against 223 the previous day.While the air quality is likely to improve marginally on Thursday with a change in wind direction, it is expected to plunge to ‘very poor’ over the weekend, government agencies said.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the share of stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana in PM 2.5 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) rose to 15% on Wednesday, as compared to 8% the previous day. “Air quality may improve by Thursday due to cleaner easterly wind intrusion. However, it is likely to deteriorate on October 23-24 on account of reduced wind speed and impact from stubble burning. Synergised stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions stood at 849. The Safar model estimate of stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 15% and is likely to reduce on Thursday owing to expected change in boundary layer wind direction,” the Safar forecast said.Also Read | Over 100,000 infants in India did not survive a month due to severe air pollution in 2019: ReportFumes from crop stubble burning in the northwest region travel to Delhi every winter, contributing to its pollution.According to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind direction is likely to change to northeasterly on Thursday and hence the impact from stubble burning may reduce. “We are expecting some deterioration in air quality with reduction in wind speed from October 23. The air quality may touch the lower end of very poor zone,” said VK Soni, head of the environment monitoring research centre of IMD.IMD scientists said the average wind speed is likely to remain around 8-10 kmph and may even reduce further over the next 3-4 days. Slow winds and a drop in temperature are not favourable for dispersion of pollutants.The minimum temperature on Wednesday settled at 14.3 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. The maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees C, two notches above normal.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded the lowest minimum temperature for October in more than a decade, dipping to 13.7 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-aqi-rises-slightly-may-plunge-to-very-poor-by-weekend/story-5Uuy1lIsgHSodxTlqYmKNP.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Housing rights expert group submits report, recommends in-situ rehabilitation of railway slum residents||As uncertainty continues over the fate of nearly 250,000 residents of slum clusters on railway land in Delhi, the Delhi Housing Rights Task Force (DHRT), a group of experts on housing rights, has come out with a comprehensive rehabilitation plan, after consultation with the affected residents, and recommended in-stu rehabilitation to prevent loss of livelihoods.The report has also stressed on the need to survey all affected residents and said no resident should be displaced during the ongoing Coivd-19 pandemic. The DHRFT has submitted the plan to the Delhi government and the Railways, which are working on a plan to remove nearly 48,000 slum dwellings erected on railway land in Delhi. A senior official of the Delhi government’s Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), aware of the development, said, “We have got the report from DHRTF in which they have given their point of view and made a few suggestions. But a final decision has to be taken by the Railways as it is the land owning agency. We have offered our flats. We have already started the maintenance work on these flats.”The Supreme Court, in an order on August 31, had directed the removal of 48,000 slums along railway tracks in the national capital within three months. But in September, the Centre told the apex court that discussions were underway to implement the order and ruled out immediate evictions of residents from these clusters. The court was to hear the matter after four weeks—a date is to be fixed yet.Land rights activists say the Railways has not held any meetings with residents. Shakeel Ahmed, member of DHRFT, said, “We are not aware what the Railways is planning to do. It has not contacted the residents of these clusters so far. We want the government to hear the residents before deciding their fate.”DUSIB, the nodal agency for slum redevelopment, said it has sent a letter to the Railways regarding vacant houses available with the board. Bipin Rai, member, DUSIB, said, “We have written to the Railways saying we can provide housing for 45,000 families by next year. We have some flats vacant that can be provided to displaced residents on payment. But there is no response from the Railways so far.”When contacted, the Northern Railway spokesperson said, “The work is in progress. All stakeholders are being consulted while drawing up of the plan.” When asked about the plan submitted by DHRTF and the Delhi government’s letter, the spokesperson refused comment on both matters.Shivani Chaudhry, executive director, Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN), an organisation that works with housing and land rights of marginalised communities, said, “The DHRTF proposal has been submitted to the Railways and the Delhi government. In-situ rehabilitation must be prioritised. Moving people to remote resettlement sites will only adversely impact their access to livelihood and education, and result in increased distress and human rights violations.”Subodh Bind, a resident of a slum cluster near Old Delhi Railway station, said, “The biggest worry is of losing our livelihood. We currently work at the nearby market. If we are forced to leave this place and shifted to Bawana or Narela, how will we earn a livelihood? Although we live near the tracks, a wall separates our houses from the tracks.”The 11-page DHRTF report states that “a comprehensive survey must be done to see how many households fall in the safety zone (the area within 30 metres of the track), and in how many are outside the safety zone. This survey must have the active participation of all affected residents.”Chaudhry said the government agencies should map vacant land available nearby. “There is a need to work together to map vacant land in the vicinity of affected settlements to determine where alternative housing can be provided. No one should be forced to move against their will, and no relocation should be carried out during the pandemic,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/housing-rights-expert-group-submits-report-recommends-in-situ-rehabilitation-of-railway-slum-residents/story-D5I5i1fxRHd7TgTa3ntrkM.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||JNU allows phased entry for PhD scholars, staff in science schools and special centres||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Wednesday announced that the university would reopen in a phased manner from November 2 for final-year PhD scholars and project staff who require laboratory access, only in science schools and special centres. The decision comes three days after JNU students’ union leaders camped at the north gate of the campus as a part of an indefinite round-the-clock sit-in to demand phased entry of research scholars. A small area inside the campus has been barricaded by the students. “Final-year PhD research scholars, including 9B students, who require to enter the campus (day scholars) for access to laboratories and to submit their PhD thesis on or before December 31, 2020 or before June 30, 2021 and project staff in science schools and centres, are allowed,” registrar Pramod Kumar said. Kumar said the decision was taken since science students need the laboratory. “The library will remain closed and students with humanities background can work on their research at home while accessing the e-resources we have made available for them,” he said.While day scholars can enter the campus from November 2, hostellers will have to wait longer. In the notice, Kumar said a phased reopening for final-year PhD research scholars, including those who had received 9B extension -- only in science schools and centres -- would be allowed from November 16. Student leaders were not completely happy with the move. “This is concerning because research scholars with a non-science background, who are hostellers, would still not be able to access the campus,” Saket Moon, JNUSU vice-president, said. Also Read | 2 former students of JNU set to make electoral debut in Bihar assembly pollsEarlier in the day, JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said, “During our meeting with the dean of students and chief security officer over the matter, we made it clear to the officials, particularly DoS, that there should be no discrimination between streams in the re-entry of research scholars and those with submissions of all courses must be immediately allowed to return.” Shivam Chaurasia, president of the JNU unit of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, said, “We have been giving representations and memorandums and it is only now that the administration has allowed day scholars and hostel-residing final-year science scholars to access their respective laboratories. We want a phased-wise return of each and every student and we are not going to relent on this demand.” The Central library, canteen, and dhabas will remain closed during the two phases of reopening and the Aarogya Setu app has been made mandatory for students and all employees. Students have also been asked to undergo “self-quarantine” for seven days after arrival in Delhi from outstation or before entering the university and submit a self-declaration form as well. Deans and chairpersons have been given three days to submit their plan of action on the matter and constitute a school or central-level monitoring committee to ensure Covid-19 protocols are implemented. They have also been asked to prepare a list of students and staff who need to access libraries and submit it to the administration. A roster of students using the lab will be maintained at all times to ensure social distancing.For over a month now, the JNUSU has been demanding a phased entry for research scholars into the campus, citing the Union home ministry guidelines released in August and September. Both the guidelines said research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional courses requiring labs can be allowed to visit the campus-based on an assessment of the situation. Earlier this month, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had ordered a “status quo” on all permitted activities in the capital – meaning higher education institutes would remain out of bounds. While JNU students who had gone back home during the Covid-19 lockdown were not allowed to return due to the increasing number of cases on the campus, those at DU had it easier with the university allowing a phased entry of its research scholars requiring lab work in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-allows-phased-entry-for-phd-scholars-staff-in-science-schools-and-special-centres/story-RajKJKezyqUUALYc3BMr3J.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Released on parole during Covid-19 lockdown, murder convict kills another man||A 42-year-old man, who was sentenced to life in jail for a murder but granted parole in April this year during the government’s bid to decongest jails owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, was rearrested on Tuesday morning for allegedly killing a 25-year-old after a gambling dispute.The incident took place in south Delhi’s Tughlakabad village in the early hours of Tuesday, police said while identifying the suspect as Vishwajeet alias Chacha.Police said Vishwajeet was among the 4000 inmates who were released from various jails (on special parole) as a step to decongest them in the city as the Covid-19 pandemic peaked. Vishwajeet was rearrested on Tuesday along with the knife allegedly used in the crime. A case of murder was registered against him at the Govindpuri police station, with police claiming that the suspect being previously involved in six cases of dacoity and for crimes under the Arms act, apart from having served time in jail for a decade-old murder in Chittaranjan Park. Police officials associated with the probe said that Tuesday’s murder took place around 3am over Rs 70,000 that the victim, Vicky Gupta, won while gambling (playing cards) with his brother Kuldeep Gupta, Vishwajeet, and their friend Raja near a forested area in Tughlakabad village. “Vishwajeet accused Vicky of cheating during the game and demanded the money that he had lost back. An argument ensued and Vishwajeet took out a knife, stabbed Vicky in his chest in a fit of rage and fled,” a senior police officer associated with the case said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Kumar Gyanesh said the murder came to their notice around 5 am on Tuesday, after Kuldeep informed the police about it. “The injured man was rushed to Safdarjung hospital by his brother where he was declared brought dead,” said Gyanesh, adding that a murder case was registered on the statement of prime witness Kuldeep, who is an auto rickshaw driver by profession. As Vishwajeet was absconding, teams from Govindpuri police station conducted raids. “We caught Vishwajeet in the evening from one of his hideouts in Govindpuri. The murder weapon, a knife, was also seized from him,” the officer said. Also Read | 30 million frontline workers to get Covid-19 vaccine in phase 1During the probe, an investigator who wished not to be identified said, Vishwajeet’s antecedents were verified and it was learnt that he had committed a murder around a decade ago in Chittaranjan Park and was convicted for life in that case. “In April, he came out of jail after being granted parole following the step by the government to contain the cases of Covid-19 in jails. Like other prisoners who got paroles under similar circumstances, Vishwajeet’s conditional freedom was also being extended,” added the investigator. After coming out of jail, Vishwajeet had opened a roadside eatery near CR Park, police said. On Tuesday, the Delhi high court had said that they were contemplating to end the blanket extension of interim bail and special parole for prisoners who were released during the lockdown to decongest the prison. The high court had observed that only three prisoners from around 12,000 were currently infected with Covid-19 and that their release was only a stop-gap measure at the start of the lockdown. Around 4,000 prisoners from Delhi’s three jails have been released and their parole/bails has been extended multiple times. Prisoners who had “good conduct” in jail or were caught for non-heinous crimes or were not involved in heinous cases such as terror acts, rape with murder and cheating were eligible for release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-out-on-parole-nabbed-for-murder-in-tughlakabad-village/story-bBIisMFQjtfGxLmVW2mNuK.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Placards, roses at traffic signals on Day 1 of govt campaign against pollution||Dinesh Singh,25, stood at the ITO traffic signal at 8am on Wednesday, with a placard reading, “yudh pradushan ke viruddh” (war against pollution). As vehicles stopped at the red light, Singh signalled them to pull down their window, handed them a rose and urged them to turn-off their vehicle’s ignition while they waited for the light to turn green. Hundreds of environment marshals like Singh were deployed at 100 traffic signals across the national capital on Wednesday -- the first day of Delhi government’s awareness campaign, ‘red light on, gaadi off’ (red light on, ignition off) to reduce levels of vehicular emissions in the national capital. “We are a team of around 15, manning the intersection. Once the red light goes on, we hold up placards reminding drivers to turn off the ignition of their cars and motorcycles. Most of the people stopping here happily complied to our request,” Singh said. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal encouraged people to participate in the campaign and contribute towards bringing the city’s pollution levels down, which tend to spike and reach alarming levels every winter. “The people of Delhi have achieved a great feat. Last year, they helped reduce pollution levels by 25%. Let us all come together again to fight pollution. Please participate in the ‘red light on, gaadi off’ campaign. War against pollution,” Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday. To encourage more and more people to participate in the campaign, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai also reached the ITO signal to speak to the environment marshals and drivers on the importance of turning the ignition off while waiting at red lights. “Till now Delhi government and various agencies were involved in the war against pollution, today we are reaching out to two crore(20 million) people of Delhi to participate in this fight,” Rai said. He said that the fight against pollution can only be won if the government and the citizens come together in taking all the necessary steps needed to control pollution sources. Also Read | India recorded highest air pollution exposure globally in 2019: ReportGovernment estimates show that if all commuters participate in this campaign across the city, which is a voluntary exercise, then the pollution levels can be reduced by 15-20%. “This campaign will run till November 15. We have invited all the MPs, MLAs, councillors, trade organisations and private employers to join this campaign. We are also in touch with eco clubs and resident welfare associations (RWAs), which can in turn encourage more people to practice this,” he added. Chaitali Sinha, a commuter who had stopped at the Tilak Marg signal, said turning off the ignition of vehicles was a behavioural change, and people should stand with the government in their initiative. “I think Delhiites are not really used to turning ignition off because we live in a climate which is hot and sultry most of the year and it becomes difficult to wait at the signal without the air conditioner. But the winters are the perfect time to do this and one small step can go a long way (in fighting pollution),” Sinha said.  However, there were some who were not convinced about the efficacy of the initiative. “Instead of inconveniencing people, the government should first do their bit in reducing pollution. Garbage is being burnt openly and illegal industries are operating on the outskirts, and most importantly there is still no solution to stubble burning in the other states. Just one person switching off engine (of his vehicle) for a few seconds is not going to yield any benefits,” said Sudharshan Kaul. A Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official said while ‘idling’, keeping the ignition on while the vehicle is not moving, might not yield immediate results. This is a good practice to follow, which will be beneficial in the long run. Also Read | Staff crunch threatens to derail pollution fight in Delhi“A lot of factors play a role in bringing down the city’s pollution levels, and the most important at this time of the year is weather. We will not be able to see a visible effect of this campaign immediately but vehicular emission is a primary source of pollution in Delhi-NCR and these are the steps that will help in the long run,” the official said, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/placards-roses-at-traffic-signals-on-day-1-of-govt-campaign-against-pollution/story-7nxh8uCeWaYRLONc4udwNP.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Maratkar murder case: 11 accused booked under MCOCA in Pune||The Pune police have booked 11 accused arrested in connection with the murder of Pune Yuva Sena office-bearer Deepak Maratkar under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Wednesday signed the orders imposing MCOCA against the accused, namely, Ashwini Sopan Kamble, Niranja Sagar Mhakale, Rahul Sriniwas Ragir, Rohit Dattatreya Kshirsagar, Mahendra Madanlal Saraf, Prashant alias Sunny Prakash Kolte, Rohit alias Nala Kamalakar Kanale, Sandeep alias Munglya, Prakash Kolte, Lakhan Manohar Wale and Chandrashekhar Ramdas Waghel. Maratkar (36) was stabbed 47 times to his death by the accused on October 1, midnight, near his house located in Budhwar peth. The deceased was the son of late Shiv Sena corporator Vijay Maratkar, who had succumbed to Covid-19 . The murder took place over an old rivalry between the accused and the deceased’s father over political, and property related issues. Ashwini Kamble has been identified as the main accused in the case by the Faraskhana police officials. All the accused are currently under judicial custody awaiting trial. Ashwini Kamble had contested against Vijay Maratkar in the 2017 elections. Additional commissioner (Crime) Ashok Morale said that MCOCA has been applied based on the intensity and gruesome nature of crime and to send a strong message to the criminals that the strictest of action under the law will be taken against those indulging in crimes. Meanwhile, the crime branch sleuths of Unit I have nabbed Swapnil Modve alias Chocolate ( 36), the 12th absconding accused in the case in connection with the murder. The crime branch received a tip off that he was hiding in Sangli district after which a team of crime branch personnel swooped down on the location and handcuffed the criminal. According to the police, Modve is the member of notorious Bapu Nair gang and his role in Maratkar’s murder has been revealed. He has confessed to his crime and involvement in the murder, crime branch officials stated. He will also be booked under MCOCA soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maratkar-murder-case-11-accused-booked-under-mcoca/story-jnMvnmJjWZXL5ZaRdjU8eM.html
22-10-2020||Pune||Police escort to ensure garbage delivery at Pune’s Uruli Devachi depot||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will use a police escort to ensure garbage collected in the city makes its way to the Uruli Devachi garbage depot. Residents of the Uruli Devachi area are not allowing the civic body to bring in garbage to the depot, protesting, among other things, the lack of a proper means of disposal at the site. At Ramtekdi, a 200 metric tonne garbage processing plant is lying idle due to technical issues. As a result, garbage is not being lifted from several areas in the city and has been collecting for weeks now. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol held an all-party closed-door meeting on Wednesday evening, after which, one of the attendees at the meeting, requesting anonymity, said that the administration promised to sort out the garbage issue in a day’s time and if needed, take police bandobast to transport the garbage to Uruli Devachi. Republican Party leader Siddharth Dhende who was present at the meeting, said, “Additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goyal promised that the administration is discussing the matter with the police. If needed, with police protection, garbage would be sent to the garbage depot.”Municipal commissioner VIkram Kumar said, “The administration started a dialogue with residents of Uruli Devachi and we hope the issue gets sorted out soon. PMC will lift all the garbage from the city very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-escort-to-ensure-garbage-processing-at-uruli-devachi-depot/story-SpK2LzOoUccG1sHT8lsl2M.html
22-10-2020||Pune||PMPML launches ATAL bus service for Punekars||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) on Wednesday announced a new bus service “ATAL” (Aligning Transit on All Lanes) which will have 5 km travelling, with 5 minutes frequency at Rs 5 ticket fare. The facility will run on 9 new routes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas. While the official launch of the service will be done on Saturday by the state BJP president Chandrakant Patil, the service will start from Dussehra (October 25). “All our services for public were stopped, except for emergency staff and requirements, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are slowly restarting our facilities and have launched “ATAL” to attract commuters and reduce overlapping bus schedules. In the route rationalisation process and by the inputs taken by our depot managers, staff, drivers and conductors, commuters and NGOs it was found that there are several routes which are overlapping. Feeder buses are needed for short distance, high frequency and less fare. So, we decided to work on the project and came up with 9 new routes in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas, where 233 midi buses will run under the plan,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap. “The buses will run in 5 to maximum 6 km route, and the ticket fare will by Rs 5 and the frequency of these buses will be 5 minutes. We expect more commuters to avail this facility and help in generating more revenue. In future, we are going to take this feeder bus service project for metro services too for those using metro to travel by our buses to their nearby destinations. We will review our project for next three months and upgrade or change as per feedback from passengers and other stakeholders,” said Jagtap. Jagtap was accompanied by Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol and PMPML director Shankar Pawar at the press meet. ‘“This new bus service will be beneficial for common public and they can travel fast within nearby areas. The official inauguration of this service will be done on October 24, Saturday, by BJP state president Chandrakant Patil and it will officially run on Dussehra. I appeal to all Punekars to take advantage of this bus service and travel safely.” said Mohol. PMPML care mobile application On the inauguration day, PMPML will launch their new mobile application “PMPML Care” for commuters. It will be an advanced mobile application which will be user friendly providing information related to realtime bus navigation, route, schedule and fare details, a PMPML official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-launches-atal-bus-service-for-punekars/story-cgjM8m92yK0xCh3bvS4kAO.html
22-10-2020||Delhi||Pollution rising? Warrior moms are here to fight against bad air days||“Come July, and my kids would start wheezing, catch allergies if they are out for too long. Unlike bad water and polluted grounds, the effects of polluted air are not immediately visible. This pandemic has also proven that people who have respiratory issues find it hard to cope with the infection. It’s high time we fight for better breathing rights for our future generations,” says Bhavreen Kandhari, a Delhi-based environmentalist, and mother to twin daughters. She is also a member of Warrior Moms — a pan-India initiative of environmentally conscious mothers who are fighting against air pollution and other environmental issues. There are more than 1,000 women engaging with the team on a pan India scale, with numbers increasing every day. But, why the name Warrior Moms? Kandhari says it’s because they are now operating on a war scale, and explains that “Mothers will go to all ends of the world for the benefit of their children. The name is a reflection of that commitment. I shiver to think as a mother that I’m packing cigarettes instead of lunch boxes in the school bag; the air our child breathes could be equal to smoking up to 20 cigarettes a day! It is a national emergency.” During the lockdown and even in phases of unlock, the pollution levels reduced drastically, thus allowing Delhi-NCR residents to breathe in peace. “This is a chance for us to reflect upon the lifestyle choices we make, and also question the government’s decisions that have made the air unbreathable prior to lockdown,” says Anuja Bali Karthikeyan, a Warrior Mom from Pune. Sherebanu Frosh, a Gurugram-based Warrior Mom who is one of the 50 women at the core of this collective, says, “Coming together and raising voices has always been the only way to make a difference. We felt that if mothers understood the implications of air pollution on their children, they would rise and fight for solutions.” WHO has pointed out that children, especially below five years, are more vulnerable than ever to the harmful effects of air pollution. Gurugram-based Warrior Mom, Dr Sarika Verma, an ENT surgeon by profession, agrees to this, and says, “We have taken up this cause because we feel authorities are not effectively dealing with this menace. The number of cases of children who now need nebulisers to breathe properly, has increased manifold in Delhi and nearby areas. But our fight isn’t limited to air pollution. We will be championing the cause of waste management, oppose indiscriminate tree felling, and demand cleaner fuel for vehicles among other key issues.” Talking about the need for appropriate policies to drive a sustained change, Frosh adds that the group is aiming for social media campaigns and conversations with a wider reach. She adds, “Our mission is to push the change in technologies and policies, which are needed to get to a zero emission and AQI 60, for the sake of our children.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pollution-rising-warrior-moms-are-here-to-fight-against-bad-air-days/story-hvMsQsMfmKfQqttDjTpgqM.html
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy procurement: Haryana’s paddy farmers, arhtiyas await payment||The government has failed to make good on its promise of paying all commission agents and farmers within 72 hours of paddy procurement. With the festive and sowing season round the corner, the delay has caused consternation among farmers and agricultural workers. Government agencies have already procured around 30 lakh tonnes or 50% of the 60 lakh tonne target. A farmer, Madan Lal of Indri, Karnal, says, “I sold paddy worth ₹3.5 lakh to the government and am still awaiting payment. I had to borrow money on interest to pay the labourers.” Another aggrieved farmer, Ramesh Kumar of Yamunanagar, says, “I had sold my produce to the government two weeks ago but am yet to be paid. I had opted for direct payment and so I cannot even take money from the arhtiya.” Farmers and arhtiyas have been frequenting the local-level officials of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board to enquire about the delay. “Payment of around ₹2 crore is pending with government agencies but it is not clear when the money will be transferred to our accounts, “ says Sohan Lal, a commission agent from Ladwa grain market of Kurukshetra.₹190 crore payment being processed, say officials Mandi secretaries have taken up the issue with the higher officers. They have been told that the payment was being processed and will reach their accounts in a day or two.“I took up the issue of delayed payments with senior officers and they said payment of around ₹30 crore for our mandi was under process. However, paddy worth ₹400 crore has been procured from this mandi and ₹30 crore is a meagre amount,” said a Kurukshetra mandi secretary, requesting anonymity. Food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department additional chief secretary PK Das said he was on leave and unable to provide the information requested.Officials of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board said one of the key reasons for the delay in payments was glitches between I-Form generation and approval. They say the issue was being sorted out and ₹190 crore will be disbursed among farmers and arhtiyas soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-procurement-haryana-s-paddy-farmers-arhtiyas-await-payment/story-4yn5ai32RzG00QBwyQKTnM.html
22-10-2020||Competitive||JEE 100 percentile scorer Delhi-based boy says: Belief in myself was my biggest motivator||“We all have the capability to perform and achieve what we dream of. The need is to put immense energy to work for it,” says Tushar Sethi, who is one of the five candidates from the Capital to score a 100 percentile and bag the all India 10th rank in Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains. For every achiever, there’s a motivation, and for Sethi, it was his “confidence in his abilities”. The 18-year-old Delhi-boy says, “My belief in myself was my biggest motivator to achieve my goal! Over and above this, the constant motivation and everlasting support from my mentors and my teachers, at my coaching and school, empowered me. To motivate myself, I used to read and follow quotes of great people like Swami Vivekananda, Harivansh Rai Bacchhan and many more.”Students attempting entrance exams during the pandemic have had to face quite a few challenges right from the overwhelming lockdown to travelling safe to the examination centre, and the postponement of exam dates. But Sethi didn’t see these factors as obstacles. “Difficulty comes when one feels there’s an obstacle. I regarded lockdown as an opportunity for betterment. Instead of feeling low about things getting postponed because of the pandemic, I got guided by my teachers and mentors to use the extra time in working more efficiently,” he says. Sethi, a student of Bal Bharati Public School, Rohini took a four-year classroom program from a coaching institute to prepare for his exam, and continued to take online classes during the lockdown. “My coaching institute, Vidyamandir Classes coped with the sudden lockdown smoothly, and classes continued virtually. Initially it was a bit unusual to switch to online classes, but with continued effort everything got normal. My family was there at all times to take care of my health and wellness, and they adjusted to my schedule of online classes.”Come to talk of anxiety on the day of the exam, and Sethi advises that every student must ease out the tension or stress. “Follow your teachers and mentors. Be true to yourself and plan your schedule well. Convert your weaknesses into your strength through practice and persistence. In my opinion all this helps build the confidence that prepares oneself for the D-day. Many a times, I found stress as a push and an opportunity to give a better performance.”At a time when most youngsters from his generation are hooked to grammimg their #OOTD, how did Sethi stay away from the distractions such as social media? “We all have heard of words like focus and dedication, but deploying them in day to day routine, questioning ourself before starting any task by asking if it will aid in my journey or not, and keeping distance from social media are things that play a key role in ones’ preparation and subsequently in one’s success,” says a gleaming Sethi, who is happy with what he has achieved.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entrance-exam/jee-100-percentile-scorer-delhi-based-boy-says-belief-in-myself-was-my-biggest-motivator/story-lF2WN8Ck6695Vuoik093BK.html
