23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER sees 75% dip in surgeries amid pandemic||In another example of how routine health services have been impacted due to Covid-19, the number of various surgeries conducted at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, which is the region’s top tertiary care hospital, recorded a dip of around 75% during the pandemic.The institute from May to mid-October has conducted 27,722 surgeries, which roughly amount to 5,000 per month. However, in the last two years, the number of surgeries conducted per month averaged around 21,500.Emphasising that non-Covid services should not be hampered, institute’s former director Dr Yogesh Chawla said: “Since Covid-19 reports are important now, the stress should also be on developing testing methods that give prompt results and are totally reliable, so that routine services are not denied or postponed.”.The institute has recently stated that restoring all services remains a priority, but it is still evaluating the situation.Dr Ashok Kumar, the official spokesperson, said: “The emergency services have never been stopped and a large number of patients has been treated. When regular services are restored to the fullest, the backlog of scheduled surgeries will be cleared by all departments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-sees-75-dip-in-surgeries-amid-pandemic/story-9uDUv0wbObznpi7yPCLkgO.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER doctors bat for continuation of plasma therapy||Even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering removing plasma therapy from the Covid-19 management guidelines, doctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are of view that the experimental therapy should not be taken completely off the protocol.The clinical trials by ICMR did not show promising results. A trial conducted across 39 hospitals in India has revealed that plasma therapy neither reduces the death risk nor does it slow down the progression of the disease from mild to severe stage. Pankaj Malhotra, professor at PGI’s internal medicine department, who was the principal investigator of the trial, said though the results were not encouraging, the therapy can be continued on a set of patients fitting into the criteria and wherever a physician feels that it can yield better results.“As a part of study, we have come to know that the randomised trials did not have an impact on mortality, but at the same time we have to keep in mind that certain symptoms such as fatigue and fever were treated faster. Rather than doing nothing, we can actually do something and try this therapy on a certain subset,” he added.Head of the transfusion medicine department, Professor Ratti Ram Sharma said, “For now, there is no set treatment for Covid-19 and the therapy should be given at the discretion of the physician and to those who fall under the category of treatment. It should not be used as an over-the-counter drug.”The transfusion medicine department runs a plasma bank which caters to the need of patients from across the tricity. PGIMER was one of the centres of the ICMR’s national trial for convalescent plasma therapy. The institute had successfully enrolled nine patients, five of whom received plasma treatment and the remaining ones were on control arm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-doctors-bat-for-continuation-of-plasma-plasma/story-BkNQbjksTmfAUwffSpCSFM.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at air conditioned local train near Mumbai’s Mahalaxmi railway car shed||A fire broke out in the power coach of an air-conditioned (AC) local train on Thursday night. The incident took place at 1.40am near Mahalaxmi railway car-shed. No passenger or railway staff suffered any injuries. Western Railway (WR) has launched an inquiry into the incident. Railway authorities and fire brigade doused the fire by 3.10am on Friday morning. “The reason for the fire will be investigated. There will be no repercussions on AC train services,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.“The control wiring of the shunting desk and the electronic cabinet got burnt in the fire. There was no damage in any passenger area,” said a senior railway official. Short circuit is suspected to be the reason according to railway officials. The AC local train which caught fire was the third AC train to arrive in city for WR in September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-air-conditioned-local-train-near-mumbai-s-mahalaxmi-railway-car-shed/story-3NaiLbUaEUChblB4mZ86iO.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||HC reprieve for BJP councillor Bhalchandra Shirsath, will continue to be member of Mumbai civic body’s standing committee||The Bombay high court on Friday ordered that BJP councillor Bhalchandra Shirsath will continue to be a member of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing Committee till October 27, although later in the day the general body of the corporation decided to remove him from the most important civic committee.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice VG Bisht passed the order on a petition filed by Shirsath on Friday morning challenging October 21 decision of the civic body to remove him from the standing committee. He had also challenged the agenda for the extraordinary general body meeting held on Friday afternoon to fill the post vacated by Shirsath.Shirsath’s counsel, advocate Amogh Singh, submitted that the decision was not only illegal but was also a colourable exercise of power. He pointed out that Shirsath’s nomination on the standing committee has been approved by the corporation, issue of his eligibility was raked up at the committee’s meeting of October 21.Prabhakar Shinde, BJP group leader in BMC had taken strong exception to the issue raised by Shivsena’s Vishakha Raut. Shinde also pointed out relevant provisions of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, after which nothing further happens in the meeting. However, at about 11.30 PM, the BJP councillor received a letter from the corporation that after taking legal opinion, the standing committee had decided that he cannot baby a member of the committee, for being a nominated member and not an elected one.In this backdrop, Amogh Singh prayed for an interim order restraining BMC from filling up the ‘vacancy’.After the judges expressed utter displeasure over the sequence of events, BMC’s legal head, advocate Aruna Savla, informed HC that the decision to remove the Shirsath as a member of the standing committee was withdrawn, the concerned item on agenda of the general body was amended and the matter was to be placed before the general body to discuss and decide the issue of the BJP councillor’s removal from the standing committee.After hearing both sides, the bench allowed the general body to proceed with the meeting and make a decision as to whether Shirsath should be allowed to continue as a member of the standing committee, or not. HC added that the corporation shall not implement the decision or resolution up to October 27, when the court will further hear the matter if it decides to remove him from standing committee.“In other words, the Petitioner shall continue to be a member of the standing committee of the Corporation until this court hears the matter on 27th October 2020,” said the bench.According to his petition filed through Jeet Gandhi, Shirsath has been nominated by BJP as a councillor on March 17, 2020, and was appointed on the standing committee along with 12 others on September 28, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-reprieve-for-bjp-councillor-bhalchandra-shirsath-will-continue-to-be-member-of-mumbai-civic-body-s-standing-committee/story-3pkb4xOkBSV5lNqxbEpH3H.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||ICICI bank fraud case: PMLA Court rejects Deepak Kochhar plea for post-Covid care in private hospital||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Friday rejected the plea of former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar to be shifted to a private hospital for post-Covid-19 care.Kochhar is presently lodged at Taloja jail after being remanded to judicial custody. He was arrested by ED on September 7 on charges of money laundering and later remanded to the agency’s custody till September 19. In the meantime, he was tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14. Hence, his ED custody was suspended and he was sent to judicial custody. Kochhar was discharged on October 13 after Covid-19 treatment and was remanded to ED custody. The special court had remanded him to judicial custody on October 17.He had, last week, approached the special court through his lawyers Vijay Agrawal and Aashul Agrawal and requested to be shifted to a private hospitalIn his plea, Kochhar stated that he “suffered from an extremely severe and prolonged bout of Covid-19 lasting more than three weeks, with many additional complications including prolonged and severe infection which has impacted the entire body, including lungs and immune system.”“The applicant is still suffering from prolonged effects of Covid infection. Going into the jail will not be safe for the health of the applicant. It is submitted that even a mild Covid-19 infection can leave patients sick for months after testing negative,” reads his application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icici-bank-fraud-case-pmla-court-rejects-deepak-kochhar-plea-for-post-covid-care-in-private-hospital/story-VKhrVQzYhkcmCcEUXjX9EN.html
23-10-2020||City||Nine-year-old raped in Ambala’s Naraingarh||A nine-year-old girl was reportedly raped in Ambala’s Naraingarh area, police said on Friday.The girl belongs to a family of migrant labourers from Bihar who work in a factory. She was alone at home when the incident took place on Thursday afternoon. The accused has not been identified yet.The girl was first taken to the Naraingarh civil hospital, where the family tried to pass it off as an accidental injury.Even as the girl was referred to the civil hospital in Ambala City at night, the parents kept insisting that she was injured by an iron rod, said Dr Vandana Sharma, chairperson, district child welfare committee.It was only after the child was counselled by the hospital staff and child welfare committee representatives that she revealed that “an unknown man, who had covered his face, had raped her”. The man had even threatened her of dire consequences if she confided in anyone, said Dr Sharma.“The family knew that she had been sexually assaulted, and had even changed her clothes before taking her to hospital. However, afraid of stigma, they tried to conceal it,” she said, adding that after seeing the child’s injuries, the hospital staff took the family into confidence.A case under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Ambala women police station. Superintendent of police Rajesh Kalia said the DSP is heading investigations into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-year-old-raped-in-ambala-s-naraingarh/story-5wfLskAZFpOF0FzLkNAKyH.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitation workers, garbage collectors on strike in Chandigarh||Upping the ante against the municipal corporation, door-to-door garbage collectors have decided to stop lifting of solid waste from households in Chandigarh from Saturday.The strike is set to impact the whole city, in a repeat of what happened around two years back.This comes at a time when the Safai Karamchari Union went on an indefinite strike from Friday, stopping the collection of garbage and cleanliness work at markets, roads and streets. Confirming the decision, Om Prakash Saini, president, Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said: “We will totally stop the collection of garbage from houses. The strike will go on till the MC relents and comes to the negotiating table.”The garbage collectors are against the MC taking over garbage collection in the city. The union is demanding signing of a memorandum of understanding with the civic body, as it claims was promised to it earlier. The union is also demanding permission to collect user charges from residents directly and sell reusable solid waste. “Even though the MC General House has passed a resolution to this effect, the corporation has not committed to it in writing. Instead, the MC is insistent on collecting user charges through water bills or property tax bills, and also will pay out only a part of the earnings from sale of reusable waste articles. This will impact our income,” said Saini.On Friday too, some garbage collectors didn’t pick household solid waste from a few sectors, including 22, 27, 32, 36, 43 and 49, and other areas, like Maloya. “Collectors in these areas left the work to participate in the sanitation workers’ dharna against the MC in Sector 17,” said Saini.From Saturday, Saini warned, the union members will not allow anyone to collect garbage. “We will break the wheels of carts if it is required to stop the lifting of garbage,” he said.Resident bodies slam MCCriticising the MC for its handling of the impending crisis, Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said: “If the issue is not resolved immediately, we will pass a resolution against the MC and boycott it on every platform. The MC has failed on most civic and development issues.”Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, Chandigarh, “During the strike two years ago, most people dumped their garbage at Sehaj Safai Kendras. While households faced limited issues, these centres were overflowing with garbage.”Sanitation workers stage dharnaOn Friday, the Safai Karamchari Union began its indefinite strike and staged a protest in front of the MC office in Sector 17. Mayor Raj Bala Malik’s effigy was also burnt.Union president Krishan Kumar Chadha said: “From Saturday, there will be complete shutdown of sanitation and garbage collection services. The MC can no longer take us for granted. The strike will go on till the MC accepts all of our demands.”Sanitation workers are against wearing GPS-enabled smart watches, and want regularisation of their services. They also support the garbage collectors’ demands.MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “We are trying to convince them not to go on strike. I have deputed the sanitation committee to negotiate with them. In case they do stop garbage collection, we will ensure the services are normalised without delay.”Rajesh Kalia, former mayor and chairman of the sanitation committee, couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanitation-workers-garbage-collectors-on-strike-in-chandigarh/story-9yvRvczQeKNHsgyelR82WJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Bombay high court rejects plea of a person booked for abusive tweets against Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and son Aaditya||A petitioner who sought protection from coercive action by the police for defamatory tweets against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya Thackeray over the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput – drew a sharp reaction from the Bombay high court. The court had directed the petitioner, Sameer Thakkar, to cooperate with the investigating officer which he did not follow. This led the court to dismiss his petition. Thakkar was granted interim protection by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on August 28. He was booked by the local Sitabuldi police for the tweets under sections of 292 (punishment for obscene acts or words in public) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of Information Technology Act on a Shiv Sena activist’s complaint. Seeking the court’s intervention, the petitioner prayed for quashing FIR against him and demanded security in wake of alleged threats from Shiv Sena activists. Apart from granting Thakkar interim relief, the court had also directed not to file charge sheet if the investigation was completed during the pendency of the petition. The investigating officer, on October 12, informed the high court that the petitioner was not co-operating after which Thakkar was directed to report to Sitabuldi police station every day between 6pm and 8pm from October 13 onwards. The petitioner filed an affidavit on October 20 informing the court that he had filed two more petitions before two high court benches, including Mumbai, where similar directives were issued. Therefore, it was very difficult for him to come to Nagpur to mark his presence every day. Thakkar had also moved the Supreme Court with his grievance. A high court division bench, comprising justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while noting down petitioner’s difficulty in running from one station to another and attending the police stations, expressed surprise over failure to inform the investigating officer about his inability to come to Nagpur. The bench also wondered as to why the petitioner had not sought any modification of the order directing him to appear daily before Sitabuldi police at Nagpur. “We can very well understand the petitioner’s difficulties in running from one police station to another. But, we can’t understand why he didn’t intimate the investigation officer about his difficulties. We also fail to understand why he hasn’t sought any modification of the high court’s earlier order till date that directed him to report to Sitabuldi police every day,” the judges said and added that “it appears that on the one hand, the petitioner seeks interim relief and on the other, he thinks he needn’t follow the conditions imposed by the high court under the impression that he can help himself without anybody’s assistance. If this is his conduct, the bench doesn’t think it would be appropriate for them to entertain this petition any further,” the bench observed. Since Thakkar had already approached the Supreme Court, the high court dismissed the petition noting that considering the conduct of the petitioner it would not be appropriate to entertain the petition any further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-high-court-rejects-plea-of-a-person-booked-for-abusive-tweets-against-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-and-son-aaditya/story-fxEQ1nRXurI5nwy45uHXQJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Director of Delhi-based PACL booked for cheating Panchkula man||Panchkula police have registered an FIR under the sections of cheating and criminal breach of trust against Manish Jakhar, director of a Delhi-based firm, PACL, after a resident of Raipur Rani alleged of being duped of several crores.Complainant Sanjay Singhal, a trader in mandi, claimed that Jakhar offered him several properties belonging to PACL and PGF group at good rates. “One of the lands offered was in Raipur Rani admeasuring 165 acres belonging to PGF Limited,” he added. “However, it was under attachment of CBI and could be bought only with the consent of a committee of the Supreme Court. This property was offered to me at ₹11 lakh per acre. Accordingly, I handed over cheques of ₹5 crore to him (Jakhar) and transferred ₹90.5 lakh to his company Sovereign Infra Solutions,” the complainant said. Singhal said few days later, Jakhar showed him a 2016 order of the SC-appointed committee wherein his name had been proposed as a prospective buyer and the valuation report of the property had been called for. “To expedite the process and manage the valuation report favourably, Jakhar took ₹36 lakh from me,” he told the police.He alleged that Jakhar did not get the sale deed executed in his favour and when he asked him to return the money, he gave him cheques of ₹28 lakh only. Singhal claimed that Jakhar deliberately evaded all communication from him after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/director-of-delhi-based-pacl-booked-for-cheating-panchkula-man/story-vBQQlSOKAsbed6z836y9gJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Akali Dal, BJP get a raw deal in Mohali MC ward delimitation||In a major setback to Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party councillors, 70% seats held by them in the previous Mohali municipal corporation House have gone into ward delimitation or been reserved or deserved to their detriment ahead of the upcoming civic body elections in Punjab. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 this year.The delimitation board constituted by the local bodies department to redraw boundaries of wards based on the recent census gave its final approval on Friday. The population under the MC’s jurisdiction has gone up from 1.64 lakh to 1.87 lakh. Among the 50 wards, 25 have been reserved for women besides five for scheduled castes (including two for women) and two for backward classes (men). While former Akali mayor Kulwant Singh’s Ward No. 49 has been converted to general from reserved (SC), his son Sarabjeet Singh Samana’s Ward No. 25 has been reserved for women.As many as 23 of 33 wards previously held by SAD-BJP have been affected, while wards of only two former Congress councillors have been converted to general category and the remaining 13 have been left untouched.Miffed over this, both SAD and BJP councillors are accusing the state’s Congress government of “dictatorship”.‘Done in undemocratic way’Mohali got a municipal council in 1984, which was upgraded to a corporation through a notification in January 2011. However, the elections were held after four years in 2015. While Congress had won from 15 wards, the SAD-BJP alliance got 23 seats. The Azad group, led by Kulwant Singh, won from 10 while two seats went to Independents. With the support of his group besides 14 Congress councillors and the two Independents, Kulwant was elected Mohali’s first mayor in August 2015. Two years later, the Azad group merged into the SAD. In the upcoming elections, the SAD and BJP will be contesting separately after their alliance at the Centre broke over the farm bills.Still waiting for the delimitation’s blueprint, Kulwant Singh said: “People of Mohali know who has done development work in the city.”During his tenure, Kulwant Singh remained at loggerheads with cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who represents Mohali in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, as the two were often engaged in a “credit war” over development works in the city.Former BJP councillor Arun Sharma, whose Ward No. 9 has been reserved for women, said: “We all worked with dedication in our wards for five years, and now they (Congress government) have shifted our wards. It has been done in an undemocratic way.” Justifying the delimitation, former Congress councillor Bharat Bhushan Mynee said: “The 2015 elections were held according to the 2014 population data. In six years, the population increased, especially in the new sectors, necessitating redrawing of ward boundaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akali-dal-bjp-get-a-raw-deal-in-mohali-mc-ward-delimitation/story-3R2wnFhuCWgqYcRsAtOuBI.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Independent MLA from Mira-Bhayandar to join Shiv Sena||In another blow to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after senior leader Eknath Khadse quit the party, independent legislator from Mira-Bhayandar Geeta Jain is set to join the Shiv Sena on Saturday afternoon. Jain, a BJP rebel, defeated BJP’s Narendra Mehta after the party refused to give her a ticket in the 2019 elections. The former Mira-Bhayandar mayor contested as an independent in the last assembly polls.Shiv Sena insiders said that Jain will join the party in presence of party chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at Matoshree on Saturday afternoon. Jain was in touch with Sena functionaries after the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and had met Thackeray on a few occasions looking for a switch.With her entry into the Sena, the party will be able to expand its base in Mira-Bhayandar region, where it has not been able to grow due to a strong BJP influence. The strength of Shiv Sena will increase to 65 (including support of Independents) with Jain entering Sena.Besides that, Shiv Sena could also benefit in the Mira-Bhayandar local body with Jain’s entry. The BJP controls the municipal body, but some corporators are in touch with Jain and could join the Sena with her or may join later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/independent-mla-from-mira-bhayandar-to-join-shiv-sena/story-DRziAD3xDaV5sqN5IMBAEL.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ramlila associations shelve burning of Ravana effigies this Dussehra||With only a handful of Ramlilas being staged in the city, the festive spirit has already taken a back seat due to the pandemic. Now, Dussehra is also likely to be a low-key affair as none of the Ramlila associations in Chandigarh will burn Ravana effigies to signify the victory of good over evil. Speaking about the latest move, president of Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha, Bhagwati Prashad Gaur, said, “The administration had organised a meeting with various associations of the city to give us permission for the Dussehra function. However, they gave us too little time to prepare for it and most organisations didn’t even turn up at the meeting, while the ones which were there declined to host any kind of function for Dussehra.”Tejinder Chauhan from Barara village in Haryana, who had made a 221ft tall Ravana at Dhanas last year, will also be taking a year of. He has rather chosen to make a miniature 10ft effigy of Covid. Speaking about how the Ramlila troupes will conclude their events, which in previous years ended with the lighting up of Ravana on Dussehra, adviser of the Joint Ram Leela Sangh, Ashok Chaudhary, who plays the character of Ravana, said, “We will be hosting pujas on the Ramlila stage this year. The stage will not be left vacant while we honour Lord Ram with prayers.” The Ramlila troupes which had chosen to perform this year will hold a 24-hour puja for the cast members.Jyoti Bhardwaj of the Sector-29 OCF Sanskritik Manch said that even though the professionals who hail from places like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh won’t be coming to the city, kids have started building their own Ravanas. “Children of Sector 29 got together and are building around a 18ft tall Ravana. It is nice to see kids take an initiative,” Bhardwaj added. Meanwhile, Chandigarh administration on Friday gave permission to the Youth Welfare Club of Maloya to celebrate Dussehra. The president of the club, Sobhit Kaushal, however, said, “We will not be burning Ravana, but rather taking out a Rath Yatra for which we had applied to get permission.” Rajput Dramatic Club of Ram Darbar and Uttarakhand Kala Manch of Sectors 55 and 56 were also given permission to host Ramlila.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ramlila-associations-shelve-burning-of-ravana-effigies-this-dussehra/story-NyPvjHsrVBZVh3mygHxEDJ.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bombay high court says journalists have lost their neutrality||The Bombay high court (HC) did not mince words while pointing out to the fact that journalists today have lost their neutrality and the media has become polarised. The observations were made by the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni on Friday while hearing public interest litigations against the media trial in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The court was prompted to make the observations after the advocate of one of the respondent channels submitted a report authored in 1947 by a European institute, which analysed options between self-regulation and statutory regulation for the media, and concluded that there was no need for government control.While clarifying that the channel was not guilty of the allegations made by the petitioners as it was not named by any of the petitions, advocate Ankit Lohia appearing for Zee News, however, said that he wanted make submissions in support of the contentions of other channels that there was no need for government interference in functioning of channels. He cited a 1947 report of a European institute and stated that the report had made it clear that the media should self-regulate instead of any statutory regulation.The chief justice made an observation on the submissions of Lohia and said, “We are ruled by the rule of law. In India there is a rule of law, right? How do you advocate that people who go around accusing others can find shelter of freedom of press? Journalists back then were responsible and neutral, now the media is polarised.”Justice Kulkarni then questioned Lohia why he referred to the 1947 report and not to the 1983 Law Commission report which had compared the media regulation model of India with that of European countries and had suggested that there was a need for checks and balances in the functioning of the media in India.After Lohia responded to the query stating that the media was not averse to being regulated, the bench observed, “This is not a question of regulation. This is a question of checks and balances. People forget where to draw lines. Do it within lines. You [news media] want to criticise government, do it. The issue in the present case is that someone has died and the allegation is you are interfering.”Thereafter, senior advocate Alankar Kirpekar for India TV and advocate Zeeshan Hashmi for News Nation channels also made submissions and drew the attention of the court to the fact that the media trial in the actor’s death case was a one of an instance, and hence the court should not insist on having statutory regulation on the media. They even submitted that the media was controlled by the government in countries such as China and Bangladesh, as a result of which, their independence was ranked very low internationally.Meanwhile, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) stated that the petitioners’ claims about information pertaining to the investigation in Rajput’s death case being leaked to selective media was misconceived and the three agencies had categorically denied the allegation through their affidavit. On the request of one of the petitioners, the court agreed to have further hearing in the matter next week on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/media-trial-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-bombay-high-court-says-journalists-have-lost-their-neutrality/story-ZAxw4R2tgEMAqtrfNzUjLL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department starts special lectures on various subjects on DD Sahyadri||The state education department has started a series of special lectures for students of Class 9 to 12 on DD Sahyadri. The channel will air educational content for students on various subjects. As part of the special initiative, students from state board schools across Maharashtra can listen to expert teachers talk on various subjects every day. The show titled Dyanganga will air on the channel between 7.30am and 12.30pm from Monday to Saturday from October 26. The initiative is a part of several other programmes that the state government has launched over the last few months to provide online and TV-based learning to students. “Schools are already conducting online classes for students daily. However, for students of higher grades, special guidance lectures are important. Especially, for Class 10 and 12 students’ extra preparation is essential as they have to appear for the board exams. Such initiatives will be of great help to them,” said an official from the education department. In April this year, as schools in the state remained shut due to Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, the department hosted educational content on Diksha app which is a ministry of human resource development (MHRD) platform for e-learning. Until now, students are sent a set of links on the phones of their parents or guardians and they can access this content as per their convenience to continue learning. In July, the department also launched educational channels for state board students on Jio TV. Teachers said that while it was a good move to provide additional resources, the government now needs to focus on assessment. “There are no uniform guidelines for the conduct of exams and right now assessments across schools are not consistent. This will affect the academic future of students,” said the principal of a Mumbai-based school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-starts-special-lectures-on-various-subjects-on-dd-sahyadri/story-Dz0WIqYKCB5sRessXF4q1L.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Urgent action required to weed out gangsters from Chandigarh||Police have to get organised The increasing number of crimes shows the law enforcing agencies in poor light. Why is the police force not as well organised as the gangsters are? Why aren’t new technology and innovative methods used to curb crimes? The Chandigarh administration with authorities in Mohali and Panchkula authorities and the law enforcing agencies have to work together to find a way to bring the criminals to book. Dr Devinder Garg, Chandigarh Community mobilisation required There is an urgent need to control and prevent youth gang violence using novel strategies such as community mobilisation, opportunities provision and social intervention. A comprehensive strategy should be developed that extends beyond law enforcement and includes elements to prevent juveniles from joining gangs and efforts to intervene and “rescue” youths who have some experience with gangs. Police agencies must be active in soliciting the support and partnership of other criminal justice agencies, the juvenile justice system, and community organisations. Only through sharing “ownership” of the problem with a broad range of people can police address the gang problem at its roots. Targeted enforcement tactics should be coupled with prevention programmes to keep juveniles off the path of gang membership, intervention to “rescue” those who are already involved, and multilevel partnerships with other government agencies and non-government organisations. Madhav Bansal, Chandigarh Plan special training modules Police personnel require special training to deal with gangs. Strict implementation of the paying guest (PG) system is required as neighbours’ inputs too have to be included with the mandatory verification of tenants. Permissions of the homeowners will be required to allow friends or relatives of the PGs to come and stay with them. Shokeen Singh Verma No criminals on campuses Spoilt brats are the product of shoddy parenting, and when in bad company of like minded youngsters, splinter groups of students in university or college hostels turn to crime. Those with similar political leanings try to form their own fiefdom on campuses instead of concentrating on their studies. Thoughtful parenting is one way to change things. University authorities and hostel wardens should also keep a watchful eye on the suspicious characters and take police help wherever needed. SC Luthra, Chandigarh Stricter laws for weapons licences Arms and ammunition license should be issued only to genuine cases and that too after a thorough background check and psychological tests. Licences of people with crime records should be cancelled. The law enforcing authorities should maintain strict checks on social media accounts and activities of criminals on bail. Pubs, bars, discotheques should not stay open till late hours. Gangster culture thrives on connections with high profiled people and politicians, and the police and higher authorities should keep tabs on such links. The courts should settle such cases as soon as possible and strict laws should be laid down so that criminals are not released on bail. Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali Disrupt communication channels The police and intelligence wing have to disrupt the communication channels and weapons, drug and cash supplies of the gangsters. A thorough probe is required into how these gang leaders are able to pass on orders and instructions to their gang members from behind the bars. The supply line of funds and arms has to be disconnected. A strict case must be made for all social media channels to block accounts linked to criminals, even those run by their followers. Karan Singh Vinayak, Chandigarh Weed out corruption from the forces The Chandigarh administration has to issue an ultimatum to the police force to maintain law and order in the city at any cost. When it comes to law everyone should be treated equally: The rich, poor, politicians and bureaucrats. A first information report ( FIR ) should be filed immediately once a crime is committed. Also, corruption in the police force must be weeded out at any cost as often criminals get away by bribing them. Check barriers should also be set up/ maintained at all city entry points to inspect each vehicle entering Chandigarh for weapons. Patrolling should also be intensified. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali The message is in the music What are musicians thinking by releasing Punjabi songs based on guns and gangs? Music is an expressive art form that can bring about positive social change. Most of the releases in Punjabi have references to gang wars and Chandigarh. If the content does not change there’s a chance that young people will be misled into associating a life of crime with glamour. According to research conducted in the past by a professor at the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad, Dr Dheeraj Sharma, on the influence of Punjabi music over youth and propensity to commit violence, 60% of the youth were found to be listening to music glorifying drug use and violence provoking songs and were more prone to committing violence. Singers and writers and the production companies that promote such music should be penalised for this. I also feel that, from the last six years, such music has in some way influenced criminal activities in the city. The youth too seem to be keen to adopt the lifestyles of the gangsters with no fear of the police, Some sort of censorship committee needs to be set up to ban such music. Simran Sharma Swachh Bharat should target crime tooThe Swachh Bharat campaign should go beyond cleaning of cities, it should also focus on bringing to book criminals, dishonest and corrupt representatives and officials. To curb crimes, policemen need to be given professional training and skill sets to handle law and order, with improved pay packages. They need to be equipped with better, modern and user-friendly equipment, especially bulletproof vests. The police force also requires an image makeover to create a fear psychosis among criminals. The arms licencing department of the tricity also needs to be integrated.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur Administration apathy must endChandigarh has imported this gun and gang culture from Punjab and it is no secret that these gangsters have state police patronage most of the time. The more frequent such incidents are in any state the more apathetic the administrative machinery is towards such activities. Rajeev Rai Walia, Chandigarh Monitor issuance of arms licencesFirstly, issuance of arms licences should be strictly monitored. Entry of weapons into Chandigarh should be checked and for this Central Reserve Police Force or local police teams should be deployed at various entry points to inspect vehicles for any suspected illegal activity. Weapons of owners engaging in violence should be confiscated and they should be punished immediately under the Arms Act. Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh Understand the root cause of violence To stop any violence, first analyse its root cause, identify the segment of the population engaged in such violence and focus on skills training and grievance redressal system for groups at risk of taking to a path of crime. Proper parenting can help. Police patrolling can be improved through mobile check posts. Cases of criminal activities should be decided in the court at the earliest to send message to the society that it is not acceptable. Dev Raj Ban civilians from carrying firearmsPeople are becoming less tolerant, so even minor brawls are turning bloody. Licensees with firearms cannot guard these instruments of death round the clock, leading to ease of misuse. Gun culture is antithetical to the ethos of free India’s civil society. Laxity of police action is evident as very few cases involving shoot outs in Chandigarh have been solved. At the moment there is no alternative to curb crimes than to impose a nationwide ban on civilians using firearms.Till then, the intent of carrying a gun or other firearm in public must be thoroughly questioned and illegal weapons confiscated.Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula Isolate incarcerated gang leadersThe gang culture needs to be eliminated immediately from its roots with the police urgently required to organise itself for the task. Let a deputy superintendent of police level officer be assigned the task with a select team. Work out a plan to finish the gangs and then execute it meticulously. First, identify the base of the gangs (Lawrence Bishnoi, Davinder Bambiha etc) and their prominent leaders. All of them need to be put behind bars and isolated so that they are not able to operate from prisons. Second, monitor the activities of each gang and coordinate intelligence gathering about their operations, nipping their plans before they are able to execute them. People should be incentivised and encouraged to share information about gangsters in their areas. Also, let there be cohesion in the police force, with the SSP in full control. Weed out bad eggs from the force. Colonel RD Singh (Retd), Ambala Cantonment Act against gang leaders nowDoes it not surprise anybody that most people know about these criminal gangs, their leaders, and their political and police contacts and yet they roam free and commit crimes with impunity? Why can’t these gang leaders/ members be detained under National Security Act and lodged in different jails in the country – outside their state? A strict watch should be kept on them while they are in custody. Family members should be brought on board to bring their wayward wards under control. Vinay Gupta, Ambala Cantonment What about rights of citizens?A policing philosophy based on the need to protect the rights of all citizens is the need of the hour. As in the US, even on a tip off, many crimes were prevented by the police, but this does not happen in Chandigarh. Police have to be focused on providing a service as a means to uphold the law, rather than utilising force to impose the law. At the moment the force remains understaffed, underfunded and – more so – unaccountable. There’s need for better intelligence, administrative action and aggressive intervention by trained police forces with the IT Act used to good effect. SK Khosla, ChandigarhStrict eye on gangsters in jailHow are gangsters behind bars operating? The police must answer the question and ensure that such criminal elements are always under strict surveillance. Tricity police should coordinate work to control crimes with special focus on speedy completion of investigations. Advanced weapons should be provided to the police and CCTV cameras installed at vantage points to ascertain the identities of criminals and to nab them. Saikrit Gulati, Chandigarh Early intervention a mustWe need to ensure that our communities feel a sense of responsibility to address gang violence, which has complex social, political, educational, judicial and economic layers. Those at risk of taking to a life of crime should have access to remedial education, job training and placement, with social Intervention by youth serving agencies, schools and street outreach workers. It is important to reignite a sense of urgency and focus on early preventive intervention and identification of people likely to indulge in such criminal offences to nip the evil in the bud. The UT administration should initiate suppression programmes with the assistance of non-government or other welfare organisations and practice zero tolerance policy to crimes for aggressive law enforcement . Komal Singh, Chandigarh Check problems at school levelThe government should stop issuing gun licences. Youth join the gangs for protection,enjoyment, a misplaced sense of respect, or because a friend is in a gang. They are at a higher risk of taking to crime if they are aggressive or violent in schools. Special attention should be paid to such students by their teachers and family, even the community they are a part of.Tapasya choudhary Social reforms neededVery basic reason for gang war in the city is that the members want to establish their dominant role. Once that’s done they get political patronage to checkmate their adversaries with their muscle power.The factors attributing to increasing crimes are poverty, family breakdown, failure in education, drug addiction and so on. Therefore, there is a need for the major social reforms in society to prevent youngsters from taking to a path of crime. Law enforcing agencies must ensure deterrent action against the criminals, especially the heads of gangs. SS Arora, Mohali Make election rules stricterIt is desirable to impose certain conditions for eligibility in college and university student elections. Those with a dubious record, history of crime or poor academic record should be barred. Indirect election implies that faculty-wise elections be held and the winners be eligible to contest as office-bearers of unions. Campuses should be well guarded with security guards maintaining a register and not letting anyone enter without an ID proof and details of person he or she is visiting. Many of the gangs are affiliated to the bigger gangs who enjoy VIP protection. Usha Verma, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-urgent-action-required-to-weed-out-gangsters-from-chandigarh/story-1gKlBwCFOjo40DvQAbpVSP.html
23-10-2020||City||Man held for robbery bid at Ludhiana jewellery shop||A month after four masked men tried to rob a jewellery store owner at gunpoint after posing as customers in the main market of Gujjarwal village on September 16, police on Friday arrested one of the accused.He has been identified as Bikramjit Singh, alias Bittu, of Toosa village, Sudhar. A .12 bore rifle was recovered from the accused.During interrogation, he revealed the names of his accomplices as Akashdeep Singh, alias Kashi, of Pakhowal; Manpreet Singh, alias Mani, of Narangwal; and Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepu, of Latala village.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana Rural) Charanjit Singh said the accused were captured in the CCTV cameras while fleeing from the shop. This helped police zero in on Bikramjit, who was arrested on Friday.The accused had targeted the shop to steal the gold ornaments, but fled as the shopkeeper raised the alarm. The SSP said a hunt was on to arrest the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-robbery-bid-at-ludhiana-jewellery-shop/story-XNMmeRjaLQurjqTmbA7laI.html
23-10-2020||City||Farmer issues dominate campaign songs for Baroda bypoll||With Baroda bypoll round the corner, campaign songs of political parties in Haryana are revolving around farmer issues amid protests against the Centre’s agriculture laws. Four prominent candidates—BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt, Congress’s Indu Raj Narwal, INLD’s Joginder Singh Malik and former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini of the Loktantra Suraksha party are locked in a fight for the rural constituency. The Baroda by election are slated for November 3. During the poll campaign of INLD patriarch OP Chautala and his son Abhay Chautala, who is also Ellenabad MLA, a song “Kisano Ki rulde feren the dane, messiah aaya sath nibhane (the farmers’ produce was lying in the mandis without procurement, the messiah (Abhay Singh) came there to help them amid Covid-19) was being played.In the song, the INLD highlights the poor condition of crop procurement amid Covid-19 pandemic, distribution of masks and sanitisers by Abhay Singh Chautala and how he had toured various mandis in the state to support farmers. The song also mentions how Abhay Chautala came out from his Teja Khera farmhouse like a cloud and helped the distressed farmers. On the other hand, the Congress has chosen ‘Zamidar yo tut leya (the farmer is broken), a song that emphasises the plight of farmers, rise in corruption and unemployment besides promising to elect Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda as the next chief minister of Haryana.The ruling BJP, which is facing protests by farmers against the three agriculture laws, has launched a song “ya mandi nyu a chal gi, MSP nyu a aavga yo bad –bad k n aavga (this mandi system and MSP will continue and every time the MSP will be released with a rise). The BJP’s theme song says “the Congress’s lie will not be sold, if you burn a tractor then we will expose your lie. You will bring Rahul and make fake perceptions. You should bring Robert and hand our land back. Modi has been giving us ₹6,000 per annum and implementing new schemes for our welfare”.The bypoll has become a prestige issue for leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government. The INLD has won the constituency from 1977 to 2005. The saffron party’s nominee has never won from Baroda, which has 54 villages. Most voters in the rural constituency belong to the Jat community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-issues-dominate-campaign-songs-for-baroda-bypoll/story-DHIySV7XwabpVPdrGllCPO.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana man’s murder: Body recovered from canal turns out to be a woman||Forensic examination of a decomposed body, suspected to be that of a missing 45-year-old disabled man, has revealed that it is actually a woman’s corpse.Charanjit Singh, a resident of Gian Chand Nagar, Lohara, was kidnapped and murdered by three brothers and an auto-rickshaw driver and then dumped in the canal near Khanpur village, Dehlon, on October 2.His brother, Baljit Singh Malra, a Congress worker and resident of Mohalla Guru Nanak Nagar, had approached the police on October 18 after not finding him at his house for several days.On October 19, a decomposed body, with its head and hands missing, was recovered from a canal near Dhaipai village. Assuming it was the body of Charanjit, the police sent it to the Ludhiana civil hospital for autopsy.But forensic examination revealed the body was that of a female. “After receiving the report, we have handed over the body to Jodhan police for further investigation, as it was recovered in the area under their jurisdiction,” said inspector Pavittar Singh, SHO, Daba police station.Divers have been working to trace Charanjit since his brother alerted the police.Two of the four accused have already been arrested and have confessed to killing the victim and dumping his body in a canal on October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-s-murder-body-recovered-from-canal-turns-out-to-be-a-woman/story-dU0Ngvf7MeCaohp4mat75N.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC finds no takers for five of city’s six parking lots||The e-auction of city’s six parking lots turned out to be a flop show as the required number of bidders did not turn up for five of the lots awaiting allotment. As per the municipal corporation (MC) officials, at least three bidders were required for the e-auction, but the number could not be met for the parking lots at Feroze Gandhi market, BRS Nagar market, Multi-Storey parking, Bhadaur House and Model Town extension market.While there was no bidder to take the contract of Feroze Gandhi market (reserve price Rs 80.1 lakh), BRS Nagar market (Rs 18.5 lakh) and Model Town extension market (Rs 28.3 lakh), Multi-Storey parking (Rs 80.5 lakh) got one bidder and Bhadaur House (Rs 27.5 lakh) parking lot two. Only the Sarabha Nagar block-I market, which had the lowest reserve price of Rs 4 lakh, received the adequate four bids.While the e-auction for the parking lots was scheduled to be held on Saturday, technical bids were opened on Thursday evening. MC secretary Neeraj Jain only a single lot that got four bids will be auctioned on Saturday. “The MC commissioner will decide on the further course of action,” he added. One of the parking contractors, Munish Shah said he did not apply for the contract as officials had been turning a deaf ear to problems being faced by contractors at the parking sites. “We have been submitting complaints regarding shopkeepers opposing the paid parking and absence of boundaries of lots, but MC has failed to provide any solution,” Shah said.MC to manage parking lots after Oct 30As the previous contracts of the parking lots will come to an end on October 30, MC will take over the parking lots and manage these till they are allotted again. Visitors will be charged Rs 10 for two-wheelers and Rs 20 for four-wheelers. Contractor to be blacklisted for overchargingFollowing complaints of overcharging by contractor (Arjun Yadav and Company) at the Multi-Storey parking lot near MC’s Zone-A office, MC officials have approached the finance and contracts committee to blacklist the contractor. The panel’s decision in this regard is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-finds-no-takers-for-five-of-city-s-six-parking-lots/story-NAGlu3JX6FPstpwCnWjMeN.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Noida: FIR filed against three land grabbing in Barola village||The Noida authority on Friday filed an FIR against three persons on charges of land grabbing and illegal construction on a notified land in Barola village near Sector 49 along Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) Road.The authority’s lekhpal (land record keeper), a junior engineer, and a tehsildar had gone to the site to stop the illegal construction. As per officials, the land grabbers allegedly tried to forcefully stop the team.“The construction is being carried out without any approval from the Noida authority on some parts of the government land and private land against the law. When we tried to stop the construction work, the land grabbers argued with us and created a ruckus. Therefore, we sent a complaint to the police station for filing an FIR regarding this case,” said Rajeev Mohan Saxena Tehsildar of the Noida authority.As per the law, nobody can carry out construction on a notified land without having the building map approved by the Noida authority. A notified land means that the government has earmarked the land for planned development.“Even if the land belongs to a private individual, he or she cannot carry out construction without prior approval from the authority,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media.According to the authority, the FIR has been filed for illegal construction on approximately on 2,000 square metres of land. Some part of this land is owned by the Noida authority, while other parts belong to these three man, who are residents of Dadri.“We have filed an FIR against the three people for illegal construction on the government land following a complaint submitted by the Noida authority team,” said SK Singh, station house officer(SHO) of Sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-fir-filed-against-three-land-grabbing-in-barola-village/story-VD9H80xCNJzztKY7ZYBVlL.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Two burglars arrested, cops recover nine laptops, ₹23,000 cash||The police on Friday arrested two suspects and recovered nine stolen laptops and ₹23,000 from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Sarfaraz, 26, a resident of Bijnor, and Vishwajeet, 25, a resident of Sector 8 in Noida. The two suspects were also involved in a robbery at a company in Sector 8 last month.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the two suspects were arrested on Friday at around 3am in Sector 8. “The two persons were travelling on a motorcycle. The police signalled them to stop but they tried to escape. The police chased them and forced them to stop. The suspects failed to provide the registration certificate of the vehicle,” he said. The police team found that the motorcycle was stolen and the suspects had doctored the registration number plate. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they were burglars and they were looking for opportunity to commit a crime. “The police team found ₹23,000 in cash and a knife from their possession. Based on information revealed, the police later conducted a search and recovered nine stolen laptops from their hideouts,” Singh said. Singh said that on September 21, Sarfaraz and five other suspects conducted a robbery in a factory in Noida Sector 8. “During the robbery, the suspects had held a security guard at gunpoint and decamped with valuables,” he said. On September 25, the police arrested four of the suspects — Ravi and Vishnu Thakur, residents of JJ Colony in Sector 8; Jai Prakash, a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad, and Vijay Kumar, a resident of New Ashok Nagar in Delhi — in connection with the case. The Noida Police had announced ₹10,000 as reward on Sarfaraz, who has been absconding since the incident. “Sarfaraz is wanted in 17 criminal cases while Vishwajeet has five cases against him. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-burglars-arrested-cops-recover-nine-laptops-23-000-cash/story-vLjD7Yh7KgZRkXwqGYbjHI.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Noida resident’s account with Amazon website hacked; FIR filed||A resident of Noida has filed a police complaint, alleging that her Amazon account was hacked in the month of June 2020. The complainant, Surbhi Aggarwal, an advocate and a resident of Noida, Sector 25, said, in August, she noticed that she was unable to log into her Amazon Prime account. When she reached out to the customer care, she was informed that the email ID and mobile number have been changed. Aggarwal said that she purchased an Amazon Prime subscription on February 10, 2020, which was valid for one year. “I noticed problems in logging into my account in August. I contacted the customer care to report the matter on August 6, 2020 and my call was transferred to accounts department, where a customer care executive informed me that my email ID has been changed on June 25, 2020,” she stated in the FIR. “I informed the executive that I had not changed my email ID, and that I did not get any notification from the company regarding the change. The executive informed me that a confirmation email was sent to me and forwarded me the same,” she said. The customer care executive also informed her that a person named Omkar has been added to the new account and his address was mentioned as Ashok Nagar, Shadora, Madhya Pradesh. “The executive also told me that a bluetooth headset, worth ₹3,887, has been ordered using my account. It is very clear that my account was hacked,” she said. Aggarwal said that on August 8, 2020 she wrote an email to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, narrating the whole incident and mentioning that if no action was taken, she would be forced to file an FIR. Meanwhile, she started receiving reminders to clear the Amazon Pay bills, which, she claimed, she did not use. “I also received an email from the office of Mr Bezos, stating that her Amazon Account security breach issue has been investigated and resolved. I was never informed of the results of the investigation conducted by the company,” she said. She filed a complaint with the cyber cell which investigated the matter and directed the Sector 20 police to register an FIR on October 22, 2020. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP Noida, said the police have registered a case against Omkar and unknown staff of Amazon under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and sections 65 and 66 of the IT Act. “The cyber cell investigated the matter and submitted a technical report to Sector 20 police. Prima facie, it appears a case of cyber fraud. We will question Amazon staff in this case,” Singh said. A representative of the company said, “We have just been made aware of the matter and are in the process of retrieving the details from the concerned police station to help resolve the issue of the customer. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-resident-s-account-with-amazon-website-hacked-fir-filed/story-bR5SF3f6fZR5KlGQNcAtAJ.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Three men pretending to be finance company officials snatch vehicle from cab driver||Three men, pretending to be officials of a finance company, stole a car from a cab driver on the pretext of impounding his vehicle since his EMI dues were pending. The suspects approached the driver and informed him that his EMI dues were pending and snatched his vehicle, saying that the procedure was as per the company norms.The victim, Prashant Kumar, later visited the finance company for updates and found out that the three suspects were not employees of the company. Kumar, a native of Mainpuri district in Uttar Pradesh, presently lives in Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad. He had bought a Maruti Wagon-R on EMI three years ago and has been working as a taxi driver since then. “On October 18, I had parked my car near City Centre Metro station and I was waiting for booking at around 8pm. Three men reached the spot and identified themselves as the representative of the finance company. They said that I had skipped EMI for the last one month and, therefore, the car would be seized,” he stated in the FIR. Kumar believed them as he had not paid the EMI. Gautam Singh, Kumar’s brother, said that the suspects had showed him some papers and their identity cards. “My brother handed over the car keys to the suspects, believing them they are officials from the finance company. Next day, Kumar visited the company to enquire about the matter. The company officials checked the details and said that three persons were not attached to the company,” Singh said. “The suspects had given Kumar a fake mobile phone number for contact. The phone was switched off when we tried to reach. This was when Kumar realised that he has been duped,” Singh said. The victim then filed a complaint in Sector 24 police station. Prabhat Dixit, station house office (SHO), Noida Sector 24 police station, said a case has been registered against unknown criminals under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We have registered a case and launched a search to arrest the suspects. We are scanning CCTV footage of cameras installed in the area to get clues,” he said. The police said that it appears the suspects had checked the vehicle’s details online and then conned the cab driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-men-pretending-to-be-finance-company-officials-snatch-vehicle-from-cab-driver/story-ljjYY7UBLRC9QGIcatZHsJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Ban on open sale of acid extended for two months||The commissioner of police, Rakesh Agrawal, has extended the ban on open sale of acid for two months and asked traders to renew their licences timely to avoid police action. Traders have been directed to collect photocopy of the identity proof of the buyer and not sell acid to customers below 18 years of age.Institutions and organisations, that use acid for different purposes, have been directed to maintain the record of acid use and depute nodal officers to ensure that the chemical is not used anywhere with wrong intentions.Transfer ownership of second-hand vehicle in 30 daysCiting increasing crime incidents, the top cop asked residents to transfer ownership of any vehicle within one month of its resale or purchase. He said often miscreants used such vehicles to execute crime and later, police faced problems tracing them.No graphics on number platesDesigns, graphics and pasting stickers on the number plates of the vehicles have been banned as these make it tough to read the registration number. Shopkeepers have been directed to check the registration certificate (RC) of vehicles before selling number plates.Police verification of school staffFor safety and security of school children, Agrawal has ordered all schools to deposit a list of their staff, including drivers and conductors of school buses, with their pictures to the police stations concerned.These details will be used to conduct police verification. Similar directions have also been given to factories and other establishments regarding their workers, gardeners, drivers, watchmen and other employees, who live on their premises.Other ordersShopkeepers selling army uniforms have been told to maintain a record of the customers to avoid misuse of the uniforms. This record has to be submitted with the nearby police station.Agrawal has also banned the sale of sub-standard helmets in the city. Traders can only sell helmets with ISI mark. Besides, a ban has been imposed on carrying sand in uncovered vehicles, as it could lead to road mishaps.The police chief has also extended the ban on sale, storage and use of plastic thread for flying kites in the city, and ferrying people in vehicles meant for loading material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ban-on-open-sale-of-acid-extended-for-two-months/story-NqFkD31GfgnE9MF5KFwlHL.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||HARERA asks Gurugram realty firm to stop registration of new projects||Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA) Gurugram has put Empire Realtech along with associated company CHD Developers on notice to blacklist and debar them from further registration of new projects until the ongoing ones are completed.According to KK Khandelwal, chairman, HARERA, Gurugram, the realty firm has been asked to face cancellation of registration of project or to complete it and hand over possession to the allottees. “There is likelihood of siphoning off/diversion of funds...” an official spokesperson, quoting Khandelwal, said.He said Empire Realtech launched a project “106 Golf Avenue, Sector – 106, Gurugram” in 2011 and possession of the apartment was to be given by December 2016. However, even after four years of delay, the buyers are running from pillar to post for their apartments. “The promoter intimated revised date for completion of the project to RERA as June 30, 2021, but, keeping in view the present situation of funds and stage of construction there is likelihood of further delay of project,” he said. The bench comprising Khandelwal issued notice as to why requisite progress in the project is not being achieved by the promoter. Khandelwal said there are 642 units in the project out of which 600 units have been sold. Nearly ₹500 crore were collected from the allottees since 2016. He said the promoter has also taken loan of around ₹150 crore out of which ₹36 crore is still outstanding. Despite availability of funds from both allottees as well as lenders the project is far from completion, he added. He said there are nine towers in the project and 80% work has been completed in only three towers. Khandelwal said the construction is pending from October 2018. The allottees are very much disturbed as even after payment of 90% of the cost of apartment, there is no possibility of taking possession of the unit in near future. It seems that funds have been siphoned off by the promoter. Even after receiving more than ₹600 crore from the allottees and lending institutions, only ₹168 crore have been incurred on the construction, Khandelwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/harera-asks-gurugram-realty-firm-to-stop-registration-of-new-projects/story-j7slNoV8kY9cRCvEsZ49JO.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in 10 Haryana cities turns ‘very poor’||The air quality index (AQI) in 10 cities of Haryana on Friday plunged to ‘very poor’ category. According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the quality of air in Bahadurgarh, Ballabgarh, Charkhi Dadri, Dharuhera, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Kurukshetra, and Panipat was recorded as ‘very poor’. The AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, 101 to 200 moderate, 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor and 401 to 500 severe. The AQI in Panchkula and Chandigarh was ‘satisfactory’. In 11 other cities of the state, the AQI was ‘poor’ in last 24 hours. These cities are Ambala, Bhiwani, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Manesar, Palwal, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat and Yamunanagar. The AQI in Ambala was 286, Jind 294, Kaithal 290, Karnal 270 and Rohtak 277. Delhi’s AQI was also recorded as “very poor” at 366. The CPCB collects the air pollution data of last 24 hours until 4:00pm everyday from its monitoring stations in each city. In Delhi alone, the CPCB has 36 monitoring stations and in most other cities there is just one such station. In Haryana, the CPCB has monitoring stations in 22 cities, including four each in Gurugram and Faridabad. Officials say farm fires are one of the key reasons behind deterioration of air quality in Haryana cities. Till Thursday evening, 168 new incidences of Active Fire Locations were detected by Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in the state, taking the total number of farm fires to 3,470 since September 25 when the monitoring began. As per the data, Karnal district topped the chart with 700 farm fires, followed by Kurukshetra 632, Kaithal 596, Ambala 428 and Fatehabad 265.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-10-haryana-cities-turns-very-poor/story-pa6hXGkqCnJn9maI7lmUxL.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC staff caught red-handed while stealing fuel meant for fogging machine||A contractual driver working with the municipal corporation and sanitary inspector were caught red-handed while they were stealing fuel allotted for a vehicle deployed for anti-mosquito fogging and the machine mounted on it, during a surprise checking conducted by mayor Balkar Sandhu at a filling station near Vishwakarma Chowk on Friday.While the services of the contractual driver, Amandeep Singh, have been terminated, sanitary inspector Satinder Bawa has been suspended. A show-cause notice was issued to the medical officer, who is in charge of conducting fogging in the city.During the surprise checking conducted around 6am, it was found that the driver and sanitary inspector had stolen 43 litres of fuel out of the 115 litres (95 litres diesel for the machine and 20 litres petrol for the vehicle) that was allotted for a fogging machine mounted on the vehicle. Of the 43 litres, 35 litres was diesel and the rest petrol.Requesting anonymity, an MC official said mayor Balkar Sandhu had deputed sanitary inspectors at filling stations to keep a check on fuel theft. The official said that less quantity of fuel was filled in the MC machinery than what was mentioned in the records. Then, the driver and sanitary inspector, who are hand in glove with the petrol pump staff, sold the remaining fuel and divided the money among themselves.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “We are keeping a check on the allotment and usage of fuel in the MC machinery as several cases of fuel theft have been reported in the past. Inquiries have been marked in different cases.”“MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal terminated the services of the contractual driver and the sanitary inspector was suspended. The proceedings will be sent to the local bodies department for further action. A show-cause notice was issued to the medical officer as all of this was being done under his watch. Strict action will be taken against officials involved in fuel theft,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-staff-caught-red-handed-while-stealing-fuel-meant-for-fogging-machine/story-TVJWqmZErkYb0zmyrmfaJO.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Four men in car rob three morning walkers at gunpoint in Kavi Nagar and Raj Nagar||Four men driving around the city in a car and robbing people of valuables has come on the police radar after they held morning walkers at gunpoint early Friday and robbed them of their valuables. Three such instances were reported from the prime localities of Kavi Nagar and Raj Nagar, falling under the jurisdiction of Kavi Nagar police station area in Ghaziabad, police said. The police said of the three victims, two have given them complaints while one is yet to file one. The multiple robberies took place between 5am and 6am, when people were out on the roads for a walk. The two who complained to the police said they were cornered by four armed men in a white i20 car and robbed at gunpoint. “I was in the Block C Kavi Nagar market with my friend when an i20 car stopped near us and three masked men stepped out. One was wearing a medical mask while the other two had their faces covered with a pieces of cloth. They asked me to remove my gold bracelet after pointing guns us. One pointed a gun to my abdomen while the other had a gun pointed at my chest,” said one of the robbery victims, wishing not to be named. “While I was trying to remove the bracelet, the robbers pulled out a cutter and cut it off in seconds. They warned me not to raise the alarm and boarded their car and fled towards Hapur Road. I later heard that they robbed other morning walkers as well,” he said. The second robbery victim, a 55-year-old woman from Raj Nagar, said she was robbed while taking a walk near her house. “They arrived in a car and formed a circle around me. They asked me to remove my gold bangles but I refused. They then pointed a gun at me and then using a cutter, they cut and removed my bangles before fleeing with them,” said the woman, who also wished not to be named. The other victim did not wish to speak about the incident. The police said till Friday afternoon, they have received two complaints and are investigating the robberies which they believe were committed by the same gang. “We have got some vital leads and our teams are on the job. The two incidents took place in sectors 3 and 7 in Raj Nagar, while the third took place at the Block C market in Kavi Nagar,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2). “The gang has been identified on the basis of leads and will be nabbed soon. We believe that the same gang also carried out a similar early morning robbery in Kirana Mandi about 10 days ago,” Kumar said. On October 10, four armed robbers had arrived in their Swift car at city’s biggest wholesale market of Kirana Mandi and robbed two traders of their gold items at gunpoint. The back-to-back incidents in the market took place at 6.15am, police had said. The two traders were at their godowns and supervising the loading/unloading of goods when the robbers fled with their gold items after holding them on gunpoint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-men-in-car-rob-three-morning-walkers-at-gunpoint-in-kavi-nagar-and-raj-nagar/story-NOh1xXp4yv11SU8HW60NGK.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Students from 19 blocks take part in quiz contest||Students of Classes 9 and 10 studying at government schools participated in the online block-level quiz competition conducted by the district and block mentors on Friday.In the competition, questions related to English, social studies, science and mathematics were asked. The questions that were asked during the quiz were from the syllabus covered by teachers till October 10.From Mangat 1 block, a team of two students— Jyoti of Class 9 and Muskaan of Class 10— bagged the first position. The second position in the block was bagged by students of Government Model Senior Secondary School and Punjab Agricultural University and students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar, came third.District mentor of English and social studies, Subodh Kumar, said, “The response from students was overwhelming and this will further boost their confidence. All the block mentors are coordinating with teachers and students and making consistent efforts to make maximum students participate in the quiz contest.” The winners will participate in a district-level quiz competition which will be held online on October 24 for students of Classes 6 to 8 and Classes 9 and 10 on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-students-from-19-blocks-take-part-in-quiz-contest/story-jPsZB4IWqH3ABBoS6ifBNJ.html
23-10-2020||City||After robbery bid, Ludhiana Police issue security guidelines for finance firms||After a robbery bid at the Dugri Road branch of Muthoot Finance, the police on Friday issued security guidelines for finance companies in the city.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has made it mandatory for all finance companies and other such institutions to install night vision CCTVs outside the premises and at all entry and exit points, reception desk and all other vital points inside the branch with storage of up to 30 days with power backup.According to the police chief, the management shall be responsible to install the DVR/NVR and its UPS, in a place not easily identifiable by visitors, to prevent any damage to the same by miscreants. There must be a provision of remote recording and storage of footage, maybe at a regional office or headquarter of the company, for any eventuality, he said.The order stated that the management shall be responsible to install and ensure smooth functioning of burglar alarms in the branches. The burglary alarm should be separately operatable by the branch manager, cashier, and any other official of the branch from their seats.Agrawal said that the alarm should be linked to their respective head offices. Head offices must, in turn, have an effective and prompt communication system where calls and messages can be immediately dispatched to the police control room (PCR).A BSNL landline phone with an autodialer should be installed in the branch. As soon as the alarm goes off, a teleprompter should automatically inform the PCR regarding the suspicious activity in the branch in a pre-recorded message. The alarm should be audible to neighbouring areas up to 100 metres so that any police patrolling in the vicinity can immediately respond and the civilians can be cautioned.“The vulnerable valuables like gold and huge amounts of cash must be placed in a separate vault/locked room/strong room. There must be a system of delayed lockers that opens after a delay of 20- 25 minutes post-OTP based authentication. The locking system must be linked to a power backup system so that the security can be ascertained 24x7 and power failure doesn’t lead to any laxity in security. The strong room should necessarily have OTP-based authentication before opening. The strong room should not be opened when visitors are inside the hall,” said Agrawal.“The management shall be responsible for deploying armed guards at the entrance of all branches. Currency chest branches and gold loan companies must have at least two armed guards during working hours and at least one-armed guard round the clock. All armed guards should be provided with a lanyard with whistles. Gun licences must be kept up-to-date,” he added.Further, the police chief said that security staff must be deployed after proper antecedents check through police verification. Name and phone numbers of all visitors must be entered in a register, he said.The management shall provide separate undertakings regarding compliance in this regard to the office of deputy commissioner of police, joint commissioner of police and concerned police station within one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-robbery-bid-ludhiana-police-issue-security-guidelines-for-finance-firms/story-dMOYudq9BL9VZblw3FMx7O.html
23-10-2020||City||Punjab CM to virtually inaugurate development projects for Ludhiana||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will be conducting a virtual inauguration ceremony of different development projects completed by the district administration and municipal corporation (MC) on Saturday. For this purpose, the administration has installed screens and projectors at 62 schools to showcase the event. Seating arrangements have also been made to accommodate Congress workers, supporters and leaders keeping in mind the social distancing norms.MC officials remained on toes for making arrangements for the event and a trial was also done on Friday. Meanwhile, the office work remained disturbed for the entire day. Recently, a team of videographers had also visited the city to make videos and capture images of different development projects including the reconstruction of Jagraon Bridge, clock tower rejuvenation, waterfront development project alongside the Sidhwan Canal among others. The videos and images would be shown during the virtual inauguration ceremony. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Mayor Balkar Sandhu also overviewed the preparations for the virtual ceremony. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that arrangements have been made and a trial was also conducted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-to-virtually-inaugurate-development-projects-for-ludhiana/story-zHyoT3yJnHVDNGtrJzgGhO.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Noida authority sanctions ₹6.5 crore to clean up polluted Kondli drain||The Noida authority has sanctioned ₹6.5 crore for a project that aims to clean up the city’s main drain, Kondli drain, which passes through some of the major residential areas in the city and has become a source of nuisance for the city’s residents, who have often complained of the foul smell that the drain emits. The 17-kilometre-long irrigation drain starts from Delhi’s Ashok Nagar area and merges with Yamuna in Sector 168, after passing through several residential sectors of the city, such as sectors 11, 12, 22, 24, 23, 34, 35, 50, 51, 80, 137 and 168, among others. Several smaller drains merge with this drain that carry sewage water of both Delhi and Noida. Slum residents and streetside vendors often throw plastic and other kinds of waste materials into this drain leading to choking and waterlogging during the monsoon season.Apart from Kondli drain, there are other at least 300 smaller drains in the city that are equally polluted and are filled with overflowing sewage water and plastic waste.The Kondli drain, owned by the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department, will be cleaned together by the Noida authority the irrigation department.“The irrigation department has prepared a plan and sent the same to us. We are looking into this plan so that we can implement it. We will fund this project, although it will be executed by the irrigation department,” said Avinash Tripathi officer on special duty, Noida authority.As per the plan, the irrigation department will also create ponds at multiple locations of the drain.“The main objective is to improve the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of this drain, which is meant to carry only rain water. To improve the BOD, there is a plan to build ponds with plants that help in absorbing the pollutants,” said Tripathi.The UP irrigation department also said that ponds that will be built at 50 different locations and will be filled with plants that can absorb pollutants. “We have sent the proposal to the Noida authority. Once approved, the project will be implemented on the ground,” said Davendra Thakur executive engineer, Noida authority.The authority has also decided to put bamboo nets at multiple points of the smaller drains.“We have taken a decision to put bamboo nets, which are at least one-metre wide, to trap the waste materials. This would ensure that the drains only carry clean water,” said Tripathi.Noida residents have for frequently complained about the state of this drain. “The drain emits such a foul smell that we have to keep our windows shut all the time. We have written several letters to the Noida authority to address this issue. But nothing has happened so far. We now hope that the authority will do something to address this issue,” said Arun Kumar, a resident of Sector 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-sanctions-6-5-crore-to-clean-up-polluted-kondli-drain/story-BbGdh2U0WXb4v6q1Tw9R2L.html
23-10-2020||City||New portable balloon light towers to help Ludhiana firefighters douse flames at night||In a step towards fire brigade upgrade, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has purchased five inflatable balloon light towers to facilitate firefighting operations at night.The portable light towers, which have been purchased for Rs 11.50 lakh, come with an attached generator set. A demonstration of the lights was given to mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC officials on Thursday evening.The MC officials said that the system consists of an in-built genet, two blowers, metal halide lamp. When the genset is switched on, the blowers inflate the cloth up to a height of 4.5 metres from the ground level, following which the lamp is switched on which illuminates up to 1,000 sq ft area.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said the lights have been purchased under the smart city project and will prove of great help to the firefighters who struggle in the absence of light during night operations.Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said, “When a fire breaks out, the power supply to that area is snapped. It becomes difficult to douse the flames and rescue people in the absence of proper lighting. We have to switch on the headlights of our vehicles or fire tenders. One light each has been allocated to five fire stations in the city. This is a useful infrastructural upgrade.”“The department is also working to purchase hydraulic platform, water bowser, fire safety suits, life/heat detectors, advanced rescue tender, mini fire tender, multiple gas detectors, hydraulic combi tool, victim location camera with breaching system, quick response vehicle, portable fire pump, communication system among other items at an estimated cost of Rs 25 crore, as part of the city’s fire brigade upgrade plan,” said the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-portable-balloon-light-towers-to-help-ludhiana-firefighters-douse-flames-at-night/story-TZr0vdZsr5C6R7Vr0DP5wI.html
23-10-2020||Noida||PM10, PM2.5 levels rise as air quality nose dives in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad||Although different pollution monitoring agencies in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad are working in overdrive to curb local contributors of pollution, their efforts are coming to naught as air quality continued to nosedive across NCR cities Friday, largely driven by farm fires in neighbouring states and dust locally.According to the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida are seeing three times the permissible level of particulate matter (PM)10 and more than two times the permissible level of PM2.5 pollutants. These are fine particulate matter in the air with a diameter equal to or less than 10 micrometre and 2.5 micrometre. These readings shoot up only when pollution levels worsen and they are very harmful to health.As per the UPPCB, between October 12 and 18, the average PM10 level in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida stood at 299.57, 346.14 and 294.86 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm), respectively. These are three times the permissible limit of 100 mpcm. The more fine pollutant PM2.5, for which the permissible limit is 60mpcm, averaged 146.29, 134.43 and 128.43 mpcm in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, respectively, during the same period. Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB, Ghaziabad, said, “There has been rise in PM10 and PM2.5 levels and factors responsible for increased PM10 levels could be road dust, dust from construction sites, as well as stubble and garbage burning. Vehicular emissions are primarily responsible for the rise in PM2.5 levels. To curb this spike, we are regularly surveying industrial units, farmlands and different agencies are taking up water sprinkling on roads to settle dust, among other measures.” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said authorities are already on the job to control pollution. “It is a matter of concern and departments and the authorities are already on the job. They are using different measures such as anti-smog guns and water sprinkling to settle pollutants. We have a two-pronged strategy -- first, to spread awareness at probable sources of pollution and, second, to ensure strict enforcement,” he said. Dr Vijay Dutta, senior consultant (internal medicine), Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said, “The World Health Organization (WHO)’s air quality guidelines say the permissible limit for PM 2.5 is 10mpcm. Anything beyond that is hazardous, especially to children and the elderly. These are very fine particulate matters that can penetrate into lungs and may even get into the bloodstream.” “The pollutants can irritate airways and may cause shortness of breath, coughing, wheezing, asthma episodes and chest pain. Prolonged exposure can put you at risk of lung cancer, heart attacks, stroke, and causes problems such as burning eyes, irritation in throat and on skin, dry cough and in extreme cases, premature death,” said Dr Vinay Bhatt, consultant (internal medicine), Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad. The air quality index (AQI), as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Friday deteriorated further in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida and stood in the higher ranges of ‘very poor’ category at 344, 381 and 369, respectively. On a scale of 0 to 500, with 0 being least polluted and 500 the most severe, any reading between 300 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’.The forecast by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said the most dominant factor for the deterioration in air quality was extremely calm surface winds combined with moderate levels of stubble fires. “Highly calm surface wind conditions are prevailing over the Delhi region and they are likely to continue for the next two days. There will be little dispersion (of pollutants) for an extended period and pollutants will accumulate near the surface,” Safar said. It added that the AQI will be the higher end of ‘very poor’ category on October 24 and 25 and may even go higher for a short duration. “A significant number of stubble fires have been observed in Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions with the count standing at approximately 1,213 on Thursday, slightly less than what it was a day before. Safar estimates the stubble burning share in PM2.5 levels to be approximately 17% as on Friday,” the agency said. Stubble and garbage burning continued unabated in Ghaziabad as well. An HT team found two instances of burning at Kallu Garhi and Kushaliya near Dasna on Friday afternoon. Earlier, similar instances were found at Kushaliya, Morta and near river Hindon behind the Mohan Nagar industrial area. “The instances of stubble burning add to PM2.5 levels. We will inspect both Kallu Garhi and Kushaliya and appropriate action will be taken up at the earliest,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pm10-pm2-5-levels-rise-as-air-quality-nose-dives-in-noida-greater-noida-and-ghaziabad/story-77INkIxs0lFUeqgvB4pCfJ.html
23-10-2020||Noida||GIMS starts post-Covid centre to care for discharged patients||To facilitate Covid-19 patients and improve their quality of life once they have recovered from the disease, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) has decided to start a Covid followup out-patient (OPD) clinic and pulmonary rehabilitation centre on its premises. To avail of the facilities of the clinic, a recovered patient will have to bring his/her Covid negative test result or discharge summary card, GIMS officials said. GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said post-Covid respiratory illness is very common and various studies have suggested that even after being discharged, patients need proper consultation regarding their post-recovery care. “As Covid-19 is an evolving disease and the complete cycle of this infection is yet to be established, many patients have persistent or recurrent problems of cough, mild fever, malaise, weakness and breathing difficulties, which are together known as the post-viral syndrome. The rising pollution and changing weather conditions may also exaggerate this syndrome,” he said. He further said GIMS also had a post-Covid followup group, where patients can post their complaints and these will addressed by medical specialists through tele consultation. “But, as these patients need to be seen physically and counselled in person, we have started a Covid-19 followup OPD clinic and pulmonary rehabilitation centre on our campus. The centre will be open six days a week, except Sundays. The recovered patients need to bring their Covid-19 negative report or discharge slip while visiting the clinic,” Dr Gupta said. The GIMS director said the hospital, having L-3 (critical care) facilities for Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar district, is holding immunisation OPD for all children daily. “We have also started the followup clinic for newborns of Covid-19 positive mothers, as a part of GIMS comprehensive Covid-19 care. All these clinics are being run under the supervision of Dr Saurabh Srivastava, the head of department of medicine, and his team,” he said. The GIMS, an upcoming tertiary care medical college and hospital, has a 250-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 patients. It is also the nodal centre in the district for sample collection, treatment and complete management of Covid-19. So far, it has managed over 2,000 Covid-19 positive patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gims-starts-post-covid-centre-for-discharged-patients/story-5c3E82MiDmQd98gH4Abm9L.html
23-10-2020||Noida||Next three months crucial in Covid-19 fight, Harsh Vardhan tells UP officials||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said Friday that the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid-19 in the country and all precautions must continue to the battle against the pandemic. He was interacting with officials of Uttar Pradesh during a video conferencing meeting to review Covid-19 preparedness and measures for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour. The minister also reviewed the status of 20 districts in Uttar Pradesh that had recorded an increase in Covid cases and/or increase in the number of Covid deaths. Officials present during the video conferencing said the minister also posed questions to officials of Gautam Budh Nagar district, which has seen a rise in Covid deaths. According to the state control room records, the Gautam Budh Nagar district had 53 Covid deaths as on September 30, which later more than doubled to 66, as on October 22. “When the minister pointed out that he had certain figures based on a formula, we immediately apprised him that the case fatality rate in the district has remained at .4% for the past several months and is continuing at the same rate currently. He accepted our point of view. He additionally told officials that there should be no complacency and there has to be constant monitoring of patients, including those having no symptoms. He also told us that all precautions must continue,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. The officials of Ghaziabad health department also took part in the video conferencing. “The minister told us that the methodology of testing, tracing and treatment should continue and more precautions have to be put in place in view of the festival season. He also talked about the age groups that are seeing a higher number of fatalities. Further, he also stated that any gatherings at local level should be allowed only after the local police station provides permission. Otherwise, strict enforcement measures should be initiated,” said an official from the Ghaziabad health department, wishing not to be named. According to records of the state health department, the number of active cases has been on the decline since September 17 when the cases peaked at 68,235 active cases. It reduced to 29,131 as on October 22. The state has a discharge rate of 92.47% till October 22, officials told the Union minister. Dr Harsh Vardhan stressed that the Uttar Pradesh needs to focus on increasing testing, surveillance, contact tracing, and early diagnosis to keep the fatality rate low. He appreciated the efforts of the state in vaccinating children left out of immunisation cycle due to coronavirus situation. “Appropriate measures are being taken to combat Covid-19. But the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid in the country. If we take adequate precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour in the coming festival and winter season, we will be in a better position to fight Covid-19,” the minister said. He further said for a big state such as Uttar Pradesh, it becomes important that the maximum thrust is given to simple precautionary measures which are effective in preventing the Covid-19 to a large extent such as wearing mask/face cover especially in public spaces, and following hand and respiratory etiquettes. He added that from recording over 95,000 cases in a day, the country has reached a point where it is seeing less than 50,000 cases a day while the national recovery rate is nearing 90%. The case fatality rate is at 1.51% and is moving towards the target of less than 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/next-three-months-crucial-in-covid-19-fight-harsh-vardhan-tells-up-officials/story-piefwvCF2SPPAxQHulzXJN.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC censures agri board for delayed pensionary benefits to former engineer||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, Panchkula, to release the withheld amount of the retirement benefits of a former sub-divisional engineer along with 6% interest, within a month. The high court acted on the plea of one Shashi Kant Mangla, who had retired in 2016 and whose pensionary benefits were withheld on account of a charge sheet pending against him. After the high court’s intervention, all other benefits were released in 2018, but an amount of Rs 1.5 lakh was withheld on account of recovery. Mangla challenged this decision before the court. The high court observed that the chief administrator in October 2018 had calculated the actual loss at Rs 3.36 lakh and the recovery amount at Rs 1.48 lakh but later it was reduced to Rs 59,570 due to ‘wrong calculation’ on the board’s part. “This clearly reflects the level of application of mind by the board at each stage,” the bench of justice Sanjay Kumar observed, adding that Mangla’s pension was withheld even as no disciplinary proceedings were pending against him on the date of retirement. The court has not only directed release of the withheld amount but has asked the board to pay 6% interest on entire pensionary amount from his retirement on November 1, 2016, till the date of actual payment. It had come to light before the court that the former engineer was issued a charge sheet in July 2013. However, in November 2014, the inquiry officer had given him a clean chit. No action was taken on the issue until his retirement. But after he approached the court in September 2018, the board sought his objections on the inquiry report of 2014. Further, the court also noted that the board had recovered all its dues from the contractor as an arbitration award in the case where the petitioner was issued a charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-censures-agri-board-for-delayed-pensionary-benefits-to-former-engineer/story-D3iKVXP0DFT9rBG9Ngha2L.html
23-10-2020||City||PAU V-C urges employees to withdraw stir, work as team||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon, who is currently battling coronavirus infection, has made an ardent appeal to the varsity employees to end their protest.The appeal comes after the PAU employees’ union announced a pen-down strike from October 26 to press for their demands.“Let us set an example by working together under the prevailing difficult circumstances and jointly serving the farming community,” the V-C stated in his appeal.Dhillon told his colleagues that due to the Covid pandemic, the university is facing challenges of working with limited staff strength and has been trying to give the best of environment and facilities to its employees through the limited financial resources and as per the laid down rules/provisions.“Promotions are being given to the employees and their other issues are also being examined. Some issues like the new pension scheme, the implementation of which is not solely in the domain of the university, have been taken up with the concerned quarters,” he added.Dhillon said, “Sitting on dharna and sloganeering under the current situation is unfortunate and undesirable. It vitiates the conducive and peaceful working environment of the university. It must be understood that all decisions are taken as per the rules and keeping in view the varsity’s interests.”“Farmers have high expectations from us. We all scientists and staff have to work as a team to live up to their expectations as well as remain relevant in a highly competitive environment. We cannot dither away from our responsibility,” his message read.The V-C urged the protesting employee unions to shun their agitational approach and work together for the benefit of the farming community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-v-c-urges-employees-to-withdraw-stir-work-as-team/story-52GFAqBfFSQjKmMrBf0HML.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for dowry harassment, fudging passport documents||A Janakpuri resident has been booked for harassing his wife and adding fake information in his passport.Police said an FIR was lodged against the accused, identified as Harish Kumar, on the complaint of his wife Parul Baweja. The two have been married since 2016 and have a son.In her complaint, Parul stated that sometime after their marriage, her husband’s attitude changed and he started harassing her for dowry and other petty issues. Later, she found out that her husband had developed an illicit relation with another married woman.The accused furnished fake documents and added the name of his paramour as spouse in his passport. He has cheated the passport office too by fudging information, the complainant said.ASI Ashwani Kumar, who is investigating the case, said during the investigation it was learnt that the accused has already flown to Canada with his alleged paramour.A case under sections 177, 420, 498-A of the IPC and Section 12 of Passport Act has been registered against the accused and a hunt has been launched for his arrest, the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-dowry-harassment-fudging-passport-documents/story-RItNpdeexLMHuiXizFyhkM.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents peeved over some sectors being left out of fogging list||Notwithstanding UT administrator’s directions to the principal health secretary to carry out regular fogging, sanitisation and cleanliness drives to prevent the spread of malaria, dengue and other vector-borne diseases, residents have complained that some sectors have been left out in the schedule drawn up for fogging in the city.Highlighting this, general secretary of the Sector 33-B Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Kuljinder Sra said, “Ignoring Sector 33 for fogging has become a trend over the past few years, even as the sector has a high concentration of senior citizens. Several sites close to residential areas have become mini dumping grounds,” he said, adding that the RWA had written a letter to director health services regarding this.Sector 21 has also not been included in the schedule. Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu, who is also the president of the RWA here, said, “I hope this is just an error in printing, as fogging is the need of the hour here. Several spots in the sector also need to be cleared of piles of garbage.”Meanwhile, other RWAs have complained of a half-baked job in fogging. It was scheduled at Sector 38 West on October 17, but as per the RWA president, Pankaj Gupta, many lanes were ignored. “Residents’ requests for fogging in their streets were ignored. Besides, garbage remains accumulated in the open, which can lead to diseases,” he said.Director health services Dr Amandeep Kang said, “Besides the sectors mentioned in the schedule, we also focus on other areas in the same time slot. Also, fogging is conducted wherever a case is detected. Residents can write to us if they have any complaints. We will ensure that fogging is done throughout the city.”According to the health department’s data, there has been a dip in the number of cases this year. As of September end, only 13 cases of dengue and six cases of malaria were reported in city against the 286 and 22 cases, respectively, reported last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-peeved-over-some-sectors-being-left-out-of-fogging-list/story-j3OXRyPFOJ416j13vslavJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Sarabha Nagar market rejuvenation project will be completed by Diwali, says cabinet minsiter Ashu||Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday inspected the ongoing project of rejuvenating Sarabha Nagar market under the smart city mission. The market would be dedicated to the residents before Diwali this year, he said.Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also held a meeting with the MC to review different projects being taken up under the smart city mission at the mayor’s camp office on Friday.Sarabha Nagar market retrofitting project includes underground electrical wiring, fire safety, beautification, development of parking area etc. The project was delayed due to the lockdown but it would be completed before Diwali, said Ashu.MC uproots inferior quality road in Jawahar Nagar campAshu, along with councillor Baljinder Bunti, also inspected the ongoing road construction work in Jawahar Nagar camp area on Friday. On finding inferior quality work being done by the contractor, Ashu directed the MC authorities to get the road reconstructed by the contractor.An MC official said the newly constructed road has been uprooted and no payment will be released to the contractor till a good quality road is built by the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sarabha-nagar-market-project-will-be-completed-by-diwali-says-cabinet-minsiter-ashu/story-nD3kmCqvC3d97U90DdFVFN.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi L-G Baijal advises intensifying surveillance, contract tracing||As cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi are on an uptick, Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal held a review meeting to assess the overall situation on Friday and advised authorities to intensify surveillance, detention, contact tracing and quarantine of infected patients while undertaking extensive campaigns.The review meeting was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava.“Advised all concerned authorities to intensify surveillance, detention, contact tracing and quarantine of COVID-positive patients while undertaking extensive Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) campaigns. Emphasised on continued and coordinated efforts to combat COVID19 with regular monitoring and feedback from experts,” Baijal tweeted. Chaired DDMA meeting to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi with Hon’ble CM, Delhi @ArvindKejriwal, CS, Dr V K Paul, Member, NITI Aayog, Dr Randeep Guleria, Director AIIMS, Dr Balram Bhargava, DG ICMR, other experts & senior officers. pic.twitter.com/7n0yPbDnqJBaijal also said he held an interaction with the district magistrates (DMs), deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and municipal commissioners, adding that field officials were advised to ensure strict enforcement of preventive and protective measures for the management of the disease, particularly in view of the ongoing festive season.The national capital has so far registered more than 348,000 Covid-19 cases, which include 6,189 fatalities, nearly 313,000 recoveries and 26,001 active cases. On Friday, 4,086 fresh Covid-19 cases were added, the highest single-day tally since the last 34 days. The previous single-day spike was recorded on September 19 which stood at 4,071. Since then, daily cases stood below the 4,000-mark till Thursday. The positivity rate derived from the Covid-19 tests climbed to 6.61% on Thursday. The positivity rate per week shot up from 5.4% to 6.4% in the last 14 days.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has increased its testing capacity to approximately 60,000 tests per day due to the surge in infections since September. More than 16,000 tests have been carried out in the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-delhi-l-g-baijal-advises-intensifying-surveillance-contract-tracing/story-Z9JDGMNGPMJXMXh7B1APQL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Labourer kills contractor over money, arrested by Thane police||A 23-year-old labourer has been arrested in the murder of a 37-year-old contractor working in Ghodbunder. The murder took place on October 22. The accused allegedly killed the man as he didn’t return his money that he wanted to send to his village. Kasarvadavali police nabbed the accused while he was planning to flee the city.The victim, identified as Vijay Saroj used to work as a contractor and he brought accused Suraj Saroj to Mumbai from his village in Uttar Pradesh to provide him work. Both are related. On October 22, at around 10 am, the accused allegedly assaulted Saroj with an iron pipe to death at his residence on Ghodbunder Road for not giving his hard-earned money.Kasarvadavali police officers said, “The accused had fought with the victim several times over money as he never used to give his payment even though he completed his work. The accused who wanted to send this money to his family back in the village got furious after he again didn’t receive payment and killed the victim.“He tried to escape to his village but we have arrested him on October 24 morning. We have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused has been remanded to police custody till October 28.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/labourer-kills-contractor-over-money-arrested-by-thane-police/story-rAKFcngqgwMipS4E2MDClN.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan crime branch arrests 5 for making, selling adulterated ghee under popular brands||The Kalyan Crime Branch has arrested five men for selling counterfeit ghee under the names of well-known dairy companies. Police have arrested seized 83 litres of adulterated ghee worth ₹44,000 from these accused.The crime branch team led by Dattaram Bhosale received information about one of the accused, a resident of Gograswadi, Dombivli, Alpesh Gore, 36, who is involved in making adulterated Ghee.The team nabbed the accused who led them to the other four. The police have taken everyone into custody and seized the materials. The other four, from Dahisar, have been identified as Jimit Gathani, 33, Saud Shaikh, 32, Dhanraj Mehta, 62 and Chandresh Mirani, 52. Two more accused are wanted.Senior police inspector of crime branch, Sanju John, said, “They mixed Vanaspati oil, Soya lite oil and artificial flavour of ghee, and sold it in the name of big brands like Gowardhan, Amul, Sagar and Krishna. They used the packaging of all these brands, which we found in their Dahisar godown.“Apart from packaging ghee, we have seized one tonne of making material including 210 litres of Dalda, 735 litres of oil and all packaging material of branded companies. We have arrested them after a check by Food and Drug Administration officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-crime-branch-arrests-5-for-making-selling-adulterated-ghee-under-popular-brands/story-RbcUEVmNC8xvslWtRrUYkL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Kharghar residents to fight pollution this Dussehra by burning ‘Pollution Ravan’||In order to show the unity and determination of the residential associations in fighting pollution, around 35 associations have planned to immolate the effigy of Ravan with a theme ‘Pollution Ravan’ on the day of Dussehra.The decision was made on October 21 at a meeting held under Kharghar Forum of all these 35 residential associations from Kharghar, Kamothe, Taloja and Kalamboli who have been facing pollution issues due to the effluents emitted from industries in Taloja MIDC.The united fight against pollution started in the first week of October when six associations came together. “In the second meeting, we had 35 associations. Our attempt is to involve maximum people in this fight. During the second meeting, all the associations unanimously passed a resolution to name this Ravan as ‘Pollution Ravan’. Many would be burning ‘Corona Ravan’ but we decided to fight pollution,” Leena Garad, president of Kharghar Forum, said.On Sunday at around 6 pm, ‘Pollution Ravan’ would be burnt at Sector 15, Kharghar where the pandal for Navratri has been installed by Kharghar Forum.“Every year we have a grand garba organised here. But, this year with the pandemic it’s just the idol that has been installed and people are visiting by following all Covid norms. Even on the day of Dussehra, ‘Ravan’ would be burnt by following all the norms,” Garad said.The residential associations have claimed that the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regional office of Navi Mumbai has only been conducting minor actions against the industries and not doing anything major.In the last week, the MPCB issued notices to eight companies in the Taloja MIDC over violations of pollution control norms. “As per what we noticed during our night inspections, we issued the notices. Of the eight industries, four of them received closure orders while three were served with show cause notice and one received proposed direction related to pollution,” DB Patil, MPCB regional officer, said.MSEDC and the water department have been informed to stop their supplies to the four industries that received closure notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kharghar-residents-to-fight-pollution-this-dussehra-by-burning-pollution-ravan/story-xtJ81Bq4RTVo1xjFCeozAL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Dombivli Railway Over Bridge to be opened by December end; commuters fear further delay||After a lot of ambiguity over the completion of repair work of the Dombivli Railway Over Bridge, the KDMC has claimed that the bridge will be open to commuters by December only as the work of approach road on one end of the bridge is remaining.However, commuters who pass by this bridge work have claimed that a lot of the work is pending.As per the decision made by both Central Railway and Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), the work of demolishing the old deck slab and reconstructing it is to be done by the civic body, and the work of repairing the poles and girders by the CR. The demolition work was done in April.“The repair work of the bridge was delayed due to the five high intensity electric cables. The state electricity board moved the three cables earlier. After this, the work of the deck slab was initiated and completed on October 18. Two cables are yet to be shifted. They have assured to move them soon,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.She added, “The work of the approach road on one side is over while the other side is under progress and will be completed by December. We have planned to open the bridge to commuters by December end.”The bridge was shut in September 2019 after it was declared unsafe by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay in following an audit. The entire repair work will cost around ₹10.50cr.As the repair work got delayed, there have been complaints from the commuters regarding the ordeals they face while taking the alternative Thakurli ROB through the narrow lanes in the city. There has been a continuous demand to take up the repair work.“Even though the civic body has claimed that the work will be over by December end, looking at the amount of work at the site, the deadline will extend to next year. We will protest against the civic authority if the work of the bridge is not completed,” said Sudesh Mahadik, 45, a commuter who takes the Thakurli bridge to connect within the city.The congestion on the roads returned after lockdown restrictions were removed. “The closure of the bridge has affected us badly. We have been facing congestion on the roads for more than a year,” said Neha Salve, 30, a resident of Ramnagar, Dombivli.Chief public relations officer of CR, Shivaji Sutar, said, “Major portion of the work from railway has been completed. Only some miscellaneous work is remaining, which will be completed soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dombivli-railway-over-bridge-to-be-opened-by-december-end-commuters-fear-further-delay/story-P60KdF3pqU6Tdqqe7NvVCL.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle burnt outside house in Chandigarh’s Sector 25||An identified miscreant burnt a car parked outside a house in Sector 25, the police said on Friday.Vikas, the owner of the vehicle, told the police that on Thursday night they heard a loud blast outside and saw some people gathered around his car that was burning. By the time the fire was doused, the vehicle was burnt from inside.Police said a CCTV camera installed nearby caught a masked person throwing some liquid inside the car after breaking the window. Earlier this month, two vehicles, a Skoda and a Verna, along with a motorcycle were damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicle-burnt-outside-house-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25/story-vhE7AFnjTZ5cYJUNeQvB6J.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out 4 more lives in Chandigarh tricity||Four people succumbed to Covid-19 while 124 tested positive across the tricity on Friday.In Chandigarh, the virus claimed two lives, taking the toll to 214. Those dead have been identified as women, aged 52 and 76, from Dhanas and Sector 41, respectively.The city also reported 72 fresh infections and 85 recoveries. As many as 13,920 people have tested positive so far, of whom 13,009 have recovered while 697 are still to be cured. Meanwhile, with 1,064 tests conducted on Friday, the total crossed 1 lakh.Mohali, too, reported two deaths besides 37 cases and 58 recoveries.The district’s infection tally has climbed to 11,975, of which 11,207 patients have been discharged and 231 have died, leaving 537 active cases. No casualty was reported in Panchkula district, though 15 new cases surfaced, including that of a four-month-old girl in Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5.While 6,623 of 6,937 patients have recovered, 109 have succumbed in the district. Only 205 cases remain active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-snuffs-out-4-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-ftqcdRFgRif9dXoY04KrxI.html
23-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: OP Chautala begins canvassing for INLD candidate||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) patriarch and former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who has been making efforts to retrieve his party’s stature, began canvassing for party candidate Joginder Malik on Friday ahead of the Baroda bypoll.Riding on a modified chariot, Chautala visited nine villages and interacted with voters. “People have been appreciating works done during our regime. Farmers told me that the central government’s farm laws are death warrants for them. People from every section of society are suffering due to bad policies adopted by the Congress and BJP governments in the state,” he said.The INLD supremo appealed to the villagers to vote in favour of INLD candidate, who he said is the best among the other nominees. “If our candidate secures a thumping majority, this government will fall on its own. We will compensate our workers from state exchequer if voted to power,” Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-op-chautala-begins-canvassing-for-inld-candidate/story-ZkbnatmnYCEFBxnAf9EjZJ.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab chief minister’s son summoned by Enforcement Directorate in illegal foreign funds case, to be questioned on Tuesday||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh in the ongoing probe into an alleged illegal foreign funds case. Raninder has been asked to appear before the agency on October 27 for questioning at its zonal office in Jalandhar, officials told Hindustan Times.Earlier in August 2020, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed three applications in a Ludhiana court for inspection of new documents filed by the Income Tax department in the cases against Punjab chief minister and his son. The matter is still pending with the district and sessions court in Ludhiana.In July 2016, Raninder had appeared before the ED in the same case and said he had nothing to hide. “I will attend the probe as they want me to and as I have nothing to hide,” Raninder had said.The ED officials, who maintain a tight-lip on the matter, claimed that Raninder has been summoned as part of the ongoing investigation in the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case.Questioning the timing of the development into the case as the Punjab government-led by Captain Amarinder Singh has passed new bills to block Centre’s farm laws, the Congress party insiders called the move a “political vendetta” by the central government.The central agency had initiated actions against Raninder under FEMA after the Income Tax department filed a complaint in Ludhiana court saying he had lied under oath about trusts allegedly owned by him in Virgin Islands.Back in 2016, Raninder was summoned before the ED in connection with a FEMA violation. The IT department said that Raninder misguided the agency by claiming that he did have documents related to the family’s income and trusts abroad.The IT department alleged that Raninder was a ‘settler’ of Jacaranda Trust, which the family formed. Other undisclosed trusts include Mulwala Holdings Limited and Allworth Venture Holding Limited.The father and son also allegedly carried out ‘undisclosed’ financial transactions through a bank account in HSBC, Geneva, and HSBC Financial Services Limited (Middle East), the department said.The IT department also said the trusts were established in 2005 and most of the deals were routed through Virgin Islands. The agency submitted in the court that it has documents sourced from Virgin Islands which show Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder as owners of Marine Mansions in Dubai and other properties in the United Kingdom. Both Amarinder and Raninder had earlier denied any wrongdoing and termed the charges false.Hindustan Times made several attempts to reach Raninder Singh for comments on the recent development but he remained unreachable. When contacted Punjab chief minister media advisor, Raveen Thukral, he also declined to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-chief-minister-s-son-summoned-by-enforcement-directorate-in-illegal-foreign-funds-case-to-be-questioned-on-tuesday/story-57GQ9DKK8YA16EmNMC6qAN.html
23-10-2020||Jaipur||1,815 fresh cases push Rajasthan’s Covid tally to nearly 183,000||Fourteen more people died from coronavirus in Rajasthan on Friday and as 1,815 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 182,570. So far, 1,814 people have died from the infection in Rajasthan, according to an official report. Two fatalities were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur while Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Jalore, Kota, Nagaur, Sikar and Udaipur reported one death each. Of the 1,815 fresh cases, 339 were reported from Jaipur followed by 296 in Jodhpur, the report said. Other cases were reported from Bikaner (217); Alwar (112); Ganganagar (93); Sikar (88); Ajmer (76); Bharatpur (71); Udaipur (59); Kota (54); Nagaur (48); Pali (46); Jhunjhunu (39); Jalore (35); Churu (33); Barmer (29); Bhilwara (27); Hanumangarh (24); Pratapgarh (16); Dungarpur (15); Jaisalmer (15); Dausa (12); Bundi (11); Chittorgarh (10); Rajsamand (10); Dholpur (7); Jhalawar (7); Sirohi (5); Banswara (3) and Karauli (2). A total of 162,981 coronavirus patients have recovered so far and the number of active cases at present is 17,775, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/1-815-fresh-cases-push-rajasthan-s-covid-tally-to-nearly-183-000/story-jCVNQccsYQKcHXwzQLFFoM.html
23-10-2020||Ranchi||Coal block scam: ED attaches assets worth about Rs 12 lakh in Jharkhand||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has attached assets worth about Rs 12 lakh under the anti-money laundering law in a case of alleged illegal allocation of a coal block in Jharkhand.“The attached assets worth Rs 11.92 lakh include balance lying in the bank account of Hotel Le Lac, Ranchi maintained with Axis Bank,” the central probe agency said in a statement.The case pertains to DOMCO Pvt Ltd, its promoters and directors and other unidentified people for submitting “false information” while applying for a captive coal block and securing the allocation of ‘Lalgarh (North)’ coal block in West Bokaro Coalfield in Jharkhand, it said.“Benefit of Rs 7 crore was obtained by accused Binay Prakash by offering to sell the shares of the company on premium after allocation of the coal block to the said firm,” the ED alleged.The probe found that Binay Prakash placed the proceeds of crime in the banking system and subsequently the amount was siphoned off, routed and invested through the entities of the groups owned or controlled by him, it said.The agency had earlier attached assets worth Rs 7 crore of Binay Prakash and his company and also filed a charge sheet against him and his firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/coal-block-scam-ed-attaches-assets-worth-about-rs-12-lakh-in-jharkhand/story-3cD4qNJnhXaLXJARcwrMkK.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||ASI found dead at police station in Chandigarh||A cop, who was on night duty, was found dead at the Sarangpur police station on Friday morning .Identified as assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhbir Singh, he is suspected to have died of heart attack. The ASI had gone to sleep in a room on the first floor of police station around 3am. When he did not open the door despite repeated knocking, his colleagues forcibly opened it, and found him lying unconscious on the bed. The cop was rushed to hospital, but declared brought dead. There was no injury mark on his body. The postmortem report is awaited. The ASI is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter, who live in the Police Lines, Sector 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asi-found-dead-at-police-station-in-chandigarh/story-LZxYA57YoDLj3Bdzn2DHsO.html
23-10-2020||City||Spa centre staff booked for not maintaining record of customers||The manager and assistant manager of a spa and massage centre have been booked for violating the orders of the commissioner of policeDuring an inspection at Nation Spa Centre, Pavilion Mall, police found that the management was not keeping copies of identification proofs of customers and not making their entries in the registers as ordered by the commissioner of police.Besides, the employees’ police verification was not done.Therefore, the centre’s manager Amit Sudhir of Maharashtra and assistant manager Jaswinder Singh of Urban Estate, Dugri, were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, said ASI Tarsem Singh of Division Number 8 police stations.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had issued guidelines for spa and massage centres on October 19, as some were found conducting illegal activities in the garb of their businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spa-centre-staff-booked-for-not-maintaining-record-of-customers/story-Nez672u6WUEFUk2rsVATjK.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana woman raped in moving car; friend, his accomplice arrested||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly raped by her friend’s aide in a moving car on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Police have arrested her friend, Parshant Shukla of Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, and the main accused, Rohit Kumar Rai, of New Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. Shukla is currently living in New Rajguru Nagar, Ludhiana.The woman, a resident of Kailash Nagar, Threeke, complained to the police that Parshant, who is her friend, asked to meet her at Ferozepur Road on Wednesday. When she met him there, Parshant invited her to celebrate Rohit’s birthday.So, they left to consume liquor at a liquor tavern and had dinner. The women, who is married and has an eight-year-old son, alleged that when she bid her friend goodbye and started to leave, Rai pulled her inside Parshant’s car and raped her, while Parshant drove his car around. The duo threw her out of the car on Ferozepur Road near Rajguru Nagar Extension around 3am on Thursday and fled.After narrating the matter to her husband, she sounded the police and lodged a complaint.Sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO, Sarabha Nagar police station, said the two accused were booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested on Friday. They will be produced in court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-raped-in-moving-car-friend-his-accomplice-arrested/story-b36dtyb6YXW05OlxRClKAO.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal police to maintain separate register for suicide cases||In order to keep better track of incidents of suicide in the state, Himachal director general of police Sanjay Kundu on Friday directed all police stations to record suicide cases in a separate register. The decision was taken as there has been a marked increase in suicide cases across the state. Kundu said, “Records and data entered into a register can be of immense help in keeping track of the number of suicides cases, including cases of abetment of suicide registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. Maintaining a separate register in police stations will create a database that can be referred to in future cases.” Earlier, there were 26 registers in police stations. Now, ‘Register 27’ will be used keep track of suicide cases in the state. Each page will be attested by the supervisory officer, who will monitor the maintenance of the register.The station house inspector (SHO), on handing over charge of transfer will record a ‘confidential charge note’ for the assistance of his successor about the register and also mention the list of areas prone to suicides in the jurisdiction of the police station. The register will include an index comprising personal particulars of the deceased, social and economic profile, emotional profile, medical and forensic details, details and content of suicide note (if found), computer and mobile details (including details of calls, social media posts, WhatsApp messages, immediately before suicide). It has been recommended that the register be included in the training syllabus of newly included non-gazetted officers as well as Himachal Police Service (HPS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Police officers formally or informally inspecting a police station shall record their comments regarding entries in register number 27 and 13. Faulty mechanism for recording suicides At present, there is no mechanism for maintaining data regarding suicide cases in Himachal. In Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems, suicide cases are clubbed with unidentified dead bodies (UDBs). At police stations, data pertaining to suicide due to abetment and cases where only action as per Section 174 (inquest proceedings) of the Code of Criminal Procedure was taken are being mixed up. “As such it entails a lot of effort and time to sift through the data to find out the exact number of suicides,” said the DGP, adding that the purpose of the standing order (SO) was to maintain up-to-date records of suicide cases taking place in the jurisdiction of a police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-police-to-maintain-separate-register-for-suicide-cases/story-fL5jFzE1liFNYbprDUhzCK.html
23-10-2020||City||Gangster Harman Bhau lands up in Moga police net||Moga Police on Friday claimed that an inter-state gang had been busted with the arrest of a dreaded gangster, Harmanjit Singh, alias Harman Bhau, who was wanted in at least five cases of attempt to murder in many districts. Harman, of Cheema village in Tarn Taran district, was arrested with 2,000 narcotic tablets named Tramadol SR. A 12-bore weapon with six cartridges have also been recovered from his possession.The police added that with his arrest, all members of an inter-state gang had been busted. Two of his associates, Ajay Kumar and Amritpal Singh, who are notorious criminals, had been arrested earlier. “These gangsters were involved in several cases of highway robberies, attempt to murder for ransom, gang war and snatching,” a police source added.Moga SSP HS Gill said that Harman, who operated as the main hitman and sharpshooter of the gang, was wanted in 10 cases, including five attempt to murder cases, registered at Moga, Ludhiana, Faridkot, Tarn Taran and Panchkula districts. “He is being interrogated to know how many crimes he had committed and to know the source of weapons used. To date, a Toyota Fortuner, snatched at gunpoint from Panchkula and a 12 bore gun, which he snatched from a hospital guard in Kotakpura, have been recovered from him. More recovery and arrests would follow,” he added.Last month, Harman along with associates had fired at and injured a Moga-based rice trader to rob him. In July, he had pointed a weapon at a Moga police party on a check-post. In June, he had opened fire at a Ludhiana resident and injured him after getting a contract to kill him. He had also snatched a Ritz car at gunpoint from Dakha area in Ludhiana district.As part of a gang rivalry, Harman had fired 17 rounds at the son of an ASI to kill him in Kotkapura last month. On July 18, Harman had also fired at and injured an ex-sarpanch of Cheema Kalan in Tarn Taran district, following a village-level rivalry. A case has been registered under the NDPS and the Arms Act at Mehna police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-harman-bhau-lands-up-in-moga-police-net/story-PUXDs5xY0zpnfhKDCSJ0KP.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of panchayat polls, voices of dissent within BJP get shriller||With polls to Panchayati Raj Institutions and civic bodies round the corner, voices of dissent within the Bharatiya Janata Party are getting shriller so much so that the party has had to press troubleshooters into service to quash the brewing rebellion. Day after former chief minister Shanta Kumar voiced his concern over increasing ‘pollution’ in the saffron party , former power minister Anil Sharma, a sitting BJP legislator from Mandi, accused the state government of ‘harassing’ him and his family.Sharma, the son veteran Congress leader Pandit Sukhram, alleged that cops had misbehaved with his son, actor Aayush Sharma, at the border when he was coming home during the lockdown. He also alleged that power supply to his house was repeatedly snapped at midnight for over a month when Aayush, his wife Arpita and his grandchildren were staying with them in Mandi. The former power minister said he had filed a complaint at all possible levels but no action was taken. “Politics and family should be kept apart. No one will tolerate an attack on their family,” he said. Sharma had joined BJP just ahead of 2017 assembly polls and had become a minister in the Jai Ram Thakur-led government. He had stepped down after his elder son Aashray Sharma contested Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket. He also hit out at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur over the issue of development and alleged that the government had been deliberately ignoring Mandi constituency, which he represents. He said if former minister Sudhir Sharma could get a smart-city tag for his home turf, Dharamshala, why could the chief minister not do the same for Mandi. Sharma urged Thakur to do something to benefit Mandi and the state in his remaining two-year tenure. Sharma had also met All India Congress Committee’s Himachal in-charge Rajeev Shukla when he had visited Mandi in October. ‘Undue interference’ causes rift BJP’s chief whip Narinder Bragta is upset with urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj’s interference in his assembly segment Jubbal- Kotkhai.Meanwhile, two-time former BJP legislator Govind Ram Sharma has taken issue with the appointment of Ram Rattan Pal as chairperson of the Co-operative Federation. Govind Ram was denied a ticket and the party had instead fielded Rattan Pal Singh against Congress stalwart Virbhadra Singh. Govid Ram had also met with Virbhadra Singh recently, which had led to murmurs in political circles that he could join the Congress. A section of the BJP owing allegiance to former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal sees his son minister for state corporate affairs and finance Anurag Thakur as their future leader. Dhumal’s camp that had been lying low after his unexpected defeat in the assembly elections has begun to realign and has stepped up activities in the state . Damage controlThe brewing discontent among the top rung has seemingly raised alarm bells for the BJP. The party’s three general secretaries - Trilok Kapoor, Trilok Jamwal and Raesh Jamwal - and state party president Suresh Kashyap held a closed- door meeting with Jawalamukhi legislator and former minister Ramesh Dhawala who is at loggerheads with the party’s organisational secretary Pawan Rana . Dhawala for the last two years has been consistently accusing Rana of making attempts to undermine him. Dhawala was instrumental in formation of the BJP-HVC (Himachal Vikas Congress) alliance in 1998. Dhawala had won as an independent candidate and his support had helped BJP to topple the Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ahead-of-panchayat-polls-voices-of-dissent-within-bjp-get-shriller/story-xchhbfhVyHUXBh1H96AFQL.html
23-10-2020||Business||Higher prices of essential consumer goods dampen festive spirits in West Bengal||An increase in prices of essential commodities continues to pinch consumers, which dampens the festive spirits in West Bengal.Prices of pulses, edible oil, vegetables, fish, and eggs have remained firm for the past few months mainly due to a rise in demand and bottlenecks in the supply chain, traders in the city said on Thursday.They added that prices of pulses and edible oil rose by 15- 20 per cent, while most vegetables are sold at over Rs.50 a kg.Onion, which was sold below potato price at Rs 25 per kg recently, is now available at Rs 70, while egg price has increased from Rs 4 a piece to Rs 7.“Volatility in commodity markets happens every year but it used to be temporary. This year, prices are ruling high for last few months,” a vegetable seller said.A meat shop owner said the value of orders for this festive period is insignificant as compared to previous year.“Since lockdown in March, we continue to see a surge in essential commodity prices. Many items are beyond the reach of common people. We had to cut the budget on feasts during the Durga Puja celebrations,” Anjali Saha, a homemaker said.According to traders, prices of vegetables and fish could soften when local train services resume.“Fishermen are suffering due to lack of demand and transportation of low-value fish to city markets has been affected without local train services,” said a trader at Canning market in South 24 Parganas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/higher-prices-of-essential-consumer-goods-dampen-festive-spirits-in-west-bengal/story-bUQpkHBbqyrKClBCEzMwWM.html
23-10-2020||Patna||Death in police custody: NHRC issues notice to Sitamarhi district administration||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued a notice to Bihar’s Sitamarhi district magistrate (DM) and superintendent of police (SP) in connection with an alleged death in police custody under the jurisdiction of Punaura police station on September 6. The NHRC has sought the status and action taken reports within eight weeks from the DM and the SP of Sitamarhi district. The panel took cognisance following a complaint lodged by one Brajesh Singh, which stated that Nageshwar Rai (50), who was arrested in a 12-year-old case related to an assault on his neighbour, had died in police custody after he was allegedly beaten black and blue by Punaura police station authorities.“It appears to be a glaring instance of violation of human rights of an individual in police custody for which the accountability rests with the state’s police force,” the NHRC observed. The commission has sought the reports against the errant police officials and the steps taken to prevent such incidents in future by the state authorities. The commission has directed the Sitamarhi SP and DM to submit reports and records covering all the aspects leading to Rai’s death.The panel has sought a copy of the complaint and the first information report (FIR) registered against the deceased, a copy of his arrest and inspection memoranda, a copy of medical legal certificate of Rai and his inquest and post-mortem reports. The post-mortem report must mention the nature of injuries suffered by the deceased, the commission has directed.The NHRC has also sought a video-cassette recording of the post mortem examination or in a compact disc (CD), chemical and histopathology examination of the viscera, the cause of his death based on the forensic science laboratory (FSL) and magisterial enquiry reports. Rai was arrested from his village after a court had issued an arrest warrant against him. Rai’s brother, Ajay Kumar, had alleged that he died in police custody due to torture by the Punaura police station authorities. Earlier in March 2019, two persons from Chakia in East Champaran district had died allegedly due to torture by the Dumra police station authorities.Dumra police station is also located in Sitamarhi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/death-in-police-custody-nhrc-issues-notice-to-sitamarhi-district-administration/story-lFkEEU4dq4O9ExStixLg3N.html
23-10-2020||Dehradun||Teenager killed by leopard in Nainital, 2nd fatality in same area in 24 hours||An 18-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Thursday evening when she was going to cut grass in the forest. This incident was reported within 24 hours of another leopard attack killing a 13-year-old girl in the same block of Nainital district on Wednesday, said officials. TR Bijulal, divisional forest officer of Nainital forest division said, “The incident happened in Bajwal village of Okhalkanda block in Nainital district on Thursday evening. The girl was going to the forest to fetch fodder along with other villagers when a leopard suddenly pounced on her and dragged her into the forest.” He said that the girl’s body was later recovered around 1 km away from her house in the forest area and sent for a post-mortem examination. Forest officials said the girl studied in class 12 in a government school in the district. The victim’s family is being given Rs 3 lakh as ex-gratia from the state forest department after a formal documentation process. With the onset of winter, man-leopard conflict is on the rise again in the state. With this incident, eight children have been killed in leopard attacks in the state in past one and half months. Also Read: Uttarakhand forest dept buys inflatable boat for river patrol along Nepal borderOn Wednesday, a 13-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Okhalkanda block in Nainital. On Thursday, this leopard was declared a ‘man-eater’ by the state forest department and cages were installed to capture the leopard. On October 15, an 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Jaspur area in US Nagar district when she was playing with her siblings outside her house. On October 11, a 7-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Tehri Garhwal district when the girl went to the washroom outside her house by herself. Also Read: Uttarakhand: 19-year-old man steals kin’s debit card, spends Rs 8 lakh in online shoppingOn October 7, a 7-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack outside her house in Berinag division of Pithoragarh district. On October 1, a 14-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Pauri Garhwal district, when he took his cattle for grazing in the forest area. On September 24, an 11-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Pithoragarh district when she was working near her house and collecting fodder. On September 19, a 7-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Almora district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/teenager-killed-by-leopard-in-nainital-2nd-fatality-in-same-area-in-24-hours/story-NIODmUfEGf2S9rlBReFJmO.html
23-10-2020||Pune||PMC clarifies the sale of amenity space proposal after residents protest||Pune: Pune municipal commissioner, Vikram Kumar, on Thursday, clarified that a proposal to “sell” amenity spaces in the city is still under consideration. “The idea is not to sell the amenity spaces, but to give it on lease for the development of amenities,” said Kumar, adding, “Every Punekar should get these amenities, but PMC can only develop few, hence, the proposal to invite the private sector to build and create better amenities, as they have been created in the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA).” He said reservations will not be touched and not all amenity spaces are been looked at. The proposal planned by Estate and Land records department suggests that 118 plots have been identified in the first phase of this plan. “We have suggested the idea of leasing the amenity spaces for a private-public partnership. The proposal has been sent to city engineer for discussions and to reform the plan further,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner, Estate and Land records department, PMC. Several residents have taken to social media to object to the proposal. “Amenity spaces are the property of citizens, paid for when we buy flats. The builder gives an area to the PMC to make the life of citizens good in the area. We also pay hefty taxes to help PMC develop and manage the area. It’s not their property and since it is public property, it should be discussed publically before taking any call. We object to this proposal,” said Vaishali Patkar, member, Citizens For Area Sabha. Citizens For Area Sabha has written to the office of the chief minister of Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray), stating that Pune Municipal Corporation is planning to sell reserved amenity spaces, thereby depriving citizens their legal rights of access to several civic amenities. The petition reads “Amenity spaces are public property and are meant for creating public infrastructure for citizens. Pune needs more amenity spaces for various essential utilities and amenities to be built by the PMC and Government authorities for the development of the area, providing required infrastructure, and for the welfare and healthcare of citizens. “Under the PMC - Pune Development Control rules Sec 15.4.1 Development of Amenity Spaces - the amenity spaces are to be utilised for playgrounds, gardens, parks, yoga meditation parks, primary school, high school, dispensary, fire brigade, police station, post office, electric substation, parking and like other services,” said Patkar. According to Vivek Velankar, RTI activist, “I have submitted a proposal to the PMC for alternatives for financing the city. There is no need to propose sale of amenity spaces, or of giving concessions on property taxes, instead PMC should work on getting the dues from property arrears of Rs 1,200 crore from 500 people who are above in the bracket of Rs 1 crore and above.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-clarifies-the-sale-of-amenity-space-proposal-after-residents-protest/story-bKPJxgcfWpihDTBpRGNqAL.html
23-10-2020||City||Grenade attack in J&K’s Poonch: 2 suspects picked up, no firm clues yet||Police have picked up two suspects in connection with the abortive bid by suspected terrorists to attack a police patrol vehicle with a grenade in Poonch district of J&K late Thursday, but have not been able to get any firm clues about the unidentified attackers. Suspected terrorists had hurled a grenade at a police vehicle at Kalai in Poonch district late Thursday. Poonch district SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “A grenade was hurled at a police vehicle in the Kalai bridge area in Poonch district on Thursday night. However, it did not explode and there was no harm done.” “We have picked up two suspects for questioning but no firm clues have emerged so far,” he added. Meanwhile, security has been tightened in the area, he added. Of late, there have been attempts by Pakistan and its sleeper cells to fuel terrorism in the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch. Pakistan has been trying to push arms and drugs in the two districts, according to authorities. However, security forces said they have been able to foil such attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grenade-attack-in-j-k-s-poonch-2-suspects-picked-up-no-firm-clues-yet/story-jG9257uXTeNgpf4Ve9yzgO.html
23-10-2020||Pune||Labourer falls to death in ditch on Mhada site in Pune||A labourer at a construction site along the Pune-Mumbai expressway fell to his death in a ditch on Tuesday morning. The site was of a Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) housing scheme located in Shirgaon village near Talegaon.Three people, including owner of the construction company, labour contractor and site supervisor, were booked for causing the death of the labourer.The deceased was identified as Eknath Keshav Sasane, a resident of the labour camp along Pune-Mumbai expressway.A ditch was dug on the site to store water for sewage and sanitation. The labourer fell into the ditch around 9:30am on Wednesday. A case was lodged around midnight.No safety measures were in place near the ditch that was dug. No arrests have been made in the case so far, according to the police.A complaint was lodged by the deceased man’s son, Vijay Eknath Sasane (39), a resident of Rahulnagar in Shivane, Haveli, according to the police.A case under Sections 304(a) and 34 of Indian Penal code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station against the three. Assistant inspector Atigre of Shirgaon Police chowky is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/labourer-falls-to-death-in-ditch-on-mhada-site-in-pune/story-P6avwwWhnSlDBvPzCJXWKJ.html
23-10-2020||Pune||After touching Rs 100, onion price drops to Rs 80 per kg in Pune||PUNE: The retail prices of onions in Pune, Solapur and other cities in western Maharashtra dropped on Thursday to Rs 80 per kg after touching Rs 100/kg a day before. The dip in rates was witnessed after wholesale market in Pune received 50 truckloads of onions compared to 40 trucks on Wednesday. On an average, Pune wholesale market receives 100 trucks of onion daily this season. As the supply was less during Tuesday and Wednesday, the onions were sold at the rate of Rs 100 kg –Rs 120 per kg. With increase in supply, the prices stabilised at wholesale market between Rs 70-75 on Thursday, while it was sold at around Rs 80 per kg in retail marker. Madhukant Garad, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) head, said, “The shortage was due to rainfall. As of today, we have received 18,000 sacks of onions totally aggregating 9,000 quintals at the market. The market rate for 10 kg onion is now between Rs 200 to Rs 700 for wholesale, while on average basis, onions are fetching between Rs 450 to Rs 550 for 10 kg,” he said. Besides shortage due to rain, the prices of onion slightly came down due to decision to import the commodity from neighbouring nations, a move criticised by farmer unions. At Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, 7,000 quintals of onion arrived on Thursday as well, keeping the average price of commodity at Rs 7,000 per quintal. “Onions are selling at Rs 7,000 per quintal at Lasalgaon. Farmers don’t have onions in stocks and those who have are waiting for good rates for their produce. There is shortage as the supply was affected due to heavy rains. We have onion stock which can last for one month,” said, Suvarna Jagtap, chairperson, Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce. At other APMC markets in Nashik district, wholesale price of onions fluctuated between Rs 6,000- Rs 7,000 per quintal while the retail price was Rs 80 per kg. Ganpat Nimbalkar, an onion producer, said that farmers get paid at the rate between Rs 20-Rs 30 by the middlemen who bring their onion produce to the market for selling it to big customers and retailing. Vilas Bhujbal, wholesale onion trader in Pune, said, “We are buying onion at the rate of Rs 7,000 per quintal which translates into a retail rate of Rs 70 per kg in the open market. There was panic due to stock shortage, but now the rates have stabilised. Rains had been the main reason behind less arrival of trucks at Market Yard,” he said. Onion import is against farmers’ interests: ShettiRaju Shetti, leader of farmer organisation Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, said that the Centre’s decision to import onion when farmers are getting good prices is against their interest. “Farmers have already suffered a lot. So, when they are getting some money in their hand, the Centre wants to import more onion,” said Shetti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-touching-rs-100-onion-prices-drops-to-rs-80-per-kg-in-pune/story-1dyb60FXcUj71AYGXWZWoK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Thackeray announces Rs 10,000 crore compensation package for farmers affected by heavy rains||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced a Rs 10,000-crore package for the flood-affected areas of central and western parts of the state. The CM has earmarked Rs 5,500 crore for a one-time cash relief to farmers towards their crop losses due to the heavy rainfall that the state had received last week. Crops on more than 10 lakh hectares (ha) were destroyed in the torrential downpour in over 10 districts in the state.CM Thackeray announced the relief package after holding a review meeting with his Cabinet colleagues. He also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government for its delay in the release of Rs 38,000 crore, which is due to the state towards compensation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and devolution of taxes for the current fiscal (2020-21).Also Read: On quiet visit to Mumbai, NCB boss preps for crackdown in Bollywood drugs caseThackeray said that the government would have announced a bigger relief package for the flood-hit areas had it not been for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced financial crisis that has affected the state exchequer.“The package announced on Friday is the biggest relief package given for the natural calamity in the state. We have increased the relief amount to Rs 10,000 and Rs 25,000 per ha for the loss on irrigated and non-irrigated land of crops and horticultural crops, respectively. The relief will reach the farmers before Diwali (November 14),” the CM said.The relief for each ha has been increased from Rs 6,800 to Rs 10,000 and from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25000.The CM said that respective district administrations have completed spot assessment of the losses incurred due to the unseasonal rainfall.He said that the state government would ensure that the relief package reached the flood-hit farmers at the earliest.Of the Rs 10,000 crore package, Rs 5,500 crore is earmarked towards relief to farmers for their crop loss, Rs 2,365 crore for damages to roads and bridges, Rs 1,000 crore for destruction of rural roads and disruption in water supply, Rs 300 crore, Rs 239 crore and Rs 102 crore is allocated for urban areas, energy and resource schemes, respectively. Solapur, Sangli, Satara in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad, Latur, Beed, and Parbhani in central parts of the state have sustained massive losses because of last week’s unseasonal rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thackeray-announces-rs-10-000-crore-compensation-package-for-farmers-affected-by-heavy-rains/story-9qbd3RC4FtKZHxZ8lcib1I.html
23-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 19-year-old man steals kin’s debit card, spends Rs 8 lakh in online shopping||A 19-year-old man in Bageshwar district of Uttarakhand allegedly stole his relative’s debit card and duped him of around Rs 8 lakh, said the police. Not only did he create an account on a social site and bought a scooty and household items worth Rs 3.50 lakh, he also bought and consumed beer worth Rs 1 lakh, said the police. “A retired army man had complained that a large amount had been siphoned off his bank account. In cyber cell’s probe, a suspected account was spotted and later identified as that of the victim’s brother-in-law’s son,” said Bageshwar superintendent of police Manikant Mishra. The complainant was retired army man Madan Singh Tangariya, a resident of Majiakhet. The police nabbed and questioned the young man who broke down immediately. He confessed to the crime and revealed that he had stayed in the complainant’s house for three months in 2019. He noticed that the complainant had his mobile phone and debit card lying around the house, In December last year, the accused created an account on a social site using his relative’s mobile phone and debit card. Then he began shopping online.Also read: Alleging harassment of kids admitted under RTE, Rajasthan man hacks schools’ servers, issues TCs to 130 studentsMishra said, “The accused not only shopped for household items worth Rs 3.50 lakh but also transferred Rs 1 lakh to other accounts. Bank accounts of the accused and his accomplices have been frozen. He also confessed that he purchased and consumed beer worth Rs 1 lakh with the stolen money.” Among the items he purchased are a scooty, camera, sofa, phones, refrigerator, mixer-grinder and air cooler. Police have recovered the items from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-19-year-old-man-steals-kin-s-debit-card-spends-rs-8-lakh-in-online-shopping/story-ve8x5pR5Dvjiki50wbj3pN.html
23-10-2020||Pune||Pedestrian killed in hit-and-run incident in Phursungi||A man was killed in a hit-and-run while trying to cross the road divided by a toll plaza along Hadapsar-Saswad road in Pune.While the incident took place on Tuesday evening, a case was registered on Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Dattatray Bhagwan Marwal, a resident of Bhekrainagar in Phursungi, Haveli.Marwal was returning from one end of the toll plaza along Hadapsar-Saswad road after buying something from a shop located on the other side of the stretch around 6pm on Tuesday. While he was crossing the road, an unidentified vehicle which was crossing the toll plaza from Hadapsar and heading towards Saswad ran over Marwal and fled the spot.“We are looking for the accused and the unidentified vehicle,” said assistant inspector VB Bhabad of Hadapsar police station.A complaint was lodged by Vishnu Pardeshi (51), a resident of Phursungi and relative of the deceased.A case under Sections 279, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-incident-in-phursungi/story-bWR5AL24VzI3OC6c7E0quI.html
23-10-2020||Pune||Covid patients to be either at Baner or COEP||With at least 10,000 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients vacant in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation has decided not to allow Covid patients into some hospitals. Under the new directive, all Covid-19 patients will be transferred either to the PMC-run Covid-dedicated Baner hospital or the Jumbo Covid treatment centre at COEP. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “As the positive cases are coming down in the city, the bed situation has improved. We have decided not to allow Covid patients into Dalvi Hospital temporarily, and to use the beds there for other patients. PMC is planning to end its contract with some hospitals, temporarily.” Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “It is a good sign the number of cases are becoming less, but still, critical cases are high. The ICU and ventilator cases are more than 800. So we are on alert. It is true that we are shifting the patients to Baner and the Jumbo centres, so they are getting utilised fully. We are terminating contracts with some hospitals for isolation beds.”Agrawal said, “If needed, we can acquire all these beds. Earlier, every evening, we needed to create additional ICU beds, but now, there are no complaints about getting ICU or ventilator beds in the city.”Officers from the PMC confirmed that the contracts with 11 small hospitals has been temporarily suspended and Covid patients are being referred to the jumbo centres at College of Engineering Pune at Shivajinagar. As per data on October 20, Pune city has a total of 8,601 active cases. Total bed capacity in the city is 15,417 and of this, 4,991 beds are occupied. A total of 10,426 beds are vacant in PMC-owned and private hospitals. Bed capacity in the city Total bed capacity– 15,417Occupied– 4,991Vacant– 10,426Isolation beds- 7,506Occupied – 4,382Vacant – 3,124Total beds without oxygen – 2,323Occupied – 1,534Vacant - 789Total beds with oxygen – 4,058Occupied – 2,069Vacant – 1,989Total ICU beds without ventilator - 574Occupied - 354Vacant -220ICU beds with ventilator - 551Occupied - 425Vacant - 126||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-patients-to-be-either-at-baner-or-coep/story-dcWiBY0buzsUiA258zJqgP.html
23-10-2020||City||Chhattisgarh government asks collectors to monitor onions prices||To contain the rising prices of onions in the state, the Chhattisgarh government has directed all district collectors to monitor their availability and retail prices, officials said on Friday.“An analysis of prices of essential commodities in districts by the state-level Price Monitoring Cell indicated that there has been a rise in onion prices and therefore the collectors have been told to contain the prices,” the state’s public relations department said in a press release. It added the collectors will also have to ensure that the wholesalers provide all details about the stocks of onions and prices on a daily basis.The collectors have been asked to meet wholesalers and retailers and assess the availability and demand of onions and ensure their sufficient supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-government-asks-collectors-to-monitor-onions-prices/story-78oLqffJnGKVrw63elxGiM.html
23-10-2020||Jaipur||Alleging harassment of kids admitted under RTE, Rajasthan man hacks schools’ servers, issues TCs to 130 students||A man allegedly hacked the server of four schools and issued transfer certificates of 130 students in Rajasthan’s Sikar district. He then wrote to the district superintendent of police and district education officer, confessing to his crime and alleging that these schools were pressuring the families of children admitted under the Right to Education act.HT has a copy of the letter. Identifying himself as the common man, the man said he was aged between 50 and 70 years, lived in Palsana town and had retired from a government post. “TCs of three schools in Palsana and one in Khatu area of the district have been issued by me,” he confessed. “ It was reported in the newspaper that the government will pay the fee instalment of children admitted under RTE act in 15 days and tax was also paid. Despite this, the families of these poor children are being harassed by the school authorities to deposit fee. So, I decided to teach them a lesson,” he wrote. Also read: Ten foreign-trained medical graduates hack into system, debarred from test for licenceHe said he got in touch with a computer expert, and equipped with a hidden camera, he entered the school premises pretending to be a guardian. “During these visits to schools, I captured the school servers’ IDs and passwords with my hidden camera and taught a lesson to the school authorities. My suggestion is that the government should deposit the money directly into the child’s account so that the parents don’t suffer. I know what I did was not right and I am sorry about this. Please do not get the matter investigated or my pension will be discontinued,” said the accused before signing off as “the common man.”Police have registered a case against an unidentified person under the IT Act and have launched a probe. “The investigation of this case is been done by station house officer of Reengus police station. We have registered a case under IT Act,” said Rajesh Arya, circle officer, Sikar rural. District education officer Lalchand said while the complainant has not mentioned his name or any other details, a fair investigation will still be conducted in the matter.“We will definitely investigate if parents are being pressured by schools,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-alleging-harassment-of-kids-admitted-under-rte-man-hacks-schools-servers-issues-tcs-to-130-students/story-zOLn48krp8H7Xj2jzd1YNO.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Anantnag SSP inspires Kashmiri youngsters to dare to dream, achieve better life||Dreams come true with hard work and focus. That’s the open secret behind Operation Dreams, playing out in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district thanks to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Choudhary. The 34-year-old J&K-cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the 2012 batch, who is from the border town of Abohar in Punjab, has struggled to achieve his dream and is inspiring hundreds of youngsters to achieve theirs despite the odds. He has been providing free guidance and coaching to youngsters, helping them qualify for competitive exams since the middle of 2018. He has named his mission Operation Dreams. More than his coaching, it is his struggle that is motivating many an aspirant to achieve his/her dream. “He is my mentor. His struggle inspires us,” says Mohammad Farhan, 24, an engineering graduate from Anantnag who cleared the Kashmir Administrative Services (KAS) exam in September. Farhan is now pursuing a bigger dream of clearing the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam. “Choudhary sir gives us tips to face interviews. I qualified the KAS exam with rank 28 but could not crack the UPSC entrance due to low marks in the mains but I’m giving it another shot,” he says. EMPOWERING FOR EMPLOYMENT Choudhary says he launched Operation Dreams two years ago to empower youngsters to crack competitive exams for government jobs without getting exploited by coaching institutes and costly study tutorials. “The advent of the coaching industry has discouraged many students from humble backgrounds to pursue their dreams for a better life. The aim of this initiative is to guide youngsters towards a self-study-based approach for cracking competitive exams,” he says. Choudhary began by coaching aspirants for the posts of sub inspector in Jammu and Kashmir Police. He was posted as superintendent of police (SP) in Jammu South in 2018 when he started by holding classes at his office before duty hours from 8am to 10am. As the number of students grew from 10 to 150, he shifted to a community hall in Jammu. Thirty-eight students from that class cracked the sub inspector entrance exam. SELF STUDY TO SELF RELIANCE Choudhary’s has been a life of struggle and self-reliance. “I was a medical student till Class 12. My father passed away just five days before the board exams. Life changed after that. I started working at the age of 19 as a clerk in a post office,” he says. He went on to study mass communication at Panjab University, Chandigarh, but dropped out a few months later. He decided to carry on studying by correspondence through Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) but at no point did he give up his pursuit for a better life. “I completed post-graduation through correspondence and continued working at the post office for five years. I cleared the competitive exams such as the bank probationary officers’ entrance, Punjab Civil Services, Reserve Bank of India, University Grants Commission’s National Eligibility Test besides the UPSC entrance, all through self-study,” he says. ADVERSITY BRINGS OUT THE BEST His coaching efforts have been appreciated in Kashmir, which has seen challenges such as militancy besides the Covid-19 pandemic. “The situation was challenging in Shopian, where I was posted as SP. Operation Dreams classes were run for a brief period there before I joined as the Anantnag SSP this February. Classes had to be moved online because of the pandemic,” he says. With the lifting of the lockdown, he has again started teaching offline twice a week, where the average participation has been of 45-50 students. “Soon, classes will be run daily on the Jammu pattern as the number of interested students has increased. There are many from far-flung areas who can’t afford coaching but yearn for a better life,” he says. Choudhary says he is trying to motivate students facing tough circumstances and adds that his proudest moment so far has been to see one of his students, Moin Khan from Jammu, get through the sub inspector exam. “Moin worked as a pizza delivery boy. He prepared for competitive exams through Operation Dreams classes. Today, he is a sub inspector in Jammu and Kashmir Police,” the SSP says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anantnag-ssp-inspires-kashmiri-youngsters-to-dare-to-dream-achieve-better-life/story-ByMKefxhtBrNDZWYr07xoL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Sacrificed my life for BJP, now will work for NCP with full strength, says Eknath Khadse as he joins Sharad Pawar’s party||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse on Friday joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the presence of party president Sharad Pawar. Khadse, 68, who had quit the BJP on Wednesday, was inducted into the NCP at the party’s head office in Mumbai.“I have struggled for my entire life. I have sacrificed my life for the BJP, but now I will work for NCP with full strength,” Khadse said as he joined Pawar’s party.During his induction ceremony, Khadse said that he was advised by a few senior BJP leaders to join the NCP. “Not just my followers but some even BJP leaders advised me to join NCP. I had asked some senior BJP leaders if I should go to another party, they advised me to join NCP,” he said.After his resignation, Khadse had accused former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of “trying to destroy his life and political career”. He had blamed Fadnavis for his decision to quit the party. “Fake cases were lodged against me that includes a molestation case and two cases by ACB (Anti-Corruption Bureau). Now, I will reveal who has taken how many plots,” the newly-inducted NCP member said. “I have never used a woman for politics. It is not in my nature,” he added.Khadse made his exit from Fadnavis’ ministry in 2016 after resigning as revenue minister. He also stepped down from 11 other departments after facing corruption charges. Khadse was with the BJP for over four decades.Taking a dig at Fadnavis’s 5am oath ceremony during the government formation tussle in Maharashtra in 2019, Khadse said, “Some are raising the issue of morality in my case. Where was this morality when the oath was taken at 5 in the morning to form the government?”The NCP, along with the Shiv Sena and Congress, is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), a political coalition formed in 2019 after the assembly elections in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-joins-ncp-in-mumbai-in-presence-of-party-president-sharad-pawar/story-J5TrqXkvDLRF6mS5LyXHhP.html
23-10-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka bypolls: Paramilitary forces arrive in city||Central paramilitary forces arrived in the city on Friday to be deployed for the bypolls to Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency, a top police official said.“The Central paramilitary forces have arrived in the city. One is from Bengaluru, another being grouped from Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Mysuru,” Bengaluru Deputy Commissioner of Police (West division) Sanjeev RPT Sanjeev M Patil said.He said the Central Industrial Security Force contingent is also being deployed in the west division.The battle in the RR Nagar constituency, where bypolls will be held on November 3, has intensified with candidates and political parties trading allegations of poll code violations.The BJP has fielded Munirathna, a Congress turncoat, while H. Kusuma and V. Krishnamurthy are the Congress and the JD(S) candidates respectively.Kusuma is the wife of a former IAS officer late D K Ravi whose ‘suicide’ had kicked up a storm in the state.She is also the daughter of a JD(S) leader Hanumantharayappa, who unsuccessfully contested the 2008 Assembly elections from RR Nagar.At present, the fight appears to be mainly between the BJP and the Congress who are leaving no stone unturned to win the seat.The election has become a prestige issue for Munirathna and Congress state president D K Shivakumar, as his brother D K Suresh represents the Bengaluru Rural constituency in the Lok Sabha under which the RR Nagar assembly segment falls.Eight days ago, a case of poll code violation was registered against Congress candidate Kusuma and the escort staff of former chief minister Siddaramaiah for not abiding by the directions of the Code of Conduct at the office of the Returning Officer for Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituency.Two days ago, the Congress workers staged a demonstration at the Nandini Layout police station alleging that the BJP activists assaulted a party worker.On Thursday, Munirathna had stated that the situation in RR Nagar has become ‘explosive’ as more than 4,000 outsiders have arrived in the constituency and were allegedly conducting a door-to-door survey.“They are collecting all the information. I appeal to people not to share personal information with anyone,” Munirathna told reporters on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bypolls-paramilitary-forces-arrive-in-city/story-NixrPnp4Ax2Xw5ZoqIFprO.html
23-10-2020||Dehradun||42-year-old Uttarakhand man run over by train, dies||A man (42) was killed after being hit by a speeding train at Haldwani in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Friday morning, Railway Protection Force (RPF) officials said. Randeep Kumar, a RPF inspector posted at Kathgodam railway station, said a local resident from Haldwani informed that a body was lying on a railway track near pole number 84, which is located close to a gate of an Indian Army’s installation. The RPF team reached the spot and sent the body for post-mortem examination, said Kumar. “The deceased has been identified as Jagdish Chauhan, a resident of Bhotia Parav neighbourhood in Haldwani, as per the Aadhaar card found in his wallet,” he said. Also Read: Uttarakhand forest dept buys inflatable boat for river patrol along Nepal borderKumar said the accident victim was hit by an oncoming Jan Shatabdi Express from Dehradun around 5 am on Friday. “It seems that the deceased was trying to cross the railway track, when the accident occurred,” he added.Several accidents have been reported from Nainital district in the recent past.In March, a woman (67) was killed after a train crushed her at Lalkua . In March, another elderly man was run over by a train at Motinagar on the Lalkua- Haldwani railway track. In January, another person was run over by a train at the same location.In last December, a local resident was also killed by a speeding train at Motinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/42-year-old-uttarakhand-man-run-over-by-train-dies/story-zKt7BqhTGWqAYrRYMB5v8K.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air worst in 8 months; 10 of 35 monitoring stations record ‘severe’ AQI reading||Ten of 35 monitoring stations across the national Capital recorded the air quality’s dip into the ‘severe’ category on Friday, as Delhi’s overall pollution level continued to slide further into the ‘very poor’ category.Officials at the monitoring stations said this was the worst air quality reading recorded in the city in the last eight months.At 11am, Delhi’s hourly average air quality index (AQI) reading was 374, in the ‘very poor’ zone.While the overall AQI reading declined further towards the ‘severe’ category, according to 10 of the 35 monitoring stations, pollution levels in certain areas had already crossed the 400-mark. Nine of these stations are located in pollution hotspots, where the government will deploy intensive pollution control measures.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Friday, air in Alipur, Shadipur, Patparganj, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Wazirpur, Bawana and Mundka was in the ‘severe’ zone.Also Read: Poor air quality is a danger to public health. Adopt a holistic approach At 7am, the AQI reading was 360, in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ zone. This is the second time that air quality touched ‘very poor’ in Delhi this season (post-monsoon). On October 15, the city’s air quality had turned ‘very poor’ for the first time with an AQI reading of 312.The city’s overall AQI reading was 296 on Thursday. Government agencies had forecast that the air quality would deteriorate on October 23-24. They said that calm-wind conditions would prevail, which would not allow the pollutants to disperse in the atmosphere.Measures to deal with ‘very poor’ air quality under the winter phase of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap)—a round-the-year plan to combat air pollution in Delhi-NCR—such as stopping the use of diesel generator (DG) sets had already kicked in from October 15. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that calm-wind conditions refer to the wind speed reading being zero. “This is a usual phenomenon for October-November, which is when air quality deteriorates. Some improvement is likely around October 26 when wind speed may pick up,” said a senior IMD scientist. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had on Thursday blamed stubble-burning in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab as the major reason behind the plunge in air quality in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-worst-in-8-months-10-of-35-monitoring-stations-record-severe-aqi-reading/story-1PlwaE6Zc4B4RRBoSiuOyJ.html
23-10-2020||Patna||Bihar MLC elections: Voting percentage jumped by 4%, says ECI||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday recorded a 4% increase from 2014 in the voting percentage to elect members of the Bihar legislative council (MLCs), which were conducted across four teacher and graduate constituencies each on Thursday. Polling took place at 976 places across 30 districts in the state to elect the MLCs. The total number of voters for graduate and teacher constituencies in Bihar was 4.06 lakh and 40,631, respectively. The exercise was the first large scale polls conducted in Bihar amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, which were held ahead of the upcoming three-phase elections for the 243-member legislature assembly. Bihar’s 7.2 million voters will exercise their franchise on October 28, November 3 and 7 and the results will be declared on November 10.The MLC polls were conducted while enforcing all Covid-19 precautions, as suggested by the ECI.“All measures directed by the ECI were put in place for free, fair and safe elections at each polling station,” said the poll panel. “The overall voting percentage in 2014 was 56.33%, which has increased to 60.58 %. There is a net increase of 4%. In the case of teachers’ constituencies, the uptick is from 64% to 72.5%. This demonstrates active participation and faith of electors in the safety measures put in place by the ECI,” it added. An official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the trend showed a positive voters’ turnout for the upcoming Bihar elections. “Everyone said that voting percentages are likely to reduce,” the official said. “However, there has been a net increase in the voter turnout, which indicates that many more may choose to exercise their franchise during the upcoming assembly elections,” he added. The ECI had announced its guidelines on August 21 in a bid to hold free, fair and safe polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidelines include putting a cap on the number of people involved in door-to-door campaigning, allowing the submission of nomination forms online to providing voters with gloves before they use electronic voting machines (EVMs).Standard safety measures such as maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks, among others, would also be complied with, the ECI said.Voters suffering from a fever would be allowed to exercise their franchise in the last one hour of the polling process. Besides, the last hour of the polling process has also been reserved for Covid-19 patients and those who are under quarantine because of the viral infection, the ECI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/voting-percentage-jumps-by-4-in-bihar-mlc-elections/story-dPr6lrcT1WJigPspr8Xz2O.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM calls for speedy trial, exemplary punishment for rape, murder of six-year-old girl in Hoshiarpur||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said that the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in the state’s Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday was “extremely sad and shocking” and directed the director general of police to expedite the probe. Though the police have arrested the two accused, Capt Amarinder Singh said on Twitter: “Have directed the DGP to ensure proper investigation and have the challan presented speedily. (I) call for fast trial and exemplary punishment to the guilty by the court.” The girl had gone missing during the day when her parents, who are migrant labourers, had gone out to work on Wednesday. In the evening, her body was recovered from a haveli at Jalalabad village near Tanda town where the migrant family used to work earlier. The police said that after committing the crime, the owner of the haveli and his grandson allegedly set the body on fire to erase evidence. On the complaint of the girl’s family, the police recovered the half-burnt body of the child and arrested the haveli owner and his grandson under Section 302 for murder besides Sections 376-D and 201 of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur has taken suo motu notice of the incident and sought a detailed report from the Hoshiarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) by October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-calls-for-speedy-trial-exemplary-punishment-for-rape-murder-of-six-year-old-girl-in-hoshiarpur/story-dTVsIt0LguF21P3O8M6weK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire in parked AC train in a car shed in Mumbai, investigation ordered||A fire broke out in the power coach of an air-conditioned (AC) local train in Mumbai on Thursday night. The incident occurred at 1.40 am in Mahalaxmi railway car-shed. No passenger or railway staff suffered any injuries, said officials.The railway authorities and fire brigade doused the fire by 3.10 am on Friday morning.“The control wiring of the shunting desk and the electronic cabinet got burnt in the fire. There was no damage in any passenger area,” said a senior railway official.Short circuit is suspected to be the reason according to railway officials. The Western Railway has ordered an investigation. It added that the incident will have no repercussions on the local train services.Also Read: 12 hours on, 250 Mumbai firefighters struggle to put out blaze at city mall“The reason for the fire will be investigated. There will be no repercussions on AC train services.” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-in-parked-ac-train-in-a-car-shed-in-mumbai-investigation-ordered/story-puIwD5XECfvVYzevUv9yYK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Extra-marital affair not sufficient to constitute abetment to suicide: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) has granted interim protection from arrest to an architect, who was booked for abetting suicide of his paramour’s husband, and said extra-marital relationship should not be construed as a “positive act” that instigated his death by suicide. Justice Sandeep Shinde said on Wednesday that the Supreme Court (SC) has analysed the requirements for abetment in a 2011 judgement in M Mohan’s case.“The SC had held that abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing and without a positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing suicide, conviction (for abetment to suicide) cannot be sustained,” the judge said.“The alleged relationship (extra-marital) prima-facie cannot be construed as a ‘positive act’ to infer that the applicant (the architect) either instigated and aided the deceased in committing suicide,” he added and granted interim pre-arrest bail to the architect, Ashokbhai Gangar (46).Gangar had moved the HC apprehending arrest in connection with the crime registered at Badlapur (East) police station. He and the man’s wife were booked for abetting the latter’s death by suicide.The crime was registered on September 15 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the father of the deceased. The complainant said his son, who had died by suicide on September 3, had left behind a note blaming the extra-marital affair between his wife and Gangar for taking his own life.Gangar had moved the HC after an additional sessions judge at Kalyan rejected his anticipatory bail plea on October 8 on the grounds that he was not found living at the address that was mentioned in his anticipatory bail plea. Besides, the sessions judge also took into consideration that Gangar’s mobile phone was yet to be seized to recover the text messages, which he had allegedly exchanged with the woman.The HC directed Gangar to hand over his cellphone to the investigating officer (IO) in the case and also share the details of the place, where he is currently living, with the IO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/extra-marital-affair-not-sufficient-to-constitute-abetment-to-suicide-bombay-high-court/story-z4sjvMjBnTlKu41RxkF0SM.html
23-10-2020||Kolkata||Pandemic, ban on visitors, and rain ensure Kolkata’s Durga Puja remains muted one||The threat of the pandemic, Calcutta high court’s ban on the entry of visitors inside pandals and now the rain have kept Durga Puja in Kolkata a muted one this year. Hordes of pandal hoppers, that move through the streets of Kolkata on every puja night, were missing on the first day of Durga Puja, police and puja organisers said. “Thursday was the first day of Durga Puja but the massive crowd, which we usually get to see on Durga Sasthi night – the first day of the week-long festival – was conspicuously missing last night,” said an official at the traffic control room of the Kolkata Police. Puja organisers said while the number of visitors is low this year because of the threat of the pandemic, the crowd seemed to have dropped even further after the high court’s order banning the entry of visitors inside pandals and mandating authorities to put up barricades outside pandals declaring them as no-entry zones. Also read: PM Modi inaugurates Durga Puja event in Bengal, renews pitch for Covid-19 protocols“This is an exceptional year as the Covid-19 pandemic is going on. The number of visitors is very low compared to other years. The crowd of Durga Sasthi was hardly 20% of what we get every year on the first day of the puja,” said Saswata Basu secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab, which represents more than 350 city pujas. Every year, the police and puja committees have had a tough time managing the crowd, particularly in some of the prominent and award-winning pujas. In fact, in 2015, the Kolkata Police had to close down a puja in south Kolkata after there was a stampede-like situation. “The local suburban trains, which bring is lakhs of visitors from the adjoining districts, are not running. The high court order also seemed to have taken a toll. Usually on Durga Sasthi night, we have a tough time managing the crowd as people come in thousands. This time, there were just a few hundred,” said a member of a puja committee in north Kolkata. Meanwhile, from Friday morning, it started to drizzle in Kolkata and its outskirts. The IMD had warned on Thursday that a depression had formed over the Bay which was likely to cross the West Bengal coast on Friday afternoon. “Heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in the three coastal districts of North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore on Friday. Isolated heavy rainfall in expected in the adjacent districts including Kolkata and Howrah,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata. Strong winds at the speed of up to 50 km per hour may hit Kolkata. There could be water logging areas in the low lying areas of Kolkata. Fishing, sea-bound activities and ferry services have been suspended in the coastal areas and people living on the islands of the Sunderbans have been advised to stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pandemic-ban-on-visitors-and-now-rain-ensures-kolkata-s-durga-puja-remains-muted-one/story-fRI67yFXNrM04ijMQsRslN.html
23-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BSP to field candidate for Rajya Sabha polls, papers to be filed on October 26||The decision of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to field Ramji Gautam as a candidate for the upcoming Rajya Sabha (RS) election, slated to be held on November 9 for nine vacant Upper House seats from Uttar Pradesh (UP), has set the stage for an interesting contest. It is still an open-ended question, whether the BSP will be able to avenge the defeat of its candidate in the RS election that was held in March, 2018, or the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will manage to break into the opposition’s ranks to grab the ninth seat for the Upper House from UP.In the 2018 RS election, BSP candidate Bhimrao Ambedkar had lost, despite the combined support by both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress. Also Read: Bihar poll temperature set to rise further with Modi, Rahul campaigning FridayAmbedkar had lost because of the cross-voting by the BSP lawmakers and the BJP’s successful bid to win over the support of the independent legislators.Lalji Verma, a BSP leader in the UP legislative assembly, said that Gautam would file his nomination papers on Monday (October 26), as the party’s candidate for the upcoming RS polls. The BSP would send Gautam to the Upper House on the basis of support from other opposition parties, he claimed.The BJP, which has 304 lawmakers in the 404-member UP legislative assembly, is sitting pretty and is all set to send at least eight candidates from the state to the RS. The SP, which enjoys the support of 48 MLAs, can, at best, send one candidate to the RS. The party has nominated Ram Gopal Yadav for a berth in the Upper House. Yadav had filed his nomination papers on Wednesday.The SP had supported the BSP in the 2018 RS polls because of the bonhomie between the two parties before the last year’s parliamentary elections. BSP leaders are hopeful that the SP will make its stand clear after Gautam files his nomination papers on Monday. Though the Congress has seven legislators, two of its rebel lawmakers are likely to support the BJP candidates. The BSP is also banking on the support from Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), which has four lawmakers and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) that has a lone legislator.The BSP has its task cut out to get Gautam elected to the Upper House following the rebellion of party lawmakers Anil Singh and Ramvir Upadhyay. While another legislator Mukhtar Ansari is languishing in Punjab’s Ropar Jail for the past 22 months over a litany of criminal charges.The BJP, which will be left with 16 additional votes, is banking on the support of alliance partner Apna Dal (Sonelal), which has nine legislators, and rebel Congress and BSP lawmakers in a bid to repeat its 2018 feat of winning the ninth RS seat from UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-bsp-to-field-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-polls-papers-to-be-filed-on-october-26/story-5ngUkeiNrQuKfRIoHnHHCL.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Father-son shoot, kill man, go on the run||A 35-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by a father-son duo over an old enmity in south-west Delhi’s Vipin Garden on Thursday afternoon, police said. The attackers fired eight bullets, five of which hit Vikas Mehta and he died on the spot, they added.The two are on the run. They had called Mehta, who also had a criminal background, to resolve their differences and end their enmity. They offered him a cup of tea and then shot him dead. The daylight firing triggered panic among residents. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said they have identified the attackers. “Our teams are conducting raids to nab them. Eight bullets were fired. Five of them hit Mehta,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-father-son-shoot-kill-man-go-on-the-run/story-xu8Nu4yP1TXcVWpIt5BPGL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||12 hours on, 250 Mumbai firefighters struggle to put out blaze at city mall||The massive fire at City Centre Mall in Mumbai Central area in South Mumbai continues to rage more than 12 hours after it started on Thursday evening and was classified as a level-5 blaze or a brigade call, in which fire engines are called from all agencies in the city.Around 3,500 people from a neighbouring 55-storey building named Orchid Enclave were evacuated after Thursday midnight by the Mumbai civic body and fire brigade with the help of Mumbai Police. The fire at City Centre Mall was reported at 8.53 pm on Thursday and was initially classified as a level-1 or small fire. The Mumbai fire brigade declared it a Brigade call or a Level-5 fire at 2.42 am. The fire fighting is still going on at the site with about 250 firemen, 24 fire tenders, and 16 Jumbo tankers pressed into the effort. Also Read: Mumbai civic body may allocate fund for Covid-19 expenses in its 2021-22 budgetThe fire started in a shop on the second floor of the four-storey mall on Thursday and spread to other floors. An official from the civic body said, “The smoke from the fire has been very thick and a few residents from the adjoining building vacated premises. Later, all residents were safely evacuated from the adjoining building with the help of Mumbai Police.”Two firemen sustained minor injuries and were rushed to JJ Hospital. Fireman Shamrao Banjara was injured due to suffocation but his condition is now stable. Fireman Ramesh Chaugule sustained minor injury on his right hand.Around 300 people were rescued from the basement plus three-storey mall after the fire broke out, an official quoted by PTI said. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the site and reviewed the fire fighting operation, reported PTI. According to fire brigade officials, the exact cause of the fire was not yet known. Earlier on Thursday, a fire broke out in a garment factory at Kurla in Mumbai. It was doused after two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/level-5-fire-continues-to-rage-at-mumbai-s-city-centre-mall-250-fire-fighters-deployed/story-9OVlpDnGh2XVLV8LBczlCO.html
23-10-2020||Pune||Pune businessman missing since Wednesday, police begin search||Police have released photos of a city-based businessman who has been reported missing.The businessman, identified as Gautam Pashankar (65), is a resident of Modibaug area of Pune. A complaint has been lodged by Pashankar’s son Kapil and a missing person’s case registered at Shivajinagar police station.The police have released photographs of the businessman from a location where he was last seen. “These are pictures from Wednesday, the day he was last seen. We urge people to reach out to us if they find or have seen anyone matching this description,” said sub inspector SP More of Shivajinagar police station who is conducting the search.The police have also called several people who had come in contact with Pashankar on Wednesday -- including his driver who dropped him near his residence -- to get an idea of where he may have gone. “The note claims that he intends to head outside the city to end his life. It says he blames himself for his recent decisions that have affected his family and children,” said PSI More.“His phone is switched off. We have been trying to reach his phone,” said an official of Shivajinagar police station. The missing man is survived by his wife, daughter, son, and grandchildren.The Pashankar family has auto showrooms and petrol pumps in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-businessman-missing-since-wednesday-police-begin-probe/story-VyvwRawX4wOxCexbAzw6eM.html
23-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras case: Two AMU doctors, sacked for speaking to media, reinstated||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) administration has revoked the termination of two doctors, who were allegedly removed from their posts for expressing their opinion on the Hathras gangrape case. On the request of the in-charge of the casualty medical officers, the AMU vice-chancellor passed orders reinstating both doctors on Thursday. On Seprember 14, a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gangraped in Hathras and later died in a Delhi hospital, sparking national outrage.Also Read: NHRC study recommends protecting rape accused from ‘false cases’ till found guiltyJawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), AMU, casualty medical officers Mohammad Azimuddin Malik and Obaid Imtiazyul Haque were terminated from their posts on Tuesday, a day after the CBI team visited the hospital and questioned the doctors and staff who had attended to the woman. She had been admitted there auntil September 28 when she was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, and died the next day. The comments of the two doctors had allegedly contradicted the Uttar Pradesh Police’s stand that the forensic science laboratory (FSL) report in the case found no traces of sperm, indicating that there was no rape. The doctors had reportedly claimed the FSL report had no evidentiary value as the samples were collected 11 days after the crime. A day after their removal from the medical college in Aligarh, the two doctors received the backing of the Resident Doctors Association (RDA), which sought the reinstatement of these two doctors, threatening to strike work at the medical college. AMU authorities had denied allegations that the removal of the two doctors had anything to do with the Hathras case and said the two doctors were engaged “on a temporary one-month vacancy from September 9” and thus, could be removed without prior notice. In a letter to the AMU vice-chancellor, the RDA had urged him to take immediate steps to withdraw the termination order. “If the order is not revoked within the next 24 hours, the RDA will call a general body meeting of its members and decide a future course of action,” said RDA president Mohammad Hamza Malik, alleging that action against the two doctors smacked of “vendetta politics”. With the RDA openly supporting the two doctors, the AMU administration agreed to allow them to continue to work.The JN Medical College casualty medical officers’ in-charge had already written to the vice-chancellor recommending the continuation of services by these two doctors, and on Thursday, orders reinstating the two doctors were passed by the AMU V-C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-case-two-amu-doctors-sacked-for-speaking-to-media-reinstated/story-1VylyAy3vohFCwM12yBoHJ.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality turns very poor||Delhi’s air quality plunged into the ‘very poor’ zone on Friday morning. At 7am, the AQI reading was 360, in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ zone. This is the second time that air quality touched ‘very poor’ in Delhi this season (post-monsoon). On October 15, the city’s air quality had turned ‘very poor’ for the first time with an AQI reading of 312.The city’s overall AQI reading was 296 on Thursday. Government agencies had forecast that the air quality would deteriorate on October 23-24. They said that calm-wind conditions would prevail, which would not allow the pollutants to disperse in the atmosphere.Also Read: Poor air quality is a danger to public health. Adopt a holistic approachMeasures to deal with ‘very poor’ air quality under the winter phase of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap)—a round-the-year plan to combat air pollution in Delhi-NCR—such as stopping the use of diesel generator (DG) sets had already kicked in from October 15. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that calm-wind conditions refer to the wind speed reading being zero. “This is a usual phenomenon for October-November, which is when air quality deteriorates. Some improvement is likely around October 26 when wind speed may pick up,” said a senior IMD scientist. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had on Thursday blamed stubble-burning in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab as the major reason behind the plunge in air quality in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-turns-very-poor/story-ZugetJJkQeTmvXFlEs1irO.html
23-10-2020||City||Grenade hurled at police vehicle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||Suspected terrorists hurled a grenade at a police vehicle at Kalai in Poonch district late Thursday.Poonch district SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “A grenade was hurled at a police vehicle in the Kalai bridge area in Poonch district on Thursday night. However, it did not explode and there was no harm done.”Security has been tightened in the area after the grenade attack and investigations have been initiated, he added. Of late, there have been attempts by Pakistan and its sleeper cells to fuel terrorism in the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch. Pakistan has been trying to push arms and drugs in the two districts, according to authorities. However, security forces said they have been able to foil such attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-grenade-hurled-at-police-vehicle-in-poonch/story-H9Wj5XalD5OsG1pcuDveTK.html
23-10-2020||Kolkata||Gurung’s re-emergence, alliance with TMC raises questions unanswered||After Darjeeling’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader Bimal Gurung, one of the most wanted fugitives in Bengal, surfaced after three years to announce that he was walking out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to help Mamata Banerjee win the assembly polls in 2021, crucial questions were raised by political parties across the board. Although the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) welcomed Gurung’s decision through a couple of tweets on Wednesday night, its leaders were hesitant to speak on record on how a man charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) can be a formidable ally for the polls due in six months. Gurung has been in hiding since 2017. Gurung appeared before the media in Kolkata but rumblings were heard as far as in the hills, where he helped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) win the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat in 2009, 2014 and 2019.“Mamata Banerjee is also the home minister. She will surely look into the legal aspects and consult experts about the charges Gurung faces. We are sure the leadership weighed the pros and cons before welcoming his decision,” a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. The leader, however, did not have any answer when asked whether the Binoy Tamang faction of the GJM, which is now in control of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) as an ally of the TMC, would welcome Gurung with open arms. Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators of the GTA, said, “It would have been better if Gurung had realised the truth three years ago and helped stop the killings and destruction to public property. Binoy Tamang took a big risk and restored peace in Darjeeling in 2017. The peace should continue.” Thapa and Tamang joined hands with the chief minister when the Gorkhaland movement was at its peak. They even suspended Gurung and his followers from the party after they went into hiding. Thapa’s reference to peace appeared highly relevant. While talking to the media at a hotel in central Kolkata on Wednesday, Gurung said in unequivocal terms that he was not giving up the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland and a permanent political solution to the issues raised by the community decades ago. “There are no foes and friends in politics. Our demand is Gorkhaland and a permanent political solution. We will see which party addresses our issues and then decide our strategy for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said Gurung in an apparent bid to keep the option of returning to the NDA open. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the BJP’s ally and the second largest party in the Darjeeling hills, has slammed Gurung. Mahendra Chhetri, the GNLF spokesperson, said, “Gurung has betrayed Gorkhas around the world. We firmly believe that the BJP is capable of delivering a permanent political solution before the assembly election. The Centre must take this sudden development very seriously.” Having treated Gurung as an ally for more than a decade, Bengal BJP leaders took exception to his reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in his statements before the media. Yet, they did not attack the Gorkha leader. The BJP used the opportunity to target the chief minister instead on the issue of the demand for a separate state carved out of north Bengal districts. “It appears that Banerjee has promised Gurung that Gorkhaland will be formed. People of West Bengal would certainly like to know whether she will be splitting the state of which Darjeeling is considered the crown,” said Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. Also Read: PM Modi’s Bengal poll pitch hinges on delivery of development, promise of changeTaking a jibe at Banerjee, he added, “This is not the first time the chief minister has used rebels facing criminal charges for electoral advantage. She used Maoist leader Kishenji against the Left Front government before the 2011 assembly polls and got him killed in a police encounter after coming to power.” Also Read: West Bengal: Heavy rainfall likely to play spoilsport in Durga Puja celebrationsThe Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists, a small outfit in Darjeeling that supported the BJP in 2019, reserved its comments. Govind Chettri, the CPRM spokesperson, said, “We are reading between the lines.” Gurung’s trusted lieutenant Roshan Giri, who signed the tripartite GTA accord in July 2011on behalf of the party, refused to comment. He too faces charges under UAPA and was seen beside Gurung on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/gurung-s-re-emergence-alliance-with-tmc-raises-questions-unanswered/story-9KXxgUbqkAgcvEctbffTrK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai mall fire: 2 firemen injured, 3,500 people evacuated from nearby building||Two firemen were injured and around 3,500 people were evacuated from a 55-storey building in Mumbai early Friday after a fire in a neighbouring mall escalated to level 5. Fire fighting operations at the City Centre Mall in Nagpada area of south Mumbai are underway. At least 24 fire engines, 16 jumbo tankers and 250 fire brigade personnel are at the spot trying to control the blaze. Since it’s a glass facade building, dousing the fire is proving to be a challenge, fire officials said. Shards of glass, concrete and POP are falling off and bursting out due to the fire, they added.People from the Orchid Enclave building, which is right behind the mall, were evacuated with the help of police. The rooftop of the mall building has a garden and swimming pool that belongs to residential building. Since the two are cojoined, smoke from the fire directly drifted towards Orchid Enclave.It was originally a level 1 fire that was reported at the mall around 8.53 pm Thursday. It later escalated to level 3 and then level 5, following which more support from the fire brigade was called in at 2:41am Friday.Police have also been deployed to assist the Mumbai Fire Brigade as the mall blaze has closed halted traffic on both sides of Belasis Road, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said.The ground floor of the mall is an additional three-storey building. The fire initially broke out on the second floor, which has shops of mobiles, printers, stationery, and furniture, the civic body said, adding that the fire later spread to the third floor.Mumbai mayor Kishori Kishori Pednekar, MLA Amin Patel, chairman of the standing committee of the corporation Yashwant Jadhav, and additional municipal commissioner (West Suburbs) Suresh Kakani paid visit late to the site late last night, the BMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mall-fire-2-firemen-injured-3500-people-evacuated-from-nearby-residential-building/story-zFl8ILuqMfRQNS2Q0wxaKK.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The job with the thermometer gun||This is a new kind of job, that came up with the pandemic: Checking the body temperature of people entering the shrine.But it must be so boring.Muhammed Shahid Hussain shakes his head. “No work is dull if it is performed honestly, and helps one to take care of one’s family,” he says, emphasizing each word, as if he had italicized them while writing.In his mid-20s, Mr Hussain is stationed at the entrance of the Sufi shrine of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya in central Delhi. Each time a devotee enters, he raises his thermometer gun, carefully points it at the visitor, and observes the temperature before permitting admission into the dargah.But what kind of living supported him and his family before the pandemic? “Very often, I was in the shrine, serving its khadims,” he answers, referring to the shrine’s traditional caretakers. But he did try other professions, too. “I used to drive a battery-run rickshaw around the station.” He means the Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station.Like all other places of worship, the shrine remained closed for many months following the coronavirus triggered lockdown. It reopened on 6 September — with great caution. Nobody is allowed to enter without a mask. Everyone has to undergo the thermometer scanning, followed by another barrier that automatically showers one with a spray of sanitiser. Pilgrims aren’t allowed to stay for more than a few minutes.Returning to the nature of his work, Mr Hussain explains that he is in charge of the day’s second shift extending from 3 in the afternoon to 10 at night, when the shrine closes for the night.He now talks fondly of his family, including his young daughter, Shagufta.Doesn’t he fear that being exposed to such a great variety of people daily puts him and his loved ones at the risk of catching the virus?He shakes his head. “This is like a duty.”During the entire course of conversation, it is impossible to figure out the masked man’s looks. He dramatically points out to a laminated I-card hanging about his neck. The card describes him as a “volunteer”.A group of visitors are queuing up. Mr Hussain gets busy with his gun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/the-job-with-the-thermometer-gun/story-tU4kkuhB7gXBxRoccKBerJ.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University releases tentative admission schedule for postgrad courses||Panjab University on Thursday released the tentative admission schedule for the first-semester of postgraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic session. Classes of the first semester will start on November 18. PU in its admission schedule has notified that an undertaking must be obtained from the students that they will neither record the lecture nor use some other platform to avoid misuse of the lectures.According to the admission schedule, which is in line with the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC), the online submission of admission forms was closed on Thursday. Now, students can submit documents for removal of rejection pertaining to department level as well as reserved category/ additional seats or weightages on October 24.The verification of admission forms will be done from October 26 to 28, following which a tentative merit list will be uploaded on the varsity’s website on October 29. Objections from candidates will be invited up to October 30 and the provisional merit list will be uploaded on November 2.The departments concerned will upload the provisional admission list on November 3 after it is approved by the office of dean university instruction (DUI) from November 4 to 10.Admission without late fee will be carried out till November 14.Thereafter, the fee can be paid with a penalty of Rs 1,000 and permission from the department’s chairperson from November 16 to 20. The vice-chancellor’s approval will be required to pay fee from November 21 to 25 with a penalty of Rs 3,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-tentative-admission-schedule-for-postgrad-courses/story-3hGLhy9QYzB7GnlJ8MdeqL.html
23-10-2020||City||Bathinda bitcoin trader kills wife, two minor kids before turning gun on self||Bathinda A cryptocurrency trader allegedly shot dead his wife and two young children before killing himself here on Thursday.After hearing gunshots, the house owner immediately alerted the police. The bodies of trader, his wife, 14-year-old son and 10-year-old daughter were found on the first floor of their rented accommodation.Bathinda senior superintendent of police Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said a suicide note was recovered in which names and contact numbers of nine persons, including a youth political leader, were written.The note alleged that several of the accused were threatening and humiliating the deceased for his failed business.Police have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against the trader.A first information report (FIR) was also registered against nine persons named in the note under 306 abetment of suicide and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) in the same case.Four persons have been rounded up for questioning, said the SSP.Preliminary investigation says the deceased was working in a partnership with a couple from the city.“As per the suicide note, the deceased was under heavy debt after he incurred losses in the business of Bitcoin trading. He owed a huge amount of money towards various people who had invested in cryptocurrency. They were mounting pressure on him to return their money,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-bitcoin-trader-kills-wife-two-minor-kids-before-turning-gun-on-self/story-52o7hjTrYxWao9obwjBT0N.html
23-10-2020||City||Zirakpur builder encroaches upon road to erect sales office||In a gross violation right under the nose of the Zirakpur municipal council, the builder of the Highland Park Housing Society has encroached upon the 66ft road approved in the master plan of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to construct a sales office. The society is located on Patiala Road, which is to be connected with Airport Road.Zirakpur civic body’s executive officer Sandeep Tewari admitted that the construction was illegal and the builders had encroached upon the 66ft road by constructing a concrete office. “We have asked them to demolish it in seven days, otherwise we will do it,” he added. Surprisingly, the council had approved the project after the builder proposed its connectivity from this road only.Residents of the locality protested against the builder and threatened to intensify their stir. They said the builder had even built flats on the land earmarked for green spaces. Shubam Goyal, one of the directors of Highland Park, said, “We have just made a temporary sales office on the road for six months.”However, Rajiv Kakkar, a resident of Highland Park, questioned Goyal’s claim, stating the structure was made of concrete. Sukhdev Choudhary, president, joint action committee, Residents’ Welfare Association, Zirakpur, said, “Builders are doing all sorts of illegal activities in connivance of MC officials. How can somebody encroach upon the road approved in the master plan?” 59 illegal colonies in ZirakpurAccording to Punjab’s local government department, areas under the purview of the Zirakpur municipal council are home to 59 illegal colonies, while the count is much higher as per unofficial estimates. Most of these were developed after the master plan was notified. In addition to these, the Dera Bassi tehsil, of which Zirakpur is a part, has 57 illegal colonies in an area that falls under GMADA. The boundaries of these illegal colonies are not clearly marked, and consequently they keep expanding and eroding the master plan stipulations. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Thursday constituted a five-member committee to redress the grievances against promoters/builders regarding non-provision of basic amenities.He said with rapid urbanisation, various real estate projects of residential and commercial nature had come up in the district over the last few years. “While they have enabled planned development and enhancement of housing capacity in the district, a lot of grievances have been received against the builders regarding non-provision of basic amenities, such as power and water supply,” Dayalan said. The committee has been formed under the chairmanship of additional deputy commissioner (general), Mohali, with superintendent of police (to be designated by the SSP), additional chief administrator, GMADA, municipal commissioner/EO of the municipal committee as members, while assistant commissioner (grievances) is the member secretary. The committee will meet every Wednesday at 3.30pm for resolution of pending grievances, and thereafter, as and when deemed fit by the chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-builder-encroaches-upon-road-to-erect-sales-office/story-XVSrOmeAMMs0pV7yVNFp5M.html
23-10-2020||City||Two murders in Ludhiana’s Focal Point area cracked||A day after a migrant was found dead in the labour quarters in Ishwar Nagar Colony, police have cracked the case with the arrest of two of his friends.The body of the victim, identified as Gini Sharma, 30, had been discovered by his brother, Manoj Sharma, when he returned home on Wednesday night.Manoj told the police that Gini had been drinking with his friends Nand Lal and Lovekesh, both migrants from Bihar, but they were nowhere to be found when he returned.Suspecting murder, Manoj immediately alerted the police following which a manhunt was launched for the duo. They were arrested on Thursday morning. Focal Point station house officer (SHO) Mohd Jameel said, “We are currently probing the reason behind the killing. The body has been sent for autopsy and further action will be taken after receiving the details.” Investigating officer Ajmer Singh said the victim suffered an injury on the head, but the exact cause of death will be known after receiving the post-mortem report.Killer husband arrestedA 34-year-old labourer accused of murdering his wife has landed in the police net.The accused, identified as Pardeep Kumar, had allegedly attacked with his wife, Kamla Devi, 33, in a drunken state over suspicions of infidelity on Tuesday night. Realising that she had died, the accused fled the scene the next morning.The couple has a five-year-old son and a 13-year-old daughter. The five-year-son was present in the house when the murder took place, while the girl was with her grandparents in Uttar Pradesh. SHO Mohd Jameel said the accused has been arrested. “The victim’s parents are on their way from Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-murders-in-ludhiana-s-focal-point-area-cracked/story-1xEjazPaxPkuqlBUvHed3N.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||₹3-lakh ‘shagun’, diamond ring stolen from Chandigarh wedding||Wedding celebrations turned sour after a purse containing Rs 3 lakh ‘shagun’, a diamond ring and two mobile phones was stolen from a hotel in Sector 22 on Wednesday afternoon.The complainant, Usha Thakur, resident of Sector 49, told the police that her daughter’s wedding function was organised at Hotel Sunbeam in Sector 22. She was carrying a purse in which she had kept the ‘shagun’ envelopes gifted to the couple. Later, she found her purse missing and sounded the police.Police officials privy to the matter said they had obtained CCTV footage and videos of the function from the hotel and the wedding photographer. The latter had identified the thief as an unknown masked man, who was posing as a relative of the family, and had left the venue with the purse. Police said efforts are on to trace the thief.A case under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-lakh-shagun-diamond-ring-stolen-from-chandigarh-wedding/story-z13Qw1b1nvETtSmGiHNCHL.html
23-10-2020||City||GSSS Sekhewal gets 10 new classrooms||Forced to sit in congested rooms for years on, students of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Sekhewal, have a reason to rejoice as their school has got 10 new classrooms, a staff room, a water cooler and new washrooms for boys, girls and the physically challenged—all thanks to the Vardhaman Group, a city-based textile firm. The firm had earlier provided new furniture and established a computer lab for the school. As per information, the new facilities cost around Rs 1.75 crore.The school had 750 students in the previous session and as per the officials, 750 more enrolled in the school this year after finding out about the construction of new classrooms. At least 500 new students have come from private schools. A special event was organised to hand over the new facilities to the school management. The event was attended by district education officer (DEO) Swaranjit Kaur, area counsellor Manpreet Grewal and Ludhiana (North) MLA Rakesh Pandey. From the Vardhman Group, joint managing director Neeraj Jain and director DK Sindwani were in attendance. They encouraged the students and the staff to make optimum use of the new infrastructure. School principal Naresh Kumar and district education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur thanked the firm for their efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gsss-sekhewal-gets-10-new-classrooms/story-xjihszaqQXdDonRHiQKn6J.html
23-10-2020||City||22-year-old Shimla woman crushed to death by CTU bus in Zirakpur||A 22-year-old woman riding pillion on a scooter was crushed to death by a Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus coming from Delhi near the Zirakpur-Chandigarh flyover on Thursday evening. The victim, identified as Simran, lived in Raipur Kalan village, Chandigarh. A native of Shimla in Himachal Pradesh, she was working for a private firm in Zirakpur and lived with her sister in a rented accommodation. Police said Simran was on her way to Chandigarh on a Honda Activa with a male acquaintance. When they reached Sharma Farm near the Zirakpur flyover, a CTU bus coming from Ambala hit the scooter from behind. While the man fell on the left side of the road, Simran was run over by the bus, killing her on the spot. After receiving information, a police team reached the accident site and sent the victim’s body to the mortuary of the Dera Bassi civil hospital where an autopsy will be conducted on Friday. Further investigations in the case are underway.The accident caused serpentine queues of vehicles on the highway, which were cleared after an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-shimla-woman-crushed-to-death-by-ctu-bus-in-zirakpur/story-P9yzskX2GuhrsAckiMcmGP.html
23-10-2020||City||Waste segregation: A2Z company told to improve working or face action||With the deadline fast approaching for implementation of waste segregation, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has issued a final warning to A2Z company, the firm tasked with garbage collection in the city, to make necessary arrangements or face penalty. The firm has also been unsuccessful in running the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant to its full capacity so far.In a meeting with nodal officers of different branches of municipal corporation (MC) and the firm’s officials on Thursday, Sabharwal warned A2Z company to improve its functioning or face action. An official, requesting anonymity, said that the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had earlier set November 30 as the deadline for the Ludhiana civic body to implement door-to-door garbage lifting and waste segregation. If the MC fails to do so, the bank guarantee of Rs 5 lakh submitted to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) would be encashed.Where the company is failing While segregated waste is being collected from the houses and dumped at secondary dumping points, the company is lifting waste collectively, due to which the effort is being rendered useless. The company has been told to do colour-coding on tippers involved in shifting of dry and wet waste to the main dump site.Running of RDF plant Furthermore, the RDF plant is also being run at 60% of its capacity while the rest of the waste is dumped at the main dump site. Around 1,100 metric tonnes of waste is being generated in the city on a daily basis, said the official. Sabharwal said the company has not been working properly due to which a warning has been issued. Officials told to intensify drive against use of plastic bagsSabharwal said officials have also been told to intensify the drive against use of plastic carry bags in the city and issue challans to violators. Further, the horticulture wing officials have been told to expedite the work of establishing compost pits in 922 parks of the city. The officials said that challans upto Rs 20,000 can be imposed on violators depending upon the quantity of plastic carry bags confiscated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waste-segregation-a2z-company-told-to-improve-working-or-face-action/story-Vjnssm1CWoDNMVImlSdQZI.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Garbage collectors on indefinite strike in Chandigarh from October 23||Even as the festival season has kicked in, the sanitation workers and garbage collectors have gone on a warpath against the municipal corporation for not meeting their demands and announced an indefinite strike in the city from Friday. The door-to-door garbage collectors have also decided to support the strike call by the Safai Karamchari Union.While the sanitation workers are up in arms against wearing GPS-enabled smart watches, the household garbage collectors are opposing MC’s plans to introduce garbage collection vehicles and taking over the door-to-door garbage collection.“No sanitation worker will pick garbage or conduct cleanliness work in markets, roads and residential streets. The garbage can pile up as the corporation has turned a deaf ear to our genuine demands,” union president Krishan Kumar Chadha said.“It was decided in the meeting of all unions that door-to-door garbage will not be collected from Friday. Also, sanitation workers will not transport waste to the Dadumajra dumping ground. As many as 32 employee unions of various departments are supporting us. On Friday, we will march from the Medial Officer of Health office to MC office in Sector 17 and sit there on a dharna,” he added.Meanwhile, insisting that their union was going on strike in support of the Safai Karamchari Union, Om Prakash Saini, president of the Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said, “Garbage will be collected from houses on Friday morning and depending on MC’s response to the strike, we will decide our future course of action.”The unions had approached MC officials on Thursday for negotiations. But, no conclusive meeting could take place, it is learned.Rajesh Kalia, former mayor and chairman of the MC sanitation committee, said, “I support their genuine demands, but advise the workers not to go on strike.”BONE OF CONTENTIONThe civic body had distributed 4,000 smart watches among its employees for marking attendance and to keep a check on their location during work hours. The watches have been sourced from a company against a monthly rent of Rs 18 lakh. According to sanitation workers, while they are made to wear the devices, no other MC employee sports these.“If MC is keen on making us wear these watches, it should also show interest in regularising 2,800 posts. These watches are faulty and cause health issues,” Chadha claimed.“The corporation has not signed a memorandum of understanding with us as promised. We have been demanding permission to collect user charges from residents directly and sell reusable solid waste. But, even though the MC General House has passed a resolution to this effect, the corporation has not committed to it in writing,” Saini said.“Instead, MC is insistent on collecting user charges through water bills or property tax bills, and also will pay out only a part of the earnings from sale of reusable waste articles. This will impact our income,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/garbage-collectors-on-indefinite-strike-in-chandigarh-from-october-23/story-bp5vN6W9m0crgChwpNlVcM.html
23-10-2020||City||32 goods trains back on track in Punjab after over three weeks||BATHINDA/AMBALA/LUDHIANA: Around 32 goods trains plied on different routes of Punjab falling under the Ferozepur and Ambala divisions, a day after farmers announced to lift more than three-week-long blockade. Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said 12 trains were allowed to start operations on Thursday on the basis of feedback on railway tracks. “More trains will be put to track from tomorrow after assessing the situation,” he said, adding that protesters were still clearing tracks at some locations. “Protesters were squatting at about 30 spots of which 26 have been cleared by Thursday evening. After a field input from Government Railway Police (GRP) and railway engineering experts, engines were pressed into service at various places to check the safety of tracks,” said Agarwal. C Raghuveer, senior divisional security commissioner, Ambala division, said, “Farmers were squatting at 13 locations under the division and the last location was cleared by 4:30pm.” Virender Kadyan, senior divisional operations manager, said 20 goods train operated on various routes in Punjab and Chandigarh under the division. “The trains carrying food grains, fertilisers, coal, etc. moved to and fro. “It will take nearly 72 hours to resume full operations,” Kadyan said. Ludhiana industry heaved a sigh of relief as goods trains resumed operations on Thursday. Consignment of finished goods of over ₹1,000 crore were stuck at the dry ports of the city due to the farmers ‘rail roko’ protest, besides there was no supply of the raw material from outside the state. The industry has sought a concrete solution to the problem, saying they can’t afford another blockade. President of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) Upkar Singh Ahuja said, “The government should find a concrete solution to the problem. If the farmers again block the tracks after November 5, the industry will again be in a mess. The industry was already struggling to come back on track after the lockdown.”No passenger train till Nov 4 The Northern Railways has announced the cancellation of passenger train services till November 4. In a statement issued on Wednesday night, the railways said nine pairs of trains, including two Shatabdi and a Vande Bharat Express, along with 16 pairs of ‘Puja special trains’ on the Punjab and Chandigarh route, have been cancelled. Rail roko extended by a week in Majha Amritsar Farmers in Majha region under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Thursday extended the rail roko agitation for a week even as other farmer organisations lifted the blockades for goods trains till November 5. The state core committee of the KMSC said the farmers would continue the blockade at Devidas Pura village in Amritsar district. KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the agitation has been extended in view of the indifferent attitude of the Centre. “The next course of action will be announced on October 28 after a meeting of the state core committee,” he said. “As far as the movement of goods trains is concerned, our sit-in at Devidas Pura will not affect the transportation of essential goods as there is an alternative route for these trains from Beas to Tarn Taran to Amritsar. We have postponed the blockade at Basti Tenkan Wali in Ferozepur till the next meeting, so the movement of goods trains will not be affected on that route,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-goods-trains-back-on-track-in-punjab-after-over-three-weeks/story-ZqKWyZexI9aBgvQGwaDNxL.html
23-10-2020||City||Sutlej Club elections: Female candidate withdraws, 3 left in race for 2 posts of executive members||The campaigning for Sutlej Club elections, to be held on October 24, has been intensifying day by day even as a female candidate running for the post of executive member withdrew her nomination on late Wednesday evening.With Baljeet Kaur Chawla opting out, there are three candidates left in the race for two posts of executive members in the committee.Earlier, five out of the total 11 committee members, including the vice-president and general secretary, were elected unanimously as no other members filed nominations against them.The members who have been elected unanimously include Jatinder Marwaha as vice-president, Sanjeev Dhanda as general secretary, Sachin Kapoor as Bar secretary, Anil Goel as sports secretary, and Ginni Bawa Moudgill as executive member (reserved seat for women).The elections for the rest of the posts would be held on October 24. Making last-ditch efforts to woo voters, the candidates gave introductory speeches and presentations to the club members on Thursday evening.Gurmeet Singh Kairon and Sachin Gupta will contest for the post of joint secretary, while KPS Walia and Jasdeep Singh Navla are in the fray for the post of finance secretary.For the post of mess secretary, Maninder Singh Bedi and Sanjeev Gupta will contest against each other. Rattandeep Singh (Latti Bawa) and Harkesh Mittal will fight for the post of cultural secretary.The three members who have filed nominations for two posts of executive members (general category) include Arun Dhawan, Subodh Batish and Balwinder Bhanwra. Contesting for the post of cultural secretary, Harkesh Mittal said there are around 3,600 members in the club and he has been receiving a good response from the members. “If voted to power, I will try to organise more events in the club and involve the families as much as possible. Events would also be held for children and senior citizens.”Gurmeet Singh Kairon, who is contesting for the post of joint secretary, said that he has been receiving a good response from the members and his aim is to improve the functioning of the club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sutlej-club-elections-female-candidate-withdraws-3-left-in-race-for-2-posts-of-executive-members/story-n60XepUAuD9sXuOn30eUWL.html
23-10-2020||City||A day after 6-yr-old girl’s rape-murder in Hoshiarpur, 2 held||Hoshiarpur A man and his grandfather were arrested for the rape of a six-year-old girl and murder by setting her ablaze, a day after her half-burnt body was recovered from their house at Jalalpur village in Tanda here, police said on Thursday. The accused — Gurpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh — have been arrested on charges of murder, rape and other relevant sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, they further said. The victim was the daughter of a migrant labourer who was living in the same village. According to the victim’s father, Gurpreet allegedly took the girl to his home where he allegedly raped her. Thereafter, both Gurpreet and Surjit allegedly killed her and burnt her body. The half-burnt body of the girl was found from their house, said police. Meanwhile, the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur took suo motu notice of the incident and sought a detailed report from senior superintendent of police (SSP), Hoshiarpur, by October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-day-after-6-yr-old-girl-s-rape-murder-in-hoshiarpur-2-held/story-9iJud2wFsTOjzPOVBLeuTM.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh launches 3 e-governance services||Three new e-governance services - e-licensing, e-horticulture services and e- challan encroachment - were launched here on Thursday.Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik launched the services under the e-governance project to provide online delivery of services, minimise manual intervention, ensure transparency, provide 24X7 access to online citizen services and ensure public convenience by eliminating the need to visit government offices.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “With the help of the new e-challan system, enforcement officers will be able to generate an online challan using their hand-held devices. They will be able to capture supporting images of violations or seizures.Violator will receive their challan on their given mobile number and email and may pay the fine online or offline on the spot. Earlier, the violator had to visit the municipal corporation to paying the fine or release seized items. Under the e-horticulture service, citizens will need to fill an online form to avail the services of the department. Users will also have the provision of uploading supporting images with their requests. The request will be processed in collaboration with the MC and forest department. The online license service will include online issuance of new registration certificate, renewal of registration certificate (RC) of pedal rickshaw and loading rehri licenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-launches-3-e-governance-services/story-PuYX7YsNESPsEZQ4Xn7oLJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Fire breaks out at ice cream and sweet shop; no casualty||A fire broke out at the Chawla Ice Fruity and Sweet Shop, near Gill Chowk, in the early hours of Thursday. Though no casualty was reported as the shop was closed at the time, the owner claimed that appliances worth Rs 12 lakh were gutted. A security guard deputed in the area raised the alarm after seeing the smoke.The shop’s owner, Joginderpal Singh Chawla, said there was a power cut in the area around midnight and the supply was restored around 12:30am. He suspects that this may have triggered a short-circuit, leading to the fire. “We do not know the exact time when the fire broke out, but the security guard raised the alarm around 1:40am, following which we contacted the fire brigade. We have suffered a loss of around Rs 12 lakh as the refrigerators kept inside the shop have been destroyed in the fire,” said Chawla.Fireman Jaswinder Singh said the department received information about the fire around 2:20am and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire fighting operations continued for over an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-ice-cream-and-sweet-shop-no-casualty/story-JNJD5yukjsbiiiFuruOYDK.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police release ‘mirror awareness book’||Officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena released a ‘mirror public awareness book’ at the Lyon’s light point near the municipal corporation office in Sector 17 on Thursday.The book will be shown to traffic violators before issuing a challan. The SSP said, “The book has a mirror on the first page. People will be asked to look into the it before being issued a challan. The next page has blood and bandages on the mirror. People will be asked if they want to end up spending money on hospital bills or spending their life in a wheelchair.”He also tweeted a video showing how the book will be used to create awareness among people. “We are planning to instruct traffic police personnel to raise awareness among people while they are waiting at a red light,” he said.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) SPS Sondhi said, “Around seven such books will be given to challaning officers. They have been prepared with the help of a private company. We will get more such books published if the response is good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-police-release-mirror-awareness-book/story-zMQsJWz5nJyc2n6AFPjbcP.html
23-10-2020||City||Muthoot robbery bid: Police suspect involvement of accused in Bengal BJP councillor’s killing||In the sensational gold robbery case, the accused are suspected to be involved in the killing of a BJP councillor from West Bengal, police said on Thursday.The details came to the fore after the city police announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 each for the arrest of the remaining three accused in the robbery bid foiled at the Muthoot Finance branch on Dugri Road.Ludhiana police are also interrogating the gang in connection with the murder of BJP councillor Manish Shukla in West Bengal.The police while releasing the pictures of the accused on their Facebook handle, said that three accused who escaped from the spot were notorious criminals hailing from Bihar.They are also wanted in several cases of loot, extortion and murder in Bihar, Delhi, West Bengal and Odisha. The accused kept changing their names to hide their identity, the police said. The first accused have been identified as Nirantak alias Sushil, aka Suraj, Rakesh and Buddhan, 25, from Chai Dhanauti area of Hazipur town in Vaishali district of Bihar, the second accused also known as Vikas Singh alias Alok Singh aka Pawan Singh, 45, a resident of Gardani Bagh, Patna. The third accused has been identified as Varun alias Bittu, a resident of Vaishali in Bihar.According to the police, Vikas Singh absconded from Patna police custody in Delhi in December 2019. He has many cases of extortion murder, dacoity registered against him, and is wanted by the police of various states.Any information leading to their arrest will be rewarded with Rs 25,000 each and the names and identity of the informer will be kept secret, police said in a statement.Earlier, the accused identified as Roshan Kumar, Surjit Kumar and Saurav Kumar were arrested from the crime scene.The police had then registered an FIR under Sections 397, 342 of the IPC and Arms Act at Model Town police station for attempting to loot gold worth Rs 15 crore.The six men had attempted to rob 35-kg gold jewellery at gunpoint. Before they could escape, the employees foiled the bid. In the melee, five persons, including four employees of Muthoot Finance, suffered injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muthoot-robbery-bid-police-suspect-involvement-of-accused-in-bengal-bjp-councillor-s-killing/story-tfldrgWNGmaAPGPiuTOd2N.html
23-10-2020||City||Over 14,000 devotees throng Mansa Devi temple on 6th day of Navaratras||Mansa Devi temple on Thursday witnessed over 14,000 devotees on the sixth day of Ashwin Navaratras and Rs 11.56 lakh as donation. Till date, 54,645 devotees have visited the temple and over Rs 68.4 lakh has been donated in cash. As per the information shared by Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Panchkula, on Thursday, 14,600 devotees visited the temple, while 1,860 paid obeisance at Kalka temple. Over Rs 14.4 lakh cash, 325 gram silver and 5.9 gram gold were donated, they added. To contain the spread of Covid-19, the board has decided to give tokens to devotees to offer prayers at the temple through their website. The limit was kept at 11,000 tokens per day, however, except on two days, the number of devotees had crossed 11,000.The number of devotees was 16,106 on the first day of Navratras, over 18,000 on the second day, and more than 10,000 on the third. It declined to just above 9,000 on October 21, and again crossed the 14,000 mark on the sixth day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-14-000-devotees-throng-mansa-devi-temple-on-6th-day-of-navaratras/story-j5nctIHfgM73ckoRRcm3nN.html
23-10-2020||City||Daily update: Zero Covid death in Ludhiana, a first since July||For the first time since July, Ludhiana reported zero deaths in a day on Thursday, taking weekly average death rate significantly down to three. The total number of deaths in Ludhiana currently stands at 825. Till July 31 this year, as many as 88 deaths were reported in the district with 67 of these being reported in July alone. The number of deaths was a whopping 323 in August followed by another 330 deaths reported in the month of September. This month, 84 deaths have been recorded so far but in a positive trend, the average daily deaths have come down. Before the curfew restrictions were lifted on June 8, 11 people had died due to Covid-19 since March 29 (70 days). This number burgeoned to 88 by the end of July (53 days) – an eightfold rise. Much worse, 42% (37) of the total deaths took place in the last week of July. 43 new cases Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said 43 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours and there are 278 active cases. He added that 73 persons were sent for home quarantine on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-update-zero-covid-death-in-ludhiana-a-first-since-july/story-ngHTaYUOTM8kHg9extvriJ.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farm bills are ‘zero’, says Haryana BJP chief||Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar on Thursday dismissed the farm bills passed by the Punjab assembly as ‘zero’, saying the bills only promised a minimum support price (MSP) on crops bought by the central government not on those bought by the state government.Speaking on the sidelines of an event, Dhankar said, “Captain Amarinder Singh took the short route, which will cause harassment to farmers in Punjab. The bills have made purchase of crops under MSP punishable but if the market price is already low and a farmer wants to sell his crop, who will agree to buy it? The farmers will be stuck,” Dhankar said.Hitting out at former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the run-up to the Baroda bypoll, Dhankar said, “Hooda cannot think beyond his family and wants to fight every election. He will replace his candidate (Indu Raj Narwal) in the future. His candidate is yet to win and he wants to replace him with someone probably from his family,” he said.“He fought the Lok Sabha elections and then the assembly elections. Ignoring Kumari Selja, he sent his son to the Rajya Sabha. He even wanted to contest in the bypolls,” Dhankar said.Dhankar said his party had given its ticket to an able candidate, Yogeshwar Dutt, whose entry to the Assembly will be a proud moment for every Haryanvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farm-bills-are-zero-says-haryana-bjp-chief/story-xjeXCAIt89zXaqi47mzDXN.html
23-10-2020||City||Muktsar man gets death sentence for drowning wife, two children||A resident of Attari village in Muktsar was awarded death sentence on Thursday by a court for drowning his wife, two young children and his lover’s husband to death in 2015. District and sessions judge Arunvir Vashista observed that the crime committed by Palwinder Singh and Karamjit Kaur falls in the rarest of rare category. Karamjit, however, was sentenced to life imprisonment.All were the residents of the same village.The detailed judgment of the case was not available with the prosecution lawyers till Thursday evening.Muktsar district attorney Naveen Girdhar said on June 20, 2015, Palwinder’s car drowned in the Gang canal near Fattanwala village, in which his wife Sarabjit Kaur, daughter Gaganpreet Kaur, son Jashanpreet Singh and Karamjit’s husband Nirmal Singh were killed in a planned manner.Girdhar said as Palwinder and Karamjit had an illicit relationship, the prosecution proved in the court that the two conspired to eliminate their families.After solemnising marriage on January 27, 2016, they filed a protection petition in Muktsar. Prosecution lawyer MS Brar said after sensing a foul play in the deaths, deceased Sarabjit’s brother Gurnishan Singh filed a police complaint in March 2016.Defence lawyer Babu Singh Sidhu said the instances of buying life insurance policy by Palwinder for his wife and another insurance policy in the name of Nirmal were treated as main evidences against the convicts.“After analysing the judgment, we will file an appeal against the death sentence in the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” said Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muktsar-man-gets-death-sentence-for-drowning-wife-two-children/story-lg80Phw2hbEHQVeIF4ZVlJ.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress needs Navjot Sidhu, should be more flexible to him, says Harish Rawat||Amid discontent in a section of state leaders over the importance given to former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu in the recent weeks, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and state in-charge Harish Rawat said the Punjab Congress needs to be more “flexible and accommodating” towards him. Rawat said his (Sidhu’s) worst critics cannot deny his usefulness for the party at national level and in state politics. “We all realise that the Congress needs Sidhu’s services. If we have to take his services, we will have to spread our arms for him and be more accepting. The Congress has a history of accommodating conflicting views and visions, and different personalities,” he said on Thursday, throwing strong hints about an important role for the cricketer-turned-politician in the days to come. Rawat’s advice to the state leadership comes at a time when the party circles are abuzz with speculation about Sidhu’s re-induction into the state cabinet or appointment as the state unit chief ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. Sidhu, who has never cloaked his ambition, was lying low ever since he quit the state cabinet over being divested of the local government ministry by chief minister Amarinder Singh in June last year. The new state affairs in-charge sees Sidhu as “Rafale in Rahul Gandhi’s armoury” and has been pushing for an important role for him in the state. Though the former cricketer’s crowd-pulling ability and oratorical flourish are well-recognized, a section of the state Congress leaders is uneasy with his abrasive style with a party MP even asking him to float his own outfit. Rawat dismissed these differences as hiccups, stating he is there to deal with such things or he would be without work. Asked if the Congress is looking at a new leadership for the party for future, Rawat said Amarinder has served Punjab and the party well and was rewarded accordingly in return. “Captain is still young and mentally alert. At any juncture, and I am not talking about 2022, it may be 2024 or later than that, when he feel it is time to hang his boots, it will be his duty to decide the next line of leadership and nurture them,” the former Uttarakhand CM told select journalists. He, in the same breath, appreciated Sidhu for the way he spoke in the assembly and the way he praised the CM. “This means he is on the right path. And, this has helped break the ice,” he added, hinting at a rapprochement between the two leaders. On Punjab Congress’ organisational set-up, Rawat said he is holding meetings with state and district-level leaders for feedback and would like to announce it in the next 15-20 days. “I plan to travel to one district in each region before going ahead with it,” he said. The Congress high command had dissolved the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees, retaining former MP Sunil Jakhar as president, in January. Hits out at Kejriwal on farm bills Rawat hit out at Delhi CM and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal for terming the four bills as “drama”. “If Kejriwal thinks what we have done is not right, he should tell what he is doing. He should pass his own set of bills,” he said. On AAP’s demand for MSP guarantee for crops other than wheat and paddy, he said the states’ resources will not permit this. Has luncheon meeting with MP Bajwa Rawat had a luncheon meeting with Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa at the latter’s residence in Chandigarh where the two had a one-and-a-half hour discussion on the party’s organisational restructuring, functioning of the state government and the way forward on farm bills. “Besides being an old friend, he (Bajwa) is a pillar of the Congress in the state,” the AICC general secretary said after the meeting. He also met speaker Rana KP Singh and is likely to have a meeting with Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar in Delhi later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cong-needs-sidhu-should-be-more-flexible-to-him-rawat/story-JQzI3j4r9H0UjI0e7Vy4TN.html
23-10-2020||City||Three arrested for stealing from locked house in Dera Bassi||Three persons have been arrested on the charges of theft at a locked house, police said on Thursday, and added that stolen items were recovered from them. The accused have been identified as Shubam Kumar, Binder, and Rinku, all residents of Mirpur area of the Dera Bassi subdivision.Addressing mediapersons, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurbakshish Singh said that all three accused have confessed that they had carried out theft in a locked house of Gold Palm Society on Wednesday. Teams were formed under the leadership of Dera Bassi station house officer (SHO) Satinder Singh and a naka was laid by Mubarakpur SHO Arshdeep Singh near the Railway Bridge in Mubarakpur on Thursday. On spotting the checkpoint, the accused tried to run away, but were apprehended, the DSP added.He said on searching them, the police recovered stolen gold and silver ornaments from Shubam and Binder. The accused said that they were going to sell the items at a shop.The police have recovered a mangalsutra, a gold chain, two pairs of gold earrings, three pairs of silver anklets, two pairs of silver pinches, a pair of bracelets and a silver coin from the thieves.The accused were produced in a local court, from where they were sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-stealing-from-locked-house-in-dera-bassi/story-3f3NrZypDITdHr8tlumIpI.html
23-10-2020||City||Apply for permit for sale of crackers at Mohali sewa kendras||In light of the festival season, the Mohali administration on Thursday launched a ‘temporary license, permission for sale of cracker’ service through sewa kendras. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said service related to acceptance of applications for temporary permission for sale of crackers can be availed through sewa kendras across the district. Applicants can visit a sewa kendra and fill the application form or download it from www.punjab.gov.in and submit the application along with required documents (ID proof and self-declaration) at the centre.The sewa kendra district manager will forward the application to the authorities concerned. Facilitation charges of ₹100 per application will be collected at the centres. Fee will be collected as per the guidelines issued by the department of industries and commerce. Dayalan said, “In Mohali subdivision, 14 licenses will be given for putting up stalls in Phase VIII near YPS Ground and Phase 11 sabzi mandi ground, four licenses will be given in Banur, six in Derabassi, eight in Zirakpur, four in Lalaru-Handesra, and eight licences will be given in Kharar subdivision - four in Kuarali, three in Kharar and one in Nayagaon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apply-for-permit-for-sale-of-crackers-at-mohali-sewa-kendras/story-bYEwtaSlLKwdjkXKrlbjuO.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali real estate developers pin hope on last leg of 2020||In a bid to revive the real estate sector after a decade of slowdown compounded by the Covid crisis, developers in the district are offering prospective buyers lucrative discounts and flexible payment plans this festive season. Real estate developers say they expect the last leg of 2020 to be more profitable than the rest of the year put together. There are around 200 private housing societies in Mohali. The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), which has begun e-auctioning both residential and commercial properties after slashing the reserve price by 10% from October 10 to October 26, is also offering discounts to rope in buyers. GMADA additional chief administrator Rajesh Dhiman said, “We have slashed our reserve price by 10% and successful bidders making full payment within 60 days will be given an additional 10% discount. We are offering these schemes during the festival season to invigorate the realty sector.” Of late Mohali (especially peripheral areas such as Zirakpur, Kharar, and New Chandigarh) has become the tricity’s real estate development hub. Thanks to the GMADA-led IT City and Aero City projects, Airport Road too has become an up-and-coming realty destination.However, builders are optimistic about a quick turnaround as home loan interests are at their lowest in nearly two decades. They foresee a move from rentals to house ownership fuelling the demand.Builders say buyer queries are coming in and end-users are looking for ready-to-move properties. The ₹20,000 crore fund created by the Centre in June for real estate projects will also help boost the sector. The fund is expected to help complete around 3,50,000 flats and houses stuck in different stages of construction. Umang Jindal, CEO of the upcoming Homeland Unity Mall in Sector 67, says enquiries and sales from the corporate sector have gone up in the third quarter of the year. “We are offering customised payment plans as per customers’ demand.” Zirakpur Builders Association president Harish Gupta says, “Developers have suffered considerable losses over the last few months but the sector has picked up momentum. Since the RBI has restricted subvention plans (schemes where the home buyer, banker and the developer make an agreement), builders are now offering flexible plans.” “Until last year, developers would offer free tickets to exotic destinations abroad, free parking space, modular kitchens, finished bathrooms, wooden flooring and other freebies to attract customers. However, amid the pandemic buyers are preferring discounts and flexible payment plans,” he said.Before the pandemic spread, banks were offering home loans at over 8% interest . “Now, the interest rates have dropped below 7%. They are expected to fall further, making it cheaper to buy a house. For people living in rented homes in Chandigarh and Panchkula it will make better financial sense to pay home loan EMIs instead of monthly rent. Builders with ready-to-move properties stand to gain most,” Gupta added.Mohali Jubilee Real Estate Group director Sanyam Dudeja said, “We are offering safe investments with our bank-guarantee offer. We have launched a one-time discount with a lease guarantee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-real-estate-developers-pin-hope-on-last-leg-of-2020/story-nyIBZX4MzeETFiCtwdVQCO.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 members of Kali Shooter gang held, arms recovered||Two members of Kali Shooter gang were arrested by the crime branch of the police on Wednesday with a .32 bore pistol, another countrymade pistol and four live cartridges near Sector-50 sports complex. They were presented in a court, which sent them to police remand for the next three days.As per the police, they had received a tip-off about the movement of two youths affiliated with the gang. A naka was set up which the duo tried to avoid when they were coming in a Mahindra Thar. However, they couldn’t escape. The accused are Summy, 23, who is currently staying at Shiva Enclave in Zirakpur’s Pabhat, but hails from Jagatpura village in Mohali, and Shiv Shankar alias Sonu, 22, also from Jagatpura. Police officials said that both are members of Kali Shooter gang and have criminal history. Summy was involved in an attempt to murder case and a rioting case, FIR of which is registered at the Sohana police station. Shiv Shankar also has a murder bid case registered against him there, they added. Kali Shooter gang’s kingpin is Ravinder alias Kali Rajput, a member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang. He had helped Bishnoi flee the police custody in January 2015 in Banur. His name had cropped up in an extortion case following the kidnapping of a Burail hotelier in December 2017. At least five cases of extortion, murder and attempt to murder hare already registered against him in various tricity police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-members-of-kali-shooter-gang-held-arms-recovered/story-7bm8q5lL0OpyNZVuqarAWP.html
23-10-2020||City||Two women held for threatening employers with rape charge||Kharar police on Thursday arrested two women members of a gang for allegedly luring people and demanding money by threatening to register false rape cases against them. Addressing mediapersons, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi said the accused are residents of Fazilka and Faridkot. “They have been arrested, while four other members of the gang, including a woman, are at large,” she added. As per the police, the accused women have duped a large number of tricity residents through their planned scam. “They used to join companies as receptionists and after few days, threaten the firm owners with false rape cases. In this conspiracy, one of the their gang members, Keshav Sandhir, a resident of Ludhiana, used to impersonate a Punjab Police ASI, who would then demand money from the company owners for settling the rape case,” the DSP said. Recently, a Nayagaon resident had given an advertisement on an online marketplace, OLX, for hiring two women staffers at his guest house in Sector 25, Chandigarh. On seeing the ad, the accused visited his office. As per the victim, he hired the women on a monthly salary of Rs 9,000, but after few days, they started to threaten him to implicate him in a false rape case and demanded Rs 15,000 through their gang members, who posed as were cops. The man then approached the police following which, the Fazilka woman was caught in a trap laid by the cops. Later, the Faridkot woman was also arrested.Kharar City station house officer (SHO) inspector Bhagwant Singh said, “Recently, they had also lured a physiotherapist from Mohali by taking over Rs 1 lakh from him in the same manner. The gang was active for the last one year. We are obtaining the call details of the other accused who are absconding. We will nab them soon.”The arrested women were produced in a local court on Thursday and sent to two-day police custody. The case against the gang members has been registered under sections 384, 385, 389, 170 and 120-B of the IPC at the Kharar City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-held-for-threatening-employers-with-rape-charge/story-xsPzgKYl9j7KpbrgLLXjjK.html
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||MC cannot charge 20% interest over delayed ground rent payment, rules Chandigarh advisor||Adjudicating on a matter pertaining to five-star hotel JW Marriot, Sector 35, a court held by the UT advisor on Thursday held that the municipal corporation (MC) cannot charge its allottees 20% penal interest on account of delayed ground rent payment and can only impose 6% interest.The advisor set aside the resumption order issued to the Sector 35 hotel by the Chandigarh MC’s estate office branch. The firm had filed a revision petition against the order passed by the chief administrator in respect of the site. The revision petition was filed by advocates SK Jain and Vikas Jain.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the MC’s additional commissioner-cum-estate officer had cancelled the allotment or lease of the site on account of non-payment of ground rent. The petitioner contended that the authorities had wrongly charged 20% interest on account of non-payment of ground rent while applying condition five of the allotment letter. The counsel argued that condition five applied to non-payment of principal amount of premium and not non-payment of ground rent.The petitioner submitted that the MC’s additional commissioner wrongly cancelled the lease of the site and imposed 20% interest while passing the impugned order dated November 11. The appeal filed by the petitioner had also been dismissed by the chief administrator on March 20, 2020.The counsel for the MC submitted that it was clearly mentioned in clause five of the allotment letter that in case the petitioner failed to make payment of outstanding dues then he is liable to pay 20% interest on account of non-payment of ground rent.The petitioner’s counsel said, “There is no provision under the Chandigarh Leasehold Sites and Building Rules, 1973, for charging of 20% interest on non-payment of ground rent and for cancellation of the site for non-payment of the part amount of the ground rent.”“As per the settled law any interest imposed by the allotting authority must be by way of notification or the notification has to adopted by the allotting authority. In the present case, there is no provision for charging 20% interest in the rules or acts nor have municipal corporations adopted the notification for imposition of interest,” he said.The petitioner’s counsel held that his client had been harassed because of wrongful imposition of 20% interest for non-payment of ground rent against the municipal corporation’s rules.In his order, Manoj Parida set aside the impugned order and remanded the case back to the MC additional commissioner for a fresh decision and asked him to pass a speaking order in accordance with law.Parida said, “It is clear that condition five of the allotment letter providing 20% interest is applicable only to non-payment of the principal amount premium. There is a separate provision for non-payment of ground rent under the act as well as in the allotment letter. Since the additional commissioner has not applied the relevant rules while passing the impunged orders, therefore, the revision petition deserves to be accepted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-cannot-charge-20-interest-over-delayed-ground-rent-payment-rules-chandigarh-advisor/story-l5sJ1znm8iLF6T9AS0LixK.html
23-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Jagraon bridge beautification project gets MC approval||A meeting of the technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) was held on Thursday wherein the authorities approved the project to install lights at the newly constructed bow-string girder of the Jagraon bridge.LSCL CEO-cum-MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that it would be done on the lines of the clock tower beautification project. A project to install a tricolour flag on the site was also approved. Further, even a project to deal with over 16 lakh tonnes of legacy waste dumped at the main dump site got approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-jagraon-bridge-beautification-project-gets-mc-approval/story-pacRSkBNXsuvyErBQEk4hL.html
23-10-2020||City||PAU registrar appeals to union members to call off protest||A 10-day-long impasse between Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) authorities and the protesting employee union members was finally broken on Thursday after PAU registrar appealed to union members to call off their protest. The registrar told them that all their demands would be addressed.RS Sidhu, registrar of PAU, issued a statement which reads: “We are continuously working on the demands of PAU Employees’ Union even when the world has come to a standstill due to the Covid-19 pandemic.” “Some categories of employees have been promoted and some others are under the process. Under the present trying and testing times, the university is performing its research, teaching and extension with skeletal employees. It is functioning with great difficulty”, it stated.Sidhu called upon the employees of PAU to continue working together with dedication and devotion keeping the larger interest of the farming sector and society in mind. Meanwhile, the university is working on the points raised by the Employees Union, he added.Baldev Singh Walia, president, PAU Employees’ Union, demanded that employees working on contractual basis should be made permanent as per seniority. He added that an old pension scheme should be implemented on the lines of Punjabi University, Patiala for the employees recruited till July 9, 2012. The grade pay of library attendant and meteorological attendant should be at par with that of the lab attendant, he said.The promotions of JE and SDO should be done with immediate effect.The vacant posts of store keepers should be filled.PAU Employees’ Union, PAU Teachers’ Association and PAU Class Four Workers’ Union have been staging protests at the varsity regularly since October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-registrar-appeals-to-union-members-to-call-off-protest/story-LprhiEOqlgX0FZP82mkUuL.html
23-10-2020||City||1,799 candidates register online for admission to Ludhiana govt colleges||As many as 1,799 candidates have registered online for admission into postgraduate courses at Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College and Government College for Girls (GCG).The registration process concluded on Thursday.Around 1,456 candidates applied for admission to 11 courses offered at the SCD government college against 700 seats.The tentative rank list was updated on the college website on Thursday afternoon. Students can email the details to the college if any correction is needed to be made. The final list will be updated on Friday.At SCD Government College, courses such as masters in commerce, MCom (business innovations), MSc in math, MA English, MA physics, and MA chemistry were a popular choice among candidates.In MCom, 338 candidates applied against 40, and in MSc math, 178 registered against 60 seats.In MA English, 173 students registered against 120 seats offered by the college. The college offered 60 seats each in MA Hindi and Punjabi, 45 students applied for the former while 79 candidates applied for the latter. In MSc chemistry, 93 candidates applied against 60 seats, and in MSc physics, 92 applications were received against 60 seats.In MCom (business innovations), the college offered 40 seats, for which 199 candidates registered online. In MA (geography), 30 students applied for 40 seats while, in MSc (IT), 38 candidates applied for 40 seats.College principal Dharam Singh Sandhu said, “The counseling will be conducted for all courses online on October 24, and students are not supposed to come to college due to Covid-19.”In Government College for Girls, 343 candidates applied against the 290 seats in eight PG courses. The tentative rank list will be uploaded on the college website on Friday.In MCom, 165 candidates applied against 40 seats, and in MSc botany, 60 students registered against 40 seats.In MA (music) instrumental, only five applications were received against 20 seats. In MA fine arts, 24 students registered against 40 seats, and in MA Punjabi, 18 applied against 60 seats.In MSc (IT) and a postgraduate diploma in computer applications, 19 each have applied against 70 seats (30 seats in MSc (IT) and 31 in PGDCA). For the PG diploma in nutrition and diet, 21 candidates have applied against 20 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-799-candidates-register-online-for-admission-to-ludhiana-govt-colleges/story-LtRpzpdhkjAoSpADr1uFSJ.html
23-10-2020||City||Relief policy for industrialists in a week: Ashu||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had assured that a policy, for providing relief to businessmen/traders/industrialists would be formulated within a week.He said that Badal had given instructions to the senior officials regarding the same.Led by Ashu, city businessmen/traders/industrialists held a meeting with Badal and industry minister Sundar Sham Arora in Chandigarh on Thursday.Issues related to the C form notices besides several others were discussed in the meeting.Ashu said that Badal and Arora assured them that a policy for providing relief to them would be formulated within a week. The businessmen/traders/industrialists thanked the state government for all the efforts being made in their favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/relief-policy-for-industrialists-in-a-week-ashu/story-LLCo0o2pKf6sYZx9wuYpBO.html
23-10-2020||City||Punjabi folk singer K Deep passes away at 80||Punjabi folk singer K Deep passed away on Thursday afternoon after a brief illness. He was 80 years old and had undergone two major surgeries in March this year. K Deep had slipped and fallen at his home in February this year, hitting his head on the floor because of which he had suffered an internal haemorrhage. Kuldeep Singh, popularly known as K Deep, is famed for the duets he sang with his wife, singer Jagmohan Kaur. The duo is known for its comedy characters Mai Mohno and Posti. Gurbhajan Singh, former president of Punjabi Sahit Akademy, expressed deep shock over his loss and prayed for eternal peace to the departed soul. Born on 10 December 1940 in Rangoon (then Burma), K Deep belongs to Aitiana in Ludhiana district. His parents wanted him to become an army officer or engineer and he did pursue his studies in engineering, but side by side he used to love writing songs. K Deep had also appeared in a 70s Punjabi film Mele Mitran De. He did playback singing for films such as Daaj, Mele Mitran De, Santo Banto, and more. K Deep was one of the first Punjabi singers to have recorded the songs written by Shiv Kumar Batalvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-folk-singer-k-deep-passes-away-at-80/story-9ESanJvEHY8n3UsGDOrBbM.html
23-10-2020||City||Matka king Gaikwad fired at, attacked with iron rod in Ulhasnagar||Ulhasnagar police have registered an attempt to murder case against two unknown persons for allegedly firing three rounds of bullets on Sandip Gaikwad, one of the aides of Omi Kalani. As he wasn’t hit by any of the bullets, they assaulted him with an iron rod on Wednesday night.Vitthalwadi Police have admitted Gaikwad to a hospital.Two persons have been arrested from Nashik on Thursday night by Thane anti-extortion cell. According to police, Gaikwad, 40, is an allegedly famous Matka King and has businesses like construction and hardware shop. On Wednesday night, after 11.30 pm he came out of a popular bar at Shriram Chowk, Ulhasnagar. He was with his friend Jahangir More. While he was walking towards his car, two people came in a car and started firing at him.The police said, “The accused first fired three bullets and later got out of the car with rods and started beating Gaikwad. After he started bleeding, they stopped and fled the spot. All of them had worn masks, therefore no one could identify them. One of the night duty police vans followed the accused car for a long time but they fled.”Senior police inspector Ramesh Bhome said, “We have registered a case against unknown people under Section 307. Our different teams are searching the accused. Meanwhile, we have admitted the victim to a private hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/matka-king-gaikwad-fired-at-attacked-with-iron-rod-in-ulhasnagar/story-DX4Kq26z7UHYRcpgdCjZwL.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body may allocate fund for Covid-19 expenses in its 2021-22 budget||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) annual budget for 2021-22 is likely to have a separate budget head for expenditure related to Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of using money allotted to the municipal health department for upgrading overall health infrastructure of the city, BMC’s health department plans to keep a dedicated amount for Covid-related expenditure in 2021-22. Budget 2021 is likely to be presented in February next year. At present, BMC’s planned expenditure on Covid-19 relief work, from March till December 2020, rounds up to over Rs 1,200 crore. So far, the money has come from BMC’s contingency fund, and partly from the revenue allocations made in BMC’s budget 2020 for the health department. In January 2021, more Covid-related expenses are anticipated.The budget head for Covid-19 in the civic body’s budget 2021 will cover expenses related to purchasing ventilators; equipment for oxygen supply; medicines for Covid-19 patients in municipal hospitals; adding more beds to treat Covid-19 patients; and expenses such as salaries for medical staff, and other administrative costs.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have begun work to outline expenditure we are likely to incur in 2021-22 due to the pandemic, for Budget 2021. It is being deliberated to allot a separate budget head for Covid-related expenditure in Budget 2021.” He said the required figure for Covid relief was still being worked out. “BMC is likely looking at substantial Covid-related expenditure especially on the revenue side [salaries and administrative expenses such as bills], in the upcoming fiscal year. It makes sense to submit demands for this money under a separate head, instead of utilising allocations made to the public health department,” said Kakani. When the pandemic broke out in Mumbai in March, BMC began setting up multiple, temporary, jumbo Covid-19 care facilities in Mumbai, which required beds, setting up intensive care units (ICU), purchasing medical equipment, hiring additional medical staff (such as doctors, nurses, trainee doctors) as well as ward help and cleaners. “On the capital side of Covid expenditure (setting up Covid-care facilities, beds, ventilators, ICUs), it appears Mumbai civic body is confidently ready. Revenue expenditure related to Covid-19 will recur, however, along with some more capital expenditure too,” said a senior civic officer. The total estimated health budget for 2020-21 (revenue and capital expenditure) is ₹4,260.34 crore, which was increased by 14% compared to revised estimates of 2019-20. This comes to about 12% of the total budget of the municipal corporation in 2020. Budget 2020 had also allotted Rs 2 crore to upgrade Kasturba Hospital in light of the pandemic, which comes under the budget head for the civic health department. The municipal commissioner’s speech for budget 2020 read, “Mumbai may also be at risk of spreading of coronavirus that originated from China. As such, a provision of ₹2 crore is proposed in B.E. 2020-21 for strengthening of Kasturba Hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-may-allocate-fund-for-covid-19-expenses-in-its-2021-22-budget/story-nj77nj7DNbG74Qslx51DON.html
23-10-2020||City||Doubling rate, recovery of Covid cases improving in Navi Mumbai||In what seems like a good sign, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has increased to 127 days while the recovery rate is at a high of 91.67 per cent, as per the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) this month.Till September 30, 39,784 Covid patients had been reported in the city, of which 35,065 had recovered with a recovery rate of 88.14 per cent while there had been 887 deaths with the fatality rate of 2.23 per cent.In October so far, 46,221 Covid patients have been reported in Navi Mumbai, of which 39,075 have recovered, leading to the recovery rate climbing to 91.67 per cent. There have been 993 deaths, with the fatality rate dropping to 2.15%.Similarly, the number of new cases also seems to have been brought under control with the doubling rate that was 79 days in September increasing to 127 days.NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “Our focus on early identification, isolation and treatment policy has started showing good results, increasing the doubling rate. We ensured that the state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ drive that started on September 15 was strictly implemented. The door-to-door survey for identifying patients helped and also created awareness. We also increased Covid testing in the city.”Bangar added that 2,54,700 tests in the city have been conducted so far. He said, “Population-wise, this is higher than other major cities in the state. We conduct around 3,000 to 3,500 tests daily. Over 60,000 tests have been conducted in October, more than 6,500 have been found positive at a rate of just over 10 per cent, which too has come down from the earlier 13.72 per cent. The situation is improving but with the city opening up, there is greater responsibility on us all to take further precautions and ensure that the improving trend is not reversed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doubling-rate-recovery-of-covid-cases-improving-in-navi-mumbai/story-hqcD0JnL8bVl9QZS4i37dP.html
23-10-2020||City||Thane civil hospital gets 2 liquid oxygen tanks to ensure continuous supply||THANEThe Thane Civil Hospital has installed two liquid oxygen tanks of capacity 10,000 litres and 6,000 litres directly connected to the rooms equipped with the help of a pipeline. This will ensure that the civil hospital does not fall short of oxygen supply. Similar oxygen tanks will soon be set up in Bhiwandi and Ulhasnagar.“This provision is being made at government-run hospitals in various parts of Thane district. We started with the Thane civil hospital and soon will make a similar provision at Bhiwandi as well. These tanks ensure that there is continuous supply of oxygen within the hospital. This facility will help save many lives,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane district.Bhiwandi and Ulhasnagar will have 6,000 litres of liquid oxygen tanks.These tanks will begin functioning next week in Thane. Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane District, said, “If we have 500 patients who need continuous oxygen at a time in the hospital, even then the tanks will suffice for two days. Normal oxygen and ventilators have different types of supply, so depending upon the usage the supply will vary. When the tank has only 20 per cent of supply left, an automated alert is sent to the company who will immediately send tankers to refill the oxygen supply,” said.Sanction for a similar set up in Ulhasnagar has been given, “We have received a sanction for setting up the oxygen tanks in Ulhasnagar. We are working on the other formalities and can definitely say that the tanks will be set up soon even if it is of a smaller capacity. The place is not yet decided,” said Raja Dayanidhi, commissioner, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civil-hospital-gets-2-liquid-oxygen-tanks-to-ensure-continuous-supply/story-laPD1DcFs0zBfxOjl0VprO.html
23-10-2020||City||Cries for more water supply, own dam in Thane grow louder||With several areas in the city reeling under the water crisis, the demand to have its own dam and to stop giving permissions for new constructions have gained momentum. Several societies along the Ghodbunder Road in Thane receive water for barely 45 minutes or even less in a day. Most of them have to heavily depend on tankers for their water requirement.During the pandemic situation, residents have alleged that when water is of utmost importance to maintain sanitation and while most of them are facing financial crisis, the water crises and tanker bills have worsened the situation.The city’s population is more than 20 lakh and receives 480 mld of water supply daily. A PIL was filed in the High Court three years ago to stop new construction activities on Ghodbunder Road unless the corporation provided them with water connections. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has assured the court that the city has enough water for these complexes.Dyaneshwar Nikam, 54, a resident of Kabra Galaxy, said, “We used to get ample water supply till two or three years ago. However, with the increase in number of new constructions along Ghodbunder Road, the water problems have increased. We believe our supply is diverted to the new constructions. At present, we receive water only for 30 to 40 minutes, which is insufficient for a four-tower society with 158 flats.”Nikam said that their complex was heavily dependent on water tankers. “We pay water tax and also end up paying extra for the tankers. The corporation should stop permitting new buildings till all the existing ones have sufficient water supply.”Own dam pending (SUBHEAD)The project of the city’s own dam, Shahi Dam, is also pending for a long time owing to lack of funds. The municipal corporations in the district had, last year, decided to share the cost of construction of the dam. However, the project is still in a limbo.V Shivkumar, convenor of Brahmand Federation, a cluster of 31 societies, added, “Thane is older than Navi Mumbai. However, the city does not have its own dam. The city is expanding exponentially. To fulfil the water requirement, dam is the only solution. The water supply in Brahmand is very irregular, anywhere between 45 minutes and 90 minutes.”Vinod Pawar, executive engineer of the water supply department, agreed that there was a problem in the supply system. He said. “For more than three months, there were continuous repair works by the agencies that supplied water. Because of this, there was regular shut down and water supply was irregular. We are following up the issue and will ensure that regular supply will resume soon. Moreover, we have given a reminder letter to the concerned water supply authority for additional water supply.”He said that the issue of the dam was pending at the state level and the corporation could not do anything about it.Water crisis not just in Thane (SUBHEAD)The water crisis across Thane city was the talk of the TMC general body meeting earlier this week. The members alleged that while Thane was implementing major projects under smart city, the administration has ignored the basic issue of water supply. Apart from Ghodbunder Road, the water crisis was also felt in Kissannagar, Mumbra, Kalwa and Diva areas.Pramila Keni, opposition leader of TMC, said, “The corporation has taken projects worth crore of Rupees under the smart city funds. However, the administration has not understood the meaning of smart city. In the times of the pandemic, people in Kalwa, Diva and Mumbra have no water. How are they going to maintain hygiene. In some parts of Diva and Mumbra, residents do not even have water for essential purposes.” She claimed that while the corporation was insisting on sanitisation of the city, there was not enough water to maintain sanitisation.Siraj Dongare, NCP corporator, added, “The water crisis is severe in Mumbra too. The corporation had given an affidavit to the High Court last year stating that the city had enough water supplies. However, the situation is completely different. The administration has also demanded additional water supply to Shahad-Temghar Water Supply Authority (STEM) and Bhatsa authority, the status of which was still unknown.”The general body also claimed that several areas of Kopri, too, were reeling under water cuts. The corporators also claimed that both Diva and Lokmanya Nagar received less supply.Sanjay Bhoir, Shiv Sena corporator, added, “The water supply department should ensure that the old buildings get enough water and then provide water to the new constructions.”GRAPHICSWATER CRISIS IN THANEThe PIL: Following the acute water crisis in Thane in the summer of 2016, resident Mangesh Shellar had filed a PIL in the High Court blaming poor planning by the TMC and the haphazard way in which the civic body granted permission for new constructions along Ghodbunder Road. Following this PIL, the court had stalled permissions to any new constructions along Ghodbunder Road in 2016. The court has also asked the corporation to file an affidavit stating the water connections and occupation certificates given in the last five years. In the affidavit, the corporation stated that TMC has done water management to meet the population requirement till 2025.N-zone480 mld: Water supply Thane gets per dayWATER SOURCES:200 mld: TMC’s own water supply scheme (water source: Bhatsa Dam) 60 mld: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (water source: Bhatsa and Tansa Dam)110 mld: Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) (water source: Barvi Dam)110 mld: Shahad-Temghar Water Supply Authority (STEM) (water source: Barvi Dam): 110 mldWHERE DOES THE DISTRICT RECEIVE WATER FROM? ** The two major dams that provide water to Thane are the Barvi and Andra dams. ** There are seven to eight small dams that also provide water to the district. ** There are seven municipal corporations and three municipal councils in the district, apart from the rural belt, that depend on this meagre water stock.WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE?** Thane’s total water storing capacity needs to be increased from the current 3,000-4,000 mld to 7,000 mld, for which the proposed three dam projects in the district need to be implemented.** The district had plans to construct three dams, Shai, Kalu and Poshir, all of which are stuck for different reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cries-for-more-water-supply-own-dam-in-thane-grow-louder/story-F6DbGF6fCKE5phl7VUsZPK.html
23-10-2020||City||Washrooms at Cidco Exhibition Centre Covid centre in Vashi causing inconvenience to patients||Covid patients admitted to the Cidco Exhibition Centre (CEC), a Covid care facility in Vashi, has complained about tiny washrooms causing inconvenience to them. The patients have complained that most of them, especially senior citizens, get cramps or do not fit into these washrooms.BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, said, “The washroom is very small and I get cramps in the toilet. I am mid-sized and hence managing somehow, but most well-built people have tough time. We are forced to restrain ourselves from visiting the toilet.”The 65-year-old added that the bathroom was another disaster due to its design. “There’s no place to keep soap. Are you supposed to hold it in the hand while taking shower? Patients are supposed to stay for a minimum of 10 days here. My neighbouring patient has already spent 23 days. Can you imagine his plight? The drainage system in the washrooms is bad. You are in three to four inches of water by the time you finish your shower,” he added. He pointed out that there were no places to dry clothes.However, Kumar added that food quality was very good.The handles in the bathroom for senior citizens were also missing.Meanwhile, another 60-year-old woman from Juinagar who was admitted to the facility on Monday night, faced the same issues with washroom. She also pointed out that some patients lacked civic sense as they didn’t flush after use.Sujata Dhole, additional commissioner, NMMC, said, “The bathrooms were created during the pandemic. So, getting such massive number of lines in a short time was a challenge. The issues can be taken up by the nodal officer who would in turn inform the engineers about it.”The Cidco Exhibition Centre has 1,174 beds while 75 ICU beds with oxygen are in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/washrooms-at-cidco-exhibition-centre-covid-centre-in-vashi-causing-inconvenience-to-patients/story-FwujqN9dksdNEpVkpI8nSP.html
23-10-2020||City||Thane Food and Drug Aadministration seizes tobacco products worth ₹5.5cr during lockdown||The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of Thane has seized tobacco, gutka and vehicles worth nearly ₹5.50cr in the entire lockdown period. The black market for gutka is on the rise in the city limits, claimed FDA.FDA officials said that 26 raids were conducted in Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of the Konkan region.Shivaji Desai, joint commissioner, FDA, Thane, said, “Since March 2020, the pan shops were closed, leading to black market of tobacco and gutka products. These products were sold at four times the actual price. We conducted raids on such black marketed products with the help of local police, informers and sources.”The sale and production of the gukta is banned in Maharashtra. Gukta is being transported mostly from Gujarat and Karnataka. “During lockdown essential service vehicles were used for the transport. Sale was mostly done through phone calls between trusted people. Most of them who stayed at home stocked gukta leading to high demand,” added Desai.FDA officials and police conducted 26 raids, where 14 were conducted with the help of police and the others with the help of government officials and local sources.In October alone, three raids have been conducted so far with gutka worth ₹2.08cr seized. In June, the raid was conducted at eight different places and gutka world ₹1.53cr was seized. With a total 26 raids the FDA seized ₹5.47cr worth tobacco and gutka products. The FDA also seized 22 vehicles used for transporting the products. The vehicles themselves cost ₹1.86cr. In the different raids, the police across Konkan region have registered 25 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-food-and-drug-aadministration-seizes-tobacco-products-worth-5-5cr-during-lockdown/story-XXLErlZg3129hZFnlkDJYJ.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Reverse migration in Maharashtra Congress, NCP?||After Eknath Khadse’s switch from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the two ruling parties in the state – NCP and Congress – are considering taking back some legislators and leaders who had quit to join the BJP ahead of the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in 2019. The parties aim to increase the strength they lost in the elections and lure more legislators from the BJP to discourage any attempt to pull down the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. According to NCP insiders, the party’s top brass is working on it. “Several leaders who left the party are disappointed with the BJP. They have already approached the party leadership, expressing their desire to come back. Now, it is up to Pawarsaheb to decide who he wants back,” said a senior leader, requesting not to be named. “There is a lingering uncertainty about the stability of the MVA government comprising three parties. Sitting legislators would not join the ruling parties unless they are confident that the government will last its term. Currently, the focus would be on former legislators and heavyweights from the districts,” said an NCP minister. Also Read | Eknath Khadse who moves from BJP to NCP, says 10 more Maharashtra MLAs in touch with himThe minister said that as part of mutual understanding between the three ruling parties, they will fight the Assembly by-elections together, if any sitting BJP MLA resigns to join them. “We want our strongholds back. This will be done step by step,” said a senior NCP leader. On Monday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar clarified the NCP has decided not to re-induct turncoats from Osmanabad, hinting at former MP and erstwhile close confidant Padmasinh Patil and his son Rana Jagjitsinh Patil. Both were ministers in different Congress-NCP governments, but defected to the BJP in the run-up to the Assembly elections last year. Padmasinh Patil’s sister Sunetra is the wife of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Patil was a long-time close aide of Pawar and had even handled responsibility as state president of Pawar-led Congress (S) before the outfit was merged with the Congress by Pawar. “A deliberation is going on over re-induction. We are considering it and have taken some decisions as well. For instance, in Osmanabad there will be no entry for those who have left the party. Be happy wherever you are,” Pawar said categorically. Also Read | Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse quits: NCP’s gain, but is it BJP’s loss?State NCP chief Jayant Patil on Wednesday said, “Many senior leaders want to join us. I had a discussion with a few. Their names will be disclosed at an appropriate time.” Eight sitting MLAs, one sitting MP and many other leaders had left the NCP last year. While the NCP is banking on its citadel in western Maharashtra to poach leaders from the BJP to destabilise it, the Congress is eyeing ‘reverse migration’ from Marathwada and north Maharashtra, according to insiders. The Congress had lost its top position in district councils and municipal corporations to the BJP. “We are in touch with at least half a dozen sitting BJP MLAs and an equal number of mightier leaders from various regions in Maharashtra. Some of the leaders have been disillusioned. We are looking at heavyweights,” said a top Congress leader. BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said the exodus to the ruling parties was their wishful thinking. “This is the lie being spread by the NCP and Congress. Why would sitting MLAs or MPs quit the party when four years of their term are still remaining. No sitting legislator would want a fresh election so soon. The ground reality is different from the picture being painted.” Eighteen municipal corporations (of the total 27) and 26 district councils (of the total 34) will go to polls from February to October in 2022. With 1,100 corporators in 27 corporations, the BJP is way ahead in urban civic bodies, followed by Sena (489), Congress (439) and NCP (294). In ZPs, too, the BJP has the highest number of members. Former BJP MLA Udesinh Padvi, who joined the NCP after he was denied ticket in 2019 Assembly polls, said there will be a reverse wave. “The elected representatives in ZPs, corporations, panchayat samitis representing BJP had joined the party during the past five years ahead of respective elections. I can speak only for north Maharashtra, but most of them will come back to the NCP and Congress,” Padvi, who represented Shahada constituency in Nandurbar, is a Khadse supporter and had quit the BJP after consulting him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reverse-migration-in-maharashtra-congress-ncp/story-jl1E7wzNuW3LNskhNUj6SI.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Onion prices in Mumbai soar to Rs90-Rs100/kg||Onion prices in Mumbai soared to ₹90 to ₹100 per kilogram on Thursday, from ₹60 last week, owing to the shortage caused by unseasonal rain in various parts of the country.At Lasalgaon, Asia’s biggest onion market, the auction rate was ₹7,050 per quintal, up from last week’s ₹4,801, resulting in the price rise in Mumbai’s retail markets.According to Narendra Wadhavane, secretary, agricultural produce market committee (APMC), Lasalgaon, there is a tremendous shortage of onions due to the destruction of crops by the rain. “We hardly have 4,000 quintal of stock in the market currently, compared to the normal 12,000 to 15,000 quintals,” said Wadhavane. He said that just 284 pick-up vehicles, like tempos, trailers and two-wheelers, arrived at the APMC market on Thursday, down from the usual 1,200.“We have no choice, but to cough up as onions are one of the main ingredients in many of our dishes. However, we are now cutting down on the use of onions as we have already suffered due to lockdown. I don’t have a work from the past seven months and this has only made things worse,” said Khushi Gupta, an actor who lives in Lokhandwala, Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/onion-prices-in-mumbai-soar-to-rs90-rs100-kg/story-hA70PbHKM8O1Zl7D6Z4HFJ.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Doubts over political use of CBI, says Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over withdrawal of consent||There were doubts over the “political use” of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), said Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday in justification of the state government’s decision to withdraw general consent given to CBI to investigate in Maharashtra. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, on Wednesday withdrew the general consent given to CBI to probe cases in the state, making it mandatory for the agency to seek the state government’s permission before taking up cases within its borders.The state government suspected that the probe in the alleged television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam would be transferred to CBI after a case was lodged in Uttar Pradesh, Deshmukh said. “Although the CBI is a professional investigation agency, doubts are being raised over its use for political purposes,” Deshmukh said. “Section 6 of the Delhi Special Establishments Act empowers the state, making its consent mandatory for handing over any case to the premier investigating agency. By an order issued in 1989, Maharashtra had given general consent allowing the Central agency to take over any case. We have withdrawn the same by issuing the order yesterday,” Deshmukh added, at a press conference in Mumbai.Deshmukh was seconded by Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, who said the CBI and other Central agencies were used to defame non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states and the decision was prompted as patience was wearing out due to instances in the past few months.“Such decisions have to be taken to protect the rights of the state when agencies like CBI, Enforcement Directorate (ED), National Commission for Women (NCW), which have some authority to investigate, are used to create trouble or defame governments of opposition parties (non-BJP ruled). Such a time came in West Bengal, it was done in Andhra Pradesh, and some more states have also done it,” Raut told reporters separately on Thursday. Deshmukh said the state government suspected the possibility of the TRP case’s transfer to CBI for political reasons. “There is a growing murmur among the public about the political use of the premier Central agency of late. The honourable Supreme Court, too, had in the past termed CBI a ‘caged parrot’. We have seen how a few sensitive cases registered in Maharashtra were handed over to Central agencies. We anticipated a similar attempt in the TRP scam and hence the order has been issued. Mumbai police is investigating the TRP case very efficiently and has made a few arrests too. After the CBI registered an FIR in the TRP scam in Uttar Pradesh, there was a possibility of our probe being handed over to the Central agency,” he said.Deshmukh pointed out that a few states like Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Sikkim, too, have issued such orders, making their consent mandatory before handing over any probe to the CBI.Raut added that on a few instances in the past few months when Mumbai Police started any probe, an FIR was lodged by some state and the CBI enters Maharashtra. “Patience has run out. The moment the police take up a case, and reach a conclusion, the Central agency files an FIR in other state, takes over the case and enters Maharashtra. How long can this go on? Maharashtra has its pride,” Raut said.The BJP has, however, said that by withdrawing the consent, the Maharashtra government is vitiating the relations between Centre and State. “The order is nothing but an attempt of creating doubts in the minds of the people and will also hurt state’s relations with Centre. State home minister’s statement is baseless as TRP case is unlikely to go to the CBI unless somebody moves court. Unlike Sushant Singh Rajput death case, the investigation in TRP case by Mumbai Police is at an advanced stage, arrests have been made and in this backdrop, the case is unlikely to be transferred to the CBI,” said BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar.He also added that spoiling its relations with the Centre may hurt the prospects of getting Central assistance for flood-hit farmers.In the recent past, the MVA government in Maharashtra and the BJP government at the Centre were involved in a tussle over investigations in sensitive cases. Immediately after it took over, the MVA planned to set up a special investigation team to probe the Bhima-Koregaon case, which was being probed by the Maharashtra police during the BJP rule in the state. However, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case in February this year.Before the TRP case, the Mumbai Police were locked in a jurisdictional tussle with the Centre and CBI over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. The case was handed over to CBI in August this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doubts-over-political-use-of-cbi-says-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-over-withdrawal-of-consent/story-nmMCR6jmOcua5jqXSkj4mK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse who moves from BJP to NCP, says 10 more Maharashtra MLAs in touch with him||A day after quitting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Eknath Khadse, who is set to join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), said 10 BJP MLAs were in touch with him, but they may not quit the party now. He said a few former legislators and local leaders from north Maharashtra will join the NCP, along with him, in the presence of party chief Sharad Pawar. He also claimed the NCP had offered him candidature for the Assembly polls, after the BJP denied him an election ticket last year, even as he stepped up attack on former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, saying the BJP’s formula to take backward classes together was thrown away, after Fadnavis took over the party’s affairs in the state. Khadse was a prominent leader of the BJP from north Maharashtra and enjoys a significant hold in the region. He comes from Leva Patil, one of the OBC communities that has a sizable population in north Maharashtra.The region comprises 35 Assembly seats. Of them, the BJP won 13 seats, one less than 2014, in the state Assembly polls held last year. The NCP won seven seats, while the Shiv Sena six and Congress five MLAs in the region. AIMIM won two seats and two independents were also elected in the last Assembly polls. With Khadse’s induction, NCP leaders are hoping the party would get stronger in the region. Sitting BJP MLA Sanjay Savkare (Bhusawal) is considered close to him. “Most leaders who are close to Khadse were denied tickets in the last assembly elections. This was done to cut Khadse to size,” said a close aide to Khadse. Of the 11 Assembly seats in Jalgaon district, Khadse’s hometown, most have a significant population of the Leva Patil community that supports the 68-year-old leader, who has won elections from Muktainagar for six consecutive terms.Also Read | Devendra Fadnavis calls Eknath Khadse’s allegations against him ‘half truth’“I have support of over 10 sitting MLAs, but none will join us as anti-defection law will come into force and we don’t want unnecessary elections during the coronavirus pandemic. But there are 15-16 former legislators, who will gradually join the NCP. A few of them will be joining along with me on Friday,” Khadse told HT. Besides, his daughter-in-law and Raver BJP Raksha Khadse may follow in his footsteps. “With Raksha Khadse, the BJP is likely to lose a sitting MP as well as many MLAs in the coming future,” claimed one of his close aides, requesting anonymity. Continuing his attack on Devendra Fadnavis, now the leader of Opposition, Khadse said the BJP was considered a party of Brahmins and Baniyas. “To get rid of this tag and expand party’s social base, MADHAV formula (which stoods for ‘M’ali, ‘Dha’ngar and ‘V’anjari communities) was suggested by veteran BJP leader Vasantji Bhagwat. The formula helped us change the party’s image, but soon after Fadnavis took over, he stopped its implementation. He deliberately denied election tickets to many leaders from OBC communities who would have easily won the Assembly polls,” he alleged. “I had so many opportunities to join other parties as they were also keen to take me in. But being loyal to the BJP, I didn’t take that step. In 2019, after the BJP denied me a ticket for the Assembly polls, senior NCP leaders such as Ajit Pawar, Dilip Walse Patil contacted me. The party had also sent their AB form to contest the polls. Had I taken up the opportunity, I would have been elected as an MLA again,” he said. Taking potshots at Fadnavis, he said it is because of his “able leadership” the BJP is not in the government despite winning maximum seats. “The situation would have been different if the leadership had decided to join hands with the Shiv Sena,” he said, raising questions on Fadnavis’s leadership. “My decision of joining the NCP is immoral and taking oath at 5am in the morning along with the respected Ajit Dada Pawar was a moral move,” taunted the former BJP leader. On Thursday, Khadse reached Mumbai in a chopper along with his wife Mandatai and daughter Rohini to formally join the NCP. The plan to organise a grand event in Jalgaon district is also under consideration, where all his supporters will formally join the ruling party in presence of the NCP leadership. The event will be organized later as political meetings are still not allowed in the state. Damania refutes his allegationsSocial activist Anjali Damania refuted former BJP leader Eknath Khadse’s claims that she hounded him. Damania who had filed the case against Khadse for using derogatory language against her, alleged she was harassed by Khadse. “I pursued corruption charges against Chhagan Bhujbal and Nitin Gadkari also, but they did not harass me like what Khadse did,” said Damania. “Khadse and his aides filed 32 cases against me in six districts across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-i-am-in-touch-with-10-bjp-mlas-from-maharashtra/story-tD3v6NryreT7tZ7GHFU5VN.html
23-10-2020||City||Palghar public prosecutor dies succumbs to Covid||Public prosecutor Deepak Tare, 59, from Palghar Sessions court succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. Tare, had over 100 convictions to his credit. Tare had tested positive for Covid-19 in late September and was admitted to the Palghar Rural Hospital, and was later moved to the Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri (East) where he breathed his last on Wednesday. His colleagues said that Tare was a diabetic had come in contact with an accused who had tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-public-prosecutor-dies-succumbs-to-covid/story-lWF1Up0C2CMdh5Oq2H0UzO.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||₹2.30 crore collected in fines for not wearing mask in Mumbai: BMC data||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said that it had collected a sum of ₹1.64 crore from more than 82,000 people between October 1 and 21 for not wearing a mask in public places. According to the data provided by the BMC, overall 82% of the action was taken the last 21 days against citizens. The action of penalising citizens started in April 2020 and since that time over 1 lakh citizens have been penalised ₹2.30 crore for not wearing a mask in public places.The BMC on October 12 had launched a massive drive to penalise 20,000 citizens daily for not wearing a mask, however, the target has not been met yet. On October 12, when the drive was launched nearly 40,000 citizens were penalised, and as of October 21, 10 days later additional 60,000 citizens were penalised for not wearing a mask.Meanwhile, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC said, “The purpose of the action is to ensure that more and more citizens use masks properly and consistently, as the use of masks is highly effective in preventing the spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-30-crore-collected-in-fines-for-not-wearing-mask-in-mumbai-bmc-data/story-fVegPZ7LPpZn8ekAhXgrcM.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||A month on, deadlock over FYJC admissions continues in Maharashtra||More than a month after the Maharashtra education department stayed admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJCs) in the state, the admission process is still in a deadlock as the department is yet to hear from the state government. Officials from the education department said they were still awaiting a nod from the state to restart admissions. “Until that happens, we cannot take any decision. We have no clarity on when that would happen,” said an official from the department. On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. With this, the second merit list for admissions which was scheduled to be out on September 10 was not released. More than a month after that, admissions are yet to restart leaving over 2.42 lakh students in the lurch in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone. Hundreds of parents of anxious students have been writing to the education department requesting that the admission process be restarted soon. Arvind Tiwari, a city-based parent, recently wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The pandemic has already wreaked havoc on the mental and physical health of students which is compounded by this uncertainty over admissions. The state government should expedite the matter and take a decision to resolve it at the earliest,” Tiwari wrote in the letter. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-month-on-deadlock-over-fyjc-admissions-continues-in-maharashtra/story-NmrxyG9syLdSOxHdrBKyIK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Dussehra rally in Mumbai will be live-streamed on social media||Shiv Sena’s annual Dussehra rally will be a muted affair this year owing to the restrictions on public gatherings amid the pandemic. Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray will address people on Sunday (October 25) from Savarkar Memorial in Dadar, and not from the Shivaji Park that has been hosting its annual rally since decades. Thackeray’s speech will be streamed live through social media for party workers. To circumvent the restrictions on public gatherings and political rallies, the Shiv Sena has decided to hold the event indoors where a stage will be erected for Thackeray to address scores of Sainiks who will hear his ‘aadesh’ through live streaming of the event. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that Sena’s Dussehra rally is generally an outdoor event, but restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 would apply to the party as well. “CM Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to people to follow the rules to contain coronavirus spread, the same rules apply to us. We have decided, as per the instructions of Uddhav Thackeray, that a stage of the Dussehra rally will be erected at Savarkar Memorial behind Shivaji Park. The rally will be streamed through Facebook, Twitter and news channels throughout the nation,” Raut told reporters.The Sena is also contemplating on inviting party’s top brass at the venue. Sena insiders said that social distancing norms will be followed at the event. “We are thinking if some people from the party can be invited [at the venue]” Raut said.After several years, there is a Shiv Sena chief minister in the state. The last time a Sena leader on the CM chair was in 1999. Raut added, “This year Shiv Sena chief minister is going to give the speech. In last year’s rally, I had said that next year Shiv Sena chief minister will address the rally. With the blessings of Balasaheb, the chief minister of Maharashtra is Uddhav Thackeray. People are waiting for this rally and are keen to know about Sena’s next moves and the challenges that the state faces. So, like every year our Dussehra rally will be held with much fanfare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-dussehra-rally-in-mumbai-will-be-live-streamed-on-social-media/story-JyqRSrgwBnxUzpWAJZaYmK.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to come out with policy for entertainment sector, to extend industry status||In the wake of the announcement by the Uttar Pradesh government to set up a film city in Noida, Maharashtra government has announced that it will formulate a policy for the entertainment sector as well as declare rebate in shooting charges and expedite the procedure of extending industry status to the sector.The decision to formulate a comprehensive policy was taken in a meeting chaired by cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh on Thursday. The minister has asked Maharashtra Film, Stage and Cultural Development Corporation Limited (MFSCDC) to prepare a draft for the policy. “The comprehensive policy will cover all aspects dealing with various platforms such as films, theatre, documentaries, serials to over-the-top (OTT) content. It will be presented before the state cabinet for its final nod,” Deshmukh said.He said the state cultural affairs department has also been directed to move the proposal to accord industry status to film sector so that it can get the benefits that small and medium industries get. Manisha Verma, managing director of MFSCDC, said, “The policy will have a holistic approach towards all aspects related to the sector. We will consider simplification of taxation, increasing screens, fiscal incentives, changing technology besides generation of skilled manpower. It’s a labour intensive industry and has potential of job generation. All these aspects will be deliberated upon during a webinar with all stakeholders between November 5 and 7. Valid suggestions and recommendations that we will get during the deliberation will be incorporated in the policy.”The government has also announced rebate in shooting charges at Goregaon film city up to 25% in the wake of the losses the sector sustained during the Covid-19 lockdown.Sushama Shiromani, former president of Indian Motion Pictures Producers’ Association, said, “We welcome the move as the industry status will help in surviving the sector. But it should not remain just an announcement as we have been hearing them for years. The sector is going through a very bad face and it’s about time that the government do the needful. The policy should address all the problems the industry has been facing after new platforms have evolved in the past few years. We expect due deliberation with stakeholders before the final call is taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-come-out-with-policy-for-entertainment-sector-to-extend-industry-status/story-7b2jm3GffXi1jI20BMIi6L.html
23-10-2020||City||20-year-old dies by suicide after being told to stop playing on mobile||The 20-year-old son of a police officer from Bordi in Palghar district allegedly died by suicide on Wednesday night, after his father scolded him for watching movies on his mobile phone and instead concentrate on his studies and career.The victim reportedly stepped out of the house after his family went to sleep, said the public relations officer, Palghar police. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when neighbours found his body and alerted the family. The victim was rushed to a hospital but was declared dead before admission.Gholwad police have registered a case of accidental death, and the man’s body was sent for post mortem. No suicide note was found at the spot, and police are investigating the matter further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-dies-by-suicide-after-being-told-to-stop-playing-on-mobile/story-zcWjbnAobyDBepLWwau5GJ.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Bhima-Koregaon case: NIA court rejects Father Stan Swamy’s plea for interim bail||The special National Investigating Agency (NIA) court on Thursday rejected the interim bail plea filed by 83-year-old activist Father Stan Swamy, who was arrested in connection with Bhima-Koregaon case.Swamy was arrested on October 8 from his residence in Ranchi and produced before the special court on October 9. He was remanded in judicial custody and has been lodged in Taloja jail since then.His lawyer, Sharif Shaikh, had moved a plea for interim bail claiming, “The applicant is 83-years old, suffering from various ailments like hearing loss from both ears, arms injury. He has undergone two hernia operations, and still is suffering from abdomen pain. He suffers intense pain from lumbar spondylosis i.e. the tear and wear of the lumbar disc and tremors in both hands due to Parkinson’s disease.”The plea also claimed that since the jails are crowded, Swamy is at risk considering the prevailing Covid-19 conditions in jails amid the pandemic.The plea was opposed by special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty on various grounds.Swamy was first questioned as a suspect in the case by the investigating agencies in 2018. He had approached the Bombay high court (HC) in October 2018 for quashing the complaint against him in this case. His lawyer Mihir Desai had then submitted to the court that Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), of which Swamy is a convenor, has no political colour. “PPSC is formed by the elite in the society with the aim of assisting prisoners unnecessarily languishing in jails in several states, and it has no political colour,” read Desai’s submissions.The prosecution had also claimed that Swamy is only considered a suspect and not an accused. Considering the prosecution’s submission, the court had then dismissed the plea for quashing the complaint against Swamy. Two years later, NIA began probing his role in the violence case.While arresting him, NIA claimed, “He also received funds through an associate for the furtherance of CPI (Maoist) activities. He is the convenor of PPSC, a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist). The documents related to aiding the activities of CPI (Maoist) and propaganda material of the banned outfit, including its literature, were seized from his possession.”The agency in its charge sheet filed on October 9 claimed, “Evidence revealed that Swamy was in communication with CPI (Maoist) cadre com. Arun in which he communicated that after the arrest of urban CPI (Maoist) cadres from different parts of the country, particularly in parts of Maharashtra, a huge revocable damage has been caused to the party.”“He received ₹8 lakhs through one comrade Mohan for furtherance of CPI (Maoist) activities,” the agency had claimed in the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-nia-court-rejects-father-stan-swamy-s-plea-for-interim-bail/story-PP9o6CxEoejNkzBxvISi3H.html
23-10-2020||City||Maharashtra government allows lawyers to travel on Mumbai’s local trains during non-peak hours till November 23; railway board nod likely on Friday||In a major relief to the city’s lawyers, the state government on Thursday allowed them to travel on suburban local trains during non-peak hours as per the directions of the Bombay high court (HC). The permission issued by the disaster management department has stated that the arrangement is on an experimental basis till November 23, and only lawyers affiliated to the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa as well as their registered clerks will be able to avail the facility. However, railway authorities have not yet received the railway board’s nod to permit lawyers to travel on trains. The board is likely to give its nod on Friday.On Thursday, Kishore Raje Nimbalkar, secretary of the state disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department, passed an order and noted that lawyers and registered clerks would be permitted to take trains only during non-peak hours – before 8am and between 11am to 4pm and post -7pm on working days. The order further stated that monthly passes would not be issued to the lawyers, and they would have to buy one-way tickets after showing the identity card issued to them by the Bar Council. The order also stipulates that the lawyers would have to wear the badge provided by the Bar Council at a prominent place on their attire. The order concluded with a warning that strict disciplinary action will be taken by the HC or the Bar Council against those found violating the rules. The state government, while expressing its inclination to allow lawyers to travel on local trains, had said that it would contemplate on the modalities to ensure that the facility was not misused. The order will permit around 2,000 lawyers practicing in HC and various subordinate courts to travel on local trains by following Covid-19 protocols. On Monday, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni had directed the state to consider the application of lawyers seeking permission to travel on local trains, within a day. It had also said that its previous orders to avail e-pass for lawyers on an experimental basis would be continued, so that they are able to travel by local trains and attend hearings before the HC and subordinate courts in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) till November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-allows-lawyers-to-travel-on-local-trains-during-non-peak-hours-till-november-23-railway-board-nod-likely-on-friday/story-HXzYi6iw6qoSnMySIY8qiP.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai lawyer files complaint to invoke sedition against Kangana Ranaut||A city-based lawyer on Thursday filed a private complaint with Andheri metropolitan magistrate court against actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly “causing disharmony among two religious groups through her tweets”.Advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh has pleaded the court to direct the police to book the actor under charges of sedition for her various posts on the micro-blogging site Twitter. The plea is scheduled for hearing next month.The lawyer said that Ranaut’s recent tweet referred to Mumbai as “Pakistan occupied Kashmir” and described the state home minister as a member of the “Taliban”, which Deshmukh claimed have defamed the country.“The actor has no respect for varied communities of India, law of the land, authorised government bodies,” read the complaint.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut reacts to summons by Mumbai Police: ‘You miss Kangana so much. No worries, I will be there soon’Deshmukh claimed that Ranaut had been attacking the state government and the Shiv Sena by addressing them as murderers of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.“It is prominent to note that every Indian citizen has got the right to freedom of speech and not freedom of hate speech. We have all got limitations to use the right to freedom of speech and expression, yet several people including present accused [Ranaut] have been spreading hate, breaking brotherhood and integrity of the country through time and again provoking hate speeches that disrupt peace in the country,” the complaint mentioned.The lawyer has also referred to the actor’s comments made on the social media site after the metropolitan magistrate court in Bandra ordered police to register a case against her and her sister. The complainant alleged that Ranaut addressed the judiciary as “Papu Sena” in her comments.Ranaut and her sister have been facing a probe over their comments on social media regarding the government. The two have already been summoned by the Bandra police, which has registered a case against them on the direction of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-lawyer-files-complaint-to-invoke-sedition-charges-against-actor-kangana-ranaut/story-bEEz27EZuxjXJmgSAisJAP.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena looks to better its virtual presence, with young cadre in tow||Dragged into controversies on social media over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and Palghar mob lynching, the Shiv Sena has planned an aggressive counter – cadre and members of the youth wing, Yuva Sena, as social media coordinators who will “organically” fight Opposition’s “bots”. The party has already appointed 36 such coordinators for Mumbai and will appoint at least one person as the social media coordinator in each of the 288 Assembly constituencies by mid-November, a functionary involved in the appointments said. Party functionaries point out that the idea to give a structure to the social media department was the brainchild of Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray. “Initially it (social media) was an informal structure, but Aaditya ji thought that it should be formalised. Instead of relying on fake profiles and bots, the Shiv Sena, which has such a huge cadre base, will go with its cadre. It gives a boost to our party. We are appointing social media coordinators for the Shiv Sena for each Vidhan Sabha seat. For Mumbai, we have already appointed social media coordinators for all 36 Assembly seats. We have also appointed 22 state-wide social media coordinators,” said Varun Sardesai, secretary, Yuva Sena, who is managing the planning of the social media. Recently, the image of the Shiv Sena and its leadership took a beating on social media, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the spat with actor Kangana Ranaut. However, Sardesai denied that the move to boost their social media presence was triggered by the recent incidents. He argued the accounts used on social media were fake or alien. Sardesai said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has got a positive response since the pandemic hit Maharashtra. “The Mumbai Police found 80,000 fake accounts on Twitter. Most of the accounts came up after June 2020 or they are from outside Maharashtra. During CM sir’s Facebook Live, there was not a single comment on Sushant or Kangana issue. Not a single comment was seeking ‘justice for Sushant’ or other issues because actual people were not commenting on those issues,” he said. A functionary involved in the social media planning added that these platforms play a crucial role in understanding the mood of the people, and have a direct impact on elections. “The change in the political dynamic happened late last year. Three months into a full-fledged government, the Covid-19 pandemic started. So the government did not get time to function and we did not get to show our work. If we have to beat the fake narratives of the Opposition, we need a plan,” he said, requesting anonymity. The Yuva Sena secretary added that as part of the strategy, the social media coordinators will push the work done by the Sena-led state government. “Social media has started to play a big role in deciding people’s sentiments and now that we have a positive sentiment about the government, we want to spread the work the government is doing. More than to target any particular party or the Opposition, the main focus will be to spread the work the government does,” Sardesai added. A structured social media body for the Shiv Sena will also play a crucial role in the next Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, which will be held in February 2022. “Over seven months have gone due to the pandemic. It will take another four to six months for people to get into their routine, even if the [Covid-19] cases drop. So we will be left with eight to nine months before the BMC elections. When everybody is at home, they can get all information on the Shiv Sena’s work at their fingertips,” a functionary said. Sardesai added, “Social media will be extremely important [for BMC election]. But it is not just for BMC polls. We want to ensure the good work done by the government reaches every corner of the state.” Aaditya held a meeting with Mumbai’s social media coordinators at Sahyadri guesthouse in Malabar Hill on Monday and asked them to focus on the government’s work. A person, who was present in the meeting, said, “The key points of what Aaditya ji told the coordinators was to push government initiatives, read newspapers and online news, and most importantly, he told everybody not to abuse [on social media], even if the other person engages in it. Strict disciplinary action will be initiated against the ones who use foul language. All have been asked to respond to people with facts, no matter what.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-looks-to-better-its-virtual-presence-with-young-cadre-in-tow/story-DehadQXNyqYXnMNZA7idMN.html
23-10-2020||Education||Centre steps in to end bitter spat over DU registrar appointment||fareeha.iftikhar@htdigital.inNew Delhi:  The Union education ministry on Thursday said that the orders issued by the Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi during his leave of absence on medical grounds are not valid, and should not be acted upon by any functionary. The decision -- on a day of high drama at the university -- comes hours after Tyagi removed PC Joshi from the post of pro vice-chancellor after a bitter spat over the appointment of Vikas Gupta as registrar, a post which was lying vacant since November. Tyagi had also approved the appointment of Geeta Bhatt, a member of right-wing teachers’ group National Teachers’ Democratic Front (NDTF), as the new pro-V-C on Thursday.The ministry said that Joshi, who was appointed the acting vice-chancellor, will continue to remain in the post, and that the admission process and academic activities should continue without any delay.The directive means that Bhatt’s appointment as Pro-VC stands annulled, and so does a subsequent order ratified by her in which PC Jha was appointed as registrar.Both Bhatt and Jha declined to comment on the matter.The ministry, in a letter to Vikas Gupta -- whose appointment as registrar it appeared to back -- said that the orders by the vice-chancellor, issued while he was on leave, should not be acted upon. The ministry also communicated to Gupta that if Tyagi wants to join office, a proper medical fitness certificate should be obtained from him.The ministry’s directives came after Joshi apprised the Centre of how a notification was issued on Wednesday announcing the appointment of Jha as the new registrar “even before the working hours and without his active knowledge”. The ministry also sent a report to President Ram Nath Kovind apprising him of the developments. The President is the Visitor all Central universities. The directives are expected to end a bitter tussle between two groups -- one led by Pro-VC Joshi and the other backed by V-C Tyagi -- over the appointment of the new registrar.The saga unfolded over three frenetic days.On Tuesday, Joshi had announced that the DU executive council (EC), the varsity’s highest decision-making body, would meet on Wednesday. However, on Wednesday, even before the EC met, the joint registrar’s office issued a notice announcing the appointment of Jha as the new registrar. Hours after the notice, Joshi wrote to Jha accusing him of “illegally occupying” the registrar’s office, since it had not been ratified by the EC.“In case you are not vacating the office immediately, you will be forcibly moved out of office and action initiated against you,” Joshi said in the letter to Jha.Later that day, following the scheduled EC meeting, Joshi announced the appointment of Vikas Gupta as registrar. An unsigned letter issued by the Tyagi faction, however, declared the EC meeting illegal.On Thursday, even as Joshi announced that Gupta has assumed office as the new registrar, Jha issued an order removing Joshi as the pro vice-chancellor, and announced Bhatt’s appointment to that post.“The V-C [Tyagi] has decided to replace Joshi with Geeta Bhatt. I will continue to hold the position of the registrar. I will soon join…”Jha told HT on Thursday morning.Vice-chancellor Tyagi’s office also confirmed Bhatt’s appointment on Thursday evening, and issued a statement: “Dr Geeta Bhatt has been appointed as Pro-Vice-Chancellor, University of Delhi. She has assumed the charge as Pro-Vice-Chancellor, the University of Delhi with effect from today the 22nd October 2020.”After taking office the same day, Bhatt ratified a notification declaring Gupta’s appointment “illegal”.“The notification issued by the then pro-VC (PC Joshi) is without any jurisdiction and lawful authority. It is an abuse of process of law stipulated in the DU Act, statutes and ordinances,” the notification read.Till Wednesday, Suman Kundu had been in temporary charge as DU registrar.Responding to allegations, PC Jha said, “The appointments of PC Joshi and Suman Kundu were also reported in the EC after they took charge.”A senior official, requesting anonymity, said Jha’s office on Thursday issued a notice prohibiting Joshi and Kundu from visiting the office Viceregal Lodge (V-C’s office). “The notice read that they will only be allowed to visit the Viceregal Lodge with the permission of the registrar’s office,” the official said.Officials in the administration and several teachers also questioned the legality of Jha’s and Bhatt’s appointments. “The appointments of PC Joshi as the Pro-VC and Vikas Gupta as registrar were duly approved by the EC following all the norms. As per the DU norms, when the VC is on leave or is away for any other reason, the acting vice chancellor shall perform the functions of the VC. The acting vice chancellor can also chair the EC meeting. So, the meeting held on Wednesday was in accordance with the Statutes, Ordinances, and EC Regulations of the University,” said Rajesh Jha, an EC member.Former DU pro-V-C Sudhish Pachauri, who had taken charge as acting VC for a few months between 2015 and 2016, said: “What happened is unfortunate. In DU, we follow some statutory rules while making appointments. Any appointment, including that of the pro V-C or registrar, has to be approved by the EC. In case that has not been done, it’s not legal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-steps-in-to-end-bitter-spat-over-du-registrar-appointment/story-5XGVDTge23EsMAxtCGUkBI.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Play, pause, repeat: Durga Puja moves from pandals to phones||Nikhil Sengupta rolled the sleeves of his crisply ironed kurta as his teenage son put his laptop on the centre table and logged into the Facebook page of a prominent Durga Puja organiser in the city. Sengupta’s wife Preetha, a computer engineer, quickly fetched a book of Sanskrit shlokas from the drawer of the small home temple in their Dwarka Sector 8 residence. Soon, a temple priest started reciting some shlokas from the computer screen and the Senguptas followed – often turning pages of the book in Preetha’s hand as they missed a word or two. Around 30 km away in south Delhi’s CR Park -- a hub of prominent Durga Pujas that attract thousands of people every year-- Arindam Sharma and his family followed the rituals in a similar fashion. So did Ritika Mukherjee’s family in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase I. Around the same time on Thursday morning, but in different locations across the city, these families and many other devotees participated in pushpanjali – community prayers marked by offering of flowers to the deities during Durga Puja. In other years, pushpanjali is a grand affair with the prominent among the 500-odd Durga Puja venues in the Capital witnessing thousands of visitors, often compelling the organisers to break the gathering into batches and urging the priest to repeat the shlokas several times in a row. Also Read | Caution in the air as Durga Puja begins with symbolic rituals in DelhiThis year the popular pushpanjali ritual went online with the Durga Puja celebrations going low-key in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic and only around 50 organisers in the city getting the district administration’s approval for minimum arrangements (even though gatherings are prohibited). “We did a Facebook live of the pushpanjali ritual today. We will continue doing so till the ceremonies end. In general years, we have to organise seven to eight batches of prayers every day and each batch has around 350-400 devotees. Such gathering could have been a major threat this year,” said Debashis Shah, chief coordinator of the Durga Puja committee at Matri Mandir in Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave Saurav Chakravorty, managing committee member of the CR Park Kali Mandir Durga Puja, said: “The crowd for pushpanjali exceeds 30,000 in our venue in normal years. The number of batches keep varying – depending on the time of the Bhog (food offering to the deities) and the size of the crowd. Under Covid-19 guidelines, no such gathering should happen this time. So, we enabled live streaming through the temple’s website and local cable channels.” On part of the government, a lot has gone into convincing puja committee members to keep the fanfare low-key, several government officials said, adding the last two weeks witnessed scores of meetings with organisers and management committees of religious institutes. “Meetings with more than 70 such associations have been conducted in this regard only to ensure adherence to Covid-19 guidelines during the festivities,” said Neha Bansal, district magistrate (West Delhi). The few organisers who have got permission for Durga Puja this year are following the rituals with smaller idols of the deities or by installing ‘holy urns’ (kalash sthapana) in their premises. There is no room for decorated pandals, cultural programmes, fairs and food courts. Many committees have decided to distribute whatever donations they have received to people worst hit by the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/play-pause-repeat-durga-puja-moves-from-pandals-to-phones/story-ZZTfN8xCvxUdy08wE7HzwO.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||CM Kejriwal will formally open Seelampur, Shastri Park flyovers on Saturday||The much-awaited flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park will be thrown open to traffic from Saturday, bringing major relief to residents of east and north-east Delhi as well as those who regularly commute through these areas from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad as they would now be able to escape the congestion on the Grand Trunk (GT) Road. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate both flyovers on Saturday at noon, Delhi’s public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. The PWD is the executing agency for both projects. “An honest government takes care not just of its citizens, but also of the finances. The estimated project cost of the Seelampur-Shastri Park flyover package was ₹303.31 crore, but the Delhi government has constructed both flyovers at a cost of ₹250 crore. Our PWD managed to save at least ₹53 crore, which is very important in times of a pandemic when the usual sources of revenue for the government are severely hit,” said Jain.PWD officials said the main six-lane flyover constructed on the Grand Trunk (GT) Road in Shastri Park has already been opened to vehicular traffic from Wednesday, That, they said, was done to test the structural stability of the flyover before its formal opening on Saturday. However, the two-lane single flyover at Seelampur will be thrown open to the public only on Saturday.PWD said the two flyovers are likely to cut travel time between Shahdara in east Delhi to Interstate Bus Terminus (ISBT) in Kashmere Gate by at least 10 minutes. At present, because of heavy vehicular movement and rampant road encroachments, multiple bottlenecks are causing snarls on the stretch. Sometimes during peak hours, it takes about 30 to 40 minutes for motorists to cross the stretch, PWD officials said. With the two flyovers now complete, they would provide a signal-free ride between Welcome in north-east Delhi and the Kashmere Gate ISBT — a roughly 8km ride on one of the most congested and traffic-heavy stretches in Delhi. The construction work had started in February 2019 and both flyovers were to be completed by March 2020. But the projects got delayed by the construction ban in November 2019 on account of rising pollution and, later, by the riots in north-east Delhi in February. They were again stalled by the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown that came into effect on March 25. Their deadline was then shifted to July 2020, but work overshot the deadline for want of labour.S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said the flyovers would bring relief to motorists headed to the Kashmere Gate ISBT and parts of Central Delhi from Ghaziabad, north-east and east Delhi. “ People from areas such as Shahdara, Seelampur, Dilshad Garden, Jafrabad and Gandhi Nagar would benefit as they now would be able to escape the congestion on the GT Road,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-will-formally-open-seelampur-shastri-park-flyovers-on-saturday/story-Z9HIV0OS4oh3tE9Z0bx5NJ.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||North MCD plans to increase house tax, waive taxes on parking contractors, alleges AAP; all lies, says BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North MCD) of burdening the public by proposing to increase house tax, while at the same time handing out relaxations to affluent contractors by waiving taxes on management of parking lots. The BJP hit back and termed the AAP’s claims as “mischievous lies”. “Under pressure from parking and advertising contractors, the BJP-ruled North MCD wants to impose a steep 34% house tax burden on the people of Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A proposal in this regard has been tabled before the standing committee,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs. He further said, “The North MCD proposes to waive the tax on parking and advertisements. North MCD gets crores of rupees as tax from advertising and parking. The BJP should use this money to pay salaries of doctors but they are waiving it off. The AAP opposes these proposals being brought by the BJP-ruled North MCD and demands that the civic body collects tax from parking and advertisement.” The Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “This is a mischievous lie. None of the 3 municipal bodies has approved any proposal to raise property tax in Delhi. As far as relaxation in advertising and parking fee are concerned, they are only for the lockdown period (between April 1 and June 30). This relaxation is being examined as per the standard policy of the central government and Delhi government, to provide relief to businesses that have lost revenue during the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-mcd-plans-to-increase-house-tax-waive-taxes-on-parking-contractors-alleges-aap-all-lies-says-bjp/story-bXKoVxNAXmvynQYi82H8JJ.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||DMRC begins boring tunnels at Vikaspuri for Metro Phase-4 corridor||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) Thursday started on the maiden tunnel boring work under Metro’s Phase 4, with the lowering of the tunnel boring machine at west Delhi’s Vikaspuri, on the Janakpuri West to RK Ashram Marg corridor. “As part of the tunnelling drive, two tunnels (for up and down movement) of a length of 1.4km will be bored between Vikaspuri and Krishna Park Extension,” the DMRC said in a statement.A tunnel boring machine is used to drill a tunnel through various levels of soil and rock. These machines can bore tunnels without disturbing buildings and other structures on the surface.The agency added that the boring work is expected to start next month, after the lowering and assembling of the 73m-long machine is completed. These tunnels will be located between the Janakpuri West and Krishna Park Extension stations of the corridor. The tunnelling will start from Vikaspuri area -- as a continuation of the Metro’s Magenta Line tunnel that was constructed for the already operational Botanical Garden to Janakpuri West corridor.“This is a major milestone for the Phase 4 construction. The tunnel will be constructed at a depth of approximately 14 to 16 metres. About 2,040 concrete rings will be installed in these tunnels. Each tunnel will have an inner diameter of 5.8 metres. The entire tunnelling work on this stretch is expected to be completed in about 15 months. The alignment of the tunnel will be along the Outer Ring Road,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Dayal added, “As part of the Phase 4 work approved so far, about 27km of underground tracks will be constructed. The Janakpuri West to RK Ashram Marg corridor will have underground sections running for a length of 7.74km in total.”“These machines are especially useful for tunnelling work in congested urban areas. The DMRC has been using tunnel boring machines since Phase 1 of the Metro network. In Phase 3, when about 50km of underground sections were built, using about 30 tunnel boring machines,” the DMRC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tunnel-boring-machines-lowered-in-vikaspuri-to-start-tunneling-work-for-metro-phase-4/story-rg2PMe5303rfLUupxFGzLJ.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Two minors sexually assaulted in Delhi, accused known to victims||Two incidents of sexual assault on minors were reported from two different places in Delhi on Wednesday night and in both cases, the suspects were known to the victims.In the first incident, an eight-year-old girl was raped, allegedly by a relative, in northwest Delhi’s Ashok Vihar on Wednesday night. Police have arrested the 25-year-old man. According to the police, the assault was reported around 10 pm when the girl’s parents, both daily wage labourers, saw her crying. When they asked, she reported injuries on her private parts. Police said the girl told her parents that one of their relatives, who lives nearby, had taken her to his house and sexually assaulted her. The parents reported the matter to the police, who took the girl to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital for medical examination. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said a case of rape under IPC section 376 and under relevant sections of POCSO Act was registered after sexual assault was confirmed. Based on her complaint, the relative, a native of Bihar, also a labourer, was arrested from his house, Arya said. In a separate incident on Wednesday night, a 16-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a neighbour at Sarai Kale Khan in southeast Delhi. Police said they have been both friends for the past three years.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said the girl sustained a minor injury, which she reported to her mother. Her family members took her to a hospital, where it was confirmed that she had been sexually assaulted. “Since the girl is a minor, the hospital staff reported the matter to the police. Initial probe revealed the girl was with her friend alone when he sexually assaulted her. Her medical condition is stable,”the officer said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Kumar Gyanesh said a case of rape and under POCSO Act has been registered. “The neighbour has been detained and his age is being confirmed,” he added. The national Capital registers around 2,000 cases of rape every year. Till August 30 this year, 1,019 rape capes had been registered across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-minors-sexually-assaulted-in-delhi-accused-known-to-victims/story-7UCWC6TqKTkJJZLsEyVpqO.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi court issues bailable warrant against Kapil Mishra||A Delhi court has issued a bailable warrant against BJP leader Kapil Mishra for over non-appearance before the court in a defamation case filed by AAP MLA Imran Hussain.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Harvinder Singh issued bailable warrants of Rs 10,000 through the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), while asking Mishra to join the proceedings on the next date of hearing, October 27. According to the complaint, Kapil had in 2018 alleged Hussain had given permission to cut 16,000 trees in Delhi after taking Rs 23 crore.Hussain had claimed his reputation was lowered in society by the use of such remarks by the respondents—BJP leaders Vijender Gupta, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Mishra.While Gupta and Sirsa, through their counsels, had orally requested for exemption from appearance, no one was present for Mishra.“I could not appear before the court today because of some unavoidable reasons. I will be present for the next hearing,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bailable-warrant-against-kapil-mishra/story-bSDRHJRly71AvcFhNxfQKJ.html
23-10-2020||Delhi||Protesting North MCD doctors warn of hunger strike if unpaid||More than a hundred resident doctors and paramedical staff from three North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals -- Hindu Rao, Kasturba Gandhi and Rajan Babu Tuberculosis (RBTB) Hospital -- staged a protest at Jantar Mantar Thursday morning -- threatening to go on a hunger strike if their pending salaries were not paid at the earliest. Hindu Rao doctors are on an indefinite strike for the past 12 days while their counterparts from the other two hospitals joined a week ago. Around 250 resident doctors from Hindu Rao had begun a daily three-hour pen down strike from September 22 within the hospital premises. On October 10, they went on a complete indefinite strike to press for their demands. The Hindu Rao resident doctors’ association (RDA) said while they attend to patients at the emergency wing when senior consultants are not available, they have completely withdrawn from the outpatient department services. At Jantar Mantar, the protesters raised slogans against the cash-strapped BJP-ruled municipal corporation, which has been unable to disburse salaries to the medical staff after June this year. Around 500 resident doctors from the three hospitals said they will continue their strike till their dues are paid. Hindu Rao is the largest hospital run by the civic body. According to staffers, the OPD services have been hit at the three hospitals because of the agitation. Corporation officials said while emergency and OPD services have been functional at Hindu Rao and Kasturba, services at RBTB Hospital were affected on Thursday morning and resumed late in the afternoon. The Hindu Rao doctors association said the hospital has stopped taking admissions even in the emergency wing and is referring patients to other facilities. “After we went on an indefinite strike, the hospital has stopped taking any admissions. They cannot run the hospital without the resident doctors. We are just asking for our dues. How are we expected to keep working without being paid for months? How are we supposed to run our houses? We have been on Covid duty, risking our lives and still not being paid,” said Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, president of the Hindu Rao resident doctors association. The 980-bedded Hindu Rao Hospital was removed from the list of designated Covid-19 facilities on October 14 due to low bed occupancy. The Delhi government had on the same day ordered shifting of Covid patients from Hindu Rao to different government facilities. Holding a placard that read ‘I deserve to be paid’, Dr Adhiman Gupta of Kasturba Hospital said doctors are only asking for their basic right. “The central government has been saying doctors are corona warriors but has not taken any cognisance of the same doctors and other staff not being paid for months,” Gupta said. “Everyone has EMIs or rents to pay. We are forced to strike as we have run out of savings...There’s no assurance when we will get our dues,” said Santosh Singh, a nursing staff at Kasturba Hospital. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said the agitation has become a political gimmick. He said the salaries of doctors for July was disbursed on Wednesday while paramedics have been paid till June. “Only the contractual resident doctors are on strike while all senior doctors are working and providing adequate healthcare services. I have already had a series of discussions with the protesting resident doctors and the paramedic staff. They are taking undue advantage of their rights. I already sought time till November 30 to pay the dues,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-resident-doctors-paramedics-take-protest-over-unpaid-wages-to-jantar-mantar/story-3IVma9V7FIamW2KGv7kmVM.html
23-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Women commuters allowed train travel in MMR during non-peak hours||Women commuters have been allowed to travel by suburban trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) during non-peak hours from Wednesday following a permission granted by the Union Ministry of Railways on the previous day.They are allowed to travel between 11 am and 3 pm and after 7 pm in a bid to prevent overcrowding in suburban trains amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in MMR. Western and Central Railways authorities said women passengers do not need to show their identity cards or scan a quick response (QR) code on their smart phones in their bid to travel by suburban trains. Only their tickets would be checked, they added. Thermal screenings of women passengers will be conducted before entering railway stations. Earlier last Friday, the Maharashtra government had urged the ministry to allow women commuters to travel by suburban trains. However, the ministry had asked the state government to give details of an estimated increase in the number of commuters and other modalities as preventive measures because of the viral outbreak. The back and forth between the state government and the ministry led to a delay for a few days in the grant of permission for women commuters to travel by suburban trains during non-peak hours. The Central and Western Railway authorities operate 706 and 700 local trains, respectively, daily in MMR. The rail authorities had allowed only people from the following categories to use suburban trains after the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from the end of March in a bid to keep the contagion at bay.They included employees, who were at the frontline sector battling the Covid-19 pandemic, differently-abled people and cancer patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-women-commuters-allowed-train-travel-in-mmr-during-non-peak-hours/story-i3FMWUP9AjUs9QDz5OymOM.html
