27-10-2020||Mumbai||NCB summons Deepika Padukone’s manager in drugs case after search at her Mumbai home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) summoned Karishma Prakash, manager of actor Deepika Padukone, to join its investigations on Wednesday into allegations of drug abuse in the case of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. NCB on Tuesday conducted a search and found drugs in small quantities at Prakash’s Versova home, but she was not present in the house, said NCB officials. Prakash was then summoned by NCB for questioning on Wednesday. NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development. NCB questioned Prakash on September 25 and 26 for approximately 12 hours as part of its probe into Rajput’s death. The agency also questioned Padukone and actors Rakul Preet Singh, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor. So far, 24 accused have been arrested in Rajput’s case, including Rajput’s domestic help and alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdul Basit Parihar. Arrested accused actor Rhea Chakraborty was granted bail on October 7, while her brother Showik is among the arrested accused still in jail. Meanwhile, in a separate case, NCB arrested Joshua Crasto, 39, on Monday and recovered 50 grams of local marijuana, 25 grams curated marijuana, 2.8 grams charas and 2.2 grams of cocaine from him. Crasto has revealed to NCB that he procured curated marijuana from abroad and hashish from local contacts in Worli and nearby areas. Wankhede said Crasto has revealed he both consumed and supplied contraband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-summons-deepika-padukone-s-manager-in-drugs-case-after-search-at-her-mumbai-home/story-7iKj1iW6gRexclnCt8pXrL.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Denial of senate polls plan to demolish democratic governance of PU: Senators||Fifteen Panjab University senators have said that the denial of senate elections is nothing but a calculated plan to demolish the democratic governance of the University.The senators from Punjab, including HS Dua, Jarnail Singh, KK Sharma and Iqbal Singh Sandhu, on Tuesday sought an immediate intervention of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in the matter (conduct of senate polls at PU). “Any covert game plan to install a Board of Governors (under National Education Policy 2020) consisting of all nominated members would lead to complete alienation of stakeholders from the decision-making processes of the university. Punjab government has yet to adopt NEP and as a stakeholder, if the consent of Punjab government is not taken, it would cause unrest in the region,” reads the letter. “It is a murderous attack on the federal nature of Panjab University’s administrative structure, since the process of election to PU senate was scuttled midway after the nominations had been finalised and polling was to take place,” they said.Senate polls of PU, which were earlier scheduled for August 24, were postponed by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for the second time on October 15 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The letter to CM stated that “the repeated postponement of PU senate polls under the pretext of Covid-19 pandemic has serious implications for the landscape of education in the region and in the state of Punjab”.The term of the present PU senate will end on October 31 and the senators have appealed to the Punjab CM to immediately intervene in the matter and ensure that elections to PU senate are conducted immediately.PUTA writes to UT administratorMeanwhile, Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has also written to Chandigarh administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore and sought his intervention to ensure immediate conduct of senate polls of PU. The teachers’ body in its letter stated that apprehensions have grown stronger with each passing day that the “age old governing structure is in danger”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/denial-of-senate-polls-plan-to-demolish-democratic-governance-of-pu-senators/story-9bCfGvD6Ru7YJlZy66Qq1N.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Second Covid surge anticipated, won’t lower guard: Chandigarh health department||Suggesting that a second wave of Covid-19 was anticipated during the festive season, and considering high pollution levels and approaching winters, the UT health department has said that lowering the guard at this point can prove detrimental.The department has said that early identification of cases was key in preventing the second surge for which the testing was being made more accessible in dispensaries, for patients visiting the hospital OPDs and in religious places as well.UT director of health services and family welfare, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, said that the infection rate in the coming days will depend on a number of factors for which the department is making up the arrangements.“The testing has to be more accessible at common points within the city. The mobile teams are visiting every nook and corner of the city and encouraging people to get tested. So the identification part is being catered to,” Dr Kang said.She added on Tuesday more than 100 samples were collected in the temple in Sector 20 and all of them were tested negative. Similarly, around 205 patients who visited the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital Sector 16 for consultation with doctors were encouraged to undergo Covid-19 tests and 3 of them were found to be infected.The department said that a fresh campaign for Covid appropriate behaviour during festivals was being launched. “1.5 lakh pamphlets will be distributed in houses which will be visited by the health staff during the upcoming polio drive. How people respond to the communication will show how the trajectory of cases is. Many other parts of the country have seen cases surging again and the best way to prevent it here is to follow the guidelines,” Dr Kang said.Last month saw a major surge in infections, with the record being set on September 13 (449 cases); the highest number of active cases was reported on September 16 (3,171).Though the number of cases started declining in the last four weeks, September alone accounted for 61% (7,266) of the cases reported between March 18 (first case) and September 30. Also, in comparison to the 41 deaths in August, Chandigarh witnessed 106 deaths in September.To prevent fatalities, the department has ordered that the asymptomatic elderly and patients with comorbidities should be counselled for admission in hospitals instead of home isolation.“The zonal heads under the health department have been directed to ensure that the patients are counselled and this category of patients are admitted to hospital and remain under constant medical examination. Similarly, those who choose to remain in home isolation, oximeters are provided to them and they check the vitals three times and communicate to the concerned in-charge,” Dr Kang added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/second-covid-surge-anticipated-won-t-lower-guard-chandigarh-health-department/story-n6pEOIak6aqfET6S94qVeM.html
27-10-2020||City||Dengue tightens grip on Mohali, 56 cases emerge in 1 week||At the time when Mohali was recuperating from Covid-19 outbreak, dengue spread its tentacles and infected 56 people within a week. Thirty-three of these cases were reported from Mohali city. Civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said, “Cases have been reported from various parts of the district. In the past one week, 56 patients have been tested positive for dengue. Health teams were already put on alert and have been conducting door-to-door checks to identify potential dengue larvae spots.” The Mohali health department had in September issued a warning that coronavirus and dengue co-infection may prove risky after detecting mosquito larvae at several places. While issuing an advisory, the civil surgeon had said that at this hour of Covid-19 pandemic, when we all are engaged in a battle against the deadly virus, it is equally important and essential to save ourselves from the dangerous bite of mosquito named aedes aegypti. The civil surgeon said that people should clean coolers, flowerpots, fridge trays, water tanks and other containers which are general breeding sites of mosquitoes. He reminded that every Friday should be observed as ‘Dry Day’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dengue-tightens-grip-on-mohali-56-cases-emerge-in-1-week/story-bkHn6YpFMRjhPbI7w5sEoJ.html
27-10-2020||City||Hope revives for realty as GMADA finds buyers for 50% of its sites in Mohali||After enduring a torrid time for more than a year, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) finally saw half of its properties (both commercial and residential) getting buyers in its 15-day e-auction that concluded on Monday evening. The development authority sold 57 of its 113 sites and earned ₹417 crore against the total reserve price of ₹800 crore. A residential plot of 500 square yards in Aerocity went for ₹1.93 crore against the reserve price of ₹1.4 crore, while a booth in Sector 61 went for ₹1.15 crore against the reserve price of ₹77 lakh. GMADA after a gap of almost eight months auctioned 113 residential and commercial properties after slashing the reserve price by 10%. To attract more bidders, additional 10% off will be offered on full payment within 60 days. The last auction for these properties was held in February this year after a 20% cut in reserve prices, when 32 of the 67 units were sold. Out of total 22 residential plots, GMADA auctioned 14 sites, while out of 32 booths, 28 were sold out. A hospital site in Aerocity went for ₹49 crore against the reserve price of ₹24 crore. A group housing society in Sector 77 went for ₹97 crore against the reserve price of ₹45 crore. Similarly, a commercial site in Aerocity measuring four acres went for ₹116 crore against the reserve price of ₹83 crore. GMADA also sold a one-acre IT site in Sector 83 for ₹8.5 crore against the reserve price of 6.37 crore. However, there were no takers for a school site in Eco City and four hotel sites in various parts of Mohali.GMADA chief administrator Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “We are satisfied with the auction result and it shows that the realty sector has picked up. We were able to earn ₹417 crore against reserve price of ₹800 crore. We are hopeful that in the next auction, we will be able to sell all our sites.”Among the properties auctioned were 22 residential plots ranging from 100 square yards to 500 square yards and others located in Eco City 1 and Sectors 64, 61 and 56. The commercial units included 32 booths in Sectors 59, 60, 61, 63, and 65; six shop-cum-offices (SCOs)/shop-cum-floors (SCFs)/single-storey shops (SSSs) in Sectors 61, 53, 56 and 64. Seven IT industrial plots located in Sectors 83 and 101 and one hotel site in Sector 66-B with a reserve price of ₹12.7 crore were also listed.“The auction has got a good response and now, we can hope that realty market will bloom again. We request GMADA to slash its reserve price more as it will help in healthy competition and help the development authority earn bigger profit,” said Shailander Anand, former president, Mohali Property Consultants Association (MPCA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hope-revives-for-realty-as-gmada-finds-buyers-for-50-of-its-sites-in-mohali/story-B3RWJfeSra6KKAUSqjl0LL.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Man barges into woman’s house, molests her||Greater Noida: A 28-year-old man allegedly barged into the house of a 26-year-old woman on Sunday night and molested her. When the woman raised an alarm, the suspect hit her with a wooden stick and fled the spot, the police said, adding that the victim’s leg got fractured in the incident. The woman’s younger sister has filed a complaint at Site V police station. “The suspect had barged into our house at 11pm and molested my elder sister. My sister raised an alarm and we rushed to her. The suspect grabbed a wooden staff from the floor and hit my sister on the leg,” the sister said in the FIR. The suspect allegedly also beat the complainant when she tried to rescue her sister. The family members rushed the victim to a private hospital for medical treatment in Bilaspur, the police said. When contacted, the victim’s father said that the suspect was not known to his family. “The suspect lives about one kilometre away from our house. We do not have any relation with the suspect. We do not know why he had barged into our house,” he said. The family informed police about the incident. Vivek Trivedi, station house officer, Site V police station, said that a police team reached the spot after getting the information, but the suspect managed to escape by then. “It appears the suspect barged into the house in an inebriated condition. We have launched search to arrest him,” he said. The police have registered a case against the suspect under Section 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), Section 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and Section 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-man-barges-into-woman-s-house-molests-her/story-x9EKaotPH2muYWOQ89fzPI.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Aqua Line’s Sector 50 station renamed as Pride Station; six transgender staff hired||Noida: The Sector 50 station on the Aqua Line was on Tuesday dedicated to the transgender community and renamed as ‘Pride Station’. The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), which operates the metro service between Noida and Greater Noida, also hired six transgender staff – four for ticketing and two for housekeeping – aimed at inclusive development, officials said. Ritu Maheshwari, managing director of NMRC, said that the initiative aims at the meaningful participation of transgender community. “Earlier we had named two stations – Sector 51 and Pari Chowk as Pink Stations – for women empowerment. With the Pride Station, NMRC feels extremely proud to have qualified members of transgender community as part of its NMRC family. It also instils a ray of hope for the upliftment of the community and breaking stereotypes about them,” she said. The name -- Pride Station -- was selected after receiving suggestions from the general public and some NGOs that work for the community, the officials said. NMRC also collaborated with National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation (NBCFDC), which works under the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment, for providing soft skills training to four transgender community staff who got placement in NMRC. Two other staff members were placed through a Noida- based NGO. The transgender staff have been deployed at the Sector 50 metro station after they were provided with necessary training by NMRC. Mahi Gupta, Panya Pawar, Kajal Kashyap, Shanu – are hired for ticketing, while Pawan and Kunal Mohar are hired in the housekeeping department.Mahi said that she is very happy after getting a job in NMRC. “There is discrimination and stereotype against our community members in the society. We want to work hard and prove that we are equally competent,” she said. Kajal said that she is pursuing master of social work (MSW) programme through distance mode. “I could not continue my study after class 12 because students used to tease me. I have been associated with an NGO for seven years. I got to know about this vacancy, applied and was selected,” she said.GB Nagar member of Parliament Mahesh Sharma, chief guest at the event, said that this is a welcome step by NMRC. “Noida is a land of hope and aspirations. NMRC has paved a way for the transgender community members for their upliftment. If transgender staff can successfully work here, they can also work in other private companies and factories in Noida,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/aqua-line-s-sector-50-station-renamed-as-pride-station-six-transgender-staff-hired/story-7CSJITHBxPt2GEnKnERIRM.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Woman jumps to death from her house in Noida||Noida: A 48-year-old woman allegedly took her own life by jumping from the balcony of her house in an area under the Sector 24 police jurisdiction on Tuesday. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, the police said.According to police officials, they were informed about the incident around 12.30pm.“The woman, along with her family, lived in a rented house on the third floor of a building. Today afternoon she jumped down from her balcony. Her four children and husband were there, but the family found out about it when the locals informed them. They then called us and a team was rushed to the spot. The body has been sent for an autopsy,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, Sector 24 police station.Dikshit said that according to the family, the woman had been depressed for the past few months and was undergoing treatment. “The family feels that this could be the reason for the woman taking her own life. Preliminary investigation did not turn up any dispute or issue which might have triggered this. Even the neighbours did not mention any problems,” said the SHO.Following the autopsy, the body was handed over to the family who has not filed any complaint in the case, the police said.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 9582208181 (Snehi) and Delhi-based 011-23389090 (Sumaitri).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-jumps-to-death-from-her-house-in-noida/story-ctWWAeYNUzlTEhrF9SqPnL.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation proposes 17 entry gates to city||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has proposed to install at least 17 entry gates at as many intra-city, inter-district and inter-state border locations in the city. Officials said that the move is aimed at demarcating the areas under the corporation jurisdiction. As part of the project, the corporation has proposed 17 gates with intra-city borders with other local bodies, with districts like Gautam Budh Nagar and also with nearby states like Delhi. According to the officials, 10 of these will come up in Vasundhara zone, three in Kavi Nagar zone and two each in Mohan Nagar and Vijay Nagar zones. “The idea is to clearly demarcate the boundaries of the corporation wherever they start or end. The commuters should know the jurisdiction they travel in or out. The gates will be beautified to give a new look to the city limits as well. We have started the process and there could be more of such gates which we will include further,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. “It is likely that the work will start soon and well before the next Swachh Survekshan that starts in January,” he added. By the end of December, the work for the Delhi-Meerut Expressway is also likely to get complete and proper connectivity between major city roads to the expressway will also be given. “The proposal for the gates will have to be taken up before the executive committee and then taken to the corporation board for final approval. In my opinion, the gates if they come up at the inter-district borders will be more helpful for commuters who are coming to Ghaziabad district,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar. “But, if the officials are trying to put them up inside the city, it will prove cumbersome as the city areas are already congested and will not be viable,” Tyagi said. The officials have proposed eight such gates at boundary with GB Nagar district while five have been proposed to come up at Ghaziabad borders with Delhi.Residents said that the entry gates will give a new look to the city. “Such gates will give the city a new look, besides clearly demarcating the boundaries. It will also be helpful for commuters to have knowledge of the jurisdiction they are entering. We already have three old gates in heart of the city. They must be preserved,” said Vikrant Sharma, a resident of Raj Nagar Extension and a lawyer. The three old gates which mark the walled city in Ghaziabad are Jawahar Gate at Ghanta Ghar, Dasna Gate and Delhi Gate. The corporation officials said that the gates are maintained by the Ghaziabad development authority which takes up their repairs, lighting, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-proposes-17-entry-gates-to-city/story-3MMttdeVd1PtL7nhcqkQ1I.html
27-10-2020||Noida||State govt declares Child PGI in Noida as non-Covid hospital||NOIDA: The state government on Monday removed the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, better known as Child PGI in Gautam Budh Nagar district, from the list of Covid-dedicated hospitals. The management of Child PGI had requested the government to declare the hospital as a non-Covid facility, to take care of minor patients suffering from other ailments. The Child PGI was converted into an L-2 Covid facility in April this year after the Covid-19 outbreak. “It is the first government Covid-dedicated hospital of the district that has been de-notified. However, it has been made clear that in case of any emergency, the hospital can once again be made a Covid-19 facility, with a notice period of maximum seven days,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. The DM further said that after the denotification, the hospital will be very helpful in treatment of minor patients. Child PGI director Dr DK Gupta said that at present, the hospital has 10 Covid-19 patients. “As a Covid-19 facility, we had 150 beds, including 20 ventilator beds and 30 beds with oxygen. Once the positive patients are discharged, the hospital will be sanitised and then it will start its operation as a non-Covid hospital, exclusively for minors,” he said. Gupta further said that the 250-bed hospital has some exclusive facilities like new-born intensive care unit (NICU) and advanced thalassemia, cancer and dermatology clinics. “From September 28, we had started our free out-patient department (OPD) for the persons, who were discharged from the hospital after defeating Covid-19. So far, nearly 800 Covid-19 positives, including 200 minor patients, have been discharged from this hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-govt-declares-child-pgi-in-noida-as-non-covid-hospital/story-594tAFzdHvLbiOIcWCmyUM.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Majority of Covid-19 deaths took place in urban segments of Ghaziabad, reveals interim analysis of health dept||Ghaziabad: An interim internal analysis of the Covid-19 related fatalities in the district has revealed that 71 of the 82 deaths reported so far have come from the urban segments of the district. Officials of the district health department said that dense population in urban areas and nearness to Delhi resulted in the spread of infection. The assessment of the district health department also indicated that out of 82 fatalities, 54 patients suffered co-morbid conditions. Of the 54 fatality cases having co-morbid conditions, 24 patients suffered at least one disease while other 30 suffered more than one ailments which further complicated the Covid-19 condition of the patients, as per the analysis. When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey referred the matter for response to the chief medical officer (CMO). “More deaths took place in urban segments as there is about 80% of population base in urban areas in the district. Also, these localities are densely populated as compared to villages. Areas like Kaushambi, Vaishali, and Indirapuram always had high number of cases due to large working population which goes to Delhi for work. So, the inflow of infection was also high,” said Dr NK Gupta, CMO, Ghaziabad. “The villages, on the other hand, barricaded their entry/exit points since the lockdown and put up stricter checks on incoming of outsiders. A major proportion of the fatalities also took place in hospitals outside the district where many patients went on their own. At later stages, the use of nasal cannula and medicines like Remdesivir, among other things, brought positive results and many patients who were facing severe conditions recovered,” Gupta added. At present, the district has a total of 82 fatalities of which 55 alone took place in the month of June. In October, five deaths have been reported so far, according to the state control room figures. As per the analysis, 28 deaths were of the patients in the age group over 60 years, while 17 deaths took place in age group 51-60 years and 18 in age group 41-50 years. In addition, there was one death in the age group 0-10 years. Of the total deaths, men accounted for 51 fatalities while the rest were women. The survey report also said that 59 patients who succumbed were admitted to the intensive care unit. Notably, of the 82 deaths, only 39 took place at hospitals in Ghaziabad while the rest were in other hospitals at Meerut, Noida and Delhi. “Since the Covid-19 infection was new, there was regular upgrade of infrastructure which was used in due course of time. The greater number of fatalities in urban segments were due to spread of infection in densely populated areas. Over a period of time, the case fatality has reduced and the severity of infection has also come down,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “Moreover, it was in urban segments that initial set of foreign travellers arrived and severity of infection then was high. Majority of containment zones were created in urban segments,” Jindal added. At present, the district has a case fatality rate of 0.45% even as the total number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 18,154. In order to prevent spread of infection and prevent further fatalities, the state health department officials in an internal communication have directed the district officials to review each death in depth and disseminate the findings to stop preventable deaths in future. “The state officials have directed us to focus on ways to prevent delays and ensure quality treatment to save lives. We have also been asked to continuously monitor home isolated patients and ensure that visits are paid on first, fourth and seventh day as stipulated. For early testing, we have been asked to focus on testing of highly vulnerable groups like vendors, auto rickshaw drivers, healthcare workers, and symptomatic cases found at Covid help desks,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/majority-of-covid-19-deaths-took-place-in-urban-segments-of-ghaziabad-reveals-interim-analysis-of-health-dept/story-oJHZysU1hICcsZYG1966MO.html
27-10-2020||City||Panel formed for study and research on rise in air pollution||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Authority has formed a panel of experts to research into the reasons that has led to rise in air pollution and how it can be effectively contained. The panel that will have professors from Gautam Budh Nagar University, Sharda University, Amity University, Shiv Nadar University and other educational institutions and will focus on two points- local causes and external causes.“Once the research is completed, we will establish the exact causes of pollution within the jurisdiction of our authority and external causes such as stubble burning in remote state like Punjab or Haryana etc. It will help us make a detailed project report to act to contain air pollution,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority.The internal causes of air pollution are construction activity, traffic jam, garbage handling, industrial sources and other causes limited to a city.“As per old studies, 30% air pollution causes due to construction activity in a city,” said Bhooshan.The authority has been sprinkling water on roads, doing mechanical sweeping and enforcing the NGT guidelines.“But still the air pollution is rising in the city. It means there are gaps and we all need to do better be it enforcement or taking other effective steps. Panel research and preparing action plan is not a short term project. We aim to see the results of this research in next 2-3 years,” said Bhooshan.The increasing air pollution has become a cause of concern for the authority also because they feel that if the air pollution will continue to increase every winter then it will have repercussions on industrial growth and investment as it will put off the international investors.“With Expressway, International airport, Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and other mega projects Greater Noida region has become an international city in terms of big investment projects coming up here. Therefore we need to make this region ecologically sustainable and to make that happen we need to research and then act,” said Bhooshan. “We have decided to participate in this research that aims to find out how we can effectively mitigate the air pollution that has become a major cause of worry every winter season for our society. Our professors are already brain storming on methods to reduce air pollution. And now with the panel we will work towards finding a sustainable solution to this menace,” said vice chancellor of Gautam Buddha University BP Sharma. The private universities are also willing to play a role in this project.“We had an interaction with the Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan on the issue of rising air pollution. Our professor from the department of environmental science and environmental engineering will be a part of this panel that is important to address the air pollution issue,” said Dr Ajit Kumar spokesperson of Sharda University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panel-formed-for-study-and-research-on-rise-in-air-pollution/story-kbB50HM1rVckBz8wjdvkFM.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Air pollution review for non-attainment cities: UP directs Ghaziabad to control PM10, Noida to ensure smooth flow of traffic||Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday recognised traffic and construction as the two main sources of pollution in Noida and Ghaziabad and directed officials to direct their attention to solving these issues. Sudhir Garg, UP principal secretary (forests), reviewed the pollution scenario with officials of 16 non-attainment cities in the state that have been consistently violating air quality standards. Pollution levels have spiked in October with coarse particulate matter PM10 and ultrafine particulate matter PM2.5 emerging as primary pollutants. “With regards to Ghaziabad, the principal secretary has directed that we should make more efforts to check PM10 levels that has large number of local sources. He has directed us to keep check on road dust as well as take up repair of broken roads besides keeping tab on construction sites as well,” said Utsav Sharma, Ghaziabad regional officer of the UP-pollution control board. “Our monitoring stations at Loni and Indirapuram are primarily affected due to construction. We said that there is strict watch on such activities especially with respect to the Delhi Meerut Expressway and Regional Rapid Transit System. The corporation also told that they have initiated work of road dust collection in dust bags and the scheme has been gaining momentum.” The officials said that they also gave details to the principal secretary about the installation of CCTV cameras at construction sites over area of 20,000 square metres and above. “So far, we have got CCTV controls of eight out of 34 construction sites and verification process is on for sites that have completed their self-audit as directed by the UPPCB. Out of about 75 air polluting industrial units, we have CCTV camera controls of 39 units. In case, the CCTVs are not readied by end of October, we will start levying penalties,” Sharma said. During the video-conferencing on Tuesday, the principal secretary also issued directions to the UPPCB officials of Noida. “We have been asked to maintain smooth flow of traffic wherever road construction/repair works are taken up. The principal secretary told that there should be alternate routes which should be made available for smooth passage of traffic in case some road is getting constructed. Besides, we have been told to intensify water sprinkling as well as take up proper garbage management in order to control pollution,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of the UPPCB, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-pollution-review-for-non-attainment-cities-up-directs-ghaziabad-to-control-pm10-noida-to-ensure-smooth-flow-of-traffic/story-Okbpym6gsFiWjOKye6VKxM.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Image of district will be hit if you don’t follow pollution norms, officials tell realtors||With pollution season here and high monetary penalties on contractors not helping, a high-level meeting of officials from Greater Noida and Noida authorities, district administration and the police department tried to impress upon them that the image of the district would take a hit if they did not take responsibility.At the same time, officials said they would not shy away from taking strict action.The Greater Noida authority on Tuesday imposed ₹1.25 crore penalty against the 25 realtors for pollution norms violations, a day earlier it had slapped ₹97 lakh penalty against nine realtors. The Noida authority imposed ₹50,000 penalty against three persons on Tuesday. However, officials on the ground said the violations continued unabated. “We have realised that imposing the penalty against the developers are not going to achieve any results until the realtors willingly follow the guidelines. Noida and Greater Noida are International cities with world class infrastructure projects including airport at Jewar and attracting investment in big projects. Rise in Air pollution will damage the brand image of the city and have negative repercussions on every business. So we need to work together to protect the image,” said Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan who chaired the meeting.Gautam Budh Nagar’s police commissioner Alok Singh and district magistrate Suhas LY, Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yedia) CEO Arun Vir Singh and representatives from at least 30 real estate firms attended the meeting in Greater Noida authority’s sector Knowledge Park-IV administrative office.According to the NGT’s construction guidelines construction material should not be left uncovered, when ferried they should be covered a sheet, large construction sites should be surrounded by plantation to keep dust under check and anti-smog guns had to be installed at all sites spread over 20,000 square meter-plot.“All the realtors or others engaged in construction need to adhere to these rules. Also, we will enforce traffic rules through strict enforcement to minimise the pollution that is caused due to traffic congestion. Vehicles such as tractor or others violating rules will face action,” said Alok Singh police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar.“We have made it clear to the realtors, industrial unit owners and others that they should comply or face strict action. If construction sites, which are operational without workable smog guns need to be shut or face severe action. We have requested everybody in meeting that follow rules or be prepared to face action from different agencies be it administration or UPPCB,” said Suhas LY district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar.The developers said they are ready to follow the rules.“We have installed anti-smog guns at our sites so that the air pollution that is caused due to construction activity can be contained. We have assured the officials that all realtors will follow to rules and do their bit to mitigate air pollution,” said RK Arora president of national real estate council Uttar Pradesh chapter.“We have appealed to all realtors to follow national green tribunal guidelines. And all realtors are already very serious on implementation of the rules of NGT,” said Prashant Tiwari president of confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-image-of-district-will-be-hit-if-you-don-t-follow-pollution-norms-officials-tell-realtors/story-MZCP0Hnc0weM1no7onEHZK.html
27-10-2020||Noida||As pollution rises, Ghaziabad officials identify 17 traffic congestion hotspots||Ghaziabad district administration officials have identified 17 major traffic intersection points in the city as hot spots where traffic snarls and bottlenecks were likely to add to the ultra fine particulate matter PM2.5 levels this winter. The district magistrate directed officials to prepare a plan to ensure that traffic here was smooth and unhindered. The 17 points include six major intersection the under construction Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) where the phase 2 work is in progress and dusty conditions also add high levels of coarse particulate matter PM10 to the existing pollution levels. The six points were identified at ABES cut, Vijay Nagar crossing, Tigri cut, Santosh Medical crossing, Lal Kuan flyover and Atma Ram steel crossing near Vijay Nagar. “The district magistrate has directed the regional transport department to intensify checks for pollution certificates and other enforcement measures ahead of the upcoming festival season. He also directed the officials of the traffic police for deployment of staff,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. “Within the next couple of days, different departments have also been directed to prepare the plan to ensure that there are no traffic snarls or bottlenecks.” The other major points identified include the major crossings near Ghanta Ghar, Meerut Crossing, Raj Nagar Extension crossing, Sihani Chungi, Old vegetable market, Sahibabad-Seemapuri crossing, Bhopra crossing, at Sahibabad site IV industrial area, Loni crossing, Tila Morh crossing and also at Tronica City. According to the records of the UP Pollution Control Board, the PM10 levels have been ranging up to three times the safe limits (100µg/m³) in Ghaziabad in October, while the PM2.5 levels were almost double its safe limit of 60µg/m³. Environmentalists said that these hot spots should have been identified before the start of winter and plans put in place from October 1. “There have been traffic management initiatives like the integrated traffic management plan which has died out and not being taken up. Further, the Central Road Research Institute also prepared a detailed traffic management plan. But residents don’t know how much of it was implemented. So, traffic has always been a major issued in the city but there is hardly anything concrete which has been done,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. “At every major market, there will be hundreds of vehicles parked roadsides as there is hardly any parking facility available. In festival season, the rush will increase manifold. So, simply identifying the traffic congestion points in late October is no major achievement and just eyewash. The city suffers traffic issues throughout the year.”Box: traffic congestion hotspots ABES cut, Vijay Nagar crossing, Tigri cut, Santosh Medical crossing, Lal Kuan flyover, Atma Ram steel crossing near Vijay Nagar, Ghanta Ghar, Meerut Crossing, Raj Nagar Extension crossing, Sihani Chungi, Old vegetable market, Sahibabad-Seemapuri crossing, Bhopra crossing, at Sahibabad site IV industrial area, Loni crossing, Tila Morh crossing and Tronica City||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-pollution-rises-ghaziabad-officials-identify-17-traffic-congestion-hotspots/story-eiEcMljmLeWYEJ6ruGcghN.html
27-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Slight improvement in air quality||Favourable meteorological conditions on Tuesday improved the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, however the air quality still hovered within the “very poor” category. Greater Noida and Noida was the second and third most polluted cities in national capital region (NCR), following Bhiwadi in Rajasthan, on Tuesday. The condition may however, deteriorate over Wednesday and Thursday.According to the India meteorological department (IMD), the wind speed increased from average 8 kmph on Monday to around 20 kmph on Tuesday leading to proper dispersion of pollutants. This is likely to significantly drop on Wednesday and Thursday. “Wind speed was good on Tuesday as expected, so the dispersion of the pollutants leads to slight improvement in the air quality. We had recorded an average wind speed of 18 to 20 kmph today of westerly and north westerly directions. However, the wind speed will drop to 8-10 kmph on October 28 and 29,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that good wind speed is expected between October 30 and November 1. “We expect good wind speed by the month end, which will further help in dispersal of pollutants,” said Srivastava. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperatures for next three days are expected to hover around 32 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 13 degrees Celsius. According to the data assessed by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the air quality index (AQI) in Noida on Tuesday on a scale of 0 to 500 was 320 against 376 a day before. The AQI of Greater Noida was 332 against 384 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 306 against 365 a day earlier. The AQI between 300 to 399 is considered ‘very-poor’. Meanwhile, the Knowledge Park-V area of Greater Noida showed marked improvement with an AQI of 316 against 435 (severe) a day earlier. While the second monitoring station of Greater Noida – Knowledge Park—saw an AQI of 327 against 349 a day earlier. The PM10 concetration of the Greater Noida area dropped from 602.66 microgrammes per cubic metres on Monday to 336.32 units on Tuesday. The standard limit of PM10, or larger suspended particles in air is 60 units. The average PM2.5 of Noida dropped from 198.67 units a day earlier to 166.88 unit on Tuesday. The PM10 concentration of Noida also dropped from 414.52 units on Monday to 314.30 units. The PM2.5 values of Ghaziabad also improved from 204.18 units to 170.73 units, while the PM10 concentration improved from 361.70 units to 308.71 units. “Met conditions have favoured the dispersion of pollutant in the region leading to improvement of air quality on Tuesday. Besides, we have also recommended the agencies concerned to intensify the water sprinkling in several areas with heavy construction activities. We also held a meeting with over 40 builders instructing them to take appropriate dust and emission control measures at their respective sites,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-slight-improvement-in-air-quality/story-NB3aOzX9NvY7FsXBOQFrzL.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Speeding car leaves 2 dead, 3 injured in Chandigarh||A speeding car left two people, including an eight-year-old boy, dead and three injured after it hit a two-wheeler, rickshaw and three pedestrians before coming to a halt on the Sector 32/33 road on Tuesday.Those killed have been identified as Amrit, 8, of Pinjore and Robin, 26, of Una in Himachal Pradesh. Amrit’s mother Rajwant besides Shashi, a 32-year-old woman from Deep Complex in Hallomajra, and Naseem, a rickshaw-puller who resides at the Sector-27 market, were injured. They are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.Police have arrested car driver Dilpreet Singh, 32, who works as an inspector with the food and supply department in Faridkot. According to police, the accident took place around 3.10pm. Dilpreet’s Tata Nexon first hit a Honda Activa, then three pedestrians and a rickshaw before climbing onto the cycle track and coming to a halt. While Robin was on the Activa, Rajwant and Amrit were waiting on the roadside for an auto-rickshaw, and Shashi was crossing the road.Robin and Amrit, who was returning along with his mother from Kartarpur, were declared brought dead on being rushed to hospital. Dilpreet Singh told police that he had blacked out after losing control of the vehicle and realised what had happened only after it came to a halt. His medical examination was conducted, but its details have not been shared yet. He will be produced in court on Wednesday.A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/speeding-car-leaves-2-dead-3-injured-in-chandigarh/story-QpvovyThZSxrQIlznplcNM.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to come up with innovation hub||Panjab University is coming up with an entrepreneurship, employability and innovation hub at its Sector-25 campus. Dr Rohit Sharma, head of Panjab University Incubation Centre, said that eight to ten startups falling in the major working domains will be evaluated and selected on the basis of their innovativeness to cater to a problem, their potential impact and return on investment. Selected startups will be awarded a maximum of ₹5 lakh as soft loan. “We wish to provide more confidence to the innovators so that they can proudly shape the future of a smarter nation,” he said.Being set up under Rashtriya Uchchattar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) 2.0, the hub will help nurture startups based on engineering technologies and interplaying areas in pharmaceutical, biological, physical and chemical sciences as well as from social sciences, IT and management sectors, stated a release.Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said: “In today’s era of innovation and technology, quick-fix but durable solutions are the need of the hour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-come-up-with-innovation-hub/story-Weupy0wiDN0cO0SJbnSWBO.html
27-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: ‘Rail roko’ pushes industry off track with many forced to shut shop, shift to other states||As trouble deepens for the industry due to the ongoing ‘rail roko’ agitation by farmers which has interrupted supplies, the industrial associations on Tuesday said that many exporters were forced to shut down their units, while some are planning to shift business to other states.With over four containers carrying goods and raw material worth crores stuck at ports or in transit due to no movement of goods trains in the state, the industry is facing an acute shortage of raw material and exporters fear cancellation of orders due to the delay being caused in delivery of goods. The cost of raw material available has also increased due to low supply.The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) also organised a meeting of industrialists on Tuesday and urged the state government to intervene in the matter.President CICU, Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary, Pankaj Sharma said that the rail services were not stopped even when terrorism was at its peak in the state. Industrialists are being forced to shut down units due to a shortage of raw material including steel. The industry was already reeling under losses due to the lockdown and the situation has worsened due to the farmers’ rail roko agitation, they said. Some industrialists do not have funds to pay salaries to their staff. Further, the shipping companies are planning to charge for containers stuck with them, they added.“Importers and exporters are under a lot of stress. As the Inland Container Depots (ICD) in the state are closed, the industry is mulling transportation of goods meant for export to Gujarat and Mumbai by road, from where the shipments would be released, but this will increase the transportation cost. The auto parts manufacturers are worried as they will have to pay heavy penalties if the supply of parts to automakers gets delayed. The medium and large-scale industry is planning to shift units to other states due to frequent disturbances being witnessed in the state,” said Ahuja.Industrialists rued that the state government has extended support to the protest for political mileage.President of All Industries and Trade Forum, Badish Jindal said that the state government is indulging in politics rather than resolving the issue. “The industries in the state purchase around 3-lakh tonnes of steel every month which includes wire rods, H R Coil, C R Coils, TMT, billets and blooms, etc. But due to farmers’ agitation, the supply through the railway has stopped and they have to bring the steel through the road network, which increases the transportation cost of steel by Rs 2,000 per tonne,” he said.States like Haryana and Rajasthan do not have such problems, although farmers there are also suffering. Those states have maintained law and order and movement of goods is going on, said Ahuja while adding that the industry is exploring legal options to resolve the issues being faced by them and a delegation will also meet chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in the coming days.President of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, DS Chawla said, “The large industry is planning to shift units to other states but small manufacturers have no choice and they are on the brink of closure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-rail-roko-pushes-industry-off-track-with-many-forced-to-shut-shop-shift-to-other-states/story-SsMmFQRFLUDmOy8PS5ubMK.html
27-10-2020||City||Road transport workers take out protest rally over pending demands in Ludhiana||The joint action committee of Punjab Roadways and Punbus contractual workers’ union organised a protest rally against the state government over their long-pending demands at the city bus stand on Tuesday.The protesting workers rued that the government rather than working on their demands is working to merge Punjab Roadways and Punbus into Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC).Raising slogans against the state government, the protesting members said they have been demanding that the government should regularise the contractual staff of Punbus and purchase more buses for the roadways. They alleged that the government has also failed to tighten the noose on buses plying in the state illegally.Members of the joint action committee, including Reshan Singh Gill, Baljit Singh and Jagdish Singh Chahal among others, said that several memorandums have been submitted with the transport department and the minister, but to no avail.Now, the committee has launched an agitation against the government from Tuesday onwards. Protest rallies will be organised in Jalandhar and Amritsar on November 4 and November 12 respectively. If the government still failed to pay heed to their demands, the staff will observe a one-day state-wide strike on November 26, said the protesting members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-transport-workers-take-out-protest-rally-over-pending-demands-in-ludhiana/story-ErNNz6JYERhBmtQmheihwN.html
27-10-2020||City||Swachh Survekshan 2021: With eye on good rankings, MC to revive graffiti project in city||Hoping to bag good rankings in Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has decided to revive the graffiti project to beautify the city. The civic body will be roping in the services of local NGOs and graffiti artistes to carry out the project.In meeting with civic body officials and local NGOs on Tuesday, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal asked officials to identify sites where graffiti painting can be carried out. Mayor Balkar Sandhu was also present at the meeting.Shobhan Soi from Sambhav foundation, who attended the meeting, said, “It is good that the MC has decided to revive the graffiti project. We will be happy to support the MC in this project.” He further added, “Residents and corporate houses should pitch in as sponsors. In return, they will be allowed to display their logos on the graffiti.”The graffiti project was started in 2016 by the then MC commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and several parts of the city, including Lodhi Club railway underpass, Jalandhar bypass, National road, Lakkar bridge, railway station road among other areas, were beautified. Defacement, open urination a major concernSoi said that defacement of graffitis is a major concern as violators have installed hoardings or pasted stickers at most of the graffities established earlier. He added that open urination is also a major issue, which has led to the defacement of various graffitis in the city.MC commissioner Sabharwal said that strict action will be taken against anyone found defacing graffiti in the city. He added that if required, FIRs will also be lodged against offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swachh-survekshan-2021-with-eye-on-good-rankings-mc-to-revive-graffiti-project-in-city/story-wPicTlpLQGk2mtiMYUj2hL.html
27-10-2020||City||Elderly woman found murdered in Field Gunj||An elderly woman was found bludgeoned to death outside a public toilet in Field Gunj area in the early hours of Tuesday. Passersby spotted the body and informed the police.The woman, seemingly a homeless, was wearing a choora (a set of bangles traditionally worn by newly-wed bride).Division number 2 station house officer (SHO), inspector Satpal Singh said the victim appears to be around 75 to 80 years old. “She was wearing a choora and brown salwar-suit. We are trying to ascertain the identity of the woman and have questioned people in nearby localities, however, there are no leads yet,” he said. The SHO added that a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. The body will be kept in the mortuary of the civil hospital for 72 hours for identification. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-woman-found-murdered-in-field-gunj/story-EhaCVxjRXqIHuwCluXT6xN.html
27-10-2020||City||Open school exam: 1,953 Class 10 students appear for English paper in Ludhiana, dub it easy||As many as 1,953 students of Class 10, out of 2,325, appeared in the English exam conducted under the open schooling system here on Tuesday. Besides, four Class 12 students also sat for their compartment exam.Overall, the open school students found the English paper easy. According to some, however, the grammar part of the exam was a bit tricky.The Class 12 students had their public administration compartment exam.District education officer (secondary) Swarnjit Kaur said that the students faced no problems during the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/open-school-exam-1-953-class-10-students-appear-for-english-paper-in-ludhiana-dub-it-easy/story-QjEqcFwKB5cFGMltaRQDoN.html
27-10-2020||City||Sarpanches, NGOs lend helping hand, start sanitisation drive in Ludhiana’s rural schools||Sarpanches of several villages, NGOs, school management committees have initiated a sanitisation drive at government schools in rural areas besides distributing foot-operated hand dispensers, masks, and no-touch hand wash machines to school heads.Making every possible effort for the safety of school students and staff, a sanitisation and fogging drive was initiated free of cost in many government schools in rural areas. The school authorities are also demarcating spaces to maintain social distance, fixing specific entry and exit points, deputing staff to conduct thermal screening of students.By taking these precautionary measures, authorities of Government Senior Secondary School, Ayali Khurd, was able to improve students’ attendance from 21 to 83 since the school reopened on October 19.Sarpanch of Ayali Khurd village, Surinder Singh has got the school sanitised every month since the Covid-19 outspread in March. The school has 37 classrooms. NGO, Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Sewa Trust has donated seven no-touch hand dispensers and 1,100 masks to the school that has deputed staff at the entrance gate to conduct thermal screening of students. To maintain hygiene, covered dustbins have been kept in corridors.School Principal, Kanwaljot Kaur, said, “We have followed all SOPs and Covid norms. All students and staff wear masks and bring their own water bottle and social distancing norms are being followed. In the last six days, many parents have come to the school to check the precautions put in place and many of them have now agreed to send their children to school.” Another Government Senior Secondary School, Lalton Kalan, is leaving no stone unturned in its fight against the virus. The school received an automatic hand dispenser and no-touch handwash machine from an NGO which is installed near the entry gate of the school. Parents have been visiting the school to check the arrangements made by the school. School principal, Pradeep Kumar, said, “We have re-opened the school on October 19 and followed all safety precautions.In the last six days, 60 students have attended the classes and the school authorities expect that more students will visit the school in the coming days. Around 50 students attended classes on the first day alone.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Dakha, school management committee (SMC) members have informed parents through loudspeakers regarding the SOPs to be followed by students while coming to school. On October 19, around 20 students attended school and in the last six days, the number has reached 70. After every class, teachers told students not to remove masks.School principal, Jaswinder Kaur, said, “We have got the school sanitised and hand sanitisers have been kept in corridors, entry gate. Circles have been marked outside washrooms and near the entry gate so that social distancing can be maintained. All students and staff members are wearing masks and washing hands after every class to keep the virus at bay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sarpanches-ngos-lend-helping-hand-start-sanitisation-drive-in-ludhiana-s-rural-schools/story-89a2ZjaWU5okCYc69KuLSK.html
27-10-2020||City||President’s nod to inquiry into ‘misgovernance’ at Delhi University||New Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to an inquiry into alleged misgovernance at Delhi University, officials said on Tuesday. The President is the visitor (head of the institution) to the university. “The president has given his assent for a probe into issues of misgovernance. The Union education ministry has raised questions about the governance of the varsity and the consent has been received. The ministry will now set up a committee that will probe the issues,” said an education ministry official. The official added that vice-chancellor Yogesh Kumar Tyagi will continue to be on leave.Meanwhile, an email notification issued on Wednesday gave a new twist to the ongoing turf war over the appointment of top officials in the central institution. In the notification, issued by PC Jha in his capacity as the registrar, all DU officials were asked to comply with the DU Act, its statutes and ordinances. Soon, Vikas Gupta, the registrar, issued a notice to Jha for issuing the notification illegally. Jha represents the lobby backed by vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and Gupta is backed by the group led by pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi. After a bitter spat over the appointment of a new registrar that went on for two days, the Union education ministry had nullified the appointment of Jha, saying since Tyagi is on sick leave he could not take such decisions. Gupta’s appointment had also been cleared by the executive council, the highest decision making body of the varsity, in a meeting on October 21. Gupta on Tuesday issued a memorandum to Jha for issuing a notification while posing as the registrar. “Jha has been constantly issuing statements falsely posing as the registrar of the university. We had issued a memorandum to him last Saturday on the same grounds but he is yet to respond to it. Now, if he will not respond to this new memo in the next 24 hours, action will be taken against him,” Gupta said in the memo.Jha, however, said that as per the university’s norms he is the “duly appointed” registrar. “The vice-chancellor has appointed me as the acting registrar and the ministry cannot interfere in it as per the DU Act. I do not accept the validity of the memo issued by Gupta as he is not technically the registrar of the university.”Earlier in the day, an e-mail was sent out from V-C Tyagi’s official mail ID to the university officials, principals, and media persons describing the achievements of the institution under his tenure since 2016. From DU getting an institution of eminence (IoE) tag and autonomy in 2019 to building journalism school and cybersecurity institute, the email lists out several other initiatives the university has taken between 2016 and 2020. While Tyagi did not respond to calls and texts sent for comment, Jha said, “The email was sent out by the V-C himself. It’s a befitting response for those who have been alleging that Tyagi did not do any work during his tenure.”Gupta said that the university will soon ask the technical team to hand over the rights to the V-C office email to the acting V-C PC Joshi. “As far as we know, V-C Tyagi is on leave and we do not know who has the access to his e-mail ID and password. Our technical team will soon block it and hand it over to the pro-VC,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/president-s-nod-to-inquiry-into-misgovernance-at-delhi-university/story-uIxFlIvKcNJQYnpYKWCAyN.html
27-10-2020||City||Samrala govt school shuts for a week after lecturer tests +ve||Government Senior Secondary School (for boys), Samrala, has been closed for a week after a lecturer tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The lecturer has been sent into home isolation and the health department has started the procedure to trace all people who came in contact with him recently. The lecturer, along with 44 other faculty members of the school, had undergone Covid-19 tests last Friday. After he tested positive, all faculty members have been asked to go for a re-examination. At least 60 senior class students had been coming to the school since it reopened earlier this month, as part of the fifth phase of the unlocking process.Samrala civil hospital’s senior medical officer (SMO) Taranjot Singh said as the students are minors, the health department would need their parents’ consent to take their samples for testing. He said that if any student has developed flu-like symptoms, they can get their test done from the health development.School principal Davinder Singh said the teacher was also a class in-charge so he had lots of paperwork to do. He had come in contact with some students who had come to him for registration and document-related tasks.158 students appear in examinationWhen the report of the lecturer testing positive for Covid-19 came on Tuesday, as many as 158 students of open school were taking their English exam at the school. Though these students were allowed to stay back till they completed the exam, 60 other students who had come to attend classes were sent home immediately. The principal said there was no other option but to let the students finish their exam. The school has, however, requested the education department to shift the students to some other school for Thursday’s paper. 2 dead, 50 more infectedAs many as 50 new Covid cases and two deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in Ludhiana is now 831. A total of 20,096 positive cases have been reported till now, of which 19,026 have recovered. A total of 2, 119 samples have been taken for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/samrala-govt-school-shuts-for-a-week-after-lecturer-tests-ve/story-EfvnwC86NYUEEmuYSEFYuO.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s minimum temperature drops slightly, winter still month away, says IMD||Mumbai’s suburbs on Tuesday experienced a nip in the air as the minimum temperatures dropped to 22 degrees Celsius, a three-degree drop from 25 degrees Celsius the previous day.The Santacruz weather station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 33.5 degree Celsius and minimum temperature of 22.2 degrees Celsius which was one degree below the normal temperature of 23 degrees Celsius. The Colaba station recorded a maximum temperature of 32.2 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperature of around 23 degree Celsius with partly cloudy sky is expected over the next two days, according to the IMD’s forecast.The MeT bureau clarified that while temperatures have dropped and may remain low for the next couple of days, winter was still at least a month away. Also read: Facebook India’s Ankhi Das quits as head of public policy“Temperature dropped slightly on Tuesday but it is not an indication of the onset of winter. As monsoon will start withdrawing from Mumbai, it is expected that humidity will decrease and temperatures will be recorded around 22-23 degrees. Low temperatures may continue for a couple more days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. However, the onset of winter will begin only in December as usual, he added. There was no change in the withdrawal line of monsoon from north Maharashtra. The IMD had declared the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from north Maharashtra on Monday. The withdrawal is likely to start on Wednesday. The line of withdrawal passes through Dahanu in north Konkan, Nashik, north-central Maharashtra, parts of Marathwada and entire Vidarbha. Monsoon withdrawal from other parts of the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, is expected over the next 24 hours, the IMD said. This is expected to be one of the most delayed withdrawals from the city over past 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-minimum-temperature-drops-slightly-winter-still-month-away-says-imd/story-RZw3TAZfWA1FwEtFWGKmIO.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||H-Rera to take action against property dealers charging more than prescribed commission rate||The Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) on Tuesday said that the authority will take action against property dealers who are charging more than one percent commission rate on the sale of properties as prescribed by the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Rules, 2009, made under the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Act of 2008. Officials of the authority also said that H-Rera will soon formulate a code of conduct for property dealers to ensure that they do not indulge in unfair trade practices.KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, said that rules call for one percent commission on agreed consideration value to be paid by the seller and purchaser of the property on finalisation of the deal as per the agreement entered in the register of the dealer under a valid receipt. “Instances have come to the notice of the authority that some of the property dealers are falsely representing the services of a particular standard or grade and making false or misleading representation concerning the services and approvals of the project. Misleading advertisements of projects are also being issued by brokers of upcoming projects, violating rules,” he said. “As such all real estate agents are hereby cautioned not to charge commission more than what is prescribed in the rules. Doing so will be deemed as an outright violation of the provisions of the law,’’ the chairman said. Khandelwal added that code of ethics will prescribe not only the additional books of accounts to be maintained by the property dealers (so as to check whether the commission is being charged as per the law) but also ask for keeping a record of transaction which may be perused by the authority in case of a dispute between a buyer and a broker.The authority also observed that the property dealers/brokers were indulging in malpractices in connivance with the promoters and charging much more than the prescribed commission both from the sellers and buyers. It has been reported that commission as high as 5% to 10% of the value of the property is being charged by the agent and the burden of this additional commission is ultimately being shared by the allottee, it said. The authority is also keeping a vigil on brokers, who are developing and selling unauthorised colonies. SC Kush, member, H-Rera, said that brokers/ property dealers who do not have the necessary documents pertaining to projects in which they deal, shall also be penalised. Penalty might include the cancellation of their registration with the authority and even a withdrawal of the licence. The code of ethics also proposes to make displaying the details of the real estate project mandatory at a place where the sale is being facilitated, he said.When asked about the proposed code, Ravinder Aggarwal, president, Association of Certified Realtors of India, said that H-Rera has the right to prescribe a code of conduct but it should also put its own house in order. “Most of the orders and directions issued by authority remain unimplemented and the buyers are kept waiting for years. The government needs to appoint judicial officers and empower them so that real intervention can take place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/h-rera-to-take-action-against-property-dealers-charging-more-than-prescribed-commission-rate/story-Wei133gq2XGIgD8CHhYXxO.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG to take stock of available parking spaces on Mall Mile, Golf Course Road||With the aim of increasing the total number of available parking spaces in the city, teams from the taxation wing of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be visiting all commercial buildings, having basement parking facilities, on the heavily congested Mall Mile and Golf Course Road (GCR) next month. MCG officials said the owners of such buildings would be subsequently be given an option to get an exemption from the civic body on property taxes for their basement areas, provided they offer their basements to residents for parking free of cost. Officials said, on their visits, they would ask owners to provide a declaration, listing details such as the total number of parking spaces available, the type of parking rates they are charging, and the annual property tax they pay to the civic body. As per MCG officials, depending on the size of the parking space, the property tax of a basement floor can cost anywhere between ₹10 lakh-₹20 lakh on an average annually.“Starting from the first week of November, we’ll ask owners of all commercial buildings along the MG Road and GCR to give a declaration regarding the use of their basement floors. Subsequently, they would be given an option to either become a part of MCG’s parking policy or continue paying property tax to us. The rationale behind this move is to create more parking spaces in the city and reduce congestion along stretches which have a high volume of traffic,” said Sameer Srivastava, zonal taxation officer (ZTO), MCG.The MCG introduced its parking policy in March 2017. However, it mainly covered malls. Around 110 buildings are currently under the civic body’s parking policy. Associations of commercial buildings’ owners said that such a policy would be lucrative only for those buildings where the parking volume is low and earnings from parking tickets are negligible.“For buildings such as ours, the MCG’s parking policy is simply not lucrative or even economically feasible. The amount of property tax we pay for our basement parking floors annually is recovered through parking earnings in a month. Hence, this policy makes little sense for us. However, for buildings where the total occupancy for parking is low and the earnings through it is also insignificant, such a policy may make sense,” said Aman Bajaj, member of MGF Metropolitan Mall Association.Parking is a major problem in Gurugram with only one multilevel parking and 43 sanctioned parking lots for a city which registers around 30,000 new vehicles annually.MCG officials are estimating that they would be able to increase parking spaces for vehicles by 10,000-15,000 along these stretches by integrating more commercial buildings into their policy.The MCG’s policy, however, comes with its own set of problems. Just a week ago, the civic body served a notice to a mall on GCR, after receiving a complaint through the CM window that the mall was charging parking fees to visitors despite being a part of the civic body’s parking policy and displaying a signboard outside the mall, stating “free parking”. The complaint further alleged that the mall was getting an annual property tax exemption of ₹50 lakh from the MCG.Srivastava said that the MCG is probing the matter and has asked department of town and country planning (DTCP) for building plans of the mall.In December last year, the MCG had received complaints of three malls on Sohna Road charging visitors for parking despite putting up signage of free parking. Subsequently, the MCG had issued notices to all the buildings under its parking policy, warning of sealing if any building was found to be violating the terms of its parking policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-take-stock-of-available-parking-spaces-on-mall-mile-golf-course-road/story-QFX5nU0qbiNXEekSIENelJ.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||Two men who jumped bail five years ago held from Khandsa Mandi||The city police on Tuesday arrested two persons, identified as Praveen alias Sonu of Arjun Nagar and Mukesh Kumar of Sohna, who are proclaimed offenders and have jumped bail in an attempt-to-murder case five years ago. A team from the crime investigation agency of Sector 14 arrested the two men from Khandsa vegetable Mandi on Tuesday afternoon, when they came to meet their friends. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that both the suspects have been together and changing their locations for the last five years. They had come from Rajasthan to meet their friends and had to collect some cash to pay the rent of their room in Bharatpur, Rajasthan. A case under sections 323 (assault), 506 (threatening for life), 34 (common intentions) and 302 (murder) was registered against them at the city police station in 2015, said the police. Sangwan said the suspects have been sent to a two-day police remand after being produced before the court on Tuesday. They had allegedly thrashed a friend who later died undergoing treatment at a private hospital in 2015. “They were out on bail, when they fled the city and did not appear for their court days. They were declared proclaimed offenders in November 2015,” he said. The Gurugram Police has compiled a list of 925 proclaimed offenders in the district who are yet to be arrested. The police said they have formed teams and assigned duties to each of them to ensure that all offenders are behind bars within the next three months. Sangwan said the crime teams are conducting an investigation based on technical surveillance and keeping a close watch on the movements of the proclaimed offenders, their relatives and family members. A weekly report is also being submitted to the commissioner of police for updates, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-men-who-jumped-bail-five-years-ago-held-from-khandsa-mandi/story-wVDDzXvFkZvyLL4T0D95uK.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||30-year-old cheats woman on pretext of job, nabbed from Sector 40||Gurugram Police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly stealing a laptop and belongings of a job aspirant on September 9, after approaching her on the pretext of offering a job. The suspect was identified as Vishal Kumar, a native of Vaishali in Bihar, who was living in a rented accommodation in Sector 103, said police. According to the police, Kumar had posted a bogus opening for a job in a multinational company in Gurugram on a social media platform, following which the victim had approached him. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they received a complaint on September 21 at New Colony police station alleging that a man — identified as Vishal Sharma — had called the victim for an interview at a nearby bakery and had asked her to get her laptop. “The suspect asked her to keep her laptop bag and her belongings in this car and took her inside the bakery and ordered two cups of coffee. After a few minutes the suspect excused himself by stating that he will be back in two minutes and fled with his car and the victim’s belongings,” he said. The victim then waited for an hour and called the mobile number of Kumar, which was switched off. She then took an auto rickshaw and returned home and informed her parents regarding the incident following which a complaint was lodged. A case under section 379 (theft) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at New Colony police station. Sangwan said they had recovered CCTV footage from the bakery and the suspect and his car was identified with the help of that. A probe was launched in the matter soon after. On Monday, the crime investigations unit of Sector 40 received a tip-off and nabbed the suspect from Sector 40 when he was waiting for another victim near a market, police said. During questioning, Kumar allegedly revealed to the police that he started duping people since lockdown and took advantage of the fact that many people had lost their jobs during that period. Sangwan said they have recovered the suspect’s car, two laptops, mobile phones, 10 SIM cards and power backups from his possession. Kumar was produced before the court on Tuesday and was sent to two days police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/30-year-old-cheats-woman-on-pretext-of-job-nabbed-from-sector-40/story-chUWnTOhsHTKDBna7tudmK.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||After CBSE, Haryana board reduces syllabus by 30%, teachers say not enough||Taking a cue from CBSE’s handbook, the Haryana board too has decided to reduce its syllabus by 30% for classes 9 to 12 to ease the pressure on students whose classes have been disrupted by the closure of schools owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The state has rationalized the syllabus on the pattern of CBSE and the revised syllabus was shared with teachers earlier this month. Government school teachers are, however, worried about the completion of syllabus for students in senior classes with teachers saying that the reduction in syllabus is still not adequate in view of the condition in which classes had been taking place.Vidushi Kataria, a computer teacher, said that some of the topics that had been excluded had already been covered by schools at the beginning of the academic session. “The syllabus for class 12 is a lot and some more topics could have been excluded. We are making efforts to cover the syllabus as quickly as we can, but there are challenges. Not all students have access to devices and the internet at all times, due to which the pace gets disrupted,” said Kataria. A class 11 English teacher, who did not wish to be named, said that while the reduction in syllabus for students of class 12 was adequate, the students of classes 9, 10, and 11 wouldn’t benefit much since not many topics had been excluded. “A very small portion of the syllabus has been reduced for students in classes 9 and 10. The reduced portion is not even 30%, of what we had expected. The syllabus in class nine especially is a lot and almost negligible rationalisation has been done. The reduction will not be enough to ease the burden on students,” said the teacher. She said that while teachers had high hopes about the reduction in syllabus, the final revised syllabus for senior classes was shared only a few weeks ago. Board of School Education Haryana (Bhiwani) chairman Jagbir Singh said that while the rationalised syllabus was shared on the public domain this month, teachers had been apprised much earlier that the state board would be reducing the syllabus on lines of the CBSE. “We had informed the teachers union well in advance. Once the formal notification was issued, the syllabus was shared with all,” said Singh. He said that online classes were taking place in both private and government schools in the state and there was still time for syllabus completion. “Classes have been taking place and we are confident that the syllabus will be completed since we still have time,” said Singh, adding that further reduction of the syllabus was not feasible. “While we held consultations at the state level before reducing the syllabus, it has been rationalised on lines of the CBSE, since NCERT books are followed in senior classes. We cannot allow our students to fall behind by following a different model, since they need to appear at national level exams that tests students on lines of CBSE pattern,” said Singh. He said that the board had been in touch with the CBSE and there are no further plans to reduce the syllabus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-cbse-haryana-board-reduces-syllabus-by-30-teachers-say-not-enough/story-OqsQojnRV29ajM8y1Hj0GK.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||46 companies given aid worth ₹30 crore for Covid fight: Khattar||At least 46 companies in the city have supported the Haryana government with aid worth₹30 crore since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday, while addressing the media and party workers via a video conference from Hisar on the occasion of the completion the first year of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP)-led coalition government. On the occasion, Khattar also flagged off 20 ambulances in Gurugram that have been funded under corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme of such companies. Khattar also spoke about the CM Relief Fund for Covid-19 and said that apart from receiving aid worth ₹30 crore, in the form of PPE and testing kits, the government has also received ₹6 crore monetary support from at least 17 companies in Gurugram, which have contributed more than ₹6 crore for the fund. “The contribution by the corporates during the tough time has helped the needy. These ambulances provided by them will be helpful in providing timely treatment to people in rural areas,” said KhattarA state-level programme was organised in Hisar, where Khattar addressed all the districts and participated in a puja for the Hisar airport. He also inaugurated and laid foundation stones for development projects worth ₹1,800 crore across the state, including projects worth ₹18.76 crore for Gurugram.State power minister Chaudhary Ranjit Singh, who was present in Gurugram, on behalf of the chief minister, laid the foundation stones for projects worth ₹13 crore. These include setting up a 54 MLD water pumping station and laying down sewerage pipelines in Khandsa. He also announced a ₹4-crore project for building community centres in Bandhwari and Baliawas, and inaugurated new senior secondary schools in Naurangpur, Uncha Majra, Lokra and Jatauli, which were upgraded from the primary level.The state power minister said that as we are still living with the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, citizens should follow all the necessary precautionary measures.“Despite the outbreak of the Covid-19 outbreak, Haryana government was able to maintain the pace of the development work. The government faced losses but we handled the situation and saved lives. Considering the population, the state has a relatively lower death rate compared to other states,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/46-companies-given-aid-worth-30-crore-for-covid-fight-khattar/story-u6UibnAhv6zs9UYfJycTbN.html
27-10-2020||City||Woman attacked by husband with sword at busy intersection in Punjab’s Mohali district||A Lalru resident was booked on Tuesday for attacking his wife with sword in broad daylight at Patiala Chowk in Zirakpur. The incident took place on Monday when victim Gurmeet Kaur, who works at a private hospital in Zirakpur, was going for her duty.As soon as she got down from a bus, her husband, Gurmail Singh, who was already waiting for there, attacked her.When people started gathering there, he left his bike at the spot and fled. Seriously injured, the woman was admitted to the civil hospital in Dhakoli, where she is undergoing treatment. Investigating officer Balwinder Singh said a case has been registered against Gurmail under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Man stabs brother-in-law with knife, heldA man has been arrested for stabbing his sister’s estranged husband with a kitchen knife in Chandigarh’s Maloya locality. Identified as Rajesh Kumar, who works at a factory, he has been sent to judicial custody. In his complaint, Mohd Raja of Bihar said he had gone to his brother-in-law’s house in Maloya to bring back his estranged wife on Monday. However, the two men entered into an argument during which Rajesh attacked Raja.A case was registered under Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-attacks-wife-with-sword-in-punjab-s-mohali-district/story-Q1525oLuTTuPkVO6cPNxCJ.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||Air quality slips back into ‘very poor’ category||The city’s air quality slipped back into the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday, recording an air quality index (AQI) reading of 306 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, a deterioration from Monday’s AQI reading of 258, which was in the ‘poor’ category. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 267.25 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Tuesday, as per data recorded by CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. The PM2.5 level was more than four times the permissible limit of 60µg/m3.According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), air quality is likely to deteriorate further on Wednesday and Thursday, to the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category, and expected to persist till Friday. A significant increase in the number of stubble fire points across Punjab, Haryana and UP were impacting the air quality of Delhi-NCR, the air quality forecast stated.According to experts, pollution levels are expected to increase further in the first week of November due to the interplay of factors such as dip in temperature, the prevalence of low-speed winds and stubble burning. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Delhi, said that the low wind speed was unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. “The wind speed needs to pick up and improve so that pollutants can be dispersed. Stubble burning is affecting the air quality along with other emissions and as the temperature drops further, air quality might deteriorate in the coming weeks,” said Srivastava On Tuesday, the maximum temperature dropped by two degrees. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 30.1 degrees Celsius, a drop from Monday’s 32.6 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 13.1 degree Celsius. While the minimum temperature is expected to hover in a similar range on Wednesday, the maximum temperature is expected to rise by two degrees and touch 32 degree Celsius as per the India Meteorological Department’s forecast. Clear skies have been predicted till the end of the week, by the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-slips-back-into-very-poor-category/story-Wqob006DsnrOdOqFzkDWoL.html
27-10-2020||Gurugram||Crackdown on diesel gensets starts||A day after the government sought exemptions for 19 residential societies and IT firms, officials started cracking down on those using diesel generator sets, in violation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). Officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Tuesday served a show cause notice to a warehouse for using diesel generator sets. It is the first case of diesel genset use registered by the Gurugram office of the pollution board since Grap came into effect on October 15. In Delhi-NCR, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) has imposed a ban on the use of diesel generator sets. As per the Epca directions issued on October 8, the use of diesel generator sets is banned due to ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ air quality during winter months. Other than for essential and emergency services, its use is banned in Delhi and NCR cities — Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh, and Faridabad and Gurugram in Haryana. On Tuesday, Gurugram was in the ‘very poor’ category of the central air quality index, with a reading of 306 as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. HSPCB, acting on the complaint regarding operation of diesel generator sets in violation of Epca guidelines, visited a warehouse in Pathredi, Pataudi block, on Monday where generator sets were being used for power supply. The site was visited by the additional executive engineer of the pollution board. Shakti Singh, regional officer (south Gurugram), HSPCB, and nodal officer for Grap implementation, said that the environmental compensation had to be paid by the violator under the provisions of Air (prevention and control of pollution) Act, 1981. “The violator has been asked to submit the compliance report and undertaking regarding adherence of Epca directions at the earliest. If they fail to submit a proper satisfactory report, the board will prosecute under the air pollution Act.” Singh said that as of Tuesday evening, they are yet to receive any report from the violator. In Gurugram and Faridabad, at least 19 residential societies have sought exemption from diesel genset ban. Their detailed affidavits have been submitted to Epca and a decision is awaited in this regard. The pollution board has also set up a control room, on the third floor of the HSIIDC complex at IMT Manesar, for handling complaints related to air pollution in Gurugram and Faridabad. Singh said, “Complaints received from citizens will also be redressed through Sameer application, Swachhata application, and their social media handles. The control room will be operation 24X7. The nodal officer will coordinate with different government agencies for addressing the grievances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/crackdown-on-diesel-gensets-starts/story-0pyIoTA0eNQURmztqP6cZN.html
27-10-2020||Election:||The youth factor in Bihar assembly elections 2020||With an 80 million population of youths, Bihar is home to a large proportion of people below the age of 25. Of the total 71.8 million voters in Bihar, 56 per cent are in the 18-40 age bracket. Voters in the 18-25 age bracket account for 16 per cent of the total population in the state. The importance of the youth voters is not lost on the political parties in Bihar as all of them have promised jobs in the manifestos. And then there are many young faces trying their luck at the ballot in the Bihar assembly elections.Tejashwi Yadav, the 30-year-old son of the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD’s) Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is in jail in connection with the fodder scam, is the chief ministerial face of the Opposition’s Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. After the demise of the Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP’s) Ram Vilas Paswan, his 37-year-old son, Chirag Paswan, has decided to go it alone in this election. But other than the sons of the patriarchs of political parties in Bihar, some new young faces can also be seen fighting the Bihar assembly elections.Click here for complete Bihar Assembly election coverageAfter completing her masters in development studies from the University of Sussex, Pushpam Priya Choudhary (28) did another masters course in public administration from the London School of Economics and Political Science and is now the president of her newly-floated political front, Plurals Party.Shalini Mishra (42), who has an MBA in marketing and advertising and has worked in Faridabad, is the candidate of the Janata Dal (United) from the Kesari seat in East Champaran.Nikhil Mandal (45), who was the financial adviser with IDBI and later practised in Patna High Court, will contest on a JD(U) ticket from Madhepura. He is the grandson of BP Mandal, former chief minister of Bihar who chaired the Mandal Commission. Manish Barriarr (42), who is an MBA from the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi, and an alumnus of Oxford University, taught management in a private institute in Patna before launching his own political outfit, Voxxs. He is contesting from Patna’s high profile Bankipur seat.Ritu Jaiswal (35), who is currently the mukhiya of Singhwahini village in Sitamarhi, has been fielded by the RJD from the Parihar constituency. She bagged the prestigious Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puruskar last year.Shreyasi Singh (29), a Commonwealth Games gold medalist in shooting, has been fielded by the BJP from the Jamui seat.Chetan Anand (29), the son of former MP Anand Mohan, is contesting from Sheohar on an RJD ticket. After finishing industrial and textile designing from an institute in Pune, he began social service and now hopes to be an MLA.The fate of these young faces will be decided as Bihar goes to polls on October 28, November 3 and November 7 to elect a 243-member assembly in three phases. The counting will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/the-youth-factor-in-bihar-assembly-elections-2020/story-UHZa7j3oLTp7wHUNFZymqM.html
27-10-2020||City||Sisodia visits govt school where five students got into IITs, 22 students clear NEET||New Delhi: State education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday visited Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Paschim Vihar to congratulate the school’s principal and teachers after five of its students cleared Joint Entrance Examination (advanced) for admission to the various IITs this year. Further, 22 students from the school also cleared the NEET medical entrance exam this year. According to a statement issued by the education minister’s office, Sisodia interacted with teachers and said, “If five students can go to IITs and 22 clear NEET from a single Delhi government school, then other schools can achieve this feat too. The best practices from this school should be adopted by other schools so that we can repeat and multiply this success”.“Five years ago, the Delhi government dreamt of providing excellent education in the city’s state government schools. The 98% result in the class 12 board results, and the scale of success in JEE and NEET shows that our dream is coming true. It also shows that the quality of government schools in Delhi has become very high. We have to learn from these successes to make Delhi’s education revolution so effective that it will not only inspire our country but the whole world,” he said. The school’s principal Preeti Saxena said they adopted a “Five-C’s” model — Connect, Counselling, Constant Motivation, Curiosity, and Creative Thinking — to enhance the educational experience. “Teachers often tell us how they try their best to teach children in interesting and practical ways. For example, a mechanical lab is used to explain the various abstract concepts in Physics,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-visits-govt-school-where-five-students-got-into-iits-22-students-clear-neet/story-iaviDFZBYDzLKMFEEHdzdN.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out 4 lives in Chandigarh tricity, 128 test positive||Covid-19 claimed four more lives while 128 people tested positive in the tricity on Tuesday.The toll in Chandigarh climbed to 223 after a 30-year-old Burail man, who was hospitalised with a fatal head injury, tested positive for the virus. The UT also reported 67 new cases and 49 recoveries.As many as 14,152 people have tested positive so far, of whom 13,279 have recovered and 650 are still undergoing treatment.In Mohali, two people died while 28 tested positive and 92 were discharged. Of 12,146 tested positive so far in the district, 11,420 have recovered and 235 have died, leaving 491 active cases.Panchkula recorded 33 new cases, which took the count past 7,000. The toll reached 111 as a 64-year-old man from Amravati Enclave died.The district has reported 7,017 cases so far, of which 6,740 have been cured and 166 remain active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-snuffs-out-4-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-128-test-positive/story-k1ejHvMBOnJT0ZF0w80CrK.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man killed in fight over loud music||A 29-year-old man was killed and his two brothers were seriously injured after they were attacked and stabbed, allegedly by five-six members of a family living in their neighbourhood, in northwest Delhi’s Sarai Pipal Thala following an altercation over “playing loud music” on Tuesday afternoon, police said.Four alleged attackers were apprehended while one or two are still untraceable. All suspects belong to the same family. A case of murder was registered at the Mahendra Park police station, the police said.Since the two families belong to different communities and there were apprehensions that the incident may lead to communal tension, police were deployed in the neighbourhood. Residents were asked not to believe in rumours ande, police officials familiar with the matter said. maintain peac“There is no communal angle in the incident. It was a fight between two families living in the same neighbourhood over playing loud music,” additional deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vikram Harimohan Meena said.The Delhi Police in a statement issued in the evening said the police control room received a call at 3.15 pm regarding a quarrel at a slum in Sarai Pipal Thala near the Adarsh Nagar Metro station’s gate number 4. A police team reached there and learnt that three brothers had been attacked with sharp weapons by five-six members of another family. The injured were taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital.One of persons identified as Sushil Chand,29, was declared brought dead at the hospital while his two injured brothers – Sunil and Anil – were out of danger. Anil’s statement was later recorded and both the injured were shifted to Safdarjung hospital for further treatment, the statement read. Locals told the police that Sushil Chand was sitting outside his home while loud music was being played inside. Around 3 pm, a family in the neighbourhood objected to the music. An altercation ensued and both the families started fighting, a police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity.“Five-six members of the neighbouring family stabbed Sushil and his two brothers multiple times with knives and fled. The victim’s family alleged that the suspects had planned the crime and loud music was just an excuse. We are verifying the sequence of events,” the officer said. Sushil and his brothers sold blankets on the road.Around a fortnight ago, communal tension gripped a neighbourhood in northwest Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar, not far from the spot of Tuesday’s incident, following the murder of 19-year-old Delhi University student, Rahul Rajput, who was beaten to death by the family and friends of an 18-year-old woman he was dating. The matter took a political colour as various political parties came in support of the victim’s family and demanded justice for Rajput. At least six people, including the woman’s brothers, were apprehended in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-killed-in-fight-over-loud-music/story-szxISGAI4ySyLiBr4nEjaI.html
27-10-2020||City||Sex racket running from bungalow in Panchkula busted||The Panchkula police crime branch has busted an international sex racket running from a bungalow in Sector 12A. Eight people, including four women from abroad who had been living in India illegally, have been arrested.It was following a tip-off that a team led by assistant commissioner of police Raj Kumar conducted a raid at the bungalow late on Monday evening.Those arrested were identified as Aditya Goyal, alias Sunny, of Uttar Pradesh, who was staying in Zirakpur, besides Manmohan Singh, alias Raju, of Rupnagar in Punjab, and Shekhar Kumar and Ganesh Kumar of Bihar, all of whom were staying in Sector 12, Panchkula. Three women from Uzbekistan and one from Turkey, all in the age group of 20-40, were also arrested.Ashok Chauhan, who had taken the bungalow on rent, is absconding. ACP Raj Kumar said he is from Saharanpur and searches are on for him in Delhi, Meerut and neighbouring areas.Police were tipped off about Chauhan and Goyal bringing girls from abroad for prostitution. The illegal trade was going on since January 2020, though it was shut during the lockdown from March to May and resumed in June, said a police official privy to investigation.“After fixing a deal with clients, the women were taken to hotels in Chandigarh, Punjab and other areas by driver Manmohan Singh. At times, customers were brought to the bungalow as well,” he said.“The women were living illegally in India for the past two to three years, using local identity cards. Three of them did not have passport, while the passport of one woman had expired,” said inspector Aman Kumar of the crime branch. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday. The embassies of Uzbekistan and Turkey have also been informed.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and Foreigners Act has been registered.9 women rescued from Baltana hotelIn another raid conducted by Punjab Police at a hotel in Zirakpur’s Baltana locality on Monday night, 16 people were booked for immoral trafficking. Besides customers, one of the three owners of Hotel Diamond Leaf, identified as Deepak Kumar, and manager Izaz Khaja were arrested.The nine women who had been pushed into flesh trade were handed over to their families. A case has been registered under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sex-racket-running-from-bungalow-in-panchkula-busted/story-cb3Fv9XSBUcnTLmbyu3ZSI.html
27-10-2020||City||Man tries to drive over closed rail crossing, hit by train in Jungpura||New Delhi: A 50-year-old man was injured after he was hit by a speeding goods train when he tried to drive through a closed railway track in Jungpura on Tuesday evening.The incident was reported around 4.37 pm when the government railway police at Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway station received information that a vehicle had collided with a good train under the Jungpura-Bhogal flyover and a man was trapped inside.The GRP staff reached spot and found that a Honda Amaze car was stuck under the wheels of a goods train. “With the help of fire fighters, the car was cut open and the man was pulled out. He was sent to AIIMS trauma centre in an ambulance where he is under treatment,” a senior police officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said the man was identified as Mohan Lal, who is employed as a driver.“Preliminary probe revealed after dropping his employer near Jal Vihar on Tuesday, Lal was heading towards Lajpat Nagar when, apparently to take a short cut, he drove towards the railway tracks that were closed from both sides. In the meantime, a goods train approached Lal’s car. He failed to escape in time and was hit,” Singh said.His condition is stable and a probe is under way, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-tries-to-drive-over-closed-rail-crossing-hit-by-train-in-jungpura/story-u4b00zChG6JP7PqprAYWoI.html
27-10-2020||City||Two booked for demolishing mosque in Punjab’s Khanna||The Khanna police have booked two persons for demolishing a mosque in Ghunghrali Rajputtan village on Tuesday.The accused had allegedly demolished the mosque using a JCB machine.The FIR has been lodged after Punjab Shahi Imam Habib-ur Rahman Sani Ludhianvi met Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh on Tuesday.The Imam said that the mosque structure which has been demolished was an ancient one and part of the rich cultural heritage of Punjab. Khanna Police should take immediate action and arrest the persons booked in the FIR immediately, the Imam demanded.On Tuesday, he along with Punjab Waqf board member Abdul Sattar, village sarpanch Harpreet Singh and SHO Sadar Khanna police station Hemant Kumar visited the spot. Prayers were held at the spot where the structure was allegedly demolished. The Imam said that they will lay the foundation stone of a new mosque building on November 3.An FIR was registered against Surjit Singh and Jagdish under the sections 295 (injuring or defiling the place of worship with intent to insult religion of any class), 427 (Causing damage to amount of rupees fifty or more) and 447 (punishment for criminal trespass) of the IPC.The SHO said that the reason behind the act is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-demolishing-mosque-in-punjab-s-khanna/story-oZVkUaqJKR9Ob3aw8Q9mQL.html
27-10-2020||City||Buddha Nullah pollution: Proposal to shift dairy units scrapped for now||After three months of discussions to shift dairy units out of the municipal corporation (MC) limits, the high-powered committee formed by the local bodies department for shifting the units has again scrapped the plan for now. It has now been decided to upgrade the biogas plant and establish effluent treatment plants for treating dairy waste and cow dung.The decision was taken in the meeting of the committee held under the chairmanship of mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Tuesday which was also attended by deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal.An official said that the authorities failed to find a suitable place for shifting the dairies in the nearby villages. Mayor Sandhu pointed out that dairy units should not be shifted and the existing biogas plant at Hambran road should be upgraded and new effluent treatment plants (ETP) should be established as a part of the Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project to deal with cow dung and dairy waste. He said that the report of the meeting will be sent to the local bodies department.The project to shift the dairy units situated in Haibowal and Tajpur road dairy complex is hanging fire for a long time.There are over 500 dairy units in the two dairy complexes and around 200 scattered units in different parts of the city. The sewer lines in city areas also get choked due to the dumping of dairy waste.Encroachments along drain to be removedWith an aim to beautify and the drain and surrounding areas, MC commissioner has directed the MC health branch officials to remove temporary encroachments including fish markets established alongside the nullah.Sabharwal also conducted a meeting with NGOs, members of the Naamdhari sect on Tuesday for taking up plantation drives and setting up miro forests around the nullah.Mayor, MC chief visits Focal Point CETPWith the state government working to upgrade the existing sewer treatment plants (STP) of MC, mayor Sandhu and Sabharwal inspected the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for Focal Point which is expected to become operational by the end of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-pollution-proposal-to-shift-dairy-units-scrapped-for-now/story-SmdyqR5vm7c9Y64gkWUjfK.html
27-10-2020||City||Space crunch: Ludhiana police to auction unclaimed case property after November 3||Grappling with space crunch at police station compounds due to seized articles, especially vehicles, the police have asked people to take back their belongings.The police have also offered to help the claimants with getting ‘superdari’ orders from the court for the release of their vehicles, gold, mobile phones and other stuff. Superdari is handing over custody of something to a person till next orders. By way of this bond, the person receiving the vehicle gives an undertaking on his behalf or on behalf of the person who has authorised him, to produce the vehicle before the police or court, as and when required.In case no claims are received till November 3, the police have decided to start auctioning the impounded articles.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said there are a lot of vehicles and other seized articles lying in the police stations as case property. The police have contacted the owners of the vehicles and other valuables to get the same released. People can contact the police station concerned with the court orders to claim their belongings on October 30.The police will release two-wheelers, four-wheelers, mobile phones, gold ornaments and other valuables confiscated under the law.“We are getting court orders for the process and also helping people through advocates. The advocates have been requested not to charge fees from the claimants,” said the police chief.At least 4,000 vehicles are dumped at police stations under different cases, including theft, snatchings and invalid documentation,” he revealed.Agrawal said sometimes people don’t come back for their vehicles because they either do not have any documents, the vehicle is very old or they have already taken claim from the insurance companies. “We will be auctioning the unclaimed articles from November 3,” he said.Hundreds of vehicles are dumped at 28 police stations in the city and in police lines compounds.Owners’ predicament Even as the police have urged people to claim their seized belongings, the task is quite complicated for some.Rahul of Tibba Road, who is a three-wheeler driver, said the police had impounded his second-hand auto around one and a half years ago. At the time, he had not transferred the vehicle ownership in his name to avoid the fee involved. But now he is unable to get it back. “As the vehicle is in police custody, the transport department is not transferring the ownership in my name. The auto is gathering rust and is already damaged,” he said.Wanting anonymity, a mobile shop owner on Pakhowal Road said burglars had stolen around 70 phones from his shop, including the ones that were under repair. Later, the burglars were arrested and around 20 phones were recovered from them, of which he managed to get back six new phones on superdari. He is not supposed to sell these phones till the case is under trial. “The phones I got back will be outdated soon and no one will buy them,” he rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/space-crunch-ludhiana-police-to-auction-unclaimed-case-property-after-november-3/story-O6uDx3a6rRgFh34T39ZvFK.html
27-10-2020||City||Missing man’s decomposed body fished out from canal||The body of a ‘physically-challenged’ man, Charanjit Singh, 45 of Gian Chand Nagar, Daba, was recovered on Tuesday from a canal near Moga. The police have added Section 302 (murder) to the FIR lodged against the accused.The police have arrested Veeram Singh of Basant Nagar, Daba, and an auto driver Simran Singh of the same locality. While two accused Gurdit Singh and Dupinder Singh are still on the run.SHO of Daba police station inspector Pavittar Singh said that on Saturday an unidentified body was found from a canal in Badhni Kalan district of Moga. Charanjit’s family identified the body. However, an autopsy and DNA profiling test of the body has been conducted, as it was decomposed.The SHO added that the test reports have confirmed that the body is of Charanjit Singh. Therefore, the police have added Section 302 to the FIR. The autopsy report suggests that Charanjit was bludgeoned to death with a stick.Charanjit Singh, who was the brother of Congress worker Baljit Singh Malra, had gone missing on October 2. The Daba police had arrested Veeram Singh alias Bittu of Mohalla Basant Nagar and an auto-rickshaw driver Simran Singh on October 18 for kidnapping Charanjit Singh over a monetary dispute.Earlier, the police had recovered a headless mutilated body from the canal near Dhaipai village on October 19. In the forensic examination, the body turned out to be of a woman. The Daba police had handed over the body to Jodhan police for further proceedings and again started an investigation to trace Charanjit’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-man-s-decomposed-body-fished-out-from-canal/story-aAWL1bxz9y9HYQMxd5o5kJ.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||HARERA to issue restraint order on commission charged by property dealers||Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram, has decided to issue restraint orders to all real estate promoters and brokers, asking them not to charge commission arbitrarily in contravention of law. HARERA chairman KK Khandelwal said that promoters and brokers cannot charge commission higher than what is laid down in the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Rules, 2009, made under the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Act, 2008. Taking cognisance of the fact that property dealers were charging arbitrary commission from the sellers as well as the buyers of a property, a bench headed by Khandelwal and member SC Kush said that clause 10 of the Rules provides for 1% commission on agreed consideration value to be paid by the seller and purchaser of the property which is half per cent by each of them on finalisation of the deal. Khandelwal said that the property dealers and brokers were indulging in the malpractice in connivance with the promoters and charging arbitrarily more than the prescribed commission both from the sellers and buyers. “It has been reported that commission as high as 5% to 10% of the value of the property is being charged by the agent and the burden of this additional commission is ultimately shared by the allottee,’’ he said. The licences to the brokers and property dealers are granted by the deputy commissioner under the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Act, 2008. The registration of the property dealer to negotiate real estate deal of a registered project is done by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority under Section 9 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, and the registration is then granted subject to the condition that the real estate agent shall not contravene the provisions of any other law for the time being as applicable to him. “Accordingly, all real estate agents are hereby cautioned not to charge commission more than what is prescribed in the rules. Doing so will be deemed as an outright violation of the provisions of the law,’’ the chairman said. Khandelwal said that HARERA, Gurugram, was also in the process of prescribing a code of conduct for the property dealers to ensure that brokers do not indulge in any unfair trade practices. Instances have come to the notice of the Authority that certain property dealers were falsely representing the services of a particular standard or grade and making false or misleading representation concerning the services and approvals of the project. The real estate agents are also involved in issuing of advertisements of upcoming projects which are misleading to the public. The code of ethics will prescribe not only the additional books of accounts to be maintained by the property dealers so as to check whether the commission is being charged as per law and also keeping record of transaction which may be perused by the authority in case of inter se dispute between buyers and brokers, the chairman said. Khandelwal said it has also been noticed that some property dealers were indulging in sale of unauthorised colonies. A vigil is being kept on such brokers so that their registrations are cancelled and criminal/civil action, as per law, is initiated against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/harera-to-issue-restraint-order-on-commission-charged-by-property-dealers/story-Mp4eKFoVZa2dOQ3b14iwXI.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda ignored Baroda’s development when he was in power: Birender||Senior BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh on Tuesday accused former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda of ignoring Baroda assembly segment’s development during his regime. Hooda, in response, challenged the saffron party leader for a debate on development in the area.During his visit to Sonepat’s Gohana, Birender said: “Hooda had carried out developmental works in his home constituency Garhi-Sampla Kiloi and ignored the Baroda segment. Time has come that I and Hooda should retire from politics and stay home. This government will survive its five-year term and the people should elect BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt for development.” Reacting on three farm laws, the former Union minister said the minimum support price will not come to an end. “In 1967, the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat was ₹67 per quintal when a professor’s monthly salary was ₹280. Now, the salary of a professor is about ₹1.5 lakh while the MSP for wheat has gone up to ₹1,975 per quintal, which is very less. The governments have failed to increase the MSP and this is an attempt to boost farmers’ income,” Birender said.He said the Congress has six factions in Haryana headed by Bhupinder Singh Hooda, his son Deepender Singh, state unit chief Kumari Selja, Kuldeep Bishnoi, Randeep Surjewala and Kiran Choudhry. “If I were in Congress, I would led a seventh faction. There is no such thing in the BJP,” he added.Reacting to Birender’s allegations, Hooda said there was a long list of development works done in Baroda during his government and challenged the BJP for an open debate.“ The BJP has failed to carry out a single project in the state in the last six years and they have no moral right to seek votes in Baroda. The BJP government brought three anti-farmer laws to ruin the rural economy and farmers are forced to sell their crops below the MSP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooda-ignored-baroda-s-development-when-he-was-in-power-birender/story-AvcVUseamFBGOAMQGN1DQO.html
27-10-2020||City||Conwoman promises job, dupes man in Ludhiana||Out on bail, a woman posing as a professor at government college, duped a man on the pretext of a government job on October 16.The woman identified as Shweta Sehgal has duped around 15 persons of Rs 60 lakh in Ludhiana and Patiala.The police conducted a raid at her residence at Noorwala road, but she managed to escape the spot. According to the police, her phone is also switched off.Sharing her modus operandi, SHO at Dugri police station inspector Surinder Chopra said that the woman poses as a professor at Government College for Girls, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Ludhiana and dupes residents on the pretext of securing jobs in government departments for their family members.“She demands money from the victims according to their economic background. To gain their confidence, she issues fake cheques to the victims so that they could withdraw the money from her account if she fails to secure a job for them,” said Chopra.Kulwant Singh of Dugri and his relative Satnam Singh were duped of Rs 3.41 lakhs as the woman promised a clerical job for their daughters in Government College for Girls.Kulwant Singh said that he came in contact with the woman in 2019.“Even after my daughter completed her MBA, she had no permanent job. The woman had assured me to help my daughter get a job and demanded Rs 1 lakh. But after negotiations, she fixed the deal at Rs 80,000,” said Kulwant Singh.“Similarly, the woman had duped my relative Satnam Singh of Rs 2.61 lakh. The accused even had taken our daughters to Chandigarh on the pretext of an interview but did not fulfill her promise,” he added.ASI Manjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the woman is already facing trial in at least five cases lodged against her in Ludhiana and Patiala.The woman had earlier duped an astrologer, a hosiery unit owner, and 10 others of around Rs 30 lakh in 2018.The ASI added that the police have some leads about the woman and they will arrest her soon before she could find a new target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/conwoman-promises-job-dupes-man-in-ludhiana/story-S23tJsB7gP63qKXNGMFW0O.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Charkhi Dadri air quality ‘severe’, worst in the region||Even as the air quality of Delhi on Tuesday remained in the ‘very poor’ category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) value at 312 points, the air quality of Charkhi Dadri in Haryana plunged into ‘severe’ zone with AQI value reaching 411. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings, Charkhi Dadri was the only city in the northern region where the air quality was ‘severe.’ The AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate, but the AQI enters ‘poor’ zone when it is between 201 to 300. The AQI is categorised ‘very poor’ between 301-400 mark and it crosses over to ‘severe’ zone at 401. The air quality of Bahadurgarh , Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, and Panipat cities was “very poor.” The overall air quality index value of six cities—Bahadurgarh (318), Ballabhgarh (336), Faridabad (318), Fatehabad (328), Hisar (324), and Jind (326)—was worse than that of Delhi’s (312) AQI value categorised as very poor. The AQI of 11 cities Ambala, Bhiwani, Dharuhera, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Manesar, Narnaul, Palwal, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar was ‘poor’ in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/charkhi-dadri-air-quality-severe-worst-in-the-region/story-EfhYkDJ0Ak0ze0mN4JeejN.html
27-10-2020||City||LIP councillor accuses Ludhiana MC of sanctioning fuel for vehicle lying unused for 3 months||Four days after two municipal corporation (MC) employees were caught stealing fuel allotted for a vehicle deployed for anti-mosquito fogging, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillor Kuldeep Singh accused the civic body of sanctioning fuel for the vehicle that is lying unused for three months.Singh said that over 110 litres of fuel was being allotted for a fogging machine mounted on a Tata Ace vehicle on a daily basis (except weekends) for the last three months, even when the vehicle is lying unused.Singh alleged that he had checked the logbook following which he came to know about the ‘embezzlement’. “The MC staffers are looting the civic body even after mayor Balkar Sandhu has taken action against some for stealing fuel,” he said.“There is no entry in the logbook regarding the movement of the vehicle but over 110 litres of fuel is being sanctioned against it every day. I had personally checked the record and will submit a complaint with the mayor on Wednesday,” said Singh.Mayor Sandhu said, “No one will be spared as several warnings have been issued in the past. I will mark an inquiry into the claims made by councillor Kuldeep Singh and strict action will be taken against those found guilty.” MC demands FIR against petrol pump staffIn the case wherein the mayor had caught two MC employees for stealing 43 litres fuel, the civic body has recommended an FIR against the petrol pump owner or staff involved in the matterOn October 23, the MC had terminated the services of contractual driver Amandeep Singh whereas sanitary inspector Satinder Bawa was suspended after they were caught stealing fuel sanctioned for taking up fogging. A show-cause notice was issued to medical officer Dr Vipal Malhotra who is in charge of conducting fogging in the city.MC commissioner Sabharwal said that a complaint has been submitted with the Atam Park police for lodging an FIR against the petrol pump staffer who was found to be involved in this theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-councillor-accuses-ludhiana-mc-of-sanctioning-fuel-for-vehicle-lying-unused-for-3-months/story-A3m6hoReSszUfBFGjDK4WO.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ballabhgarh girl’s murder: Khattar assures strict action against accused||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday assured that strict action will be taken against the accused who shot dead a 21-year-old student in Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, on Monday. “The culprit in the Ballabhgarh incident has been arrested. Strict action will be taken against him. No criminal will be spared,” Khattar told reporters in Hisar. The final-year commerce student, Nikita Tomar, was shot dead on Monday afternoon outside her college in Ballabhgarh, where she had gone to take an exam. The man who shot her was seen in a video of the incident, captured on a CCTV camera outside the college, attempting to shove her into a car and shot when she tries to save herself. After shooting Tomar, the assailant — Touseef and his accomplice Rehan — fled in a car. Nikita was rushed to a hospital where she succumbed to her bullet wound. According to Ballabhgarh assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Jaiveer Rathi, Touseef and Rehan were apparently waiting for Nikita in a car. “Nikita had come to college for an exam. Accused, Touseef, whom she knew, tried to speak to her and then shot her,” he said. Nikita’s father said that the accused used to trouble her previously too. “We complained earlier also as these people used to trouble her and now they have killed my daughter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ballabhgarh-girl-s-murder-khattar-assures-strict-action-against-accused/story-aWxx8K3T9XASkbUj1ocpZJ.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs five deaths, 231 fresh Covid infections||Himachal on Tuesday recorded 231 fresh Covid infections, taking the state’s tally to 20,817. The death toll mounted to 293 with five more patients succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, 51 were reported in Mandi, 48 in Kullu, 39 in Kangra, 38 in Shimla, 15 in Kinnaur, 14 in Bilaspur, eight in Sirmaur, five in Solan, four each in Una and Lahaul-Spiti, three in Chamba and two in Hamirpur. Two fatalities were recorded in Kullu and one each in Hamirpur, Mandi and Sirmaur. The recoveries have reached 17,974. Solan remains the worst hit district with 3,560 cases. It is followed by Kangra where 2,938 people have been detected infected till date. Mandi is close behind with 2,761 cases. Shimla has 2,295 cases, Sirmaur 2,234, Una 1,517, Kullu 1,352, Bilaspur 1,223, Hamirpur 1,203, Chamba 1,109, Lahaul-Spiti 323 and Kinnaur 302.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-five-deaths-231-fresh-covid-infections/story-XQ0wBs1WCxiAgq773ls1vK.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: Constituencies going to polls in first phase||Millions of voters will cast their ballot on Wednesday in the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections, the first major polls to be held amid the coronavirus pandemic, in 71 constituencies across 16 districts of the state.Polling will start from 7am in most of the 71 constituencies and will continue till 6pm as voters will elect a new 243-member assembly. The Janata Dal (United) is contesting in 35 of the 71 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party in 29, The opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has fielded its candidates in 42, the most number of seats in the first phase of polling by any party, and its coalition partner Congress is in the fray in 20 assembly segments.Click here for complete Bihar Assembly elections coverageHere is the list of constituencies going to polls in the first phase Bihar assembly elections:•Dinara•Nokha•Dehri•Karakat•Arwal•Kurtha•Jehanabad•Ghosi•Makhdumpur (SC)•Goh•Obra•Nabinagar•Kutumba (SC)•Aurangabad•Rafiganj•Gurua•Sherghati•Imamganj (SC)•Barachatti (SC)•Bodh Gaya (SC)•Gaya Town•Tikari•Belaganj•Atri•Wazirganj•Rajauli (SC)•Hisua•Nawada•Gobindpur•Kahalgaon•Sultanganj•Amarpur•Dhoraiya (SC)•Banka•Katoria (ST)•Belhar•Tarapur•Munger•Jamalpur•Suryagarha•Lakhisarai•Sheikhpura•Barbigha•Mokama•Barh•Masaurhi (SC)•Paliganj•Bikram•Sandesh•Barhara•Arrah•Agiaon (SC)•Tarari•Jagdishpur•Shahpur•Brahampur•Buxar•Dumraon•Rajpur (SC)•Ramgarh•Mohania (SC)•Bhabua•Chainpur•Chenari (SC)•Sasaram•Kargahar•Warsaliganj•Sikandra (SC)•Jamui•Jhajha•Chakai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-elections-2020-constituencies-going-to-polls-in-first-phase/story-Z7he6q3srUjZMZbIPlmgLI.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Congress, BJP headed for a close battle in Aurangabad||Aurangabad is among the 71 constituencies, spread across 16 districts, which will go to polls on October 28 in the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections. The Congress’ Anand Shankar Singh won the seat in the 2015 Bihar assembly elections, defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Ramadhar Singh by 18,398 votes. Ramadhar Singh previously held the seat.This year, the BJP has pitched its candidate to represent the NDA by fielding Ramadhar Singh from Aurangabad. At the same time, Anand Shankar Singh will fight the polls for the Congress and will represent the Grand Alliance. Chandresh Prasad Gupta from the Jan Adhikar Party Loktantrik, Anil Kumar from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Ashish Kumar Soni from the Rashtriya Seva Dal are in the fray in the Aurangabad constituency.Aurangabad is among more than two dozen constituencies in eight districts that are considered vulnerable to Maoist violence. According to the state’s chief electoral officer HR Srinivasa, out of the 71 constituencies, 35 fall in Maoist-affected areas, which will restrict the standard polling exercise and will be carried out in a staggered manner.During this year’s round of electioneering in Aurangabad, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav was attacked with slippers while he was campaigning for his party’s candidate in the constituency ahead of the Bihar assembly elections. The attack took place when Yadav was sitting on the stage and was about to speak. While one slipper missed him completely, the other one landed in his lap.The Bihar assembly elections, seen as a mammoth exercise by political experts, will be the first in the country to be conducted by the Election Commission amid a raging coronavirus disease outbreak.The Commission has introduced several guidelines keeping the viral contagion in consideration. People have been instructed to wear a mask during all election related activities and thermal screening of everyone involved in the election exercises will be carried out by the EC officials.In a departure from the previous polling practices, only 1,000 voters will exercise their franchise at a particular booth, instead of 1,500 keeping the Covid-19 norms. The polling will be conducted from 7am to 6pm. There were 288,169 eligible voters in the constituency in 2015 – 155,686 men and 132,474 women.In the three-phase Bihar election, which will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7 for 243 seats, the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left will take on the combine of the ruling JD(U), BJP, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). Votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-congress-bjp-headed-for-a-close-battle-in-aurangabad/story-bolvZRR3dhLqv6we1hdfmN.html
27-10-2020||Lucknow||Air quality depletes as UP records spike in farm fires, farmers fined||Amid depleting air quality, Uttar Pradesh reported a record number of farm fires on Sunday and Monday, according to satellite data observed over the state.According to the satellite data of NASA’s Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS), which is also used by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), more than 734 incidents of farm fires were recorded on Sunday and Monday across the state. The reported incidents are at least 30 percent more than the average farm fires recorded this month.The UPPCB uses this data to monitor stubble burning incidents and alert respective district administrations. “The farm fire incidents were reported mostly from west UP districts where paddy plantation is more. Farm fires were also reported from some east and central UP districts,” said VK Singh, senior environmental engineer at UPPCB. He added that the incidents of stubble burning peaked because most farmers tried to clear their farms for the next crop by Dussehra.As per the system, most farm fires were observed in Saharanpur, Shahjahanpur, Pilibhit, Etawah, Bijnor, Baghpat, Hapur, Firozabad, Kanpur, Unnao, Badaun, Bareilly, Kannauj. Some farm fires were also observed in Rae Bareli, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Siddharthnagar, Pratapgarh, Amethi and Sultanpur districts.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput death - Rhea Chakraborty opposes sisters’ petition to quash FIR“Farm fires are recorded when farmers burn farm waste like stubble in their fields. Because the cultivation of paddy is more common in west UP and Terai belt, the satellite records more fire from this region,” said agricultural expert Ranbir Singh.Emissions by stubble burning are a major cause of air pollution. The increase in farm fires is reflected directly in the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the region. The daily AQI data released by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recorded ‘very poor’ between the range of 301 to 400 over west UP on Sunday and Monday.The UPPCB is working closely with the respective district administrations to curb farm fires. A total fine of Rs 5 lakh has been slapped on over 100 farmers who were found burning farm waste this month. Around 30 farmers were fined on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/air-quality-depletes-as-up-records-spike-in-farm-fires-farmers-fined/story-nutTt18jT0BAeQ6joH3ZwJ.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty opposes sisters’ petition to quash FIR||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, 28, has opposed the petition filed by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, sisters of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, 34, for quashing the first information report (FIR) registered against them by Bandra police.In an affidavit in reply to the petition in the Bombay high court (HC), the actor has reiterated her allegations that Priyanka and Dr. Tarun Kumar, a cardiologist associated with Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital in Delhi, had illegally prescribed medicines containing psychotropic substances, for the late actor without consultation.She has asserted that the FIR registered at Bandra police station at her behest, was required to be investigated thoroughly, as Rajput has ended his life barely within a week of receiving these prescriptions.According to her affidavit, Rajput had on June 8 received WhatsApp messages from Priyanka containing prescriptions, prescribing Nexito (5mg), Librium (10mg) and Lonazep MD (0.5mg), and all the three medications contain psychotropic substances such as chlordiazepoxide and clonazepam, as per the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Chakraborty has asserted that since the allegations are serious, the investigation agency must be afforded sufficient opportunity to investigate the case.The HC bench, comprising Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnikhas, posted the petition filed by Priyanka and Meetu Singh for further hearing on November 4.In the petition filed through advocate Madhav Thorat, Rajput’s sisters have claimed that the medicines are not banned and the guidelines issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) on April 11, for telemedicine “allows the medicine to be prescribed to a patient even at the first consultation.”“A bare perusal of the complaint along with the FIR shows that the statements made there do not make out any cognisable offence,” the petition stated. The lodging of the complaint by Chakraborty was nothing but a feeble attempt on her part to scuttle the investigations against her and blame Rajput’s family members for his suicide, as she was on the verge of being arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB),” it further stated.No criminality could be attributed to the petitioners especially when the complaint was solely based on medicines prescribed by a doctor, it added.In support of their contention, they relied on a 2005 Supreme Court (SC) judgement in Jacob Matthew’s case, in which the apex court had held that no offence against a medical practitioner can be investigated without first obtaining the opinion of experts in the medical field.The petition also highlighted that there was an inordinate delay of 90 days in lodging the police complaint. The medicines were prescribed on June 8 – the day Rajput had asked Chakraborty to leave his house with her bag and baggage – but the complaint was filed on September 7.Rajput had died by suicide at his Bandra apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-opposes-sisters-petition-to-quash-fir/story-Sy59sNeEnEDnBF6pJKVFgP.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Jammu-based activist lodges complaint against Mehbooba over remarks on Tricolour||A Jammu-based woman activist lodged a complaint against PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti for her ‘highly provocative’ remarks against the Tricolour. Aditi Sharma cited the remarks made by Mehbooba at a press conference in Srinagar on October 23 in a written complaint at Gandhi Nagar Police Station. She said, “I lodged a written complaint against PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and have given the SHO concerned two days to register an FIR. If he does not file an FIR, I will approach the court.” Gandhi Nagar SHO Gurnam Choudhary said, “The complaint has to be lodged at the police station where the incident took place. We have not registered any FIR at Gandhi Nagar police station”. When asked if he will send the complaint to his counterpart at Srinagar, the SHO said, “We will discuss the issue with senior police officers. It can be forwarded to the Srinagar police station”. On Monday, three senior PDP leaders--former MP TS Bajwa, former MLC Ved Mahajan and former state secretary Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa - had resigned from the party over Mehbooba’s controversial comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-activists-lodge-written-complaint-against-mehbooba/story-3adcaT5bb2NkyZYw6sckzO.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims seven lives in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded seven Covid-related deaths and 452 fresh coronavirus infections on Tuesday. The UT’s Covid count has mounted to 92,677 and the death toll stands at 1,451. Officials said 258 people had tested positive in Kashmir and 194 in Jammu. Four people succumbed to the disease in Jammu and three in Kashmir. So far, 84,236 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate has increased to 90.8 % - the highest so far. There are now 6,990 active cases in J&K. A total of 967 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 484 in Jammu. As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and so far 270 fatalities have been reported in October. The recovery rate has continuously improved over the past month. As many as 27,312 patients have been cured in October against 17,607 fresh infections.October has also witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. Against an average of 1,245 daily novel coronavirus cases in September, October recorded an average of 652 cases and an average 10 deaths a day were reported in October against 16 in September. The total number of tests conducted in the UT have crossed 22.14 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 109, followed by 18 in Reasin.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 118 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 47.Srinagar tops the case tally with 18,847 cases and 347 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,122 cases and 251 deaths.Till date, 6.50 lakh people have been enlisted for observation - 17,131 in home quarantine, 6,990 in isolation, and 46,211 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.78 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-seven-lives-in-j-k/story-FhbB1HZ6gOS0Bzkv7I9IiM.html
27-10-2020||Viral||Baba Ka Dhaba controversy: Blogger Gaurav Wasan refutes ‘fraud’ allegations||New Delhi Food blogger Gaurav Wasan, of Swad Official, who had shot the heartrending viral video of a roadside Malviya Nagar eatery, Baba ka Dhaba, to show the plight of an elderly couple, who run the place, has been accused by YouTuber Lakshay Chaudhary of running an online scam. In a recent video uploaded Chaudhary, it is alleged that Wasan had sought donations on the pretext of helping the poor couple, but did not transfer the donation money to Kanta Prasad, owner of Baba ka Dhaba. Now, in an exclusive chat, Wasan tells us that these accusations are based on hearsay, and he has not done any “fraud”.  Earlier this month, after the video of the couple, which was on the cusp of penury, had gone viral, people from all over the country had rallied in their support. This included various Bollywood actors, and soon after Delhiites started thronging to the food stall. Wasan, on being asked about the accusations of fraudulence, says, “I had given him (dhaba owner, Kanta Prasad) a check of Rs 2.33 lakh, and transferred Rs 1 lakh to his account, which completes the Rs 3.33 lakh that I had received as donation in his name. I’m in the process of arranging bank statements to prove the same.” Further refuting all claims of embezzlement, Wasan says, “All allegations that have been levelled against me are false. On October 9, I had assured Baba that his money was safe with me, and I have a proof of the same. I’m in the process of arranging bank statements to prove the same.”In the video that Chaudhary had released, he accused Wasan of going to give the money to the dhaba owners after he had released the video. He adds to his claims saying Wasan had collected over Rs 20 lakh in Baba’s name. Wasan, however, says, “I went to give the cheque to Kanta Prasad at 1pm the day when the video that had accused me was uploaded at 5pm... Also, if there were Rs 25 lakhs in my account, as alleged, there would be bank statements to support that claim. But there aren’t any!”   Inhe hamari help ko bahut zarurat he . . . #share #foodvideo #viralvideo #old #oldcoupleA post shared by  Gaurav Wasan (@youtubeswadofficial) on Oct 7, 2020 at 8:17am PDTResponding to the growing clamour on social media for proof of donations, Wasan says that he will put out all evidence in the public domain. “People who are asking for proof aren’t wrong in doing so, and I will put out all proofs necessary. These allegations have been made only to pull me down, there is no truth in them!” “I’ll soon be uploading all the evidences, and then people can themselves decide,” he concludes. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/baba-ka-dhaba-controversy-blogger-gaurav-wasan-refutes-fraud-allegations/story-YZj3JPdjjfksSDXswtNrHN.html
27-10-2020||Dehradun||Hovercraft, ferry boat waterway service on anvil for Haridwar Mahakumbh 2021||Taking a cue from the use of hovercrafts and ferry boats on Ganga and Yamuna during Prayagraj Kumbh in 2019, similar waterway service is being envisaged for Mahakumbh 2021 in Haridwar, Uttarakhand.The authorities are planning to use hovercrafts and ferry boats in Haridwar and between Haridwar and Rishikesh to ferry pilgrims and tourists. In this regard, Kumbh Mela administration has already given a presentation in New Delhi to officials of the union ministry of shipping. Kumbh Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat said a communique has been sent to the union ministry of shipping. “As soon as the permission is granted, steps will be taken on priority to operate waterway services using hovercrafts or ferryboats,” he said. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, development and progress got affected in realisation of this inland water project. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty opposes sisters’ petition to quash FIR“Mela administration is committed to making Mahakumbh 2021 a memorable experience for the pilgrims. Using river Ganga as a waterway will be a landmark development and a major attraction for pilgrims and tourists. It will also lessen traffic congestion on highway stretch and on inner roads, in particular during the festive baths,” said Rawat. Notably, union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Laxmanbhai Mandaviya, during his visit to Haridwar last year, had backed the hovercraft/ferryboat service on Ganga during Kumbh. Hovercraft and ferry boats can carry around 100-125 people in one stretch. Considering more than 8 crore pilgrims are expected to arrive during the 2021 Mahakumbh, alternative modes of transportation in and around Haridwar have gained significance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/hovercraft-ferry-boat-waterway-service-on-anvil-for-haridwar-mahakumbh-2021/story-X8aQ9CQIIgPq8PEkEoknVM.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: A look at woman candidates in Bihar||For the past four assembly elections, there has been a steady rise in the number of women voters in Bihar. In the last state polls in 2015, 60.48 per cent women came out to vote in comparison to 53.32 per cent men and this was the highest turnout among women in Bihar. In terms of overall numbers, the total men voters in 2015 were 19 million, only slightly more than women voters which were at 18.9 million.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has also focused on the vote bank with total prohibition implemented at the behest of women voters. The importance of the women voters has also translated into more and more women entering the election fray.The ruling Janata Dal(United) has given tickets to 22 women out of the total 115 seats it has been allocated as part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded 12 women candidates from the 110 seats where it is contesting. In the Grand Alliance, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has fielded 16 women and the Congress has fielded seven while the Left parties just have one woman candidate.Here’s a look at the most talked-about women candidates of the Bihar assembly elections:Pushpam Priya ChaudharyPushpam Priya Chaudhary, who has a masters’ degree in development studies from the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex and a masters’ in public administration from the London School of Economics and political science, is the daughter of former JD(U) MLC Vinod Chaudhary/ She launched her own Plurals Party and is contesting from Bisfi in Madhubani and Bankipur in Patna.Shreyasi SinghShreyasi Singh, who is a Commonwealth Games gold medallist in shooting and an Arjuna Award winner, is the daughter of former JD(U) leader Digvijay Singh. She is the BJP candidate from the Jamui assembly constituency. The LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who represents Jamui Lok Sabha seat in Parliament, has even appealed to his supporters to vote for Shreyasi Singh, addressing her often as his younger sister.Manju VermaManju Verma who was a minister in the Nitish Kumar government but had to resign over allegations of links between her husband and Brajesh Thakur, the prime accused in Muzaffarpur shelter home sexual abuse case of 2018, is the JD(U) candidate from Cheria Bariyarpur.Also Read: A look at women candidates in Bihar assembly polls reveals a harsh realityManorama DeviManorama Devi, the sitting MLC from Gaya district, is the JD(U) candidate in the Bihar assembly election from the Atri constituency in Gaya district. Her late husband Bindeshwari Prasad Yadav had a reputation of a muscleman and her son had faced outrage on social media in a road rage case that had forced the JD(U) to suspend her.Sushumalata KushwahaSushumalata Kushwaha is contesting as JD(U) candidate from Jagdishpur seat in Bhojpur district in the Bihar Assembly Election 2020. She is a panchayat head in a Bhojhpur village called Dawa and has earned a reputation of developing her panchayat into a model one.Ritu JaiswalRitu Jaiswal, the RJD candidate from Parihar seat in Sitamarhi, has been a mukhiya and was recently conferred with the Flame Leadership Award, 2019, by the rural marketing association of India. In 2018, she was also conferred the Champions of Change Award by vice president Venkaiah Naidu.Subhashini YadavCongress has fielded Subhashini Yadav from the Bihariganj seat in Madhepura. She is the daughter of veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadav. She joined the party recently and is a social worker.Other important women candidates in the fray are the LJP’s Usha Vidhyarthi who is an ex-parliamentarian, the RJD’s Dr Ejya Yadav who is an academician, Amita Bhushan from the Congress who is a known social worker, the JD(U)’s Shagufta Azim from Araria, who is the daughter of former RJD leader Iliyas Hussain, the JD(U)’s Anjum Ara from Dumraon seat, the BJP’s Renu Devi from Bettiah and Rashmi Verma, also from BJP, from Narkatiyaganj.Although the number of women MLAs in 2015 reduced to 28 from 34 who were elected in 2010, it remains to be seen how women candidates perform at the polls this time. The first phase of polling on 71 out of the 243 assembly seats in the state is scheduled on October 28, the second phase of polls for 94 seats will be held on November 3 and the third phase of polling for 78 seats will be held on November 7. Results will be announced on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-a-look-at-woman-candidates-in-bihar/story-q0Yh5MH1W3Fu1FUcFNgZoL.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: All you need to know about Dehri constituency||Dehri, the suburban assembly seat located in Rohtas district, is one of the 71 seats that are going to polls in the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections on Wednesday. In the Bihar Assembly Election 2020, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded the sitting MLA Satyanarayan Singh once again. He belongs to the Yadav community that forms a good vote share in Karakat. From the Grand Alliance, the seat went to the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) which has fielded Phate Bahadur Singh as its candidate.In the 2015 Bihar assembly elections when 15 candidates were in the fray, Dehri was among the 81 seats that were won by the RJD. RJD’s Mohammad Iliyas Hussain won the election with a margin of 3,898 votes. Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) candidate Jitendra Kumar alias Rinku Soni came in second securing 45,504 votes. Rashtra Sewa Dal (RSWD) candidate Pradeep Kumar Joshi secured a mere 29,541 votes. The RJD bagged 33.92 per cent of the votes and the RLSP received 31.24 per cent while the RSWD ended up with 20.28 per cent.In 2019, by-polls were conducted on the assembly seat necessitated after the RJD legislator Mohammad Iliyas Hussain lost the membership of the assembly after being convicted in the bitumen scam that had surfaced in 1997. The BJP’s candidate Satyanarayan Singh defeated RJD’s Mohammad Firoj Hussain, son of Iliyas Hussain, by a huge margin of 33,971 votes. Singh secured 71,845 votes while Hussain got 37,874 votes. Pradeep Kumar Joshi of Rashtra Sewa Dal (RSWD) secured 14,594. In the 2019 by-polls, the voter turnout for the seat was 53 per cent.In a blow to the RJD, Mohammad Firoj Hussain son recently joined the JD(U). Mohammad Firoj Hussain, who was the state general secretary of the RJD, also gave up his primary membership of the party in September. As per the voter list of 2015, the assembly seat that comes under the Karakat Lok Sabha constituency had 2,72,992 registered voters. Of them, 1,47,743 were male voters and 1,25,249 were female voters. The counting of votes will be done on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-all-you-need-to-know-about-dehri-constituency/story-RjfyGU13WAcbjLow8yciBK.html
27-10-2020||City||53-year-old crushed under truck near Giaspura Chowk in Ludhiana||A 53-year-old man was crushed to death under a truck near Giaspura Chowk on Monday evening. The driver fled the spot after the accident but was arrested on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Davinder Singh of Sahnewal. He worked as an electrician at a cycle factory in Dhandhari Khurd. His son, Aman Singh, said that on Monday, Davinder had asked him to meet him near Giaspura Chowk. “I reached there first and waited for my father. After a while, I saw him coming from the Sherpur side on his motorcycle. When he reached the Giaspur Chowk, a truck hit his bike due to which he fell down on the road,” said Aman. He added that instead of stopping, the truck driver tried to flee with the vehicle and in the process, crushed him under the rear wheel. Following this, the accused, who was later identified as Jaswinder Singh, left the vehicle and fled on foot.Based on the victim’s son’s complaint, a case was registered against the truck driver under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-year-old-crushed-under-truck-near-giaspura-chowk-in-ludhiana/story-yajomHAPoT9eJdrxLDMR8K.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur condemns Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s remarks about Himachal being home to ganja||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday came out in defence of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who belongs to Himachal Pradesh, and took on his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray for his recent remark that the hill state was home to ganja (cannabis). “Himachal Pradesh is Dev Bhoomi and Uddhav’s remarks about the state are condemnable,” Thakur said, reacting to the Maharashtra CM’s derogatory comments. Kangana has been engaged in a war of words with the Maharashtra government ever since she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Although Uddhav did not take any names during an address to Shiv Sena supporters on Dussehra, he indirectly attacked Kangana for painting Mumbai in poor light by calling it a hub of drugs despite the city being the source of her livelihood. Thackeray defended Mumbai Police and said, “Mumbai is PoK, there are drug addicts everywhere – they are painting such a picture. They don’t know in our house we grow tulsi (basil), not ganja. Ganja fields are in your state, you know where, not in our Maharashtra.” Kangana, who is at her Manali home at present, replied to Thackeray, saying, “Chief minister you are a very petty person. Himachal is called Dev Bhoomi as it has the maximum number of temples and zero crime rate. Yes, it has a very fertile land, it grows apples, kiwis, pomegranate, strawberries. One can grow anything here. You being a leader having such vengeful, myopic and ill-informed views about a state, which has been the abode of Lord Shiva and Maa Parvati along with saints such as Markandeya and Manu Rishi! The Pandavas spent a large part of their exile in Himachal Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-condemns-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-remarks-about-himachal-being-home-to-ganja/story-MVAxbguIzKXDM8goPdivcJ.html
27-10-2020||City||Himachal to open regular school for Classes 9 to 12 from November 2||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools on a regular basis for students of classes 9 to 12 from November 2. The decision was taken on Monday during the state cabinet meeting headed by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. The consent of parents will be mandatory for students keen to attend school, however, attendance will not be compulsory. Besides, colleges in the state will resume classes by following the SOPs/guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. An approval was also given to promote students enrolled in 1st and 2nd year undergraduate courses for academic session 2019-20 to the next class as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Mandi, Solan and Palampur become municipal corporationsThe cabinet also decided to upgrade municipal councils of Mandi, Solan and Palampur to municipal corporations (MC) by merger of adjoining areas. It also decided to create six new nagar panchayats including Kandaghat in Solan district, Amb in Una district, Ani and Nirmand in Kullu district and Chirgoan and Nerwa in Shimla district. The cabinet gave nod for re-organisation of these Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) including Ner Chowk and Karsog in Mandi district and Jwali in Kangra by delimitation. It also decided to exempt land and buildings in newly included areas of these ULBs from payment of general tax for a period of three years and to retain the customary rights as provided in the Wazib-Ul-Urz or Record of Rights. Elections to the ULBs in the state, including newly created municipal corporations and nagar panchayats will be conducted in January, 2021 after consultation with state election commission. The elections to Dharamshala MC will also be conducted in January, 2021 to avoid repetitive polls and associated expenditure. The polls for Shimla MC will be conducted at scheduled time in 2022. A decision was also taken to restore ‘Janmanch’ Programme from November 8. The Cabinet gave its nod to fill up 1,334 vacant posts of constables, including 976 men and 267 women and 91 drivers, on regular basis through direct recruitment. The honorarium of I-T teachers engaged on outsource basis in the education department was increased by 10% and will be applicable from April 1. This will benefit 1,345 I-T teachers. An approval was also given to provide extension in services of already engaged SMC teachers of various categories in elementary and higher education departments for the academic session 2020-21 and their remuneration may also be disbursed to them for the academic session 2020-21 subject to final outcome of Special Leave Petition (Civil) pending in the Supreme Court. The cabinet gave its nod to allow one-time amnesty by redefining zero date for projects which are under investigation and clearance stage where Implementation Agreements (IAs) have already been signed and by redefining Scheduled Commercial Operation Date (SCOD) for projects under construction stage. The decision will benefit 221 power projects having total capacity of 1,060 megawatt. A consent to fill up 32 posts of leading fireman, 11 posts of driver cum pump operator in newly opened fire posts at Sansarpur Terrace in Kangra, Bhawanagar and Sangla in Kinnaur and Patlikuhal in Kullu was also given by the cabinet. It also decided to provide employment to Miss Tanzin Dolkar, the sister of martyr Tanzin Chhultim of Karpat in Lahaul-Spiti district who laid down his life during encounter with terrorists in Srinagar on August 3, 2017. She will be appointed as Junior Office Assistant (IT) on contract basis in the office of DFO Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-open-regular-school-for-classes-9-to-12-from-november-2/story-9JTqJXwYoHhEwSVggfEkiN.html
27-10-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party eyes upcoming bypolls as springboard for UP assembly elections in 2022||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said his party is set on returning to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 2022 assembly elections and next month’s bypolls for seven seats will mark a beginning towards that goal. “The party’s target is the next Assembly election and its beginning is being made through the coming by-elections in which SP’s performance would be good. The next elections will decide the future of the country’s politics,” the party chief said. He said his party’s efforts would be to connect with the maximum number of people and claimed that the voters of UP are prepared to remove the current state government. The bypolls to seven assembly seats in the state is scheduled for November 3. As soon as the voters get a chance, everyone will see how this government is going to be defeated, the former chief minister said while welcoming members of different parties who joined the SP. Attacking the UP government for its performance on the law and order front, Yadav alleged that it hides the crime figures. There is not just one incident of crime against women but several that are being reported, he said. The 47-year-old also welcomed the Allahabad High Court verdict on cow slaughter and said it would have taken detailed information on it. The High Court had on Monday raised concerns over misuse of the anti-cow slaughter law in UP to target innocent persons and lack of forensic evidence to prove that the recovered meat is beef. “Anyone writing the truth faces the wrath and jail. FIRs have also been written against the journalists who had written the truth,” he said. Questioning the state government on its handling of the coronavirus pandemic which has claimed lives of ministers and officials, he said that now it is being said that we have to live with it. “If so, why are the facilities not being improved in hospitals,” he asked. The former CM also questioned the ruling party for its promise to double the income of farmers saying that it was a mere slogan. He wanted the government to disclose how many schemes of the more than Rs 40 lakh crore worth MOUs that were signed by it have actually taken shape. “This is a jhoothi sarkar against which people are coming together,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-eyes-upcoming-bypolls-as-springboard-for-up-assembly-elections-in-2022/story-2QntYOfgmNS0SzxYFeMpnM.html
27-10-2020||City||Incorporate glass safety norms in building by-laws||The fatal glass door injuries suffered by a bank customer in Kerala this June should serve as a grim reminder to all those state governments that have failed to fully incorporate glass safety norms in their building by-laws, thereby exposing consumers to the risk of serious injury and even death from poor quality , annealed glass doors, walls and partitions.On June 15 this year, 46-year-old Beena Paul’s visit to the Perumbavoor branch of Bank of Baroda turned tragic, on account of the unsafe glass door. As she accidentally ran into it on her way out, the glass broke into jagged shards and pierced her abdomen, killing her. If only the door was made of tempered safety glass made to Indian Standards specifications, it would not have broken so easily when Beena bumped into it and even if it did, it would have disintegrated into small, granules, thereby preventing any injury .It’s not as if state governments or the construction industry is unaware of the risks associated with the use of annealed glass in certain critical areas in buildings. In fact it was way back in 2007 that the Confederation of Construction Products and Services (CCPS), a non-profit organization, drafted the first set of guidelines on the selection of appropriate glass in modern buildings, to prevent glass related injuries and deaths. This was one of those private sector safety initiatives, but involving all stakeholders, including the government sector at the central and the state levels. The ‘Guidelines on the use of Glass in Buildings: Human Safety’ was thus an important milestone in the area of glass safety at a time when the use of glass in public, private and commercial buildings was increasing exponentially. The Guidelines of 2007 were reviewed and updated in 2009, 2013 and 2015 and throughout this period and even subsequently, concerted efforts were made by the Central Public Works Department, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (and even the Planning Commission at one stage) as well as CCPS to get the state governments to adopt the Guidelines . Many state governments did incorporate them, but it’s anybody’s guess as to how many states/local bodies are scrupulously implementing them and ensuring that only safety certified, tempered or laminated glass is used, as required under the Guidelines.Following Beena’s death, it was found that even though Kerala had adopted the 2015 Guidelines in its building rules, they were only applicable to multi-storeyed buildings!.The government has since issued a directive on compliance with the Guidelines in all buildings, but a PIL in the Kerala High Court has demanded that the building laws be amended.Hopefully, states that have not incorporated the Guidelines or are not enforcing the Guidelines strictly, will not wait for another tragedy, to rid all buildings of annealed doors, partitions and walls and ensure full compliance with the Guidelines. (The National Building Code 2016 also deals with human impact safety under ‘ Glass and Glazing’)I must also mention that since most ‘walk-through’ accidents involving see-through glass doors or partitions are caused on account of the impression of unimpeded path of travel created by them, the Guidelines also mandate incorporation of manifestations to make the glass visible. This is also an extremely important safety provision.Now in order to prevent the use of sub-standard or fake safety glasses in buildings, the union ministry of Commerce and Industry has brought them under mandatory quality certification. The Safety Glass (Quality Control) order says that safety ( tempered and laminated) glass cannot be sold or used without the mandatory ISI mark, indicating their conformity with IS 2553(Part 1) 2018: Safety Glass specification for architectural, building and general uses. This will come into effect from April 1, 2021.This will not only ensure the use of only quality certified safety glass in all commercial, public and residential buildings, but also help consumers using glass in their homes, particularly for partition and doors, to buy genuine safety glass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/incorporate-glass-safety-norms-in-building-by-laws/story-iiNp2oDKlw25bA0cYYr1VN.html
27-10-2020||Dehradun||Crackdown on illegal mining in Uttarakhand, Strict curbs in US Nagar||Mining will not be permitted before sunrise and after sunset in Kumaon’s US Nagar district, the police said. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar said, “Illegal mining, as well as mining of more than allotted volume or area, will not be permitted at any condition in the district. To curb illegal mining, mining will not be permitted before sunrise and after sunset.” Illegal mining is rampant in US Nagar. Khatima, Sitarganj, Kichha, Bazpur and Kashipur are the main areas where illegal mining is witnessed throughout the year. People involved in illegal mining extract sand, stones and clay in abundance and mint money, leaving the area prone to flood and soil erosion in rainy season, said an official. The mining mafia is so powerful that sometimes when police or forest officials of the area concerned conduct raids, illegal mining operators don’t hesitate to attack them. They snatch dumpers, trucks and tractor trolleys if the police or forest officials seize them, said an official. Kunwar said, “Police will monitor mining areas round-the-clock where illegal mining is rampant. Officials of the department concerned will also accompany the police while raids are conducted in the future. Those found involved in illegal mining activities will be booked under the gangster act if they don’t mend their ways, as they are creating law and order problems.” “Apart from the government agencies, 23 mining leaseholders are operating in the district. Also, 77 stone crushers are in operation across the district. The department imposes penalties if it finds illegal mining activities or mining of more volume of the mining material,” said Amit Gaurav, district mining officer, US Nagar. On October 25, in a major action against the police for not taking action on illegal mining in the district, SSP US Nagar suspended ten police personnel - the entire staff of an outpost - and attached eight police personnel of another police outpost with the district police lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-in-uttarakhand-strict-curbs-on-mining-in-us-nagar/story-LcdM1tIRJ5pSZaZTMBeNDM.html
27-10-2020||City||J&K LG sanctions over 10,000 cases under self employment scheme; disburses Rs 100 crore||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha, on Tuesday sanctioning of over 10,000 cases under the Back to Village-III (B2V3) and My Town-My Pride programmes in the UT.Addressing a press conference at Raj Bhavan auditorium, Sinha said, “The sanctioning of over 10,000 cases under B2V3 self employment programme and my town-my pride highlight the UT government’s commitment to empower the youth, which is one of the foremost priorities of J&K government,” he said.A total of 15,309 applications were received for the programme out of which 10,828 have been sanctioned and an amount of Rs 100 cr has been disbursed to 6,734 applicants identified under B2V3.Also read | J&K government to install smart meters; to begin with Jammu, SrinagarSinha said that the target was to cover at least two persons from each panchayat who were in need of financial assistance for self employment. “I am happy to announce that we have covered nearly 10,000 cases and in order to mark the occasion, one person from each district of J&K is being handed over a sanction letter here,” he said.The LG called upon the J&K Bank to not only extend financial assistance to these entrepreneurs but also handhold them so that they can set up sustainable businesses and flourish.On employment generation, the LG said that 24,000 posts have been identified in different departments. Of these, 10,000 vacancies have been advertised for recruitment and will be filled up soon.“We will continue to march ahead. We will spare no efforts to ensure that the government of J&K comes up to the expectations of the people,” he claimed.The LG also handed over a cheque of Rs 250 crore to J&K Bank as disbursement of 5% Interest Subvention and coverage of re-structured accounts of 2014 and 2016 and called it a very important milestone.He announced that from January 1, 2021, GST shall be reimbursed “timely and automatically without delays”.He said that the committee constituted to suggest measures for improving competitiveness of local industry has given its report and the government will soon be implementing its recommendations.“I had also said that the implementation of the package shall be personally monitored by me. I am happy to announce that nearly 50% of the recommendations have already been implemented,” he said.He said that the 3-tier panchayati raj system is being implemented for the first time in J&K to strengthen the grass roots and give fillip to the developmental agenda. “My government is committed to peace and progress in J&K...we mean what we say,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-lg-sanctions-over-10-000-cases-under-self-employment-scheme-disburses-rs-100-crore/story-OMpWuJNxGrgx8HprxzhmZK.html
27-10-2020||City||Tripura government withdraws permission to host Durga Puja from a club for violating Covid-19 guidelines||The West Tripura district administration has withdrawn the permission of organising Durga Puja, which was given to one of the popular clubs in Agartala, for violating the guidelines related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Dr. Shailendra Kumar Yadav, district magistrate (DM), West Tripura, issued a notification on Monday, which stated that Pradyut Dhar Chowdhury, general secretary, Bharat Ratna Sangha that is located at Ushabazar near Agartala Airport, had promises to allow 15 visitors on the club premises at a time, but around 1,000 people had assembled on October 24 both in the evening and at night.Yadav had withdrawn the permission given to the club for violating Covid-19 safety norms and asked the members to close the pandal by 7 pm on Monday.Also Read: Tripura club organises Durga Puja sans idol in remembrance of three local Covid-19 casualtiesThe state government has ordered a phase-wise immersion of idols to be completed within three days, starting Monday. Bharat Ratna Sangha members have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Dhar Chowdhury was not available for a reaction to the notification. In early October, the Tripura government had issued a set of guidelines, including collection of online subscriptions, reducing number of puja pandals through mutual consultations, avoiding narrow entry and exit systems in the pandals, allowing up to 15 people to visit pandals at a time, and conducting mandatory Covid-19 tests of puja organisers, priests and volunteers and others. The Tripura high court (HC) had also asked the state government to launch an awareness drive during the Durga puja in a bid to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak.Over 640 community Durga pujas were organised in West Tripura district, including over 480 alone in Agartala this year. Agartala had organised 554 Durga pujas last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-government-withdraws-permission-to-host-durga-puja-from-a-club-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines/story-I1nq8cAUVbvyeB67i0enlM.html
27-10-2020||City||Rajasthan: Days after man’s charred body was found in deep freeze, family calls it accident||Two days after a 23-year-old man’s charred body was found from a wine shop’s deep freeze at Kumpur in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Sunday, his family has called the incident an accident after earlier blaming the shop owners for it. The family has said that no action be taken against the owners even as police said they will continue their probe in the case.The man’s brother said they have found no role of the owners in the incident. “Hence, I request that no action be taken against the owners,” he said in an application, a copy of which HT has seen.Police superintendent Ram Moorty Joshi said they have taken their application on record. “However, we will continue to probe in the matter on the basis of facts and evidence.”The family earlier accused the owners of setting the man on fire but now want to withdraw their complaint in the case.Also read | Uttarakhand police nab prime accused in Haridwar elderly couple’s double murder caseAccording to the First Information Report the family has filed, Kamal Kishor, the 23-year-old, worked as a salesman at Rakesh Yadav and Subhash Chand’s shop. They claimed Kishor had not been paid for the last five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajasthan-days-after-man-s-charred-body-was-found-in-deep-freeze-family-calls-it-accident/story-OQbEjyN6dIwyau3b9JyBxJ.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Cases have plateaued, focus now on vulnerable groups: Rajeev Arora||Additional chief secretary, health, Haryana, says testing has not gone down much as the government is still testing about 25,000 people dailyHow do you analyse the dip in coronavirus infection in the state? The surge in infection is followed by a stage of plateauing and decline. It’s a global and national phenomenon. Is the infection dip related to decreased testing? Not really. The testing actually has not decreased much. We are still testing about 25,000 people daily which is almost the same as in September and much higher than July and August. But why there’s variation in testing? With a reduction in the infections, the numbers of primary and secondary contacts of the infected patients have also declined. Thus, one sees a variation in sampling. So, how would you go about increasing the sampling? We are now focusing on groups who are more vulnerable to Covid-19 exposure, such as frontline workers, school teachers, industrial workers, people in commercial establishments and frequent travellers. See, we have been in favour of opening up economic activity right from the beginning and will continue with this policy as per the central government guidelines. Are you worried about a second wave during or after festival season? The propensity of people to lower their guard and shun safety measures is more during festivities. It all depends on human behaviour. Also, resumption of more activities like the opening of educational institutions, cinemas, multiplexes, entertainment parks, allowing social, religious and political congregations will contribute to the infection rate. That’s why we are focusing on these groups for targeted testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cases-have-plateaued-focus-now-on-vulnerable-groups-rajeev-arora/story-RVCrWRq7H1D6KrpiCQPjqI.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hope of virus curve flattening in Haryana marred by winter surge threat||The incidence of coronavirus infection in Haryana has seen a decline in the last four weeks, stirring optimism and hopes of flattening of the virus curve. Though the state reported 393 more new infections last week (Oct 19-25) as compared to the week before, the dip in the number of infections was more than 46% as compared to September 14-20, the week when Haryana reported an all-time high 17,616 viral infections. Nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, says the decline in the number of cases was expected. “We had a peak period in August-September. There is a trend — infection starts, picks up, gallops and then comes down. A lot of people are also not going in for testing nowadays,’’ Dr Chaudhary said. Asked whether the decline has something to do with the weakening of the strain of the virus, Dr Chaudhary said that they cannot comment on the virus strain as they do not have required data. “There was a significant community spread which took place. The positive cases reported were just the tip of the infection pyramid. There were a lot many asymptomatic patients than we know. There is a possibility that the virulence of the virus is reducing but we have no genomic data to ascertain this,’’ he said. The Covid-19 nodal officer said a second wave of infection is expected in the winters. “I am apprehensive because educational institutions are opening up. Also, winters, increased pollution and festival season can contribute to a surge. We will know where we stand by the end of November and early December,’’ he said. While the sampling using rapid antigen tests (RAT) and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for detecting new infections has also seen a decline in the past few weeks, health officials said that the variation is insignificant. Health officials though have maintained that the declining infection rate has outnumbered the reduced testing. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said the average per day tests were 11,238 in July, 17,339 in August, 26890 in September and 24,371 in October. “The sample positivity rate for October was about 4.9% as compared to 8.3% in September when per day testing was about 2,500 samples more than October,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hope-of-virus-curve-flattening-marred-by-winter-surge-threat/story-tZ9JdVA69YJHvtSa4061QM.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Social activist self-immolates in Kolhapur||A social activist who self-immolated in the premises of the Ichalkaranji municipal council office on Monday morning succumbed to his burns during treatment. Naresh Bhore (45), a resident of Shahpur, Kolhapur is survived by his ailing mother and two brothers, according to the police. “The immolation happened near the municipal council office which is in the Shivajinagar police station jurisdiction. His residence is in the jurisdiction of Shahpur police station. While the final decision will be based on the family’s complaint, the case will most probably be recorded at the Shivajinagar police station,” said Rameshwar Vainjane, the sub-divisional police officer of Jaysinghpur who is also handling an additional charge of Ichalkaranji division. The social activist raised the issue of corruption and cleanliness on various occasions with the local administration, according to the police. The police have now asked the local government to provide a list of the complaints that Bhore had made. “The bystanders tell us that he arrived in an autorickshaw, which we are yet to find, and was already doused in petrol when he entered the municipal council building. There was police bandobast at the main gate but he arrived through a small gate at the back of the building. He had suffered 50-60% burns but the burns were on vital body parts between head and stomach. His face and head were completely damaged,” said police inspector Ishwar Omase of Shivajinagar police station where the incident happened. He had warned the municipal council officials through a letter to the CO that he would take this step on Monday if they failed to intervene in an incident in his locality. “On October 18, a ‘ghanta gadi’ (garbage van) driver named Amar Lakhe was dragging a dead pig by tethering it to the vehicle. Bhore had asked him to put the dead animal inside the vehicle instead and it had led to a verbal fight where the garbage truck driver had hurled expletives at Bhore,” said police inspector Prakash Nikam of Shahpur police station where Bhore lived. His body was taken to IGM hospital in Kolhapur, but after preliminary care, they were asked to move to Sangli civil hospital for further treatment. At the Sangli civil hospital, Bhore was declared dead on Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/social-activist-self-immolates-in-kolhapur/story-DolYnf8WlYbDYGeboMcNDO.html
27-10-2020||City||Uttarakhand police nab prime accused in Haridwar elderly couple’s double murder case||Uttarakhand police claim to have solved the double murder of an elderly couple in Haridwar district with the arrest of the prime accused here following a gunfight early in the morning.The accused, Satyendra, fired three rounds while the police retaliated by firing five rounds, injuring him on his leg, said the police.Retired Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) officer PK Aggarwal and his wife Beena Aggarwal were found dead in their residence in Shivalik Nagar area of the district on the intervening night of October 12-13. Also read | Woman shot dead outside college in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh, accused arrestedSenior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Haridwar D Senthil Aboodai Krishan Raj said Satyendra was arrested after a brief exchange of fire and was immediately shifted to the hospital where his condition is reported to be stable. Satyendra’s accomplice Vipin was arrested on Monday evening which led the police team to the prime accused. Incidentally, both the arrested men used to live as tenants in the same colony and as such, knew that the elderly couple lived alone in the house. “Satyendra was spotted near canal regulator bridge stretch in Suman Nagar colony in the morning on a motorcycle. The police team cordoned the road but he fired on the police personnel. In retaliation, the police team also fired and Satyendra sustained a bullet injury in his leg after which the police team nabbed him,” said Aboodai Krishan. Superintendent of Police (Crime) Ayush Aggarwal said that both the accused used to live in a rented room near the house of the elderly couple and used to interact with them. “After recce and planning, they killed the couple and carried out the loot,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-nab-prime-accused-in-haridwar-elderly-couple-s-double-murder-case/story-QHOYTTXAp9ZKBtTE61QHYI.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Air travellers deal with rescheduling as night operations at Lohegaon airport shut down||Lohegaon airport’s tarmac is undergoing re-carpeting, which will go on for a year’s time. This has led to a lot of confusion among travel agencies who face the ire of passengers who have booked tour packages. Agents have also said that this will lead to a major blow to the aviation industry which has faced maximum losses in the lockdown and is now hoping to revive, but due to this work, will continue to suffer. Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents’ Association, Pune (TAAP) said, “This work could have been done when the pandemic was announced and the airstrip was completely shut. People have been frustrated in the lockdown and now want to travel. We have multiple bookings for Goa from Pune but we do not have a direct flight now. A road trip to Goa would probably take about 10-12 hours and a flight trip takes about 45 minutes. However, now there is no direct flight and now people have to opt for connecting flights to either Ahmedabad or Hyderabad which is about five-six hours depending on when the connecting flight is. Also, considering the business travel from Pune to Bengaluru and Delhi which was earlier in the wee hours, now it is almost impossible.” He explained that earlier an early morning flight from Pune to Bengaluru would leave at 4am and reach by 5am and so the person could go to the city, finish his or her work and then take a flight back to the city. “However, this is not possible now as the flight timings have been restricted from 8am to 8pm, including take-off and landing. Bengaluru Delhi routes have been affected the most due to this,” Bhansali added. Airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “The transition from night flight operations to day operations has been smooth. Passengers are happy about these timings and none of the flights has been cancelled. We operated about 13-15 flights at night which have all been rescheduled and none of them has been cancelled. This would not affect the Vande Bharat flights also which have been scheduled till December as they did not have any fixed schedule.” The official Twitter handle of Pune airport tweeted, “As per the flight schedule approved by DGCA up to 27th Mar 2021, only flights between 08:00am to 08:00pm are approved. Hence there are no flights between 08:00pm to 08:00am. These timings for flight operations between 08:00am to 08:00pm is likely to continue until October 2021.” The airport authority has said that this rescheduling has been done smoothly and that there is no cancellation of any flights, agents defer.Rohit Malusure, a travel agent who runs the Tourism Cafe said, “We are still getting updated schedules from the flight operators and even today the various websites of flight operators do show night flights which are likely to be cancelled. The passengers get last-minute messages and so it is a big mess especially when further planning is affected in case of connecting flights or the planned journey ahead. For example, I had a client who had to go to Chennai and from there go to Tirupati. They got a message that their flight is cancelled only a day before their flight. Yesterday evening we had to completely revamp the entire schedule from hotel bookings to their road travel from Chennai to Tirupati. We are not sure whether to take future bookings or not because of this uncertainty. All this has exposed the lack of coordination between flight operators and airport authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/air-travellers-deal-with-rescheduling-as-night-operations-at-lohegaon-airport-shut-down/story-hfDhDO48r4ZFAaqCaR5tRO.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Pune property registrations outdo 2019 numbers||The Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) has recorded 576 properties registrations in the city on Dassehra, taking the total sale of properties in October to 2,14,274, which is higher than last year same month. The festival on Sunday saw total 862 documents registered across 10 offices in the state with total revenue clocking in at Rs 5.07 crore. The offices were open despite being public holiday. Also, the reduction in stamp duty by the state government had a positive impact on the registration process. According to the registration office records, October (till25th) saw registrations of 2,14,274 properties wherein Rs 1,102.59 crore was generated until October 25 in Maharashtra. In 2019-2020, 1,93,695 properties were registered and revenue generation stood at Rs 2,234.6 crore for October, while in 2018-2019, as many as 2,38,779 documents were registered and Rs 2,280.81 crore revenue was generated. In 2017-2018, 1,49,249 documents were registered and Rs 1,948.51 crore was generated. The state inspector general of registration and stamps, Omprakash Deshmukh, said, “The registrars’ offices in Pune, Thane and Alibaug had sought permission to stay open taking into account the demand for real estate registrations in the area. It was a demand-driven exercise and we permitted them to function on Dusserah, an exercise which yielded good registrations and revenue which will drive up the real estate sector in the future.” Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments said that the return to normalcy is fuelling the need for housing which is being converted to demand. “As companies come to terms with the effects of the pandemic and the lockdown, the uncertainty around job security is rapidly lifting. This is leading to people buying homes this season,” Gera said. Jehangir Dorabjee, CMD, Dorabjee properties said, “The market is receiving a boost due to the auspicious occasion and as things are getting back to normalcy, buyers are stepping out with caution and taking their decision to buy properties. The market will improve further in the next few months as we inch closer towards vaccination. There is a strong renewed interest in buyers towards purchasing properties which is a positive sign of recovery.” The Covid-19 pandemic had a strong impact on revenue generations of the IGR which could garner only around Rs 250 crore for April when the average monthly earnings range from Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,300 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-property-registrations-outdo-2019-numbers/story-34MGRslxaRfKzvQtS8SwEI.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Dussehra drives rise in small car sales||The 2020 Dusserah festival saw a significant rise in car sales despite the Covid-19 pandemic, and interestingly, a majority of the buyers have preferred small cars. According to the Pune Regional Transport Office’s (RTO) new vehicle registration data, the total number of vehicles sold during the 2020 Navratri festival are less than last year’s Navratri, but the sales are on an upward rise. The revenue generation from vehicle registrations has increased by Rs 1 crore this year. Last year a total of 7,497 new vehicles were registered during the Navratri period with total revenue of Rs 30,63,62,859. Whereas this year the new vehicle registration has gone down to 6,454; but revenue increased to Rs 31,97,78,668, which means there is an increase of Rs 1,34,15,809 revenue this year. In the cars’ segment last year, a total of 2,000 cars were registered and this year it has risen to 2,338. “There is a considerable rise in car sales during the Navratri period compared to last year. And we have noticed that more than half of the new cars registered are small segment cars. So, it looks like people are now more concerned about their safety due to Covid-19, so they buy smaller cars to travel with family around the city,” said Pune deputy regional transport officer Sanjeev Bhor. Last year, 4,969 new motorcycles were registered, however, this year the number went down to 3,794. “There are two reasons for a drop in motorcycle sales this year. First, as colleges are closed, youth are not going to college and so parents didn’t buy vehicles for them this year. Another reason is due to labour workers. A majority of the workers use motorcycles to travel to their workplace and as they are not in town the sales are reduced this time,” added Bhor. The autorickshaw and bus sales have also reduced this year compared to last year. Talking about this year’s car sales Vaijayanati Shewade, general manager, sales at BU Bhandari cars said, “There was a very good response during the Navratri period in the last few days, as we sold out around 200 cars in this period. It is the best sale that has happened since unlock began and we are hopeful that until Diwali the sale of cars increases. People prefer to purchase a car now due to Covid-19 and want to travel safely.” BOX New vehicles registered by Pune RTO during Navratri period this year – October 17 to 25, 2020 Motorcycles – 3,794 Cars – 2,338 Autorickshaws – 43 Commercial vehicles – 218 Tourist taxis – 8 Buses – 3 Other vehicles – 50 Total – 6,454 Total revenue – Rs 31,97,78,668 New vehicles registered by Pune RTO during Navratri period last year – September 20 to October 10, 2019 Motorcycles – 4,969 Cars – 2,000 Autorickshaws – 321 Commercial vehicles – 297 Tourist taxis – 161 Buses – 36 Other - 34 Total – 7,497 Total revenue – Rs 30,63,62,859||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dussehra-drives-rise-in-small-car-sales/story-lzkVJPoAYo8iUCKKeqYhEL.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Will this poll mark the return of RJD’s Nehaluddin in Rafiganj?||Rafiganj, a seat that finds its origin back to 1951, will be electing its 17th member of Legislative Assembly in the upcoming Bihar assembly elections. This seat, which is under the Aurangabad parliamentary constituency, has seen a close fight between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Janata Dal (United) in the last four state polls.The JD(U)’s Ashok Kumar Singh, who is serving the constituency as a sitting MLA, has dominated the seat since 2005. Among the contesting political candidates, Rafiganj has seen Mohammad Nehaluddin from the RJD as a sitting MLA in February and October 2005. Political players for this state poll round include Kishor Kumar Singh from the JD(U), Mohammad Nehaluddin, Lok Janashakti Party’s (LJP) Manoj Singh and Ranjit Singh of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Rafiganj is among the Bihar’s constituencies which has never elected a leader from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The regional bastion for local parties and leaders will not see any BJP candidate fighting the Bihar assembly election this year.The seat has a pool of close to 317,000 eligible voters. Out of this, men constitute 170,000 voters and women constitute 147,000 voters. The seat also has 16 transgender voters. Rafiganj is among the 71 constituencies in Bihar spread across 16 districts that will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. The results for Rafiganj seat will be announced on November 10 along with others. In the three-phase Bihar assembly elections, which will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7 for 243 seats, the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left will take on the combine of the ruling JD(U), BJP, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP).The Bihar assembly polls, seen as a mammoth exercise by political experts, will be the first in the country to be conducted by the Election Commission amid a raging coronavirus pandemic. The commission has introduced several guidelines keeping the viral contagion in consideration. People have been instructed to wear a mask during all election-related activities and thermal screening of everyone involved in the election exercises will be carried out by the EC officials. In a departure from the previous polling practices, only 1,000 voters will exercise their franchise at a particular booth, instead of 1,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-will-this-poll-mark-the-return-of-rjd-s-nehaluddin-in-rafiganj/story-AnaMrBFfdZi8xoGkj0oWnL.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Anurag Thakur reminds Bihar voters of Gabbar Singh to keep ‘jungle raj’ away||Union Minister Anurag Thakur on Tuesday used the iconic ‘so ja bete nahi to Gabbar Singh aa jayega’ dialogue of the 1975 Bollywood blockbuster ‘Sholay’ to warn people against Bihar’s return to ‘jungle raj’ if the RJD was voted to power.Thakur, the Union Minister of State for Finance, asked people to be wary of parties who want to push the state back to the era of caste tension and social discrimination.“‘So ja bete nahi to Gabbar Singh aa jayega’. Mothers, who have seen the jungle raj days in Bihar, please do tell your children, especially youth, on the polling day to cast their votes carefully, otherwise they (the RJD) may return to power....those who ran a regime of terror and fear,” he told a press conference.Terming the RJD-led Grand Alliance a “depressed and confused” lot, Thakur reminded the electorate how a series of massacres along caste lines occurred in Bihar before the party now leading the coalition exited from power in 2005.Representatives of allies JD(U) and HAM were present at the press conference.“I just want to ask the RJD and its leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav why did he align with CPI(ML), tukde-tukde gangs, or those who believe in perpetrating massacres?” the union minister asked.“Do they want to bring the jungle raj days back in Bihar, or do they want the state to witness bloodshed once again?” Thakur wondered how will the people trust Tejashwi Yadav, the opposition alliance’s chief ministerial candidate, when he got even the photographs of his father and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad removed from party’s posters and hoardings.The minister said Tejashwi also neglected his allies like the HAM of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP of former union minister Upendra Kushwaha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahni. All of them were forced to leave the Grand Alliance, he said.Thakur exuded confidence that an NDA government will be formed in Bihar after the assembly election, particularly because the state’s image had undergone a drastic makeover under the “double-engine growth” powered by the alliance governments at the Centre and the state. He said the distinction between the 15 years of NDA rule and 15 years of Lalu-Rabri dispensation was clear from the per capita income, which stands at Rs 43,000 now against Rs 8,000 in 2005, the last year of the RJD government.The state’s growth rate has gone up from 3.5 per cent under the RJD to 11.5 per cent under the NDA government.Two AIIMS were set up in Bihar, besides central universities, engineering and medical colleges, power supply and road and rail connectivity were strengthened, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/anurag-thakur-reminds-bihar-voters-of-gabbar-singh-to-keep-jungle-raj-away/story-WcbImVGR0LiUbgIxgVvagI.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police extends ban on drones, flying objects within city limits for another month||Mumbai police have issued an order banning use of drones, remote controlled micro- light aircraft, para-gliders within the city, stating that it is likely for terrorists or anti-social elements to use these equipment to target VVIPs or to endanger public life or destroy public property or to cause law and order issues. The order copy states, “Whereas it has become necessary that certain restrictions should be put on the activities of such elements across the Brihanmumbai police commissionerate to prevent probable sabotage through such drone, remote controlled micro- light aircraft, aerial missiles, para-gliders for which some preventive and proactive measures needed be taken to prevent the same.” “Hereby the police order that no flying activity of drone or other thing shall be allowed in the jurisdiction of Brihanmumbai police commissionerate for the period of next 30 days i.e; from October 30, 2020 to November 28, 2020, except for aerial surveillance by Mumbai Police or by specific permission in written by DCP (operations), “ the order reads. Chaitanya S, deputy commissioner of police (Operation) said, “The said order is a routine order. There is a Section 144 CrPC order in place. It has just been extended.” According to police officials, a few days ago, a helicopter pilot noticed an unidentified flying object about 100 feet above him just minutes after he took off. The incident took place at 9.30 am and the Air Traffic Control was alerted which in turn informed Mumbai police. Suhas Raikar assistant commissioner of police, Santacruz division, said, “We received this information from our police control after which we alerted all the staff members and other police stations to find out if it was a drone. But we didn’t find anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-extends-ban-on-drones-flying-objects-within-city-limits-for-another-month/story-EhgPKEB0b9Guju3APP6acP.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Union minister Ramdas Athawale tests positive for Covid-19||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Bombay hospital, his party informed on Tuesday. According to Mayur Borkar, the PRO of Republican Party of India (Athawale) (RPI-A), his results were released on Tuesday morning. “Athawale has tested positive and is now admitted in Bombay Hospital,” he said. Incidentally, Athawale had held a press conference on Monday where he had inducted actor Payal Ghosh in the RPI-A.Also Read: Actor Payal Ghosh joins Ramdas Athawale’s RPI; appointed vice president of women wingThough Athawale wore a mask, it did not cover his nose. Both Athawale and Ghosh were photographed standing with other people without their face masks. In February, Athawale grabbed eyeballs when a video of him chanting ‘Go Corona Go’ along with Chinese Consul General in Mumbai Tang Guocai and Buddhist monks went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-oRf7WRhsM7lYBxiezDWhXP.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: All you need to know about Gurua constituency||Gurua is a Bihar assembly constituency currently held by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Rajiv Nandan. The constituency will go to the polls on October 28, with the results scheduled to be declared on November 10. Gurua was among the 57 seats won by the BJP in 2015. The BJP’s Nandan won the election, upstaging JD(U) candidate Ramchandra Singh by a margin of 6,515 votes.In 2015, the assembly seat had 260,281 registered voters. Of them, 138,572 were men and 121,436 were women. The None of the Above (NOTA) votes in the seat stood at 6,032. In the previous election, 12 candidates were in the fray in the constituency.Click here for full coverage of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020The assembly constituency falls under the Gaya district and the Aurangabad Lok Sabha seat. In the 2019 general elections, BJP candidate Sushil Kumar Singh won from Aurangabad Lok Sabha constituency. The voter turnout was 55.16% in the 2015 assembly elections.In 2010, JD(U) candidate Surendra Prasad Sinha had defeated RJD candidate Bindeshwari Prasad Yadav by 11,436 votes. The Gurua assembly seat has traditionally not been the stronghold of any party.In the three-phase Bihar elections, which will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7 for 243 seats, the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left will take on the combine of the ruling JD(U), BJP, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-elections-2020-all-you-need-to-know-about-gurua-constituency/story-qgGHal6DMHXpNRSAxpBWvJ.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: All you need to know about Sherghati constituency||Sherghati is an assembly seat under the Gaya Lok Sabha constituency, which will go to the polls on October 28 and the results will be declared on November 10.In the 2015 elections, there were 12 candidates in the fray for the seat. Sherghati was among the 70 seats won by the JD(U) in 2015. The JD(U)’s Vinod Prasad Yadav won the election, defeating HAMS candidate Mukesh Kumar Yadav by a margin of 4,834 votes.Click here for full coverage of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020In 2015, the assembly seat had 247,788 registered voters. Of them, 129,308 were men and 118,466 were women voters. Sherghati recorded 59.77% voting in 2015. The None of the Above (NOTA) votes stood at 6,482.In 2010, JD(U) candidate Vinod Prasad Yadav defeated Independent candidate Sushma Devi by 6,503 votes. The assembly seat has traditionally been the JD(U)’s bastion.In the three-phase Bihar election, which will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7 for 243 seats, the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left will take on the combine of the ruling JD(U), BJP, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). Votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-elections-2020-all-you-need-to-know-about-sherghati/story-WSwxkjlgxMVUPKRYzBYX2L.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: All you need to know about Imamganj seat||Imamganj is a reserved assembly seat under the Gaya Lok Sabha constituency. The seat will vote on October 28 in the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections and the results will be declared on November 10. In the 2015 elections, Imamganj was the lone seat won by the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular. The party’s leader Jitan Ram Manjhi won the election, defeating the Janata Dal(United)’s Uday Narain Choudhary by a margin of 29,408 votes.This year, former Bihar chief minister Manjhi is witnessing a three-cornered contest in his home seat. Former Bihar assembly speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary, a Nitish Kumar loyalist before he decided to move to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2017, is pitted against Manjhi in the Imamganj assembly constituency, which borders Jharkhand. Choudhary won the seat four times before losing to Manjhi in 2015.Click here for full coverage of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020In the current election, Choudhary is contesting on the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s ticket. The RJD has never won the seat since 2000. Former BJP leader and currently the Lok Janshakti Party’s candidate, Shobha Sinha is also banking on the anti-incumbency factor to pose as the third strong candidate in the constituency.The assembly seat had 266,879 registered voters in 2015. Of them, 140,572 were men and 118,433 were women. Imamganj recorded 56.28% voting in the previous elections. The constituency is one of the seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly that are reserved for scheduled caste candidates.In 2010, JD(U) candidate Choudhary had defeated the RJD’s Raushan Kumar by 1,211 votes. The Imamganj assembly seat has traditionally not been any party’s bastion.In the three-phase Bihar election, which will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7 for 243 seats, the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left will take on the combine of the ruling JD(U), BJP, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). Results will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-elections-2020-all-you-need-to-know-about-imamganj-seat/story-6m5vH4u2MyyHjhvI6AuZGN.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||AQI poor: Health conscious Delhi-NCR residents take to yoga, indoors||Since October set in, Capital’s air has gone for a toss impacting denizens. Those who were already fighting Covid-19, and staying indoors had started to come out only now, but no longer is that the case. The developing smog is enveloping Delhi-NCR yet again, discouraging many to not to venture out for their regular morning walks or jogs. Outdoor to indoor, in air purified environment “I’ve an early case of arthritis and was recommended regular, light exercises. I would earlier go to the neighbourhood park in my locality at least once every day to be able to do so. But now, breathing has become hard! Right in the morning hours one can see smog. So now, I’ve been staying indoors and doing yoga at home with an air purifier in the house. Health matters, especially during the time of a pandemic,” says Meenakshi Gupta, a resident of Noida. Yoga classes a hit, offline or online A few days back, one could spot hordes of people sprawled across various parks and gardens on a regular day, but now, many residents have taken to indoor yoga sessions amid rising pollution levels.Poonam Arora, from Priyasha Yoga Studio (for print - a Rohini-based yoga studio) in Rohini, informs that people are of late preferring to learn yoga indoors instead of an open space. “Yoga helps with breathing ailments which plague most Delhiites today because of the bad AQI. Since the situation has started worsening, I’ve seen an increase in number of people wanting to come to the studio, to keep their health in check. As far as the Covid-19 concern goes, I take special care of social distancing, screen everyone before a batch begins, and get the studio sanitised after every session!” An east Delhi based yoga instructor, Harendra Gautam confirms that demand for home visits for yoga classes have also increased in the recent past. “During this season, because of stubble burning, there are more cases of lung ailments reported by residents in Delhi-NCR. I’ve been getting requests for yoga classes from families and professionals who are working from home and earlier didn’t want to risk going out to the gyms, and now don’t feel like like going to open spaces or parks due to pollution. And there is definitely a more conscious realisation among people that yoga is helpful in keeping many diseases at bay,” he says.Health on priority? Yoga se hi hoga And some denizens have reverted to the virtual medium that they tried out at the start of lockdown. A Mehrauli-based yoga practitioner, Leelanand Thakur says he has been conducting yoga classes online for his patrons, which protects them from pollution induced ailments as well as builds their immunity to fight coronavirus. “Three of my clients had developed symptoms of coronavirus and through regular online yoga classes, they emerged unscathed. People are opting for virtual classes so that they can stay safe at home, and yoga does work wonders for their physical as well as mental health. Needless to say, it does benefit those having breathing ailments as well. So practising yoga amid rising pollution is of course a safe option indoors,” he adds. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aqi-poor-health-conscious-delhi-ncr-residents-take-to-yoga-indoors/story-g5p9CmnQhB4vmD9ta7dSVK.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s son Raninder Singh doesn’t appear before ED, seeks adjournment in illegal foreign funds case||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh, who is also the president of the National Rifle Association of India, did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its zonal office in Jalandhar on Tuesday, rather he sought adjournment in the matter. Last week, the ED had summoned Raninder in an ongoing probe into an illegal foreign funds case. Raninder’s lawyer Jaiveer Shergill said: “My client has sought adjournment as he is required to be present before the parliamentary standing committee for a hearing in connection with the Olympic Games, 2021.” “He has sought details from the ED of the case in relation to which he has been summoned as the summons issued are vague,” Shergill said. After Raninder didn’t appear before it, the ED issued fresh summons and asked him to appear before it on November 6. In August, the ED had filed three applications in a Ludhiana court for the inspection of new documents filed by the income tax department in the cases against the chief minister and his son. The matter is pending with the district and sessions court in Ludhiana. In July 2016, Raninder had appeared before the ED in the case and said he had nothing to hide. “I’ll attend the probe as they want me to as I have nothing to hide,” he said. ACTION UNDER FEMA ON I-T DEPT COMPLAINT The central agency initiated action against Raninder under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) after the income tax department filed a complaint in a Ludhiana court, saying he had lied under oath about trusts owned by him in Virgin Islands. In 2016, Raninder was summoned by the ED in connection with a FEMA violation. The I-T department said that Raninder misguided the agency by claiming that he did have documents related to the family’s income and trusts abroad. The I-T department alleged that Raninder was a ‘settler’ of Jacaranda Trust, which the family formed. Other undisclosed trusts include Mulwala Holdings Limited and Allworth Venture Holding Limited. Capt Amarinder Singh and Raninder also allegedly carried out ‘undisclosed’ financial transactions through a bank account in HSBC, Geneva, and HSBC Financial Services Limited (Middle East), the department said. The I-T department said the trusts were established in 2005 and most of the deals were routed through Virgin Islands. The agency submitted in the court that it has documents sourced from Virgin Islands that show Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder as owners of Marine Mansions in Dubai and other properties in the United Kingdom. Both Amarinder and Raninder have denied any wrongdoing and termed the charges false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-s-son-raninder-singh-doesn-t-appear-before-ed-seeks-adjournment-in-illegal-foreign-funds-case/story-uaG5IsQMs2tizo7pOi7fxK.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest three associates of gangster Neeraj Bawana after shootout||In an early morning shootout, Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested three men, who are allegedly associated with gangster Niraj Bawana. Police said the men are involved in multiple extortion cases and had recently opened fire at the house of a businessman in Model Town.Sanjeev Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Special Cell, Delhi Police, said the arrested men have been identified as Manish Dabas, Deepak Katiya and Prince. The shootout took place early morning on Tuesday at Karala in outer Delhi after Delhi Police’s Special Cell received a tip-off about the trio. “Our team intercepted the trio. They opened fire, when they were asked to surrender. Our team retaliated and both Dabas and Katiya sustained bullet injuries in their legs. Later, they were overpowered and arrested,” Yadav said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-three-associates-of-gangster-neeraj-bawana-after-shootout/story-AP0JghrsxGYS1fiJJLUCxI.html
27-10-2020||City||MP by-election: EC advises Kamal Nath to not use words like ‘item’; asks Vijayvargiya to explain remarks||The Election Commission (EC) has said Congress leader Kamal Nath’s use of the word “item” to describe Madhya Pradesh minister Imarti Devi was in violation of the model code for elections while advising him against using such words. The advice on Monday came days after the EC asked Nath on Wednesday last to explain his alleged sexist description that triggered much outrage days ahead of the crucial by-polls to 28 assembly seats in the state.“ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister Madhya Pradesh that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the order said.Also read | Supreme Court stays MP high court order restraining physical campaigning for assembly bypollsAddressing a gathering ahead of the November 3 by-election in Gwalior’s Dabra, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Devi, Nath said the Congress candidate is a “simple person” unlike his opponent who is an “item”. The remark triggered an uproar with BJP leaders, led by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, staging protests against Nath. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also disapproved of Nath’s remark, calling it “unfortunate”.The EC has also issued a notice to BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya to explain his “chunnu-munnu” remark. The BJP leader referred to Congress leaders Nath and Digvijaya Singh as “chunnu-munnu” at an election rally. He also called them traitors. The notice said the statement against the two was found to be in violation of the provisions of the model code. The EC has given Vijayvargiya 48 hours to explain his comments.The BJP enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the 230-member state assembly. It needs to win nine out of the 28 seats to stay in power. The BJP currently has 107 seats while Congress 88 in the House with an effective strength of 202.Devi was among the 21 Congress lawmakers, whose resignations brought down Nath’s government in March and paved the way for BJP’s return to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mp-by-election-ec-advises-kamal-nath-to-not-use-words-like-item-asks-vijayvargiya-to-explain-remarks/story-KarrEo0b4VYYiPaa2fUFGL.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC revives plan to set up desalination plant for potable water||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities plan to set up a desalination plant near Gorai beach following a growing need for an alternative potable water source due to changing patterns of rainfall. The desalination plant will purify seawater into potable water.Maharashtra minister for environment Aaditya Thackeray on Monday gave a go-ahead to the project and has directed the BMC authorities to prepare a feasibility report by reviving the civic body’s 2007 plan.The 2007 desalination proposal was meant to provide an alternative water source owing to poor rainfall in the catchment areas of the dams that supply water to Mumbai.Later in 2016-17, the BMC had initiated the process to set up two desalination plants – one in south Mumbai and other either in the suburbs or anywhere in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The plants were supposed to have a capacity of processing 100 million litres per day (MLD) of seawater into potable water. However, later, the project was put on hold due to high cost.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), BMC, said, “The cost for a desalination plant has been optimised because of evolution of technology. The cost of construction of the plant is the same as that of a dam. It is estimated to cost around Rs 1,800 crore to construct a 200 MLD plant.”“We had to find a sustainable solution because of changing patterns of rainfall. We cannot go on constructing dams by cutting trees. We need a back-up plan,” he added.At present, seven lakes such as Bhatsa, Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tulsi, Tansa and Vehar supply drinking water to Mumbai. The lakes are located in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,750 million (m) litres (l) of water daily, as compared to the demand of 4,200 ml.BMC officials said they would collect seawater samples from the west coast in north Mumbai for setting up the desalination plant. Initially, a pilot project will be undertaken, which will cater to 5% of Mumbai’s drinking water needs, and later the capacity will be successfully augmented to 200 MLD.“A suitable plot will be considered for the project on the west coast as the Port Trust authorities own land on the east coast. We plan to acquire a plot owned by the government owing to the cost factor,” said a BMC official, requesting anonymity.The BMC has zeroed in on a plot near Gorai beach for the project. However, a final call will be taken after the submission of the feasibility report. “An Israeli company has been tasked to submit the feasibility report, which was involved in a similar 650 MLD-capacity plant in Israel. It will take around three years to construct the plant,” said Velrasu.Dubai is the first city in the world to construct a desalination plant. Chennai, which has three such plants, had constructed its first project in 2003 that supplies 90 MLD of water to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-revives-plan-to-set-up-desalination-plant-for-potable-water/story-OicYLsDVvAOedaySUvhlgK.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MMR’s contribution in Covid-19 daily case count reduces by half||As the cases of Covid-19 are on the decline in the state, the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and surrounding areas, has reduced significantly in Maharashtra’s daily case count. Compared to the last month, the cases have reduced by half.As many as 4,819 cases were reported from MMR on September 25. On October 25, they reduced to 2,210 when 6,059 were reported in the state, show the figures released by the state health department.MMR consists of nine municipal corporations including Mumbai and rural areas of Thane, Palghar, and Raigad districts. It is also the most affected region by the pandemic in the state.It is still reporting the highest number of daily infections among all the regions. The region has recorded a maximum of 572,849 cases till October 26After MMR, the Pune region is the second most-affected area with 419,614 cases as of October 26.Also Read: Coronavirus pandemic: New evidence of waning antibody immunity to Covid-19 over time foundIt comprises five municipal corporations, including Pune and rural areas of Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur, and Sangli districts.“A decline is being observed in all the areas of the state. This is the reason a trend of low case count has continued but MMR is still getting maximum cases if compared to the rest of the regions. One of the reasons behind is that Mumbai is contributing the highest cases among all the areas,” said a health official, wishing not to be named.On October 26, the state recorded only 3,645 cases, the lowest since June 24 when 3,890 cases were reported. However, it was attributed to low testing as 36,267 tests were conducted on Monday.The Covid-19 fatalities have reached 43,348 after 84 casualties were reported on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mmr-s-contribution-in-covid-19-daily-case-count-reduces-by-half/story-ADiJ5kDMTeDBCwC7fFWPZN.html
27-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Powered by ODOP, Jalesar’s ghungroos get global market||The Uttar Pradesh government has helped revive the ghungroo, or ankle bell, industry of Jalesar in the state’s Etah district through its One District One Product (ODOP) scheme and generated employment, officials said. The ankle bells are now also in high demand abroad in countries like Singapore, Malaysia, Cambodia, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, the UAE, Iraq, they added.Officials said India’s ghungroo manufacturing industry is worth Rs 100 crore and that Etah’s share in it has increased by 15% to 20% in the last few months.The increasing demand for ankle bells has prompted the state government to start a training programme for artisans. Over 10,000 people are directly connected with this industry in the state.Also Read: Ankle bells are key to classical dance forms such as Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, Kathak, and Manipuri.Bells from Jalesar also adorn temples in Kashi, Mathura, and Ayodhya, among other religious places across the country.The raw material used for making these bells such as mud, white powder, and brass of premium quality is found in abundance in Jalesar.“We have been working towards reviving the [ankle bell] industry and providing a platform to the dying art under the ODOP scheme,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, micro small and medium enterprises, and export promotion, Uttar Pradesh.He added the government has come out with a plan to promote, preserve, and develop the lesser-known, but exclusive products of each district globally. “Under the ODOP scheme, the state government is providing free training and making necessary equipment available to artists to promote indigenous products. As part of this project, around 1,000 youths have been trained,” Sehgal said.Officials said loans worth Rs 350 crore have been provided to artisans from 75 districts across the state under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-powered-by-odop-jalesar-s-ghungroos-get-global-market/story-gvuyu9eWS2GRVCYM0naoIJ.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation mayor to meet Hindu Rao doctors as their strike continues||North Delhi municipal corporation mayor Jai Prakash will be visiting the striking doctors of Hindu Rao hospital at 11 am today. The doctors have been on strike for 22 days and on hunger strike for four days now. Doctors from the four other North Corporation-run hospitals, as well as senior doctors for the hospitals and dispensaries, who were holding off their strike, also joined in on Monday. The mayors of North, South and East Delhi corporations protested outside the chief minister’s residence on Monday, demanding that the Delhi goverment cleared the dues of Rs 13,500 crores so that the salaries of doctors and other healthcare workers could be paid. A statement from North Corporation late on Monday said, “He (health minister Satyendar Jain) has assured that all the dues pending of all the three municipal corporations with the Delhi government would be cleared in 10 days. So all three mayors called off their sit-in dharna.” Also read | Fresh row between govt, corporationsAAP has, however, insisted that the Central government owes the corporations over Rs 12,000 crore. Meanwhile, amid the political row over funds owed to the corporation, doctors from at least 12 government hospitals in Delhi – run by Delhi government and the Central government – have decided to either go on a two-hour pen-down strike to stop non-emergency work between 10 am and 12 noon today or protest with a black ribbon in the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. “This time, we will not take the strike back even if we are paid the salaries of a month or so. We need a permanent solution, we cannot come back on the street every few months to demand our salaries. The last time we were paid was in June and that too, after our resident doctors went on strike and we joined in with a pen-down strike,” said Dr Maruti Sinha, general secretary of Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-north-corporation-mayor-to-meet-hindu-rao-doctors-as-their-strike-continues/story-2WsIRXn9tcc8K2uYZoi8aO.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Despite marginal improvement, Delhi’s air remains ‘very poor’ for fifth consecutive day||Despite marginal improvement, Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday morning as per the data uploaded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading at 8am was 336.Though this is a marginal improvement from Monday’s AQI reading of 353, Delhi’s overall air quality is in the ‘very poor’ category for the fifth consecutive day.Air quality enters the ‘very poor’ zone between the 301-400 mark and crosses over to the ‘severe’ zone after exceeding 400.The improvement in air quality is mostly due to meteorological factors. According to the forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD), while pollution levels showed a marginal spike on Monday, wind speeds improved through the day and its impact is likely to be experienced on Tuesday.“The pollution load was lower today [Monday] as compared to the last few days and the wind speed improved from 6kmph to 12 kmph during the day. Since CPCB’s evening bulletin is a 24 hour-average AQI figure, we will be able to see the impact of the winds from Tuesday,” said Vijay Soni, head of IMD’s Environment Monitoring Research Centre.The improvement in the air quality will, however, be temporary. Scientists said that from October 28, the AQI reading will be pushed back to the ‘very poor’ range and will remain in the danger zone till the end of the month.An analysis by the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) also suggests that stubble burning continued to contribute to Delhi’s foul air on Monday.“Safar-synergised stubble fire counts again increased to 1,275 on Sunday. The Safar model estimate of stubble burning share in PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) is 16% for Monday. While the expected slight increase in local surface wind speed is a positive sign for Tuesday, improved wind speed is not forecasted to stay longer,” the Safar air quality analysis read.Meanwhile, temperature is also set to dip this week in the national Capital. According to the forecast by IMD’s regional meteorological centre, Delhi;s weather will largely remain dry, and there will be a gradual decline in the maximum and minimum temperatures by 2°-3° C in the next three or four days. Delhi has been recording below-normal night-time temperatures for at least a week now.Till Tuesday morning, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 32.8° C which was one degree above the normal, and a minimum temperature two degrees below normal at 14.4° C. This is likely to dip further as November approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/despite-marginal-improvement-delhi-s-air-remains-very-poor-for-fifth-consecutive-day/story-oRtuUyV4OY7yo2BpDeq1qM.html
27-10-2020||Kolkata||5 killed in boat capsize during Durga idol immersion in Bengal||At least five persons, including three members of a family, were killed, when the boats in which they were carrying an idol of Goddess Durga for immersion capsized in the middle of a water body in Murshidabad district in West Bengal. Police said that the revellers didn’t take any permission from the police to hold the immersion procession. Besides, too many people had boarded the two boats in violation of social distancing norms that are in place because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A huge crowd had also gathered on the banks of the water body to watch the immersion at Beldanga. “At around 6.30 pm the two boats, carrying the idol, capsized in the middle of the water body at Beldanga. Five persons went missing. Later, their bodies were fished out at night,” said a police officer. Also read | Bengal pandal depicts Durga crowning a health care worker, swiftly goes viralThe dead have been identified as Rohan Pal (23), Arindam Banerjee (23), Sukhendu De (21), Rubai Hazra Banerjee (20) and Mohor Hazra Banerjee (34). According to local residents, the puja was organised by a noted family in Beldanga, who had received the title of ‘Hazra’ from the Nawabs of Bengal. The puja is being held for many years and every year the members of the Hazra family and local residents bring out an immersion procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/five-killed-in-boat-capsize-during-durga-idol-immersion-in-bengal/story-CYgr15fL6DOddwsWMHAG1K.html
27-10-2020||Kolkata||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s health deteriorates further||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s health deteriorated further on Monday night. Doctors said his kidneys started malfunctioning. The octogenarian actor, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 6 and has been hospitalised at a Kolkata hospital since then, had to be put on the ventilator on Monday afternoon. “His health has deteriorated. We have given him ventilation support. The gastrointestinal bleeding, though we managed to stop it, has had some repercussions on the rest of the body. His platelet count was pretty low. The bleeding, the medication and dehydration have taken a toll on his kidney functions, as a result of which his urea creatinine levels have gone up while his urine output is not satisfactory,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading a team of doctors treating the thespian, told mediapersons late Monday night. Also Read: Covid-19: Aim is to achieve fatality rate of 1% and sustain it, says health ministryOne of Bengal’s most celebrated actors, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours, including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, national awards and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. “We are trying to get him better than what he is now. But the challenges are very steep. Time and again new issues are cropping up because of his age, comorbidities and repercussions of so much medication,” stated the last medical bulletin issued late Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/veteran-bengali-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-s-heath-deteriorates-further/story-0teFulPoealjNhujFEqMGM.html
27-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Woman’s headless, mutilated body found in sack near Meerut graveyard||A woman’s headless body, which had been chopped into eight pieces, was found in a sack at Lisari Gate in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, on Monday, the police said.Some passersby spotted the sack near a graveyard at Fatellahpur on Monday, said Prashant Kapil, station house officer (SHO), Lisari gate police station.Stray dogs were seen pulling the sack and gnawing at it, some passersby said.Local residents reported the matter to the police, who reached the spot soon. They found the beheaded body of a woman inside the sack that was chopped into at least eight pieces.Also read | Hathras gangrape case: Bareilly STF reaches woman’s village“An initial examination of the body indicates that the crime could have been committed a day before and the chopped body was dumped at a secluded place near the graveyard,” said Kapil.AN Singh, superintendent of police (SP) (city), Meerut, said it appeared that the woman (35) was murdered inside a house by some persons who knew her and her beheaded body was dumped near a graveyard to conceal her identity. He said closed circuit TV (CCTV) footage was being examined to trace the perpetrators of the crime.SHO Kapil said the body would be sent for a post-mortem examination and efforts were on to find out whether any woman had gone missing from the area under the jurisdiction of the police station.“The killers disposed of the chopped head elsewhere to conceal the identity of the woman,” he said.“We are trying to identify the deceased through her clothes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-woman-s-headless-mutilated-body-found-in-sack-near-meerut-graveyard/story-2q8tGlFtXfFNpKmK942fEN.html
27-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: PM Narendra Modi to hold virtual dialogue with beneficiaries of SVANidhi scheme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual dialogue with Uttar Pradesh’s beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi Scheme (SVANidhi Scheme) on Tuesday. Uttar Pradesh has ranked first in all three categories—applications, sanctions and disbursal of loans—in the SVANidhi scheme. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, minister for urban development Ashutosh Tandon and minister of state for urban development Mahesh Chandra Gupta will virtually attend the programme. Adityanath returned to state Capital Lucknow on Monday after performing Navratri Poojan and attending Dussehra celebrations over the weekend in Gorakhpur. The SVANidhi scheme was launched on June 1, 2020, by the Central government to help street vendors and hawkers resume their work, which had been impacted by the spread of Covid-19 and the ensuing nationwide lockdown. Also Read: PM SVANidhi scheme for street vendors: Benefits, loan amount, tenureAn official spokesman said that Uttar Pradesh has disbursed loans to 259,147 beneficiaries by October 26, 2020. While around 640,000 Uttar Pradesh vendors applied, loans were sanctioned to as many as 362, 785. Principal secretary, urban development, Deepak Kumar said there were 3,050 registered vending zones in the 651 urban local bodies (ULB) of the state and, in these zones, over 778,000 vendors had been identified to avail te benefits of the scheme. While the state has over 668,000 registered vendors, the government has issued certificates to 470,923 vendors. Over 477,000 identity cards have also been issued to these vendors to ensure there are no hassles when they conduct their business. The scheme aims to facilitate working capital loans up to Rs 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest, incentivising regular repayment of the loans and rewarding digital transactions. The scheme aims at providing benefits to street vendors or hawkers in urban, pre-urban and rural areas. Seven cities of UP also find a place in the list of top 10 cities of the country whose hawkers will receive the benefits of the scheme, with latest additions of Ghaziabad and Kanpur. While Varanasi, Lucknow and Aligarh are the top three cities in the list, other cities of the state include Prayagraj (4th), Gorakhpur (5th), Kanpur (8th) and Ghaziabad (9th). Other Indian cities on the list are Indore (6th), Bhopal (7th) and Hyderabad (10th).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-pm-narendra-modi-to-hold-virtual-dialogue-with-beneficiaries-of-svanidhi-scheme-today/story-20v00qcZ3yGAellViNRT8J.html
27-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape case: Bareilly STF reaches woman’s village||A team of the special task force (STF) from Bareilly has visited the village of the woman who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in Hathras. The team, which was formed to probe the alleged conspiracy angle in the case, visited the crime scene, under Chandpa police station in Boolgarhi village, and the woman’s house on Monday evening.“There was an STF team from Bareilly but they did not contact us,” said the Hathras superintendent of police. Apart from the case with STF, Bareilly, two cases are registered at Chandpa police station and one is assigned to the Noida STF. The two cases with Chandpa police are also regarding the conspiracy to cause riots while the one with STF, Noida, has sections of sedition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-case-bareilly-stf-reaches-woman-s-village/story-wtz9ZlkdtPLXQMwlQX202O.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Doctors of Govt hospitals to hold two-hour protest today over salary dues||Doctors from various government hospitals including Maulana Azad Medical College, Safdarjung Hospital and RML Hospital, will hold a two-hour symbolic protest on Tuesday over non-payment of salary to doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital, officials said on Monday.Taking exception to the ongoing protest and a hunger strike by Resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital due to alleged non-payment of salaries for three months, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday demanded that the authorities should pay the salaries of the doctors along with the dues immediately.”Indian Medical Association takes serious exception to the unfortunate situation in Hindhu (Hindu) Rao Hospital which is under the management of Delhi Municipal Corporation. It sends a wrong message to the profession and the nation. It demoralizes the entire doctor community,” IMA said in a press release.IMA stated that the Supreme Court of India had specifically directed that salaries of doctors and health care workers should be paid in time, and non-payment of salaries by Hindu Rao Hospital is an adequate reason for the Court to initiate suo moto contempt proceedings against the administration of the hospital.“IMA demands that the authorities should pay the salaries of the doctors along with the dues immediately,” It added.Resident Doctors’ Associations of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) Medical College and Hindu Rao Hospital went on an indefinite hunger strike on Friday against non-payment of salaries during the Covid-19 lockdown. The resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital had been protesting since few weeks against the non-payment of salaries.On October 13, the NDMC-run Hindu Rao Hospital was removed from the list of the designated Covid-19 hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctors-of-govt-hospitals-to-hold-two-hour-protest-today-over-salary-dues/story-2kLgXRideG8iAw1FPP4RdP.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Why Delhi needs to ramp up testing again||After appearing to drop for a second time, new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi have started rising again over the past two weeks. This spike in cases has come hand-in-hand with a steady rise in the positivity rate, suggesting that the outbreak may be expanding again. A rising positivity rate typically suggests that a region is testing inadequately. The positivity rate should drop to 5% or below if the testing programme is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization. That is why testing enough, and using the right kind of tests, is the key to Delhi being able to control the outbreak in the next few weeks.1. A distinct third surge in new infections The case trajectory in Delhi shows three distinct surges. The first started in mid-June, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This dropped to about 1,000 a day by the end of July. It remained in that range for a month, and the second surge started towards the end of August, rising till the middle of September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 – the highest the case trajectory has been so far.A strong upward trend is now visible for a third time. Average cases have been rising for 13 straight days – from 2,661 on October 12 to 3,663 on Friday. The rising graph of cases in the city – days after it was starting to come under control – has come right at the heels of the festive season, and is being attributed to more people coming out of their homes, poor mask discipline, and lack of adherence to safety protocols due to Covid fatigue. 2. Low testing caused drop between 2nd, 3rd surgesAfter the first peak ended,and the daily cases went down to 989 (August 5) and positivity rate to 5.8% (August 13), Delhi appeared to make a crucial mistake by easing off on testing, instead of ramping up further to suppress the virus.This led to a gradual increase in positivity rate over time, and consequently in daily cases, prompting the situation to reach a point on August 26 (1,693 cases, 8.5% positivity rate), when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held an emergency meeting and decided that the rate of testing would be doubled from 18,000-20,000 daily. This was a crucial intervention -- on average there were a just little over 20,000 tests being conducted daily at the start of September, and by September 20 this was up to nearly 60,000 tests -- leading to a spike in cases (since more tests were being conducted) but bringing down the positivity rate. The average positivity rate over time dropped to as low as 5.3% for the week ending October 8.But after touching its peak, tests started to drop again – for the week ending October 9, daily tests were down to 47,612 from the September 20 high of nearly 59,368. October 9 was also the day when the case trajectory dropped to its lowest – 2,574 new cases a day. When placed alongside each other, it is evident that the dip in average daily testing has heavily influenced the drop in average daily infections being reported. 3. Low RT-PCRs led to numbers being suppressed A key concern even as the Delhi government increased its testing at the start of September was that much of it was through rapid antigen tests, which are cheap, easy to deploy, and give results within 15 minutes. Due to this, the proportion of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered by experts as the “gold-standard”, dropped significantly in the overall test numbers.In the first 15 days of September, while overall testing rose, the share of RT-PCR tests nearly halved – from 32.3% for the week ending September 1 to 17% for week ending September 16. This may have suppressed the real positivity rate because rapid tests gives high “false negatives” (labelling infected people as uninfected). .The share of RT-PCR tests, however, has started rising again. In the past week, 28.2% of all tests have been RT-PCR. And this rise has overlapped with the rise in daily cases in the city since fewer positives are being missed. According to the Harvard Medical School, the reported rate of false negatives in antigen tests could be as high as 50%.  4. Rising positivity rate points to a big problemThe positivity rate for Covid-19 has started rising again, with 6.8% samples tested in the past week coming back positive (this is the highest in nearly a month, since 6.95% on September 27). The number was 5.88% the week before, and 5.49% the week before that. On Sunday and Monday, it went as high as 8.17% and 8.23%.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast. Testing needs to be increased again to flatten the curve Delhi’s rising case rate has come right at the start of the festive season. The fact that it is coupled with the positivity rate increasing is further indication that cases may continue to rise.The silver lining is that testing is moving in the right direction. Both total tests and RT-PCR tests have increased – in fact the city has set new records for RT-PCR tests three out of the last five days. But if the objective is to bring the overall positivity rate below 5%, and keep it there for at least two weeks to suppress the virus, the time to increase tests in now. Any figure above 7% means that,even if tests may be up, Delhi is again not testing enough. Unless the number of tests is scaled up, with the share of RT-PCR tests staying high, matters could get out of hand again for the first hot spot in India that almost managed to contain its outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-delhi-needs-to-ramp-up-testing-again/story-D6makGLAUzBXmtk2JDV8oN.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Man arrested 2 days after body found in a bed box||The police on Monday arrested a suspect in connection with the death of a 27-year-old man, whose body, bearing multiple stab wounds and injuries caused by a blunt object, was found inside a bed box in his rented flat in north Delhi’s Sant Nagar near Burari two days earlier. The suspect, Salman, was the suspect’s childhood friend and flat partner. Both are from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. Salman works as a mason and was employed with Malik, who was a building and manpower contractor, deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said. During interrogations, police said, Salman confessed and told police he killed his flatmate, Sameer Malik, following an argument over two months’ salary the latter owed him. Salman had moved to Malik’s flat around three months ago, a police officer associated with the probe said. Since Salman was missing, a murder case was registered and he was marked as the prime suspect, because he was missing. The police raided his possible hideouts and caught him from Morabadad. During the interrogation, Salman told the police that Malik had not been paying his salary for the past two months. On Friday night, the DCP said, the two consumed liquor in the flat and got into a fight over the payment issue. “During the scuffle, Salman stabbed Malik and hit him with a brick, because of which he died. Salman put Malik’s body in the bed box, locked the flat, and fled,” said Alphonse, adding that the knife and brick used in the crime were recovered from Salman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-arrested-2-days-after-body-found-in-a-bed-box/story-H0oJyqlKiOLORUEFBVOILK.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the chef for the evening||He’s away from home, and never thought he would have to cook a whole meal by himself.In his early 20s, Rohit Kumar describes himself as a labourer. “I’m currently living with 8-9 saathi (colleagues),” he explains. “And this is our kitchen.”He shows, on the footpath, the two burner cooking gas range, the red LPG cylinder, the half-filled bottle of mustard oil, the three metal pans, the red mug, the spatula, the plastic basket filled with ginger, garlic, onions and masala packets, and the half-empty packet of atta (flour).Mr Kumar is sitting on his haunches, in the middle of all this equipment, wearing a t-shirt and shorts. His face is half-covered with a red check gamcha—perhaps a substitute for the mask. He is speaking in a muffled tone, and one has to strain one’s ear to hear his words.Mr Kumar is part of a “gang of workers”, laying out underground cables for a telecom company in this part of south Delhi. Indeed, a great mass of cables is lying in loops next to a big truck, parked on the same pavement. The men have been staying here for a week. “We set up our base in one spot for a few days,” Mr Kumar explains, “and sleep at night inside the truck, and when the work in one area is complete, we drive to the next spot.”All the labourers, including Mr Kumar, are from Lucknow, in UP. But where are the rest of the folks this evening?“They still have to return from work.”Mr Kumar explains that he is the cook at the moment. Each worker in the group performs this duty in turn, and these days it is Mr Kumar’s task to feed his colleagues.He has already made a few rotis.“At home my mother cooks, but I never thought of learning from her.” After pausing for some moments, he solemnly says, “I never thought that one day I would have to make dal chawal.” He picked the skills in real time, though. “Earlier, my rotis would never be gol (round)... but after some practice I got better.”The menu usually consists of dal, rotis, rice and subzi. Tonight, however, Mr Kumar is skipping dal. “I’m making aloo gobhi with rassa (gravy)… it will be nice with rice.”He starts measuring the masalas—his mates will be here anytime soon.An hour later, the footpath has grown dark but one sees a bunch of men huddled together, quietly having their meal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-chef-for-the-evening/story-pJ6Rkhxgey2aq8r8n9Cc5I.html
27-10-2020||City||Hoshiarpur again, 15-year-old brick kiln worker raped||A 15-year-old girl working at a brick kiln in Naru Nangal here was allegedly raped by a youth, police said on Monday. The incident took place at Manan village on October 24. The accused, identified as Arun Kumar, has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, said Sadar police station sub-inspector Neelam Kumari. The victim lived at labour quarters. The accused lived nearby. The accused gagged the girl’s mouth when was alone at home and took her to a nearby place where he raped her, said police. The accused fled after the victim’s mother reached the crime spot after hearing her screams. The complaint was lodged on Sunday night, said police. Both the accused and girl are migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hoshiarpur-again-15-year-old-brick-kiln-worker-raped/story-wd9Snz15FFcHHQQJg0brYM.html
27-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly election 2020: Campaigning for 1st phase ends||Campaigning for 71 seats that go to the polls in the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections ended on Monday with key leaders locked in a bitter verbal war to shore up their prospects in the southern districts, many of which are ravaged by decades of Maoist violence. A total of 1,066 candidates are in the fray – 114 of them women – in the first phase of the polls that will also decide the fate of six sitting state ministers. Roughly 24.5 million people will vote across 31,380 polling stations.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is contesting 42 seats and its ally Congress is fighting on 21. The Janata Dal (United) has fielded candidates in 35 constituencies and its ally Bharatiya Janata Party is contesting 29 seats.The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which decided to part ways with the NDA in the state while remaining a part of the ruling coalition at the Centre, is fighting on 41 seats.Chief minister Nitish Kumar addressed meeting at Muzaffarpur and Vaishali, which go to the polls in second phase on November 3. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav addressed more than 60 rallies focused on constituencies going to the polls in the first phase. In meetings at Arwal and Nokha – which go to the polls on Wednesday -- LJP chief Chirag Paswan trained his guns at chief minister Nitish Kumar and his flagship governance promise of Saat Nishchay (seven resolves).“Saat Nishchay is a scheme formulated by him. We will get it probed after an LJP government is formed. And if found guilty, the chief minister will also go to jail,” he said.At Nokha in Rohtas district, he also alleged the chief minister “lied” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he built drainage systems and streets, and provide piped water to everybody in the state. “The chief minister says there is no corruption in Bihar, whereas the corruption in Saat Nishchay is the biggest in the history of state” Paswan alleged. The NDA hit back and asked the LJP chief to maintain “decency” with state minister Sanjay Jha likening Paswan to “a monkey dancing to someone else’s tunes”.“Some people indulge in conspiracies during elections. They want to make a dent in the NDA. On one hand, they criticise chief minister Nitish Kumar but on the other they praise Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said BJP chief JP Nadda in a rally in Aurangabad.At Sakra in Muzaffarpur, Kumar pitched for continuance of development carried out by his government for the last 15 years. “Some leaders get publicity and eyeballs by talking against me. Let them do it. I am not interested in taking any publicity. I have worked for Bihar and will continue to work for the state, if given another chance,” he said. After the rally, a slipper was flung at Kumar by some protestors; three men were arrested by police.Addressing women, Kumar said his government was the first to give reservation to women and institute schemes to provide cycles for girl students. “We have built thousands of schools’ buildings, round the clock electricity, better health services and all weather roads for better connectivity with block headquarters as well district headquarters,” he added.Addressing rallies at Purnia and Aurangabad, Nadda said India, under the leadership of PM Modi, and Bihar, under Kumar, were progressing rapidly. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar have emerged as the synonyms of development whereas RJD and Congress leaders are indulged in playing spoiler politics,” he said.Nadda cited the revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, to underline that the NDA was committed to “One nation, One rule” principle. “We have removed all obstacles in the making a grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya,” he added.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad exhorted the people to give another term to Kumar for the sake of progress and prosperity of Bihar. “We are doing politics over development” Prasad said.Yadav continued his attack on Nitish Kumar at Rohtas, alleging the CM could not provide employment and set up industries in the last 15 years. The RJD leader also claimed that things were better for the poor under his father and former CM, Lalu Prasad. “When migrants got stuck, where was his chopper? Then he said, stay where you are,” he added. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi addressed a rally in Purnia and attacked the Congress and the RJD on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). “When you were holding protests against CAA/NRC in Seemanchal, these two parties neither extended their support to us nor did say anything and they preferred to remain silent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/campaigning-for-1st-phase-ends/story-nA4wzZ6cSrVzb5JZwUDoLL.html
27-10-2020||City||DSP held for ‘sexually assaulting’ woman in Bathinda||A deputy superintendent of police (DSP) was arrested on Tuesday late evening for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhupinder Jit Singh Virk said the accused officer, Gursharan Singh, was held from a hotel near Hanuman Chowk locality. He said a case has been registered under section 376 (rape by a police official) of the Indian Penal Code. Gursharan is posted in the special task force (STF) in Bathinda. SSP said the woman alleged that the accused had been sexually abusing her for quite some time. “The complainant also alleged that the accused official was blackmailing her and today again he sexually assaulted her in the hotel,” said SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dsp-held-for-sexually-assaulting-woman-in-bathinda/story-EVOT3gzZTlNgz7UMieJVPI.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||UT employees’ housing scheme: CHB high-rise proposal needs amendment in master plan||Even as the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) plans to offer a 10-storey option under the UT employees’ housing scheme, there is no provision under the current buildings laws and rules of the city to allow such building heights. The UT urban planning department has intimated the same to CHB. “For allowing these many floors in a multi-storey building, amendments in the zonal plan and Chandigarh master plan would be required. Currently, there is no provision for such building heights under the UT laws and rules,” said a senior official, who didn’t want to be named.In a bid to reduce the rates of flats under the scheme, CHB has developed two project options — seven-storey and 10-storey buildings. A 10-storey construction would reduce the land needed for the scheme. As the major cost component of the project is high price of land, reduction in area requirement is expected to bring down the cost for the applicants, say CHB officials.Currently, discussions on these two options are going on with the urban planning department. The department is yet to give consent to any of the two options.On the question if there are no provisions under the city laws and rules to allow 10-storey building project, then why CHB is pursuing such an option, CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg said, “After these designs get the nod of the planning department, we will access the revised cost of the project. In case the revised cost for allottees comes lower than the current costs, we will request the competent authority to allow for one-time amendments in the rules and permit the 10-storey project.”The process to reassess and revise the cost of the project started after the August-19 meeting between UT administration officials, employees’ representatives and ministry of home affairs officers. The meeting was chaired by the Union home secretary to discuss all matters regarding the housing scheme.In the meeting, it was decided that the rates will be calculated again for different categories by considering various factors such as floor area ratio, collector rate and plotted area in consultation with the representatives of petitioners of UT Employees’ Housing Scheme court case.The much-delayed schemeAround 4,000 flats were to be built in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 by CHB for government employees as a part of a scheme launched in 2008.A draw of lots was held in 2010, wherein 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around ₹57 crore with CHB under the scheme.Later, the scheme was shelved and then revived after the employees took up the matter with city MP Kirron Kher. But the ministry of home affairs allowed the administration to transfer the land to CHB at the current collector rates.With this, the apartment costs shot up to ₹50 lakh for Category D, ₹1 crore for Category C, ₹1.64 crore for Category B and ₹2.08 crore for Category A.When the scheme was announced, the rates were only ₹34.7 lakh for Category A, ₹24.3 lakh for Category B, ₹13.53 lakh for Category C and ₹5.76 lakh for Category D.The employees then moved the high court, alleging that CHB was charging five times the initial price for land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-employees-housing-scheme-chb-high-rise-proposal-needs-amendment-in-master-plan/story-xNeLOiIU7VIpm3XuO3DTUN.html
27-10-2020||City||Externment order cannot be on non-existent criminal complaint: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) set aside an externment order issued by the police on the grounds that the decision was vitiated, as the authority did not take cognisance of the acquittal of the externee. The court observed that as the externment order was based on a case that did not exist against the externee, it was not valid.The division bench of justice SS Sinde and justice MS Karnik, was hearing a plea challenging an externment notice issued to Ganesh Bajantri by the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) zone 7. The notice issued on October 8, 2019, stated that Bajantri had been externed from Mumbai and Thane for some months for a crime he had committed eight months ago in Mulund, stated the externee’s lawyer advocate Ganesh Gupta.Gupta informed the court that the DCP’s externment order was confirmed by the division commissioner on December 2, 2019. He further submitted that though his client had responded to the show-cause notice before the externment notice was issued in his name, the externment was not paid heed to. He further submitted that while no reason was stated for the externment, Bajantari was acquitted of the crime. However, the authority did not take cognisance of these facts nor did it follow due process, and hence the externment order deserved to be quashed. The additional government pleader said that the externment order was justified as there were three other complaints registered against Bajantari that were pending investigation. After hearing the arguments, the court observed that the externment authority had overlooked facts and not followed due procedure, and hence it was set aside the order.“The externing authority has proceeded on the footing that the offences are registered against the petitioner under Chapter 16 and 17 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code), when as a matter of fact, there is no offence registered against the petitioner under Chapter 17 of the IPC, which shows total non-application of mind in passing the impugned order. The learned counsel for the petitioner argued that the externment order is also vitiated on the ground that live nexus between his activities and the necessity of externing him has snapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/externment-order-cannot-be-on-non-existent-criminal-complaint-bombay-high-court/story-icyTrA0y05GuBF4QOi276N.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation of power department: UT administration to issue bid next month||In a bid to complete the privatisation process of the Chandigarh electricity department, the UT administration will issue the bid document by November end.A meeting in this regard was held here on Monday between UT officials, Union power ministry officials and transaction consultant Deloitte. Chairing the meeting, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The interests of serving employees of power department and that of consumers in Chandigarh will be protected.”While the power ministry officials were insisting on administration issuing the bid documents by next week, the administration officials stated that greater clarity was required on a number of issues, so more time was required.The process of privatisation will be gradual – first corporatisation of the department will take place and then privatisation will be done. A trust will be constituted that will pay the salaries and other emoluments to the employees. An assessment of the housing needs of employees is also being reviewed.The administration has initiated the privatisation process on the instructions of the central government. The consultant has been appointed by the Centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/privatisation-of-power-department-ut-administration-to-issue-bid-next-month/story-D0fII2aEYQUnKLGON0pdiK.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Railway ministry permits lawyers to travel on Mumbai local trains||Lawyers will be permitted to travel by local trains starting from Tuesday, after the railway ministry gave approval for the same on Monday evening.The state government last week had allowed lawyers to travel on local trains during non-peak hours as per the directions of the Bombay high court (HC). The arrangement is on an experimental basis till November 23 and only available for lawyers affiliated with the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa as well as their registered clerks. Lawyers and court will now be permitted to use train services before 8am, between 11am and 4pm and post 7pm on working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railway-ministry-permits-lawyers-to-travel-on-mumbai-local-trains/story-UpeG4mldfKJphDJ3r6Mm4M.html
27-10-2020||City||Uncertainty prevails over additional water supply to Mohali||The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed by six months the project of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to get additional supply of five million gallon daily (MGD) from Phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks.However, senior officials say even after the completion of the water treatment plant, which is coming up at Mohali’s Singhpur, there is uncertainty if the city would get additional water or not owing to an interstate dispute of water between Haryana and Punjab. According to the agreement between Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in early 80s, it was decided that in order for any state to get additional water, all states will have to give their consent. However, Haryana has now refused to give water to Mohali.The previous project deadline was December 2020, which has now been pushed to June 2021.Mohali is short of 10 MGD water and the demand shoots up to 12 MGD in summers. Punjab department of housing and urban development principal secretary Sarvjit Singh said there were some issues with Haryana, “but we are hopeful of resolving them and will make sure that we get the water”.Another official of GMADA said the delay was due to shortage of specialised workers. “The work is going on in full swing now and we expect to complete the project by June next year,” he added.The construction work of water treatment plant at Singhpur was already delayed as there were some issues whether to construct a plant for 5 MGD or 20 MGD supply, but GMADA has now decided to go with the latter option. The cost of the project is ₹100 crore, which will be developed by a Vadodara-based company.Chandigarh, meanwhile, has already started getting its additional 35 MGD water under Phases 5 and 6, wherein 40 MGD pipelines were laid in October last year.For past several years, Mohali has been reeling under acute water shortage as the gap between demand and supply in the city stretches up to 10 MGD.MC councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who had filed a case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court regarding shortage of water in Mohali, said, “It is unfortunate that public is suffering for years. It is insensitive on the part of the administration that it is in no hurry to complete the project. It will take at least one more year for Mohali to come out of water shortage.”Delayed projectIn May 2012, GMADA had started laying pipelines to supply 80 MGD water to Mohali district and Chandigarh from Kajauli waterworks at a cost of ₹200 crore of which, ₹100 crore was borne by Chandigarh.Under the 5 and 6 phases, 40 MGD water will be supplied (35 MGD to Chandigarh and 5 MGD to Mohali). GMADA is yet to build the water treatment plant and lay pipes. Presently, Mohali gets 10 MGD water from Kajauli waterworks and 10 MGD from 75 tubewells.About Kajauli waterworksKajauli waterworks is located on Bhakra mainline canal near Morinda in Rupnagar district from where water requirement of Chandigarh, Mohali and Chandimandir are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uncertainty-prevails-over-additional-water-supply-to-mohali/story-jo3V5A413a2W1fGuDGXlNK.html
27-10-2020||City||Constable from Navi Mumbai held for accepting bribe from resident||The Thane Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has booked a Taloja constable for accepting a bribe of ₹9,000 from a 27-year-old Taloja resident.According to the police, the constable identified as Vinodkumar Choudhary (35) had allegedly demanded from the resident ₹12,000, which was eventually brought down to ₹9,000.“According to the complainant, Choudhary told him that his aunt would be booked for selling liquor during the lockdown and to avoid the same, he should pay up ₹6,000 per month. The demand was to pay for two months. On September 16, the complainant approached us. In his complaint, he has stated that they had not been selling liquor and yet the constable had been making false allegations and asking for bribe,” police inspector Sachin Kumbhar from Thane ACB said.Choudhary was found accepting ₹9,000 outside Taloja police station. “We have registered a case and sent the report to Panvel court. We have sought permission from the court to conduct further procedure by arresting him and are awaiting orders,” Kumbhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-from-navi-mumbai-held-for-accepting-bribe-from-resident/story-CWr51kNxjbhaQnaEsceTOK.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Seaplane operations to launch between Ahmedabad and Kevadia in Gujarat from October 31||Seaplane operations will resume by the weekend as SpiceJet Technic is set to commence flights between Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad and the Statue of Unity in Kevadia from October 31. The 19-seater Twin Otter 300 aircraft landed in Ahmedabad from the Maldives on Monday evening. It will be operated by pilots and crew of Maldivian Aero, Maldives’ national airline and flight tickets will be sold by budget carrier- SpiceJet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the service which is aimed to cut travel time between the two places. The seaplane is said to operate with 14 passengers per flight and will make four round trips (eight flights) between Ahmedabad and Kevadia, with an estimated flight time of an hour. Currently, it takes four hours to travel between Ahmedabad and Kevadia by road. Earlier, the state-owned Pawan Hans and Mumbai’s Mehair had ventured into seaplane operations in the country but they had to shut down business owing to a lacklustre response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seaplane-operations-set-to-resume-between-ahmedabad-and-kevadia-in-gujarat-from-october-31/story-srfRkwMGuPnwfrlusBs8BO.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools asked to prepare own SOPs for reopening from November 2||Schools in Chandigarh have been asked to prepare their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) based on the guidelines shared by the UT school education department for the reopening from November 2 onwards for classes 9 to 12.Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “Since each school has different infrastructure, it will be easier for them to manage rather than have the same rule for all schools.” He said the SOPs have also been sent to private schools, but it is up to them whether they want to open or not from November 2.Online medium will continue to be the preferred mode of instruction both for private and government schools even after this. Students will have to get consent from their parents or guardians before they are allowed to come, and officials are expecting about 25% of the students of government schools to show up once physical classes resume. Schools have also been asked to find out some alternative with permission from the UT district education officer (DEO) such as flexible, staggered and reduced timings in order to ensure physical and social distancing in case there aren’t enough rooms to accommodate the students. Schools will also have to reset their academic calendar and redefine the school attendance and sick leave policies.Meanwhile, private schools are still not willing to open from November 2. President of the Independent School Association, HS Mamik, said, “We will conduct a new survey on November 2, asking parents if they are willing to send their children to school. If we get a response of over 50%, we will open, otherwise we will wait for some more time.”The SOPs also mention other general instructions for schools to ensure the emotional well-being of students as well as the role of teachers in promoting the emotional health of students. There are instructions to create a learner-friendly school and classroom environment and provide assistance to children with special needs.Earlier, schools were opened for academic consultation from September 23. While around 1,500 students were coming to the 93 government schools that were open, private schools reported almost negligible attendance during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-asked-to-prepare-own-sops-for-reopening-from-november-2/story-9d7NlWlVgtHlPLEUuJyDCK.html
27-10-2020||City||57-year-old woman murdered in Mumbai||Borivli police are on the lookout for an unidentified person who murdered a 57-year-old woman at Mahatma Phule chawl at Gorai Road, Borivli (West), on Sunday around 11am. The victim, Salubai Kachru, used to live with her two sons.According to the police, around 10am, Kachru’s sons went to work and she was alone at home. The murder came to light hours later, after her daughter’s child, who was playing in the area went to her grandmother’s house. The door was open and the girl found the victim lying in a pool of blood. The child then informed her mother, Sunita Bhalerao, about it. Bhalerao called the police and rushed her mother to Shatabdi Hospital, where she was declared dead before admission, the police said.The doctors found a deep injury on the victim’s forehead, following which the Borivli police registered a first information report (FIR) under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Senior inspector Laxman Dumre from Borivli police, said, “We are on the lookout for the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/57-year-old-woman-murdered-in-mumbai/story-2CiK2YcHkxVAdtsPRG8wVL.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shimla records highest Covid deaths, govt anticipates rise in cases in winter||Even as Covid infections and fatalities continue to rise in Himachal, Shimla district has the highest death rate in the hill-state. Till date, Shimla has recorded 64 deaths, the highest in Himachal, its fatality rate is almost 3%. Comparatively, Solan, the worst hit-district in terms of total cases has a low fatality rate of 1%. Solan has recorded 3,546 cases and 36 fatalities. Kangra, population-wise the biggest district, is the second worst affected district with a Covid tally of 2,874 cases and a fatality rate of 2.1%. Mandi, the third most affected district with 2,697 cases has a fatality rate of less than 1%. The case fatality ratio in Shimla is higher than the state average of 1.4%. So far, 286 fatalities have been recorded in the state. Shimla recorded 31 deaths in September while 29 people have succumbed in October so far. Kangra Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said the reason for the high death rate in Shimla and Kangra was that Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, and Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla are tertiary Covid care centres where serious patients from other districts are referred for treatment. Dr Gupta said of the total deaths recorded in Kangra, around 33% were people from other districts. The Covid tally in Shimla has reached 2,196 and the district is on fifth position in terms of cases. Shimla saw an exponential rise of 284% in Covid cases in September while in October cases grew by 68%. If cases continue to increase at this pace, the district will soon be among the top three worst-hit districts. Health experts in Himachal Pradesh are anticipating a rise in Covid cases in winter. “ The WHO, too, has issued a warning saying there could be an increase in Covid cases in winters,” says National Rural Health Mission director Nipun Jindal. Adopt humane approach towards patients: CM to doctors Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on doctors to ensure communication with Covid patients as it goes a long way in recovery of the patients. Thakur on Monday reviewed the Covid situation in the state virtually with district police chiefs and deputy commissioners. He emphasised the need to ensure timely treatment of patients, as it has been found that around 90% of deaths reported due to Covid took place within 24 hours of patients being admitted in health institutions. The chief minister said senior doctors must visit Covid patients admitted in the hospitals so that patients get a sense of security. He urged the doctors to adopt humane approach in treatment of patients. “Elderly people and patients with co-morbidity must be paid special attention as their condition could deteriorate rapidly,” he said. Thakur directed health officials to ensure regular medical check-ups of the people who have opted for home isolation and it has been felt that they rush to hospitals only after their condition worsens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shimla-records-highest-covid-deaths-govt-anticipates-rise-in-cases-in-winter/story-5n3UfoHr2vhg3UC8oUPs5H.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon withdrawal has started from north Maharashtra: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday declared the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from north Maharashtra. The current withdrawal line passes through Dahanu in north Konkan, Nashik, north central Maharashtra, parts of Marathwada and entire Vidarbha. Monsoon withdrawal from other parts of the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, is expected over the next 24 hours, the IMD said. This is expected to be one of the most delayed monsoon withdrawals from the city over the past 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-withdrawal-has-started-from-north-maharashtra-imd/story-m2Yo7YLmYnwhbcAKjyWSmK.html
27-10-2020||City||53-year-old from Maharashtra awarded 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping four-year-old neighbour||The Alibag sessions and district court on Monday has sentenced a 53-year-old labourer from Ranjankhar to 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping his four-year-old neighbour last year. The incident took place on January 1. As it was winter, the survivor’s relative had lit a bonfire in the evening outside their home and the children in the neighbourhood were sitting around it. By around 7.30pm, all the children, except the survivor, left the place. The accused found her alone and approached her.Taking advantage of the situation, he made the girl sit on his lap and sexually assaulted her, additional public prosecutor Ashwini Bandivdekar-Patil said. The girl began bleeding and rushed to her mother crying and narrated what happened. The next day, the mother approached Poynad police station and registered a complaint, following which the accused was arrested under sections of rape of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.The medical test proved that the girl was sexually assaulted, said Bandivdekar-Patil.“The girl had very clearly recorded her statement before the magistrate, which was the most important evidence in the case. A total of seven witnesses were examined, of which the survivor and her mother, proved to be the most important ones,” Bandivdekar-Patil said. Based on the submissions, special judge SS Shaikh sentenced the man under Pocso Act and also imposed a penalty of Rs50,000, of which Rs40,000 would be given to the survivor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-year-old-from-maharashtra-awarded-20-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-raping-four-year-old-neighbour/story-8N0jralCrYFtQuoG3BF7nK.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||No place for third front in Himachal: Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has underplayed former Lok Sabha member Rajan Sushant’s newly floated political outfit Hamari party Himachal Party. Thakur who resumed his work from office after 18 days of medical break said the third front has no place in Himachal politics. He said, “Regional parties in Himachal Pradesh have been formed numerous times, they always vanish .No third party can carve a niche as an alternative in Himachal.Attempt to form a third front have not been successful.There is no public support for third front. Apart from it people know about Rajan Sushant very well,” he said. Meanwhile, industries, transport, labour and employment minister Bikram Singh condemned the statements of the former MP as ‘baseless and misleading.’“He is an ambitious and opportunist politician. Sushant has never remained loyal to any party. He is a turncoat. He considers himself superior and is always making unrestrained rhetoric,” said Bikram Singh, adding that the former BJP leader has always had vested interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-place-for-third-front-in-himachal-jai-ram/story-Vzwd98UVcHZZ1jdamYjEdJ.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Dr Anand Teltumbde directed colleagues to run campaign against his implication, NIA charge sheet claims||Prior to the Supreme Court (SC) directing academician and activist Dr Anand Teltumbde to approach the Bombay high court (HC) for anticipatory bail in January 2018, he allegedly had asked his colleagues to run a campaign against his implication in the case. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating Teltumbde for his role in the Bhima Koregaon case mentioned Teltumbde’s plans in the charge sheet filed against him earlier this week.Teltumbde’s name in the probe surfaced during the initial probe by Pune Police. As his name emerged from various materials seized from the other accused, Teltumbde moved courts up to the Apex court, but received no order in his favour, first for quashing of the case and later for anticipatory bail. He finally had to surrender before the NIA in April this year. However, in January 2019, when the SC asked Teltumbde to approach the HC afresh for anticipatory bail, he allegedly began garnering support from various groups, to stall his implication.In a mail retrieved by forensic experts of the NIA, Teltumbde had addressed members of the Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights (CPDR), Maharashtra. The mail is part of the NIA charge sheet. “You all know I have been out but now my days of freedom are coming to an end. I have been given four weeks to seek pre-arrest bail and as per the lawyers, it needs the backing of a visible campaign to be created in my support by a cross-section of people,” the mail stated.It suggested that the members garner support for him by various means. “It may be a signature campaign, writing mails and letters to the president, prime minister, chief minister of Maharashtra, issuing statements, writing newspaper articles, etc,” Teltumbde suggested in his mail, adding that it needed to happen as soon as possible. Teltumbde has been accused of being the key conspirator and key member of the CPI (Maoist) group. “Teltumbde is a senior member of CPI (Maoist) and is working in urban areas. He was the general secretary of CPDR and a member of Anuradha Ghandy Memorial Committee (AGMC), both front organisations of CPI (Maoist),” the charge sheet filed by NIA mentioned.The agency claimed that his role in the Bhima Koregaon programme, which led to widespread violence in January 2018, was very much appreciated by the central committee of CPI (Maoist) and he was directed to keep the flame ablaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-dr-anand-teltumbde-directed-colleagues-to-run-campaign-against-his-implication-nia-charge-sheet-claims/story-awKRppskSf5PTTvTufoz1M.html
27-10-2020||City||Mumbai outage: Maharashtra minister directs officials to review city’s islanding system||State energy minister Nitin Raut on Monday asked officials to review Mumba’s islanding system and upgrade it for the future. At a meeting held at the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) in Airoli, Raut questioned Tata Power officials on its failure to island Mumbai during the power outage on October 12. The islanding system is unique to Mumbai as it separates the city’s supply from the rest of the state in case of a power grid failure. According to a statement issued by his office, Raut also said that if Mumbai was the Prime Minister’s residence and if the Parliament was in session, he would not have heard any excuses. Last week, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Authority (MERC) also ordered a probe on the incident. “Tata Power, during the hearing (with MERC), provided details on how reduced and insufficient embedded generation in Mumbai over the past few years have led to over dependence on interchange power from outside through transmission system and has made islanding concept unworkable. MERC said better load management by SLDC at Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (MSETCL) Kalwa receiving station could have saved Mumbai from the power outage. At the hearing before MERC, Tata Power suggested for a complete relook of the present islanding concept and design with the help of Western Regional Power Committee (WRPC) and Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay’s (IIT-B) Civil Engineering Association (CEA) and other experts to ensure the robustness of system and continuity of 24X7 power to Mumbai citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-outage-maharashtra-minister-directs-officials-to-review-city-s-islanding-system/story-e2oTRMI8nDVbqTj4JTn5tJ.html
27-10-2020||City||BKU postpones Ambala mahapanchayat until December 10||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Monday announced to postpone its mahapanchayat that was scheduled to take place in Ambala’s Mohra grain market on October 29 against the murder charges slapped on farmers. The decision came after union’s Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni and his associates met Ambala Range IG Y Puran Kumar and Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia. He said that police officials invited them for talks before the rally and sought some more time to investigate the matter.“They’ve told us that two different samples have been sent to Sonepat’s Khanpur and Karnal’s Madhuban and till October 29, reports can’t arrive. They said that the rally date is closer and till then, the investigation can’t conclude,” he added. “They’ve asked for one month for the process and have assured us that till the reports arrive, there will be no arrests in the case. We’ve given them more than a month and decided to organise the same mahapanchayat on December 10 at the same place,” Charuni said. IG Kumar said the cause of death of the farmer was their main concern and the investigation can’t conclude without the reports. “So, we have assured the farmers that no arrests will be made till then,” he added. This was the second round of meeting with the IG on the matter. Earlier, Charuni had met him with senior union leaders at the SP office on October 15, a day after an FIR amounting to murder was registered at Naraingarh police station against seven farmers, including BKU’s Ambala chief Malkit Singh.A 72-year-old farmer, Bharat Singh, of Shahzadpur area had died during BJP’s tractor rally led by Kurukshetra MP Naib Saini and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria in Ambala’s Naraingarh. The case was lodged by the farmer’s son, Bhupinder Singh, who had also accused the men of hampering their way to a hospital, due to which they reached late and his father couldn’t be saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-postpones-ambala-mahapanchayat-until-december-10/story-P0yh1VKL1Wn8NrKoWXgp9L.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Week after resumption, Mumbai Metro sees a steady rise in commuters; a lakh travel in a week||A week since the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) services are back on track, it has catered to more than a lakh commuters on its Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar line. Between October 19 (when it was restarted) and 23, close to 98,000 commuters took the Metro and around 30,000 commuters travelled via the 11.5 km corridor during the weekend.On Monday, authorities expected the number of commuters to be around 27,000, more than double the number of commuters who took the service on Day 1 (around 13,000). Sources said that the number of commuters are steadily increasing and will rise once the city opens up, with the suburban railway being available for all. Before the pandemic hit the city, close to 4.5 lakh commuters travelled via Metro on weekdays.The Mumbai Monorail, between Chembur and Jacob Circle, also restarted its services from Sunday, October 18. According to data sourced by HT, close to 2,600 commuters took the Monorail services between October 18 (when it restarted) till Saturday, October 24. The highest number of commuters recorded during the week was on Friday, October 23, when 594 commuters travelled via the 19 km corridor. In January 2020, 2.75 lakh people had travelled via the Monorail.Owing to the pandemic, the number of services on both corridors are restricted, with only alternate seating available for commuters. The authorities have also made it mandatory for commuters to wear a mask at all times and encourages commuters to opt for digital ticketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/week-after-resumption-mumbai-metro-sees-a-steady-rise-in-commuters-a-lakh-travel-in-a-week/story-5tABq5gnSC3oiC5x6ggpQP.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Second FIR against Cox & Kings after IndusInd Bank alleges ₹284-crore fraud||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police has registered its second first information report (FIR) against global tours and travel company Cox & Kings based on a ₹284-crore fraud complaint filed by IndusInd Bank. The executives of the firm have been booked for payment default, cheating, criminal breach of trust and forgery. The FIR, filed on October 23 after a complaint by Audley Thomas Luis, vice-president, IndusInd Bank Ltd, names 10 people as accused – Ajay Peter Kerkar, CEO and group director; Urrshila Kerkar, ABM Good; Anil Khandelwal, Abid Khan, Subhash Nautiyal, Sagar Deshpande, Ajit Pimplikar, Rashmi Jain and Arup Sen. Sagar Deshpande was found dead in mysterious circumstances on railway tracks near Titwala, 55km from Mumbai, on October 12. His name will be dropped at a later stage if he is found not guilty, said an EOW official. The FIR was first registered at Andheri police station and was later transferred to the EOW’s banking unit-2 for investigation. The first FIR was filed after a complaint from Kotak Mahindra bank, alleging defrauding of ₹170 crore. EOW is also carrying out preliminary inquiry into a third complaint of ₹1,030-crore fraud filed by Axis Bank. According to EOW sources, in February 2015, promoters and directors of C&K approached IndusInd Bank and requested a commercial card facility on an unsecured basis. The bank approved it with a limit of ₹25 crore on personal and corporate guarantees. The card limit was later increased to over ₹350 crore over a period of three years. “For initial years, things went smoothly, however, since June 2019, IndusInd Bank observed that C&K defaulted on its payments like GST and TDS. IndusInd bank then immediately cancelled cash credit and bank guarantee to C&K,” said an EOW official. However, as per the complaint, C&K defaulted on repayments and the total amount crossed over ₹250crore. EOW has already issued lookout circulars (LoCs) against six accused as they were previously named in the Kotak Mahindra Bank case. C&K and some of its office-bearers are also under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) lens. ED had in June carried out searches at five locations connected to C&K in the Yes Bank case. Cox & Kings had reportedly borrowed ₹3,642 crore from Yes Bank. ED had arrested Anil Khandelwal, CFO of Cox and Kings Group, and Naresh Jain, internal auditor of Cox & Kings Group. According to ED, C&K is accused of routing the money from Cox & Kings, Ezeego and its other entities into shell companies and siphoning it off abroad. The irregularities and misappropriation of funds were confirmed after the banks – SBI, Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank and IndusInd Bank -- did their forensic audits. The banks informed the RBI, the apex bank, and then approached EOW. Cox & Kings, too, has lodged counter complaints. Promotor Kerkar lodged two FIRs blaming directors, CFO and other executives of his companies for siphoning off the money and framing him. Investigations in these complaints are also underway. Responding to queries, Kerkar said, “It is indeed surprising that an FIR would be registered against me when I have already registered an FIR against IndusInd for cheating Cox & Kings as early as the 3rd of September.” IndusInd Bank spokesperson said, “The bank declared the account as fraud on December 30, 2019 and filed a complaint with the appropriate regulatory agencies...The Bank has initiated legal proceedings and filed its claim with the Interim Resolution Professional appointed under insolvency proceedings initiated before National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai.”Cox and Kings’ statement given by Kerkar“With reference to the cash balance we have a registered FIR against IndusInd bank and officials for knowingly portraying a false picture of our cash balances as of March 2019. The bank had falsely claimed that there was no Lien on these cash balances and has given our statutory auditor a no dues certificate to attest to this fact. We feel that this was done to dupe credit agencies, the board of directors of Cox and Kings and other lenders into believing that the actual financial health of the company was better than it actually was. This was done as Indusind has profited by several hundred crores in terms of illegal fees charged to the Cox and Kings group through credit card charges and they were resolute in their desire to perpetuate this income stream. However they have recently stated that this was a mistake and they have copies of a true certified copy of a finance committee meeting provided by Rashmi Jain the ex Company Secretary stating that we had asked for a temporary overdraft of several hundreds crores which they agreed to. There was no finance Committee meeting ever conducted. It is inconceivable that the bank would have made a mistake on giving a confirmation for several hundred crores. It is pertinent to note that we have no proof of any board minutes or finance committee meetings that authorised requests for further limits from IndusInd bank. Ms Rashmi Jain and Anil Khandelwal have both admitted to the PwC audit team that was commissioned by the COC Of Cox and Kings that no finance committee meetings were recorded for two years. It is therefore surprising how Indusind has possession of these minutes when clearly Mrs Jain has already stated that there were none in existence. The conspiracy of the KMP of Cox and Kings is evident from the fact that the accused CFO of Cox and Kings Ltd, i.e. Mr Anil Khandelwal and accused Mr Naresh Jain; Internal Auditor did not report the debt of Rs. Six hundred crores incurred due to credit card transactions to the Board of Directors of Cox and Kings limited. The accused Anil Khandelwal and the accused Arvind Kumar Singh and other unknown officers of IndusInd perpetuated a massive fraud on the other lenders, Board of Directors of Cox and Kings Ltd, the statutory auditors (DTS and Associates) and the shareholders of Cox & Kings Ltd. by giving a confirmation of unencumbered cash lying in Indusind bank account of Cox and Kings Ltd amounting to Rs. Six hundred two crores as of the 31st of March 2019. The accused officers of Indusind Bank gave this confirmation to DTS and Associates, the statutory auditors of Cox and Kings Ltd physically at the Indusind BANK branch. The confirmation given by Indusind Bank to the statutory auditors of Cox and Kings Ltd confirms that no dues are pending from Cox and Kings Limited to IndusInd Bank as of the 31st of March 2019 concerning any loan and or credit facility and a balance of Rs 74 crores is held in the Fixed Deposit account of Cox and Kings Limited and the balance of Rs 602.58 crores is the deposit credit lying in the current account of Cox and Kings limited with IndusInd Bank. The said confirmation, given in May 2019 to DTS and Associates the Statutory Auditors of Cox and Kings Ltd clearly shows the complicity of the accused Bank Officers in the aforesaid crimes.” Kerkar added that the said manipulated confirmation was given by the accused officers of the Bank to the statutory auditors of Cox and Kings with a malafide intention to keep the promoters/directors/shareholders and other shareholders in the dark so that the fraud perpetrated by them in collusion with the KMP of Cox and Kings is not exposed. “The fraud played upon the promoters, and other stakeholders of Cox and Kings as well as Ezeego is not only limited to them. The scam has been virtually played upon the stakeholders of Indusind Bank also. The fraud is evident from the facts that to cover their dirty tracks, the management of Indusind Bank gave misleading confirmation of credits balance to the Statutory Auditor of Cox and Kings. To bolster the misleading credit balance confirmation, Induslnd credited the bank accounts of Cox and Kings with approximately Rs. Five hundred thirty-five crores on the 31st of March 2019. When the aim of misleading the statutory auditor of Cox and Kings was achieved, IndusInd Bank, debited the said Rs. Five hundred thirty-five crores back to its own account on the next working day, i.e. 2nd of April 2019.”The bank’s replyIndusInd Bank spokesperson said, “The Bank does not comment on matters that are under investigation. The Bank is cooperating and working with all investigating agencies with regard to the ongoing Cox & Kings investigations. The Bank declared the account as fraud on December 30, 2019 and filed a complaint with the appropriate regulatory agencies. The Bank has also initiated necessary legal proceedings against Cox and Kings and others, and filed its claim with the Interim Resolution Professional appointed under insolvency proceedings initiated before the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai. We would like to reiterate that IndusInd Bank conducts its business with the highest level of compliance to legal and regulatory requirements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-fir-against-cox-kings-after-indusind-bank-alleges-284-crore-fraud/story-e49jsBBcwlnatm4YDnkdLN.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||After technical glitches, 84% Mumbai university’s IDOL students appear for re-examination on Monday||The rescheduled exams for regular students of the distance education wing of University of Mumbai (MU) commenced on Monday. Of the10,000 third year Bachelor in Arts (BA) and Bachelor in Commerce (BCom) students of the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) registered to appear for their final year (summer 2020) exams, 84.07% students appeared for the first exam on Monday.“The university has taken all precautions to ensure students are not affected anymore. Over 8,000 students appeared for six rounds of mock tests earlier in the last few days and were prepared for the online exam,” said a statement released by IDOL late on Sunday. It further stated that those students who had managed to successfully appear for and complete their exams held on October 3 and 6 in the previous session will not have to compulsorily appear for the exam in the current session.The exams had to be rescheduled after the first session in the first week of October was marred by technical glitches. Around 9,000 third-year Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) and Bachelor of Arts (BA) students were unable to appear for the tests online.While the rescheduled backlog exams were held on Google forms on October 19, 20 and 21, the exams are now being conducted by a new service provider hired by the university last week.The contract with the original exam service provider, LittleMORE Innovation Labs, was cancelled after the incident. The university approved a new service provider, Pune-based Splashgain Technology Solutions last week to henceforth conduct the online exams.In a press conference held virtually last week, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant stated that all instances of university students not being able to appear for their online exams in the month of October due to technical glitches will be investigated by a special fact-finding committee. This also includes the incident of the first week of October which left thousands of students from IDOL anxious and unable to appear for their final year exams left students more stressed.The second-year Master of Arts (MA) exam will commence from November 2, while the Master of Commerce (MCom) exams will start on November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-technical-glitches-84-mumbai-university-s-idol-students-appear-for-re-examination-on-monday/story-TCOMX8vkgnMVN3HuvL5NfM.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 3,645 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 125 days||Maharashtra recorded its lowest single-day Covid-19 caseload and fatality figure in 125 days on Monday, with 3,645 new cases and 84 reported deaths. The state’s overall positivity rate is 19.07%.With 3,645 new cases recorded on Monday, Maharashtra’s Covid tally has gone up to 1,648,665, of which 1,34,137 are active cases. The death toll is 43,348. These are the lowest figures reported since June. On June 23, the state saw 3,214 cases and on June 16, there were 81 deaths. Mumbai reported 804 new cases and the city’s Covid tally is 252,085, with 17,860 active cases. Thirty-seven fatalities pushed the Covid death toll to 10,142. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported 679 new cases and 15 deaths. Maharashtra has recorded a sharp decline in Covid-19 cases since September. In the first 25 days of October, 260,574 cases have been reported compared to 508,216 cases in the corresponding period in September, which is a 48.72% drop. There are have also been fewer fatalities. Between September 1-25, there were 10,178 reported deaths from Covid-19 in Maharashtra. In the corresponding period in October, there have been 6,602 deaths, which is a 35% drop.Between October 5-11, there were 84,817 cases and 2,265 deaths in Maharashtra. This was followed by a sharp dip. Between October 19-25, the number of cases fell by 41.47% to 49,639 and recorded deaths fell by 49.27% to 1,149.The number of tests conducted for Covid-19 in October has dropped by 12%. Between October 5 and 11, the daily average of samples tested was 76,054. This number decreased to 66,637 between October 19-25. In the last 24 hours, 36,267 samples have been tested. “Close contacts of Covid-positive patients form the major component in daily tests. But with new cases reducing, the number of contacts decline, thereby testing has reduced marginally. The decline in testing is 12%, while the dip in the cases reported is almost 50%, ” said a health department official on condition of anonymity. So far, Maharashtra has tested 86,45,195 samples.Covid-19 hotspots across the state reported fewer cases on Monday. Pune city reported 152 cases and one fatality, while its rural areas reported 108 new cases and two deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 112 new cases. Nashik city reported 64 new infections, while its rural areas saw 212 cases and one fatality. Nagpur reported 88 new cases while rural areas saw 70 cases. Aurangabad city reported 40 cases and there were 58 new cases in rural areas.Maharashtra also reported 9,905 patients being discharged on Monday. The tally of recoveries is 14,70,660 and the recovery rate is 89.2%. The case fatality rate remained constant at 2.63%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-3-645-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-125-days/story-b2q29F7ibu1VKZGxFAUEXN.html
27-10-2020||City||At 24, new infections go down further in Ludhiana||The number of new infections went down further with just 24 cases being reported on Monday. However, one more death took the toll 829.The previous low was on October 19 when a total of 28 positive cases were reported.The district currently has 207 active cases.The deceased is a 63-year-old woman of Harpal Nagar who was suffering from hypothyroidism and depression and was admitted at a private hospital in the city.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that till date, 46,579 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1, 096. On Monday, 75 persons were sent for home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-24-new-infections-go-down-further-in-ludhiana/story-End2r4I3bJd85HyDOyx51K.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||LAHDC polls: BJP wins 15 out of 26 seats, Cong gets 9||Amid strong resentment over the sixth schedule and the anti-BJP wave, the saffron party managed to clinch 15 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) polls, the results of which were declared on Monday evening. Of the 26 constituencies, BJP won 15—three less than 2015. Congress took home nine seats —three more than last time, while two independent candidates won. Resentment against the BJP could be gauged from the fact that the sitting chief executive councillor (CEC) Gyal P Wangyal could not retain his seat from Sakti constituency. It was wrested by Congress’ Rigzin Tsering with a thin margin of 20 votes from AAP’s Urgain Phuntsog. On October 3, Wangyal had said, “People of Leh are in favour of the BJP . I am confident that the BJP will make a clean sweep”. The Leh Council has 30 seats, of which four candidates are nominated. ‘A mandate against the BJP’ Former BJP minister and ex-president of BJP’s Ladakh unit Chering Dorjay said, “In my opinion, this is a mandate against the BJP. In 2015, they had won 18 seats and this time around they have won 15. There is strong resentment against the BJP. They have lost their strongholds, such as Upper Leh.Their CEC P Wangyal lost Sakti. Phyang and Temisgam constituencies also went to Congress.” “Congress has improved its tally with nine seats and I think it was a big defeat for Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, the BJP MP and party chief of Ladak. Though 14 seats are required to form the council and numbers are on the BJP’s side but denial of sixth schedule and Wangyal’s performance did not go down well with the people,” said Dorjay. “The BJP has somehow succeeded in saving its skin. Had the people of Ladakh been happy with BJP, the party would have made a clean sweep,” he added. P Wangyal was unavailable for comments. BJP’s Ghulam Mehdi won the Turtuk seat by defeating independent candidate Ghulam Hussain with a margin of 367 votes. BJP’s Kunzang Lotus won the Hundar seat by defeating Congress’ Stanzin Chotar with a margin of 420 votes. The BJP managed to sweep all the five seats in Nubra valley, which has a significant Muslim population. The BJP and Congress had fielded their candidates in all 26 constituencies while the Aam Aadmi Party fielded 19 candidates. As many as 23 independent candidates were also in the fray. Leh demands sixth schedule The people of Leh have been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule and on September 28 former BJP minister and ex-president of the BJP’s Ladakh unit Chering Dorjay had cautioned the Centre of a sustained campaign in case the apex body was hoodwinked. Apex body of the People’s Movement, an apolitical body, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the constitution to Ladakh on the lines of north-eastern states. The umbrella group includes political parties, religious organisations and the all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers. On home minister Amit Shah’s assurance,the delegation withdrew its call to boycott the polls.  Thupstan Chhewang, the former BJP MP, had resigned from his post and primary membership of the party in November 2018 as the BJP had not granted UT status to Ladakh and had not fulfilled other promises made by the BJP in the 2014 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lahdc-polls-bjp-wins-15-out-of-26-seats-cong-gets-9/story-lJzF4TAQwydFCYcS4ojk9H.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reduces price of Covid-19 test for the fourth time||State health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Monday that the cost of Covid-19 tests at private laboratories would be further reduced. Now, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, which are considered the gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19, will cost between ₹980 to ₹1,800. This is the fourth time the state has reduced the rates for Covid tests.“As per the new structure, ₹980 can be charged for the sample provided directly at the laboratory; ₹1,400 for samples collected at hospitals and Covid Care Centres, while those who want their sample to be collected from home will have to pay ₹1,800,” Tope said. Private laboratories have been asked to implement the new rates with immediate effect. Previously, these three categories of RT-PCR tests cost ₹1,200, ₹1,600 and ₹2,000 respectively.“To control [the spread of] Covid, the state has always stre-ssed on increasing testing... The situation is under control but to defeat the pandemic, we want to increase testing,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reduces-price-of-covid-19-test-for-the-fourth-time/story-0NO105HibKLMbkGdb9DpuL.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP hits back at Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray over his Dussehra rally remarks; NCP, Congress back him||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray slam-med the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Narendra Modi government during his annual Dussehra rally, the party hit back at its ally-turned-foe, terming the Shiv Sena and its chief “an opportunist and betrayer”. BJP on Monday held two press conferences and at least three other senior party leaders issued statements attacking Thackeray over his remarks. In response, leaders from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the ruling alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, spoke out in support of the state’s chief minister. While former chief minister and BJP Member of Parliament (MP) Narayan Rane said Thackeray has “no right to talk about Hindutva” as he has ditched it in his quest for power, party legislator and former Mumbai BJP chief Ashish Shelar said, “Thackeray’s Hindutva has been adulterated after he joined hands with Congress and Nationalist Congress Party and changed the ideology like changing a shawl.”“Thackeray’s speech in his Dussehra rally was a great flop show on OTT platform. His utterances in the rally were under pressure from the attack on his government...,” said Shelar. “He has criticised BJP over Hindutva, but he has no right to utter a word. Our Hindutva is like skin, while Sena has used it like a shawl. Whenever needed, they have changed it conveniently to acquire power.” “Thackeray has been saying he does not need any certificate for his Hindutva from us, but he will need it because of the adulteration in his ideology after going with Congress and NCP,” Shelar said. Thackeray in his Dussehra rally on Sunday had said instead of toppling non-BJP governments in states, BJP should protect their government at the Centre as the “mood of people was changing at national level”. Thackeray said his father the late Bal Thackeray’s Hindutva was not about “clanging bells and utensils” and “BJP must learn Hindutva from its ideological fountainhead, RSS”. Shelar said Thackeray’s bluster about attempts to topple his government has come out of his insecurity. “He has dared us to topple the government, but as we have said in the past, we dare him to run the government efficiently and step out of the house to understand the people’s hardship. He said BJP leaders were nowhere on scene when Babri Masjid was demolished. I want to ask Uddhavji where was he on the day of the high drama in Ayodhya,” he said. Rane, meanwhile, said Thackeray boasts of his father’s ideology, but entire Maharashtra knows how he was harassed and disobeyed during his last days. “He would never have made Uddhav chief minister of the state,” said Rane. The BJP MP alleged involvement of Uddhav’s son and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and said he will soon be arrested. Rane, however, did not substantiate his claim and said it’s for the investigating agency to find out. Thackeray found support from his allies NCP and Congress. Minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik, without naming Rane, said his language for the CM and malicious reference about Aaditya was not dignified. Congress leader and public works minister Ashok Chavan said what Thackeray said about BJP’s attempt to topple state governments of other parties was right and they support him on his stand. Sena’s Ratnagiri legislator and higher and technical education minister Uday Samant slammed Rane. “Maharashtra has a culture to speak in a respectful way about its leaders. Such statements and references to our chief minister in a disrespectful manner are not in our culture. Our chief minister has maintained restrain and he is extremely popular among the people. After this press conference, people will reaffirm their faith in Uddhavji Thackeray and stand with him,” said Samant.State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, also from Sena, said “Rane should get himself medically checked”. “Entire Maharashtra knows the history and geography of Narayan Rane. Looking at his appearance in today’s press conference, I think he should get his medical check-up done. If you try and spit on the sun, it lands on your face, and this is what has happened with him. One must learn the true understanding of patience and restrain from our young leader Aaditya Thackeray,” said Bhuse. The BJP also questioned Sena over its Hindutva as they have allied with Congress, which had insulted Vinayak Damodar (Veer) Savarkar. However, Sena, in a counter attack, asked why is the BJP-led Central government not awarding Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour, to Savarkar. BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said Thackeray gave a “lesson on Hindutva” from Savarkar Memorial during Sena’s Dussehra rally. “Question is why he didn’t utter a single word of praise for Veer Savarkar. Probably, he is afraid of new friends, who have been repeatedly using derogatory remarks against Veer Savarkar,” said Kadam.Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said there is no change in party’s stance on Savarkar. “Sena never changed its stand on Veer Savarkar. Whenever an inappropriate comment was made to insult him, we stood by him. We’ve always had an emotional connect with him. Those criticising us must answer why they didn’t give him [Savarkar] Bharat Ratna. They have been in power for six years,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-hits-back-at-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-over-his-dussehra-rally-remarks-ncp-congress-back-him/story-WyGQ82gS3NWHuiMLt8oxhM.html
27-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government seeks constitution bench to hear Maratha reservation case||State public works minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee for Maratha reservation, said that the state government would request the Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday to hear an application made by them to vacate the stay on the quota before a constitutional bench. Chavan said that the application is scheduled for hearing before the three-judge bench which had on September 9 initiated the interim stay on reservation to the Maratha community in jobs and education. The bench had admitted the request by the Maharashtra government to hand the case over to the constitution bench.“The hearing to decide on the interim stay has been scheduled for Tuesday before the three-judge bench. We are going to request the Apex court to hold the hearing before the constitution bench instead of the bench which had stayed the reservation. Our request for the formation of the constitution bench is pending before honourable Chief Justice of India,” Chavan said.The state has argued that the interim stay was unfair as it has halted the admission and recruitment process in the state. The government also contended that in none of the other reservation cases transferred to the constitution bench, was a stay ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-seeks-constitution-bench-to-hear-maratha-reservation-case/story-6wA87Bz5NKIESsQONcTzvM.html
27-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Former Youth Cong chief’s son booked in illegal weapons case||The son of Dimple Rana, the former chief of the Youth Congress’ district unit, has been booked for possessing an illegal .32 pistol.The accused has been identified as Yuvraj Rana. His name had cropped up during the interrogation of one of the accused caught for snatching Rs 3.42 lakh from a resident on October 9.Police had recently nabbed three persons, identified as Gurpreet Singh, Sanjiv Kumar alias Sanju and Mohit Sharma, in the case. During interrogation, Sanjiv Kaumar alias Sanju said that nearly four to five months ago, when the government had imposed travel restriction due to Covid-19 outbreak, he had visited Uttar Pradesh (UP) along with Yuvraj and purchased two pistols illegally for Rs 50,000 each.Sanju said that nearly one-and-a-half-months ago, he visited Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh (UP) along with Sukhchain Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur, and purchased another .32 pistol. Sharing details, Division Number 6 station house officer Amandeep Singh Brar said that soon after receiving the information, a case under Section 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the accused Yuvraj and Sukhchain.A raid was conducted and Sukhchain Singh was arrested. The pistol was also recovered from his possession. However, Yuvraj is still on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-former-youth-cong-chief-s-son-booked-in-illegal-weapons-case/story-aIgaxvsRv1X0EXvzf69fUO.html
27-10-2020||City||DU row refuses to die down||New Delhi: The controversy over the appointment and transfer of senior officials at the Delhi University refuses to die down with officials indicating that vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, who is on sick leave since July, wanted to attend a meeting which is at the heart of the issue.The meeting of the executive council, the highest decision making body, was scheduled for October 21 and, according to members of the body, the V-C had expressed his willingness to join the meeting. However, Tyagi did not attend it and the meeting was chaired by pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi. The central institution had plunged into an unprecedented crisis last week with two rival groups -- one led by pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi and another backed by Tyagi -- appointing their nominees the new registrar simultaneously. While the Joshi group claimed that the nominee of their rivals did not have the backing of the executive council, the other group had removed Joshi and appointed Geeta Bhatt as the new pro vice-chancellor. The October 21 meeting had cleared the appointment of Vikas Gupta as the new registrar, hours after the group backed by Tyagi appointed PC Jha to the post. This raises questions over Tyagi’s leave of absence which has been a bone of contention during the ongoing power tussle in DU. Last week, the education ministry had nullified the appointments of interim registrar PC Jha and pro vice-chancellor Geeta Bhatt by the vice-chancellor on the grounds that he was on leave and could not take such decisions without the ratification of the executive council. According to retired professor Rajkumar Bhatia, who is also the Visitor’s nominee to the executive council, pro-vice chancellor PC Joshi had informed the members during an October 10 EC meeting that Tyagi had wished to attend the meeting. Joshi refused to comment on the matter while Tyagi did not answer requests for a response. “During the October 10 meeting, Joshi said he got a message from the V-C, saying that the latter wanted to attend the meeting. Following this, there was nearly an hour-long break and the pro V-C went to meet the V-C. According to Joshi, the V-C called for postponement of the meeting and said he would preside over the next meeting which would be held after 10 days,” said Bhatia. The next meeting was scheduled for October 21. Executive Council member Rajesh Jha also confirmed the sequence of events that took place on October 10. “We protested against the cancellation of the meeting because important agenda items were pending since the last EC meeting in March. Joshi told us that the meeting was cancelled out of deference for the V-C since he was retiring in March and this may be his last meeting. He also assured us that the next meeting (to be held on October 21) would not be cancelled,” said Jha. Commenting on the current state of affairs in the university, Jha said, “The current fight is for control of the university among the different factions of the ruling establishment. It is about influencing selection of the next V-C and not about the registrar,” said Jha. “The tussle can further dilute the eroded autonomy of the university,” he said. He also said that day-to-day functioning of the university is getting affected due to the feud. “Proposals and files are getting stuck because everybody is waiting for the turmoil to die down. Decisions taken during the meeting are also in limbo,” he said. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “While the admissions have kept us busy, all of this leaves an impact psychologically. The issue has become a talking point and everyone is worried as these kind of flip-flops haven’t happened before. We feel that this was not in good taste because the image of the institution has been tarnished and there is uncertainty all around. Besides, if the V-C said that he wanted to attend the meeting on October 21 and later postponed it due to other work, why the hurry? Why couldn’t they wait for two days to discuss the important agenda items?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-row-refuses-to-die-down/story-u6wy8GQwUD7yooNBOyNZnN.html
27-10-2020||City||4 months on, only 256 pet owners turn up for registrations in Ludhiana||Four months after the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) commenced the registration of pet dogs and cats in the city, only 256 residents have come forward to complete the formalities so far. All 256 are dog owners and no cat owner has turned up so far. This even as the deadline to complete the procedure is fast approaching.After December 31, if the pets are found without registration, the MC will be slapping a fine of Rs 4,000 on the owner, besides charging Rs 100 a day for the upkeep of the pets which will be taken into custody till the formalities are complete. Post registration, residents will be charged Rs 400 annually for one pet. At present the civic body does not have a count of the number of pet dogs in the city but it is planning to carry out a drive in the month of January to catch the violators. MC senior veterinary officer, Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “Residents can either visit our website mcludhiana.gov.in or visit MC’s zonal offices to get their pets registered. They will be asked to fill pro forma, giving details of the pet as well as the owner. The owner will also need to submit a copy of his/her Aadhar card. The brass tokens, which have to be tied around the pet’s neck, can be collected from the MC Zone office near Mata Rani Chowk.”Dr Dhalla further said in case of ferocious dogs, the owner must cover the pet’s face with a muzzle while taking it out for a walk. He added that so far only, 188 of the 256 residents who have registered their pets have collected the tokens. “If any dog is caught without registration, the owner will have to pay Rs 100 a day to the MC which will take care of the dog till the registration is done. The owner will also have to bear the expenses if the pet bites anyone,” said Dr Dhalla.Mayor Balkar Sandhu asked residents to get the registrations done on time to avoid penalty. He said that the registration will also help the civic body and residents to identify and locate the pet easily if it is lost or stolen. A helpline number 8437535700 has also been issued by MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-months-on-only-256-pet-owners-turn-up-for-registrations-in-ludhiana/story-wPcFBWKXjVCHB9YYIduVMN.html
27-10-2020||Kolkata||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee put on ventilator; dropping platelet count worries doctors||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee was put on ventilator on Monday afternoon while his platelet count dropped, which was ‘worrying’ said doctors. “We had to protect his airway. Around 3 pm we put him on endotracheal intubation. His consciousness was not doing well. There was an increasing chance of aspiration. Secondary pneumonia was there,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading a team of doctors treating the thespian, told media persons. The octagenarian actor had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 6 and has been hospitalised at a Kolkata hospital since then.“The only worrying part was that his platelet count went down along with gastrointestinal bleeding. We have consulted haematologists and all precautions were being taken. Measures to improve his platelet count and correct the overall coagulation function so that the bleeding stops were also taken,” he said. Doctors, however, said that Chatterjee’s blood pressure was stable and that his cardiac and liver functions were also doing well. “The overall situation, considering the patient’s comorbidities, seems to be stable,” the doctor said. One of the most celebrated actors in Bengal, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, National Awards and Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/veteran-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-put-on-ventilator-dropping-platelet-count-worries-doctors/story-TCe6ML2M6yJ4RIK0ZAoYNI.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Resident doctors from eight Delhi, Central govt-run hospitals to join north MCD docs’ strike||Resident doctors from at least eight hospitals, run by the Delhi and central governments both, have decided to go on a “pen-down” strike for two hours on Tuesday.The doctors will not perform any non-emergency duty between 10 am and 12 noon to support doctors from Hindu Rao and other North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals who have been on strike for 22 days and on hunger strike for the fourth.Doctors from Delhi government-run hospitals like Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Maharshi Valmiki, Bhagwan Mahavir, and Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospitals have given a notice for a two-hour pen-down strike. Delhi government hospitals like Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur, and Rajiv Gandhi Super-Speciality that are dedicated for treatment of Covid-19 will join the protest wearing black ribbons.Central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia, Lady Hardinge Medical College, and Northern Railways hospitals will also go on the two-hour strike, while Safdarjung hospital has come out in its support.“We are coming out in support of resident doctors from North corporation-run hospitals. Something needs to happen. The resident doctors have not been paid for four months and this time we are demanding a permanent solution, so that they do not have to go on strike every few months,” said Dr Sandeep Yadav, president in-charge of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) too has come out in support of the doctors.In a letter, the IMA has said, “The issue of non-payment of salaries of doctors in Hindu Rao hospital is a case of systemic failure. Doctors who have served the nation during the corona pandemic deserve appropriate accolades and incentives. It defies logic that they have to resort to roadside agitations to get their legitimate salaries.”Over 2,000 senior doctors from five hospitals and all clinics and dispensaries run by the North Corporation have also joined decided to join in with the residents and go on indefinite strike. The doctors all went on a mass casual leave on Monday.“We have given enough time to the corporation to pay us. We were last paid our salaries for June. We even deferred our strike by a week so that patients do not get inconvenienced, but we still haven’t received our salaries. We cannot keep coming back to the streets every few months to demand pay. We will not accept just one month’s salary this time — we want the administration to tell us in writing what solutions are being explored to resolve the problem once and for all,” said Dr Maruti Sinha, general secretary of the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association.She said doctors were being intimidated to break the strike.“The administration is even trying to intimidate people to break the strike, some DNB doctors were threatened that their tenure would not be extended, some were transferred out of Hindu Rao hospital. Four doctors from Hindu Rao have been transferred to Rajan Babu TB hospital amid the protests. This happened when others on deputation were called back to the hospital for resumption of non-Covid services. The order came from the medical superintendent, and not the directorate of hospital administration as it usually does,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/resident-doctors-from-eight-delhi-central-govt-run-hospitals-to-join-north-mcd-docs-strike/story-Ij47syRR4RgUNmKo7EIj0O.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Cyclist dies after being hit by car in Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri||A 30-year-old cyclist was killed after an allegedly speeding car hit his bicycle on Jonapur-Mandi Road in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri on Saturday night, the police said. The errant driver fled the spot in his car, but was later arrested after the police examined footage from nearly 50 CCTV cameras in the area.The suspect, Rohit, runs an eatery in Gurugram, and the car is registered in the name of Ramesh Kumar, who is an acquaintance of Rohit’s, who had borrowed the car. The latter was travelling towards Chhatarpur when the mishap took place, around 8.30 pm on Saturday, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur, said. “We recovered the car from a service centre in Faridabad, where Rohit had given it for repairs. He has been booked for rash and negligent driving causing death. A case under sections 279 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Fatehpur Beri police station,” Thakur said. The cyclist, Akhilesh, was returning to his Saket home from work on Saturday night. “Around 8.30pm, an allegedly speeding car hit his cycle from behind. The impact was such that Akhilesh was flung into the air and landed on the car’s bonnet and front windshield before falling on the road. His head hit the road and he lost consciousness.” an officer from the Fatehpur Beri police station said. A police team took Akhilesh to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he died during treatment, after which a case was registered. “We scanned nearly 50 cameras on various routes and sub-lanes in Jaunapur village. It helped us identify the offending vehicle, get its registration number and locate the owner, Ramesh Kumar. He told us that the car was with Rohit. We caught Rohit from his Gurugram home and his interrogation led us to the service centre in Faridabad where it was for repair,” the officer said. Police said Akhilesh’s family members told them that he commuted between his home and the furniture workshop where he worked on the bicycle to stay fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclist-dies-after-being-hit-by-car-in-delhi-s-fatehpur-beri/story-KKX5KKAWNt8yqg02PQ2RoK.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Land-owning agencies meet to identify sites for electric vehicle charging depots||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday convened a meeting to identify potential sites owned by government departments and agencies for setting up electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure in the city.The meeting was attended by senior officials from the transport department, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.(HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd.(DIMTS) and Delhi Transco Ltd. (DTL).“Delhi has the distinction of having the maximum number of different land owning agencies. We understand how crucial making an EV friendly ecosystem is to the effective implementation of this policy, and I am happy to note that all these land owning agencies are aligned to Delhi government and our CMs vision of making Delhi the EV capital of India,” Gahlot said. “Our Working Group on Accelerated Rollout of Charging Infrastructure is already working diligently on identifying probable locations for installing charging infrastructure, and in the next few weeks, we are confident of having a final list of locations where charging stations would come up,” the minister said.The first meeting of the working group was held on September 17. During the meeting, the members had agreed that Delhi Transco Limited (DTL) will be the state nodal agency for EVs.“It was decided that the DTL will pool government land parcels and integrate a state-wise tender to install charging stations across the city of Delhi. Simultaneously, DTL and Delhi discoms will also conduct a joint-survey of the land parcels to identify sites for the tendering process,” the government said in a statement.The Delhi EV Policy, 2020 targets 25% of all new vehicle registrations by 2024 to be Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs). In order to encourage the rapid adoption of electric vehicles, the government is focusing on the speedy roll out of electric vehicle charging Infrastructure in Delhi. For the installation of EV charging stations, a centralized tendering system will be adopted to hire an energy operator to run, maintain and upgrade charging stations. The land-owning agencies will be required to provide land for the installation of public EV charging stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-owning-agencies-meet-to-identify-sites-for-electric-vehicle-charging-depots/story-slWeYjfqseHeaeVqgRL6BM.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Scheme to give ownership rights to houses in illegal colonies moving at snail’s pace||The Centre’s ambitious Pradhan Mantri - Unauthorised Colony in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojna (PM-UDAY) scheme to give ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi is moving at a snail’s pace. In just over an year, of the over one million properties only 1,946 have been issued final documents (conveyance deeds and authorisation slips) by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) till October 23. DDA, however, said it has taken a number of steps to expedite the implementation of the scheme.Many residents of unauthorised colonies said that there is need to set up more facilitation centres and provision for assisting people with paperwork. DDA officials said that the process got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic as field surveys couldn’t be done during the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the viral infection.According to senior DDA officials, 345,000 people have registered under PM-UDAY of which 39,334 applications with all the required paperwork has been received till October 23. As per the data available with the DDA, 1,946 authorisation slips and conveyance deeds have been issued to property owners till October 23. According to DDA officials, 27,522 applications are pending and 2,859 applications have been rejected as they didn’t fulfil the criteria mentioned in the scheme. The Centre had notified PM-UDAY on October 29 last year and the DDA started the registration process in mid-December. Soon after 20-odd properties in Raja Vihar and Suraj Park in north Delhi where formalities were completed, the process was stalled due to Delhi assembly elections and then because of the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic. The work resumed pace only after June.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “Due to Covid-19, the process got severely impacted for four-five months. We are now running awareness campaigns, increasing the number of processing centres, deploying additional manpower to expedite the process. Since June, the scheme has picked up pace as more people are now applying. We have increased the number of processing centres. Today, we have eight processing centres and we will add two more by the end of this month. For this, we have deployed additional staff.”DDA officials also blamed the deficiencies in the documents submitted by applicants after registration for the slow pace of work. “We have issued 7,007 deficiency slips to residents. We have put out all the details needed along with the applications. We have set up 28 help desks to assist people,” said a senior DDA official.Residents of the unauthorised colonies say that they are facing problems in getting the paperwork in order and want the DDA to assist them. Kuldeep Chiilar, president of Raja Vihar RWA, said, “A large number of people living in our colony are not educated and work as daily wage labourers. They don’t know from where to get the papers and affidavits made. The DDA should make arrangements for getting the affidavits made at the help desk centres. This will reduce the running around one has to do just to get the papers ready.”Raja Vihar was one of the two unauthorised colonies in Delhi where the first set of 20 authorisation slip and conveyance deeds were issued in January this year.Officials said DDA is in the process of hiring more agencies to conduct the Geographical Information System (GIS) survey and expedite the process.Urban planning experts Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with the DDA, said, “There is a need to set up more centres to assist people, as a large number of people in these colonies are not aware of the process and don’t know how to upload documents. The DDA should set up camps in these colonies to help people.”Currently, the properties in these colonies are not registered with the Delhi government’s revenue records. Due to this, residents here can’t apply for bank loan against the property or reconstruct their properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scheme-to-give-ownership-rights-to-houses-in-illegal-colonies-moving-at-snail-s-pace/story-KCl28A7zLEdlVXQO7V8H2H.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi ISBTs to reopen before Diwali: Govt||After being shut for more than seven months, interstate bus services are likely to resume in Delhi before Diwali on November 14, senior government officials said on Monday.The resumption of these services would mean that all three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in Delhi — in Anand Vihar, Kashmere Gate, and Sarai Kale Khan — will also reopen.“The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has given its approval to resume interstate buses in the city and reopen ISBTs. The move will help a lot of people, especially migrant workers, who are now trying to return to Delhi to start work. We intend to open ISBTs well before Diwali, so people are not inconvenienced,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.The decision was taken in a Friday (October 23) DDMA meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and the transport department is already preparing to issue an order necessary in this regard, a senior official said. Train and domestic flights services were restarted in May, though their operations are regulated.Once operational, fewer passengers may be able to board buses and no passenger will be allowed to stand. At ISBTs, provisions are being made to disinfect buses after each trip, and to thermally scan passengers. The departures and arrivals of buses will also be staggered to avoid crowding, a senior transport official said.Covid-19 testing camps currently are operational at the Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar ISBTs as they also cater to intra-state buses, and such testing camps will be extended to the Kashmere Gate ISBT as well, once it is reopened. Testing will be voluntary, but symptomatic individuals will have to undergo a test, a transport official said.In Delhi, interstate bus services were suspended on March 21. But before the onset of the pandemic, the three ISBTs saw a combined footfall of over 250,000 every day. At least 3,467 buses from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Chandigarh would ply through these ISBTs every day.Under the Unlock 1.0 rules, interstate travel was allowed (since June 8), a relaxation that was subject to both states assenting, and passengers carrying travel passes. None of these requirements applies any longer though. The Unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the Centre on June 30 allowed passengers to travel across state borders without travel passes. In July, DDMA turned down a Delhi transport department proposal to allow the reopening of ISBTs.“States like Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan have already shown a keen interest in sending their state-run buses to our ISBTs. There is an increasing demand to open the service as many people used to travel on buses from neighbouring for their medical treatment in Delhi hospitals,” a second transport official said.For scores of office-goers, small-scale traders and the public in general — for whom travelling to Delhi over distances between 50km and 100km was a daily affair before the pandemic — the daily commute had turned into a nightmare due to lack of buses as many started traveling 40-50 kms or even more on cycles.Government reports show the transport department is losing over ₹5 crore per month because the three ISBTs are shut. The main source of revenue used to be the stand fee charged against each bus entering the terminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-isbts-to-reopen-before-diwali-govt/story-G0bSHmB2qtpB9kaxT9EHLM.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Cabinet ministers to urge drivers to turn off ignition from Oct 28||Delhi ministers will join the government’s ‘red light on, gaadi off’ (red light on, ignition off) campaign from Wednesday, in a major push to the anti-pollution drive aimed at curbing vehicular emissions, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Monday. The campaign was launched on October 21 and will continue across the city till November 15. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai’s office said from October 28, cabinet ministers including Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will also join this campaign and will visit different traffic signals, urging drivers to participate in the ‘red light on, gaadi off campaign’. The campaign, which is a voluntary move, encourages drivers to switch off their ignitions while waiting at red lights to reduce tailpipe emissions and to save fuel. The schedule of the campaign shared by the environment ministry shows that on October 28, Delhi minister of food and civil supplies, who formerly held the environment portfolio, Imran Hussain will participate in the citizens’ campaign. On October 30, health minister Satyendra Jain will join, followed by minister of social welfare, Rajendra Pal Gautam on November 4, Delhi speaker Ram Niwas Goel on November 6 and Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on November 9. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will participate on November 15, the last day of the campaign. “From October 28, we will scale up the campaign and the cabinet ministers will cover traffic signals around Connaught Place, Mandi House and India Gate. The idea is to garner maximum support for this campaign, so that a behavioural change is brought among public. Delhi’s pollution levels can be controlled only if the government and people come together to fight against it,” said a ministry spokesperson. The campaign, which started on October 21 to stop ‘idling’ at traffic signals (waiting with ignition on), has roped in over 2,500 environment marshals that are stationed with placards and banners deployed at different traffic signals. The focus of this reach out has been at 10 major traffic signals, where the waiting time is longer than two minutes. The campaign has slowly been expanding to various parts of the city, to ensure maximum participation. On Monday, Rai launched this in all the 70 constituencies of the city and announced that from November 2, the campaign will be taken to all the 272 municipal wards. “A single vehicle contributes to 15-20% pollution while idling at traffic signals. The aim is to reduce that 15-20% pollution by switching the ignition off. The problem of pollution is bigger than politics and party affiliations and we must all come together for Delhi,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cabinet-ministers-to-urge-drivers-to-turn-off-ignition-from-oct-28/story-yebbM5DsVBX8GcCC9hj9pI.html
27-10-2020||Delhi||Most Covid deaths in Delhi since mid-July||The Capital reported 54 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, the most single-day fatalities in 102 days. The city last added over 50 deaths a day from the viral infection on July 17, when 58 deaths were added to the toll. So far, almost 360,000 people have been affected and 6,312 have died of Covid-19 in the city. With the sudden increase in the number of deaths, the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) — proportion of deaths among those who test positive — rose beyond 1% after a break of four days. On average, 36 deaths were reported each day since mid-September when the number of cases and deaths went up in the city. After recording over 4,000 cases for three days in a row, the number of new cases dipped to 2,832 on Monday. This, however, was because fewer people were tested over the weekend. Only 34,411 tests were conducted on Sunday — reported in Monday’s health bulletin — as compared to an average of over 56,000 tests conducted each day during the week. Even with the fewer cases, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among those tested — remained over 8% for the second day in a row, according to the data. The positivity rate jumped this week to 7.18% from an average 5.99% last week. The transmission is said to be in control when a positivity rate of 5% sustained over two weeks. The number of hospitalisations have also started increasing, with 5,404 total hospital admissions on Monday, as compared to 5,171 hospitalisation on average each day the week before. “We have to wait and watch to see what happens next. But it is likely that the number of cases will go up, with transmission increasing as people interact during the festive season. Add to that the drop in temperature, and more people are likely to be affected,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor in the department of community medicine at AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-covid-deaths-in-delhi-since-mid-july/story-Gop6gMpNliFeRkGxafM0bI.html
27-10-2020||Pune||PMC puts brake on jumbo facility upgrade as city sees fall in virus cases||The 800-bed jumbo facility at College Of Engineering, Pune (COEP) grounds in Shivajinagar run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will currently operate will 600 beds with the city seeing a dip in Covid cases. With limited critical care facility at its hospitals and the possibility of a second wave post Diwali, the civic body is not ready to release requisition of private hospitals.PMC has hired Medbro agency to run the facility which would be responsible to provide manpower to the facility, including expert doctors and other staff. The jumbo facility is a dedicated Covid-19 facility for critical patients and is equipped with ICU care. Although the facility has a total capacity of 800 beds, currently the civic body has allocated the tender for only 600 beds. When the city saw its peak of Covid cases in September, the administration had stated that the facility would run to its full capacity shortly and a tender for floated. With virus cases decreasing, the civic body has put a brake on upgrading the facility.PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal, who is incharge of the facility, said, “With the number of cases going down, we have allocated a tender to run only 600 beds though the facility can accommodate 800 beds. As per the contract, we need to give them a 24-hour window to increase the bed capacity to 800. The contract also states that we have to pay at least for a minimum of 50% of the beds which will be run even if they are empty. So, we have to pay for 300 beds no matter how many beds are vacant.”Agrawal said that even though the cases are going down the civic body does not intend to give up the requisition as of yet given that the possible second wave is just round the corner. She said, “It is a pandemic and we will need the help of private hospitals to fight it. At the start of the pandemic in March we did not have a dedicated Covid-19 centre and so we had to rely on private hospitals completely. We have critical care available at the jumbo facility now, but we are not yet ready to give up the requisition.”As of Sunday, PMC reported over 1.59 lakh cases in the city of which 1.48 lakh have recovered, 4,122 deaths were reported due to the infection and 6,706 are active cases. As of Monday evening, the jumbo facility had 600 allocated beds of which 155 were vacant, including 107 isolation beds with oxygen, 43 ICU beds and 5 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-puts-brake-on-jumbo-facility-upgrade-as-city-sees-fall-in-virus-cases/story-rSQ6WKYATPqksnkiCOouUM.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Two arrested with MD worth Rs 10.6 lakh in Pune||PUNE: Two men were arrested for being in possession of mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 10.6 lakh in Katraj on Sunday. The two were identified as Visarat Ali Sana Ulla (32), a resident of Swapnola building in Balajinagar, Dhankawadi, Pune and a native of Kishanganj in Bihar, and Brijesh Upendra Sharma (38), a resident of Dongri in Mumbai, according to the police. The two were intercepted in a white Swift Dzire car near a building along the Pune-Mumbai bypass road. Upon inspection, they were found to be in possession of 212.650 gram of MD, according to the police. The arrest was made by a team of anti-extortion squad (east) led by assistant police inspector (API) BM Raikar. “They bring it from Mumbai. So far, it looks like it is their first case. We are interrogating their sources and have a few suspects in the form of suppliers,” said API Raikar. Along with the narcotic substance, the police recovered the car registered in Pune to a travel company, two mobile phones, and cash worth Rs 1,000 from the two. The total worth of all goods recovered by the police was estimated to be Rs 15,70,000. A case under Sections 8(c), 22(c) and 29 of Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act 1985 (NDPS) was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-with-md-worth-rs-10-6-lakh-in-katraj/story-537SDWRVabmklhdYlyejHK.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Five days on, Pune businessman still missing; family launches parallel search||Gautam Pashankar (65), a city-based businessman, who has been missing since Wednesday, has remained untraceable over the past five days. While the police have formed multiple teams to investigate the matter, the family has also started making enquiries of their own.“We are getting impatient now. It has been six days since he disappeared. Few days ago someone had come to his office and threatened him and someone was following him on the day he disappeared too. I’m am finding these things out now and if I can find them, surely the police could have found them out too,” said his son Kapil Pashankar who claims to have started checking his father’s past correspondence and speaking with his staff members.Kapil, along with his sister Rinul Pashankar, who is a co-director of a company along with her father, approached the police with a complaint containing multiple suspects’ names.On Thursday, the family members had submitted a “note” to the police that is suspected to be written by Pashankar.“One other thing that the police have somehow overlooked is that he has finished the letter on the third page, signed it, and then wrote some more on the fourth page as if coaxed into writing it. On the fourth page, it again says that he blames himself for his decisions,” said the son. The family members have given a list of names to the police and are drafting a complaint for a case of abetment to suicide. The note mentioned that he intended to leave the city and had left two phones that he used in the car which had dropped him near his house in Modibaug before he disappeared. While the police claim that an ATM transaction had been made through his card, his family claimed that his bank cards were at home. “Two of his cards are inactive and the card which he is carrying, the account only has Rs 1,500 in it. So, I do not know on what basis the police are saying that there was a transaction at an ATM,” said Kapil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-days-on-businessman-still-missing-family-launches-parallel-search/story-XaZSsP0gLaeKaORczuQ0vM.html
27-10-2020||Pune||Gardens to reopen on November 1 in Pune: Mayor||The public gardens in Pune are set to reopen on November 1, seven months after the state government closed them in view of preventing coronavirus from spreading. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Monday announced to reopen the gardens in city even as the civic administration was clueless about it.“For the last seven months, public gardens in the city are closed. As the Covid situation in the city is improving, we have decided to reopen the public gardens from November 1. People need to take necessary precautions while visiting the gardens,” Mohol said.The mayor posted a series of tweets announcing the decision while adding that an official order will soon be issued.PMC officials from garden department were unaware of the proposed move to reopen gardens. “We have heard it from the media representatives,” said an official on condition of anonymity.One of the senior officers in garden department said that the public gardens in other corporations are closed yet, but if the PMC office-bearers have instructed the same, the administration needs to reopen these places. PMC has 196 gardens across the city. In June, PMC had briefly reopened the gardens though the civic body had to revoke its decision after people began crowding.“Mainly senior citizens and children visit public gardens. Both the categories fall in risk age group. Previously when PMC opened a few public gardens, it had to close down within a week as citizens were not following instructions,” said the PMC officer.Many of the public gardens managed by PMC have open gyms and jogging tracks. Administration has expressed concerns about citizens not following guidelines and seen visiting public places without masks. There are also cases of visitors to gardens having an heated argument with security guards who point out the mandatory mask rule. Public representatives said that in absence of gardens being closed, residents are crowding hills and open grounds. “It’s been eight months that many are confined to homes. Reopening of gardens will help us get fresh air and work out in gyms,” said Anand Kulkarni, a resident of Bibvewadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gardens-to-reopen-on-november-1-mayor/story-dpz2NjGMMIRv2nYkFVHTbJ.html
27-10-2020||City||Reopening of Swargate-Katraj BRTS line in Pune gets another deadline||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation said that the bus rapid transit corridor (BRTS) between Swargate and Katraj will resume after Diwali. The dedicated bus corridor, India’s first pilot project, has been closed for more than two years.PMC road department head VJ Kulkarni said, “Almost 90 per cent work of the corridor is complete. Installation of CCTV cameras and sliding doors at bus stops is left. These works will be carried out soon and the BRTS facility will be reopened after Diwali.”The official said that fitting of doors and CCTV cameras were not carried out as the facility was not operational because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Kulkarni admitted that anti-social elements damage glass doors and cameras.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) elected member Ashwini Kadam on Monday wrote to Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) seeking the resumption of BRTS facility on Satara road.Kadam said, “I have asked the administration to either restart BRTS or open the stretch for private vehicles. In the name of rectification, PMC delayed the work for two years.”According to a civic official, PMC has spent more than Rs100 crore for improving the corridor. As the corridor was India’s pilot plan, it also carried many flaws. PMC rectified the errors and decided to convert central lanes as dedicated lanes. Even bus stops were erected in the middle of the road at a cost of Rs1 crore per stop.PMC failed to meet seven deadlines to kick-start the corridor.Santosh Kale, a two-wheeler rider, said, “I used this stretch daily. PMC has closed the road for two years and it only leads to confusion. As BRTS is not operational, some vehicle users enter the corridor and speedily drive. Instead of spending money, PMC should demolish the barricades and allow private vehicles on this stretch.”Sanjana Pawar, a bus passenger, said, “I travel by bus daily. It is better to close BRTS permanently as I am seeing some or the other work going on the Swargate to Katraj lane for the past eight years. It is wastage of taxpayers’ money. Instead of wasting money, erect a divider and open all the lanes for vehicles. Then it wil be even easy to cross the roads.”Cost of the Swargate to Katraj BRTS projectIn 2016 : Rs 75 croreIn 2018: Rs 105 crore(Cost increased in 2018 by Rs 30 crore)Deadlines missedMay 31, 2018August 1, 2018December, 2018March, 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-of-swargate-katraj-brts-line-gets-another-deadline/story-5hkwbLeorjHUzCMf6ja7JP.html
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||From reporting on the pandemic to suffering from Covid||On October 2, Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid had tally crossed 77,000 and I submitted a report detailing how the pandemic was wrecking havoc in the Union Territory. Little did I know that two days later, I, too, would become part of the mounting statistics. I had been reporting about the disease from the ground since its outbreak. From the moment the first case was reported in Kashmir, I started taking precautions such as wearing a mask and using sanitisers. In no time, social distancing became my new normal. In fact, I was so cautious that friends would good-naturedly poke fun at me. In the course of work, I went into Covid centres to report about the disease and patients. I travelled to different parts of Kashmir to cover stories and managed to successfully evade the virus till the end of September. In the last week of September, I met many people and even attended a function. Though I took all precautions, on the night of September 29, I developed fever and body aches. On the recommendation of a doctor friend, I started taking Azithromycin and Paracetemol, which brought some relief. The doctor friend told me to continue the course for three to four days and to isolate myself. As my fever subsided, I continued to work from home. I remained isolated as I was worried about my aged parents contracting the infection. For three days my condition was stable and oxygen saturation was almost 94 to 95 but on the fourth day my health deteriorated and my temperature shot to 100°C-101°C. Assured of an ‘easy’ recovery On October 4, I went for a rapid antigen test, which returned positive. The doctor performed an x-ray and a series of other tests on me. The x-ray showed signs of pneumonia in both my lungs so I was put on FabiFlu tablets as well as injectables to treat the pneumonia.Doctors sent me home hoping that my condition would improve in three to four days. My oxygen saturation was now between 93 and 94 and doctors assured me I would ‘easily’ defeat Covid. Initially, I, too, was confident that I will be able to beat the virus. However, as the sickness stretched for three weeks, I went through bouts of depression where chances of recovery seemed bleak and I would worry about my young children, wife and aged parents. ‘Hospitalised in the middle of the night’On the night of October 7, my temperature rose to 103°C and oxygen saturation dropped from 90 to 84. Doctors suggested immediate hospitalisation. I was admitted to the Covid Centre of Government Medical College Baramulla, in the dead of the night. A paramedic hooked me to oxygen which helped with my uneasiness but the fever was consistent. In the morning a team of doctors examined me and put me on Remdesivir injections.Now a Covid patient myself, I was experiencing what I had been reporting. Inside the Covid ward, I noticed that doctors and paramedics were actively engaging with patients, which gave them relief and elevated their confidence. Five months ago, this was not the case, doctors were reluctant to touch Covid patients, fearing they would catch the deadly virus. The fear was tangible as in April, I had lost my 55-year-old cousin to the disease. He died alone in an isolated ward at Bemina SKIMS. His family was sitting in the hospital courtyard and only learnt of his death three hours later.On the first day of my hospitalisation, many friends advised me to shift to a hospital in Srinagar but I wanted to remain close to my family so I stayed put at my home town, which is 50 km from the city. At the hospital when the fever did not subside for the first three days, negative thoughts began to cloud my mind. ‘What if I didn’t get better despite the injections?’ My mind began to play negative thoughts in a loop. I couldn’t sleep and didn’t like to attend calls whenever my phone buzzed.Turning point However, after spending three days at the hospital my temperature came down and my cough subsided. Doctors told me this was the first step of my journey towards recovery, which gave me hope that I would survive. On the fifth day, doctors advised me to take off the oxygen for a few hours, which continued for the next two days. On the seventh day after my hospitalisation, I was discharged with the caveat that if my oxygen saturation dropped, I should rush to the hospital. I was again advised to stay isolated and follow a good diet to boost my immunity.At home, I recovered quickly and on October 22 my RTPCR test came negative. I was free of the deadly virus almost after almost three weeks.During my stint at the Covid hospital, I was impressed by the dedication of doctors and the hospital staff. I saw many patients recovering and going home. Only one patient, a 75-year-old man died in the hospital during my stay there. Recovery rate on the rise Today, I am back at work and reporting again reporting about Covid cases in the UT that have now crossed 91,800. However, it is heartening that the recovery rate is over 90%, which tells us about the nature of the disease and the dedication of the medical staff. National Health Mission (NHM) director and in-charge Covid mitigation Bhupinder Kumar said, “There is a definite reduction in the number of cases this month. Death is a very good indicator. The number of fatalities has also gone down.” Kumar said the testing rates in J&K have been one of the highest in the country, which allowed them to stop spread from those which would have remained undetected. “We test around 25,000 persons every day on an average,” he said. However, with winter approaching fast and the cases could see upward trend. “May be due to H1N1 and flu threat. the situation could be a problem,” said Dr Salim Khan, head of department of social and preventive medicine at GMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-reporting-on-the-pandemic-to-suffering-from-covid/story-d3o7YPPrlqt3ONJjNIfywJ.html
27-10-2020||Education||DU Admissions 2020: Over 4,800 students apply on first day under third cut-off list||Over 4,800 candidates applied for admission to Delhi University under the third cut-off list on Monday, according to officials. The admissions under the third list commenced at 10 am on Monday and will end on October 30.“A total of 4,872 candidates applied on the first day of admission under the third cut-off list. A total of 2,410 admissions were approved on Monday,” a senior university official said.Delhi University announced the third cut-off list on Saturday with various colleges closing admission to multiple courses, while there was a marginal dip in cut-offs for certain programmes. More than 82 per cent seats in Delhi University have been filled after the conclusion of admissions under the second cut-off list, the officials said.“While 35,500 seats were filled under the first cut-off list, 22,147 seats have been filled under the second cut-off list. There are a total of 70,000 seats in undergraduate courses in the university,” a senior official had said.Delhi University released its second cut-off list last Saturday. Lady Shri Ram College for Women had pegged 100 per cent score for three courses -- BA (Honours) Psychology, BA (Honours) Political Science and BA (Honours) Economics. Seats were available in the three courses with aspirants requiring 99 per cent for BA (Honours) Economics and 99.75 per cent for both BA (Honours) Psychology and BA (Honours) Political Science.Similarly, BA (Honours) Journalism, which was available at a cut-off of 99.50 per cent in LSR, was available at 99.25 per cent in the second list. The first cut-off list was released on October 10. Almost 50 per cent of the seats were filled under the first list. This year, the entire admission process is being conducted online in view of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-admission-over-4-800-students-apply-on-first-day-under-third-cut-off-list/story-tbWPki224R80MXJmni727O.html
27-10-2020||Arts||Parampara Series goes digital: Archives of performances by maestros will enthral classical arts aficionados||An endeavour to promote Indian classical arts, which had become a tradition over the last two decades, faced a challenge by the pandemic. But, instead of bowing down, it took help of technology and is all set to make its debut on a new platform! The annual Parampara Series — National Festival of Music and Dance organised by Natya Tarangini and Kuchipudi exponents Raja Radha Reddy and Kaushalya Reddy, will be held online this year. Pt Hariprasad Chaurasia (flute), Vidushi Kishori Amonkar (vocals), Vyjayanthimala Bali (Bharatanatyam danseuse-actor), L Subramaniam (carnatic vocalist-violinist), Vikku Vinayakram (percussionist - ghatam) — and many other maestros are part of the stellar line-up of the 24th edition of this event. Memories of their ace performances will be re-lived by some, and witnessed for the first time by others, as archives of their previous performances at this festival will be telecast on the YouTube channels of United Nations India, and Raja Radha Reddy. “Parampara Series started in 1997, to bring the best of the best. It was our attempt to show that when a master is performing, you cannot stay untouched because a master knows how to captivate the audience, which often leaves after the hall after the show, crying or in awe. That is what we are trying to bring,” says Kaushalya Reddy. Venkaiah Naidu, Vice President of India, will inaugurate this month-long event on October 27, marking the World Day for Audiovisual Heritage celebrations by United Nations. And starting October 29, every weekend there will be a live telecast of recently recorded talks/discussions and archival, legendary performances of the classical doyens. Participating artistes, too, feel the challenges posed by the pandemic, and say it’s only right for classical concerts to take the digital route. Hindustani classical instrumentalist and Grammy Award winner Padma Bhushan, Pt Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, says, “Corona has paused almost every classical arts concert in the country. And this situation is not going to normalise any time soon. So, it’s important to showcase our arts online. This way even the new generation will be able to see the artistes, who have been performing for years, and indulge in Indian classical arts.”Catch It Live What: Parampara Series Where: www.youtube.com/channel/UCaTfHH34fQgjwGZ44UZuGAQ and www.youtube.com/user/RajaRadhaReddy When: October 29 to November 22 (every weekend) Timing: 8pmAuthor tweets @HennaRakheja For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/parampara-series-goes-digital-archives-of-performances-by-maestros-will-enthral-classical-arts-aficionados/story-NG7nNOtnCcSqoLFAnC7a6M.html
