28-10-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar taunts Maharashtra Governor regarding his book||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar again targeted Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his “secular” jibe at chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray regarding the opening of temples in the state. On Wednesday, Pawar said that the coffee table book published by the Governor’s office on September 11, on completion of the first year of his five-year term has covered most of the events with photos, except the hastily-planned swearing-in ceremony for former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The NCP leader pointed out that the book also doesn’t mention his advice on secularism to Thackeray.Pawar took this dig in a letter sent to the Governor, expressing his gratitude for sending him the coffee table book titled Janrajyapal: Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The book was published by the Governor’s secretariat after Koshyari completed one year in office recently. A copy of the book was sent to various dignitaries including Pawar.“I am sincerely thankful to you for sending me the ‘self-famous’ coffee table book titled ‘Janrajyapal: Bhagat Singh Koshyari… In reality, the Constitution of India has no mention of the term ‘Janrajyapal’. Despite this, the book is being published by the state government, which throws light on your limited tenure of one year,” the letter stated.“I found out that the book has pictures from many events of your limited tenure such as reception ceremonies, convocation ceremonies, meeting with high ranking dignitaries, social and cultural programs except one or two swearing-in ceremonies,” Pawar wrote, while taunting Koshyari for the early morning swearing-in ceremony of the three-day government led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar.“Similarly, the information about your advice to the honourable chief minister of Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray) on secularism and later, honourable Union minister for home affairs’ (Amit Shah) response to it, could not be seen in the book… However, I again thank you for sending an account of your historic career,” he added.Koshyari recently stoked controversy after he wrote to the CM on October 12 about reopening places of worship in the state amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, and asked if Thackeray, who is also the president of the ruling Shiv Sena, had “suddenly turned secular”. In response, Thackeray reminded the Governor that secularism was one of the tenets of the Constitution that he (Koshyari) swore upon while taking oath as Maharashtra Governor.When asked, Shah had said that he (Governor) could have chosen better words. “I have gone through the letter. He has made a passing reference. However, I feel he should have been more restrained in his choice of words,” Shah had told a news channel.Following it, Pawar had remarked that any person, who had self-respect, would have resigned from the position of the Governor after being publicly rebuked by the Union home minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-taunts-maharashtra-governor-regarding-his-book/story-eIXaBzCK7vobXaiUH39gIN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Two men abduct businessman, rob him at knifepoint in Mumbai||Bandra police is looking out for two people who kidnapped a 35-year-old Byculla businessman at knifepoint from Bandra (West) and robbed gold ornaments and cash worth ₹1.69 lakh on Wednesday. The complainant, Naresh Haran, who runs a spare vehicle parts business in Grant Road, in his statement said that was waiting for an autorickshaw near Jarimari temple in Bandra around 4pm when the incident took place. An autorickshaw came near him and the two accused got out of the vehicle with knife in hand. They asked Haran to board the autorickshaw and directed the driver to head towards Andheri. The accused threatened to kill Haran if he did not hand over his valuables, said Bandra police officers. A police officer said, “The two took him to Andheri via Milan subway. Then they stopped the autorickshaw near an ATM and asked him to withdraw all the money from his account. The accused later dropped him somewhere in Andheri (West) and escaped.” A first information report (FIR) has been registered against the two unidentified men under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 362 (abduction), 367 (kidnapping or abducting in order to subject person to grievous hurt, slavery, etc) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Bandra police have tracked the autorickshaw which was used in the crime after scanning CCTV footage. The auto driver told the police that the accused had threatened him as well and forced him to follow their instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-men-abduct-businessman-rob-him-at-knifepoint-in-mumbai/story-eiKBJnZgpiaGIKyrZ2N9xJ.html
28-10-2020||City||Delhi University V-C’s suspension evokes mixed reactions from teachers||New Delhi: The union education ministry’s decision on Wednesday to suspend Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and order an inquiry against him for alleged misuse of power and dereliction of duties after a nod from President Ram Nath Kovind drew mixed reactions from teachers of the university’s departments and its affiliated colleges.A section of teachers said action against Tyagi was long pending, while others raised concern over the ministry’s intervention and its possible impact on the university’s autonomy. Tyagi’s tenure has been riddled with protests by the teaching community over delayed appointments, vacant posts, pending promotions and alleged administrative negligence. In December last year, thousands of DU teachers had barged into the Viceregal Lodge and later camped outside his office, demanding absorption for ad-hoc teachers. Their strike continued for more than a month. DU has more than 4,500 ad-hoc teachers who are appointed on a contractual basis for four months and absorbing them had been a longstanding demand of the teaching community.On Wednesday, the department of higher education cited these reasons to suspend Tyagi, pending a Visitorial inquiry into the allegations. Tyagi’s tenure was set to end in March and the university will initiate the process of forming a search committee for the next vice-chancellor. Rajib Ray, president of Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), said the decision came in too late. “Last year, our association had submitted a white paper to the ministry and the Visitor on the same issues listed in today’s order. We had asked for the V-C’s removal, citing a total collapse of the functioning of statutory bodies, breakdown of academic growth and research, and leaving key posts vacant. Unfortunately, the ministry’s intervention came only after the ruling dispensation was divided into two factions and was fighting against one another amid a transition of power.” Despite repeated requests, Tyagi did not comment on the matter. Executive council member Rajesh Jha, who is also a member of the teachers’ group, Academics for Action and Development, pointed out the same reasons. “This situation arose out of a sheer power struggle within the ruling establishment. Huge financial sums remained unspent due to V-C’s inaction, which must be returned. The ministry, too, hasn’t done anything to implement its own December 5 letter over the absorption of ad-hoc teachers. We demand the absorption and speedy promotions for salvaging the university,” he said. Some teachers sounded a note of caution, saying the ministry’s intervention can affect the autonomous nature of the university. Pankaj Garg, convener of the teachers’ group, INTEC, said, “While a Visitorial inquiry into the administrative lapses of the V-C during four-and-a-half years is a decision in the right direction, he could have been sent on a continuous leave pending inquiry instead of being suspended as it may set a wrong precedent for the future.” Principals across affiliated colleges had mixed reactions to offer. Requesting anonymity, a principal, who has been associated with the university for over three decades, said, “DU was sent into a tail spin, which has never been seen in its history. There have been unreasonable stands by the V-C, including the recent flurry of appointments and the intervention of ministry was warranted.” An official, who wished not to be named, said, “The question of the ministry intervention is not valid since the Visitor of the University ‒ the President of India ‒ has now ordered it and suspended the V-C. As per DU’s norms, the visitor can intervene and take a call.”Another principal of a north campus college said the manner in which the V-C was suspended was unceremonious. “The head of the institute could have been sent on a leave instead of being suspended,” the principal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-university-v-c-s-suspension-evokes-mixed-reactions-from-teachers/story-YfCvs2l0qpaEGGUc3Fc0DO.html
28-10-2020||City||Glitch in transfer permission software leaves property owners in Panchkula vexed||A snag in the transfer permission software of Haryana Shaheri Vikas Pradhikaran for over a month has left Panchkula residents wishing to transfer a part of their property at their wits’ end.Several e-mails and letters written to Pankaj Yadav, chief administrator, HSVP, Panchkula, and Sanjay Kumar Sharma, chief information technology officer (CITO), HSVP, have gone in vain.On September 22, SC Kalka, a Panchkula-based senior citizen, had written a similar letter to Yadav, highlighting the issue.In his correspondence, Kalra stated that him, his wife and daughter-in-law jointly owned a plot in Sector 10. He wrote that he wished to transfer his share to his daughter-in-law and the transfer permission for this was accorded by the estate officer.But while getting the transfer deed executed, the tehsil officer informed him that their software will only accept stamp papers for the entire property and not just his share.He wrote that he had already made several requests to the HSVP CITO for making necessary amendments to the transfer permission software to aid execution of the transfer deed.Similarly, Hemant Kinger, another resident said, “My relative wishes to register the second floor of a building. The software is picking collector rate of all three floors, increasing the registry rate.”For the past three days, I am regularly going to the deputy commissioner’s office, but got no respite, he added.Tehsildar Punyadeep Sharma said, “We have written to the IT Cell of HSVP and hopefully the issue will be solved by next week.”Sharma said the problem started after different software of the development authority and other departments were merged, but it was being rectified.Despite repeated text messages, calls and e-mails, neither Pankaj Yadav nor Sanjay Kumar reverted with their comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glitch-in-transfer-permission-software-leaves-property-owners-in-panchkula-vexed/story-VLK0xYTkmAKosF93HpG8yN.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Mayors meet L-G, demand clearing of dues by Delhi govt||Mayors from the three municipal corporations of Delhi — led by Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and other BJP MLAs —on Wednesday met lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal over the alleged non-payment of dues by the state government to the corporations. The delegation submitted a memorandum to the L-G and sought his intervention on the issue of the payment of Rs 13,000 crore that the government allegedly owes to the civic bodies.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, south corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh and east corporation mayor Nirmal Jain were part of the delegation that met the L-G.Bidhuri said that MLAs and mayors had requested Baijal to look into the matter of payment of dues, including Rs 10,000 crore property tax, from the Delhi government.“We have requested the L-G to direct the Delhi government to immediately pay corporations their Rs 13,000 crore dues and Rs 10,000 that they owe in property tax. The rigid behaviour of the Delhi government towards non-payment of dues is adversely affecting salary disbursal of civic employees,” Bidhuri said.Jai Prakash, mayor of north corporation, said the BJP delegation sought the intervention of the L-G in solving the financial crisis as funds were being withheld by the Delhi government.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday alleged “corruption and mismanagement” in the BJP-ruled municipal corporations. Kejriwal had also claimed that his government had been paying 3-4 times more funds to the three municipal corporations since 2015, as compared to previous regimes in Delhi.Teachers and doctors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have been protesting against non-payment of their salaries for the last 3-4 months. The north civic body, however, on Tuesday claimed to have paid salaries of doctors up to September 2020 and salaries of sanitation employees and domestic breeding checkers up to August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-meet-l-g-demand-clearing-of-dues-by-delhi-govt/story-0BYVGdI3qs5qF1THEeb5qI.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Doctors of North Corp hospitals call off strike||Doctors of North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals who have been agitating for the last several days over their pending salaries called off their stir on Wednesday, officials said.While five resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital had been sitting on a relay hunger strike since Friday, senior doctors of the North Corporation-run facilities had gone on an indefinite strike on Tuesday. Their associations had joined hands in solidarity since Tuesday.“The strike by agitating doctors was called off as North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash offered juice to the medics on hunger strike. Salaries of all doctors have been released, till September,” the NDMC said in a statement.Senior doctors belonging to the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association (MCDA) had gone on casual leave en masse over their pending salaries on Monday and begun an indefinite strike on Tuesday.On Wednesday, the strike continued in day time despite appeals from north Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash to return to work as patient services were getting affected.Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association general secretary Maruti Sinha also confirmed that the strike has been called off.The members of the Resident Doctors’ Association of the 900-bed hospital have been protesting for the past several days and had gone on an indefinite strike, seeking release of salaries due for the past three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-of-north-corp-hospitals-call-off-strike/story-yyvOzYqrS805IRqDKCjc7H.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Promote decisions of MVA government, start enrolment drive in Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray to Shiv Sena leaders||With the first anniversary of the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government a month away, party chief and Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray directed the Sena’s district presidents to carry forward the decisions taken by MVA government to the people. Thackeray, who held a meeting with district chiefs of the party late on Tuesday evening via video-conference, also directed them to carry out a drive to enrol a minimum of 30,000 new party members in each of the 288 assembly seats.State environment and tourism minister and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray, in a tweet, said, “Like every month, last night Shiv Sena chief, and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray interacted with Shiv Sena district chiefs. He directed them to tackle Covid issue, give support to farmers, and take the public service done by the Maha Vikas Aghadi to every citizen.”A senior party functionary said that Thackeray, in his address to district heads, stressed on promoting the work done by the government, including loan waivers, tackling of the Covid-19 outbreak, and the recently-announced crop compensation. “A large period of the first year has gone into [handling] the pandemic, but there were several decisions taken for the people, including loan waiver, etc. Uddhav ji has asked us to spread it [information] in our district. He asked us to help out farmers for spot assessments and to avail the compensations,” the functionary said.A district functionary of the party from north Maharashtra said that the party will start campaigns to spread the word on the MVA government’s decisions. “There has been such a negative campaign by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since the government was formed, then coronavirus [pandemic] started. We will inform people in our districts of the work done by the government. There will be a publicity exercise around the first anniversary; we will put up hoardings, distribute flyers, etc,” he said.In a bid to expand the base of the party, the Sena chief has directed all leaders to start enrolment drives. The senior party functionary added that a target of minimum 30,000 new members has been set for each assembly seat. “The idea is to form a critical base in the district, which, over a period of time can translate into votes for the party. The exercise will help the party strengthen in regions it is strong, and also build on regions where traditionally it has been weak, for instance, Vidarbha,” the functionary said.A Sena district head from western Maharashtra said, “Currently, we cannot have enrolment drives in the traditional format with a pandal, etc, due to Covid-19. However, we will start a door-to-door campaign keeping Covid-19 precautions or distribute forms in a targeted manner. We are looking at 6,000-7,000 families to register in every constituency.”Reacting to Thackeray’s appeal to Shiv Sena district leaders, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said there is no need to draw any other conclusion from the statement as all have the right to strengthen their own parties. “Everyone has the right to strengthen its own party. I have been hearing the statement on waving Shiv Sena’s saffron flag on its own since last 30 years. There is no need to draw any other conclusion,” Pawar told reporters in Nashik.He said that the decision on making an alliance for local bodies will have to be taken by Thackeray, Balasaheb Thorat, state Congress chief and Jayant Patil, state NCP chief. However, the attempts to keep BJP at bay have given good results so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/promote-decisions-of-mva-government-start-enrolment-drive-in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-to-shiv-sena-leaders/story-yudWXU3UMeJl5mfYkFO0WJ.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Man sells his car, only to steal it using duplicate keys||Noida: A 28-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly selling his used car on an e-commerce site and then stealing the vehicle using its duplicate key from the buyer. The suspect, Manottam Tyagi who is a native of Amroha, had also fixed a GPS device in the vehicle to trace its movement, the police said, adding that Tyagi had cheated at least seven people using the same modus operandi in the past two years. Prabhat Dixit, station house officer, Sector 24 police station, said that on March 3 this year, a person named Jite Yadav had filed a complaint of vehicle theft. Yadav said he wanted to buy a used car and he found an advertisement on a website. “I contacted the seller and fixed a deal for Maruti Swift VXI for Rs 2.60 lakh. The suspect reached Mamura in Sector 66 and handed over the car. However, he withheld the vehicle’s original registration papers and one key,” Yadav had said in the FIR. According to the police, the suspect had told the victim that the original papers and the second key would be delivered later. Dixit said that Yadav paid Rs 2.10 lakh and said Rs 50,000 will be paid once the papers and key are delivered. Next day, Yadav had parked the car outside his office in Sector 12 when it was stolen. The SHO said that police received information about movement of the suspect near Greater Noida West. “A police team reached the spot and signalled the suspect to stop for checking. The police found that his vehicle had a doctored number plate. The suspect was arrested when he confessed to have stolen the vehicle,” he said. During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he had fixed a GPS device in the vehicle. “I had traced the vehicle using GPS and then stole it after selling to Yadav,” Tyagi told the police. The police have recovered the stolen car, two mobile phones, three fake Aadhar cards, three PAN cards and Rs 10,720 in cash from his possession. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-sells-his-car-only-to-steal-it-using-duplicate-keys/story-HybngAxZ7LY8CjjV5bsysL.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: 10-year-old girl gang-raped by two minors||Ghaziabad: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped on Tuesday night by two minor boys of her neighbourhood in a locality under the Bhojpur police station area near Modinagar. The police said that the two boys, aged 13 years and 16 years, were caught red-handed by locals and handed over to the police. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.30pm when the victim was returning from her aunt’s house which is located barely 100 metres from her house.On the basis of a complaint by the girl’s family, the police have registered an FIR under Section 376d (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code and also levied provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “While she was returning around 8.30pm, two boys of her neighbourhood accosted her and took her to a nearby vacant house and gang-raped her. During the incident, the girl shouted for help and locals arrived. They nabbed the two boys and handed over to the police. We have received a police complaint in this regard and registered an FIR,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The police said that the boys were known to the girl’s family. “The two were taken in custody on the same night. The girl was sent for medical examination while her statements will also be recorded before a magistrate,” Jadaun added. In the FIR, the girl’s father said that the two suspects gagged his daughter’s mouth while she was returning from her aunt’s house and took her to a room in a vacant house nearby. When locals arrived for help, the boys were in semi-naked condition while the girl was crying for help, said the FIR. In his police complaint, the girl’s father also gave the names of the two suspects. The police said that the room where the incident took place was adjacent to the girl’s house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-10-year-old-girl-gang-raped-by-two-minors/story-u2WyeYU1jCi3UogVRyGGMI.html
28-10-2020||City||Civic funds issue: AAP says BJP trying to defame Kejriwal||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of defaming chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Delhi government over the non-payment of salaries to civic body employees despite having sufficient funds to disburse their paychecks.Senior AAP leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak demanded an apology from the BJP leadership for the inconvenience caused to people due to the strike by municipal doctors and staff over the non-payment of salaries. Pathak also congratulated sanitation workers as the south Delhi municipal corporation withdrew its proposal to privatise sanitation work across Delhi after AAP workers and councillors staged a protest against the move. “For many months, doctors, sanitation workers, and other staff of the MCD are protesting against the non-payment of salaries. And whenever the media, doctors, and nurses asked the BJP leaders the reason, the BJP mayors and leadership came back saying they do not have funds to pay their salaries. But yesterday, all the doctors and workers were paid salaries by the BJP-led MCD. If they did not have funds to pay salaries, where did this money come from?” Pathak said in a press conference on Wednesday. He said this meant the BJP was heavily conspiring to defame the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government. “They just wanted to tarnish the image of the AAP government. The BJP owes the Delhi government nearly Rs 10,000 crore, and we always said we do not owe any funds to the MCD. The AAP wants the BJP leadership to apologise to doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, teachers and other MCD staff because due to their action, the people of Delhi could not get appropriate treatment, pregnant women could not find hospitals as doctors were on strike,” he said. AAP MLA Rakhi Birla said the BJP’s proposal before SDMC’s standing committee to privatise sanitation work was rejected because of the protest staged by AAP workers and MCD councillors.“If the proposal was passed in the house today, all sanitation workers, who mostly belong to Dalit and other backward classes, would become enslaved to private companies. But AAP protested along with the sanitation workers in and outside the house at the Civic Centre. As a result, the proposal was rejected,” Birla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-funds-issue-aap-says-bjp-trying-to-defame-kejriwal/story-Q3yqTRURGjHZ91Wpbjvk7L.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees fewer than 100 Covid-19 deaths second time in 3 days||The downward trend in Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers continued on Wednesday with fewer than 100 fatalities reported for the second time in three days. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 now stands at 43,554, with 91 reported on Wednesday. Of these, 31 were from Mumbai; 10 were from Nagpur; seven were from Pune (2 in Pune city, 2 in rural Pune, and 3 in Pimpri-Chinchwad); and 6 were from Nashik. October’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 2.53%, compared to 2.04% reported in September.There were 6,738 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, pushing Maharashtra’s tally to 1,660,766 of which 129,746 are active cases. The most active cases are in Pune (24,033). With fewer reported cases this month, the daily testing average is 70,846 in October compared to 88,209 in September. In the last 24 hours, 68,846 tests were conducted and the positivity rate is 9.81%. The positivity rate for October is 14.2%.Maharashtra’s chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “Though there is significant drop in cases, it should not lead to complacency. We are doing our best to bring the CFR down. The number of tests is in accordance with the infection and done as per requirement.”In the last 24 hours, Mumbai (1,354 new cases) and Pune (rural) (313 new cases) were again among the highest contributors of Covid-19 cases in the state. Mumbai’s Covid tally now stands at 2,54,240. Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 284 and 190 new cases on Wednesday, respectively. Nagpur reported 366 cases, while Satara, Solapur and Sangli added 269, 250 and 228 cases respectively. Mumbai Metropolitan Region accounted for 37% (2,502 new cases) of Maharashtra’s daily caseload and 42% (39 new deaths) of the Covid toll. “There is significant drop in the caseload and we expect both CFR and positivity rate to fall below 1% and 10% in the near future,” said an official from the health department.Overall, Maharashtra’s CFR is 2.62%, compared to the national rate of 1.5%. The state’s positivity rate is 18.94%, after recording a significant dip over the past few weeks. The health department official admitted that the state machinery may be relaxing its vigilance with the declining number of new cases. “The tracing of contacts is poor in many districts, including Mumbai where the death rate is high,” they said. However, the state has recorded fewer than 100 fatalities twice this week. On Monday, 84 deaths were recorded and on Wednesday, there were 91 new deaths. The last time recorded fatalities were in double digits was on June 7, when 91 deaths were recorded.Maharashtra’s doubling rate has also improved. Ulhasnagar’s doubling rate is 103.72 days, followed by Bhiwandi-Nizampur (103.73 days), Mumbai (75 days), Thane (77 days) and Navi Mumbai (70 days). Chandrapur in Vidarbha has the lowest doubling rate in the state (39 days), according to the daily report released by a group headed by Neeraj Hatekar from the economics department of Mumbai University.With 8,430 recoveries reported on Wednesday, the tally of the discharged patients is 1,486,926, bringing the recovery rate to 89.53%. There are 2,528,514 people in home quarantine and 12,988 in institutional quarantine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-fewer-than-100-covid-19-deaths-second-time-in-3-days/story-uIv4fTPyEmDBY0IyRsRQLJ.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal acquitted in defamation case filed by BJP MP in 2016||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a criminal defamation complaint filed by BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri in the year 2016.Bidhuri, MP from South Delhi parliamentary constituency has alleged that Kejriwal had made a defamatory statement, under section 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The BJP leader alleged that Kejriwal had defamed him in an interview to a news channel.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja on Wednesday acquitted Kejriwal in the matter. The Delhi Chief Minister himself was present in the court while the judgment was passed.Bidhuri in his defamation case told the court that Kejriwal’s statements had maligned his image.He claimed that during the interview, Kejriwal had falsely said that “serious” criminal cases were pending against Bidhuri, but the Delhi Police were not taking action against him.He also claimed that no case was pending against him and added that Kejriwal had defamed him with his statement.The Delhi Chief Minister was also summoned as an accused by the court earlier under section 500 (defamation) of the IPC, and later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-acquitted-in-defamation-case-filed-by-bjp-mp-in-2016/story-lptCySkbSFbsh1Ee8ZGFlK.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Two foreign nationals arrested for cloning ATM cards, stealing ₹50 lakh||Noida: The Greater Noida police have busted a gang allegedly run by two foreign nationals involved in cloning people’s cards in ATM machines and then fraudulently withdrawing money. The suspects, Omon Benson, 30, from Nigeria and Jonson Usaro, from Kenya, allegedly fixed two cloning devices in ATMs and skimmed over 1,000 cards details and passwords, and withdrew a total of ₹50 lakh from various accounts in three months, said the police. Baljeet Singh, inspector of the Gautam Budh Nagar cyber cell, said the police had received multiple complaints of cyber fraud in recent months. The cases were registered in police stations in Ecotech III, Badalpur, Sector Beta II, Sector 24, Sector 58, areas, etc. On October 4, Arun Kumar Singh, a resident of Kasna, filed a complaint at the Sector Beta II police station alleging that someone fraudulently withdrew ₹10,000 from his bank account. “I received an SMS about the withdrawal. I had not used my debit card or cheque to withdraw money,” he said. A case was registered against unknown persons under Section 66 of the IT Act.More complaints were registered where money was fraudulently withdrawn without the account holder’s knowledge/consent. The inspector said the police team scanned CCTV footage from multiple ATM kiosks and identified two suspects who were seen tampering with the machine. Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “After rewriting the cards, the suspects used to approach unmanned ATM kiosks to withdraw money up to ₹50,000 depending upon the cards’ withdrawal limits and available balance in the bank account. They used to spend some of the money and keep some for their expenses. Police investigation shows rest of the money was sent by them to their native country Nigeria, with the help of Nigerian hawala traders operating in NCR region,” he said.“The cyber cell on Wednesday arrested two foreign nationals from their rented accommodation in Sector Omicron in Greater Noida. We recovered 96 rewritable debit cards, two card cloning modules, two laptops, seven mobile phones, two pinhole cameras, one data card, two pen drives, one memory card, and ₹10,000,” Singh said.“During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to place cloning modules in the swipe machines of ATMs and also secretly fixed the pinhole camera to capture the keyboard. Once a customer swiped the card, his/her card details would be cloned. The suspects later removed these devices from ATMs and made rewritable cards for each customer’s stolen data, and then withdrew money illegally,” he said. The inspector said that the suspects had cheated about ₹50 lakh from over 1,000 people in the last six months. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-two-foreign-nationals-arrested-for-cloning-atm-cards-stealing-50-lakh/story-dH6aPUDy6l0HJKJlXPUjuM.html
28-10-2020||City||20 illegal guns seized from smuggler in Delhi||New Delhi: Police on Wednesday said they have recovered 20 illegal pistols from two members on an interstate syndicate that procured illegally manufactured firearms from Madhya Pradesh and supplied them to criminals in Delhi-NCR and Western Uttar Pradesh (UP).The arrested gunrunners identified as Mohammad Adil, 24, and Mohammad Zuber, 34, from Palwal in Haryana were involved in the illegal trade for nearly six years. They transported consignments of firearms from Madhya Pradesh by concealing them in special cavities created in Adil’s truck in which he carried vegetables.They have supplied more than 400 pistols to criminals in Delhi-NCR in the last four years, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said.“The duo purchased one semi-automatic pistol for R10,000 and sold it for R25,000 to their clients,” the DCP said. According to the DCP, the special cell team had recently received information that Mohammad Adil would be bringing illegal firearms in a vegetable truck at the Okhla wholesale market in the early hours of October 27.“We learnt Adil would hand over the consignment of firearms to Zuber. The police lay in wait at Captain Gaur Marg and the two were caught while the parcel was being handed over to Zuber. 20 pistols were recovered from them,” Kushwah said, adding, “Both of them have been booked under the newly amended Arms Act Section 25(8) in which there is a provision of a minimum sentence of 10 years.”Adil said he used to procure illegal firearms from an unauthorised manufacturer in Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-illegal-guns-seized-from-smuggler-in-delhi/story-Qp51Pkl7tGntLvnRI80TjL.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Undertrial rape suspect dies in Luksar jail||Noida: A 31-year-old under-trial rape suspect died following a bout of chest pain in Luksar jail in Greater Noida on Wednesday morning. The suspect, who was from Meerut, was rushed to Noida’s district hospital, where he was declared brought dead.Satya Prakash, jailer, Luksar, said that the man used to live in a rented accommodation with his wife in Noida. “The Sector 24 police had arrested him on June 24, 2020 on a complaint of rape filed by his wife. He was arrested and sent to jail. He was an under-trial prisoner in the rape case,” he said.Prakash said that in the morning, the man had complained of severe chest pain. “We arranged for an ambulance and rushed him to the district hospital at 8am. However, he was declared brought dead at the hospital,” he said.The man’s name is being withheld as it may lead to identifying the rape victim.“The body has been sent for a post-mortem and the medical report is awaited. We have informed his family about the incident. We will also recommend the administration order a magisterial probe into the matter,” he said. The Luksar jail, spread across 90 acres, was opened in April 2014. The jail has 55 women inmates and 2,800 men inmates, and around 100 barracks equipped with CCTV cameras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/undertrial-rape-suspect-dies-in-luksar-jail/story-9nk5mSYf0beFkxTO9XrFjI.html
28-10-2020||City||Mob damages vehicles after man objects to harassment of his sister in Delhi’s Mangolpuri||New Delhi: A group of 14-15 went on a rampage and damaged over a dozen vehicles in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri on Monday, hours after a man reprimanded one of them for sexually harassing his sister at a roadside eatery, police said. Armed with sticks, the group went to the house of the man and when they couldn’t find him, they started damaging vehicles in the area. The smashed glasses of at least six cars and pushed five two-wheelers to the ground, damaging them. After the CCTV footage of the incident was posted on the social media, the police arrested two men and apprehended two minors on a complaint by the woman. Later, a case of molestation, rioting and attempt to commit culpable homicide was registered at the Mangolpuri police station, said additional deputy commissioner of police (outer) Sudhanshu Dhama.In the video footage, a group of people (all male) could be seen walking on the streets of Mangolapuri with sticks in their hands and damaging vehicles including bikes and cars.According to the additional DCP, the woman was initially reluctant to file her complaint. “But we counselled her and assured that strict legal action would be taken against the culprits. She filed her complaint and we registered a case. Four suspects were apprehended while efforts are on to nab others,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mob-damages-vehicles-after-man-objects-to-harassment-of-his-sister-in-delhi-s-mangolpuri/story-q0oNPCV3ghwa9jpGVfHKGN.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Garbage dumping, burning rampant, say Noida residents||Noida: Even as pollution levels spike and environment agencies press for curbs on emission sources, waste burning continues unabated at different places in the city.According to residents, waste dumping and burning is a persistent issue for which they have approached officials of the Noida Authority as well as the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) in the past. While the air quality index (AQI) oscillates between 300 and 400 in the ‘very poor’ category in the region, instances of waste burning have come to light from different residential areas including sectors 123, 51 and 54. “Truck-loads of solid waste are often dumped near our residential apartment complex at night and the same is often set afire. The last time was three days back and the waste also included garbage from drains, apart from horticulture and solid waste. Thick smoke from the fires enters our apartments and causes discomfort,” says Dinesh Singh, an activist and a resident of a highrise in Sector 121, Noida.He added that despite complaints, garbage dumping continues and that anyone can set it afire. “Several instances of burning have been noticed in the past 10-12 days. The issue is that the dumping still continues unabated,” added Singh.The residents of Sector 51 also said that horticulture waste was being burned near their complex. “Dry waste burning in parks is a major issue. We have also registered a complaint on Tuesday. Some days back, a huge pile of dry waste and tree trimmings were set afire in a nearby park and the smoke kept rising for days. We have been also writing to the UPPCB over the same. However the question is why is dry waste being dumped in parks, where any miscreant can set it afire. There should be separate places to dump them,” said Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, resident welfare association (RWA) Sector 51. He added that several blocks of the sector are affected due to the smoke as it covers the area and given the weather conditions, with negligible wind speed during night hours, it does not disperse so easily.Meanwhile, the UPPCB said that it has recommended to the Noida authority to manage the waste and act against miscreants. “We have inspected the site and asked concerned officials to take action against those responsible. Waste should not be dumped at road sides but it is mostly miscreants who set it afire. Some of the garbage burning instances were not of that big a scale, but even so, concerned officials have been alerted,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.Officials of the Noida authority did not respond to repeated calls and text messages till the time this copy went to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/garbage-dumping-burning-rampant-say-noida-residents/story-vY0D2w8yHjXkKvg13SvrYO.html
28-10-2020||City||16-year-old US citizen falls off 17th floor in Kalyan near Mumbai||A 16-year-old boy fell down from the 17th floor of a high-rise in Khadakpada, Kalyan. Khadakpada police registered an accidental death report and are investigating the matter to check if there is any foul play involved. The police said the incident took place around 5.45pm on Wednesday at the plush housing complex. The 16-year-old boy, a United States national, came to Kalyan before the lockdown and got stuck here in view of the pandemic. His father works in the IT sector in the US. The victim, who finished his schooling in the US, also took admission to a first-year junior college (FJYC) in Kalyan. Ashok Pawar, senior inspector, Khadakpada police station, confirmed that an accidental death report been filed and investigation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-year-old-us-citizen-falls-off-17th-floor-in-kalyan-near-mumbai/story-Qz6Z6GuJ1I4W7UJfMWCNrJ.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Noida: 33% in an online survey says rules are not effectively implemented to contain air pollution||Only a quarter of respondents from Noida believe the district administration was effectively implementing the graded response action plan (Grap) aimed at mitigating air pollution, according to survey of 1,362 people by website LocalCircles.The Supreme Court appointed Environmental pollution (prevention and control) authority [Epca] had drawn up Grap with a number of measures. For the purpose of the survey, the website focussed on four measures -- ban on diesel generator sets, dust control measures at construction sites, ban on garbage burning and mechanised cleaning of roads. According to the survey, of the 75% who believe that Grap was not being fully implemented, a third do not believe that any of the four measures were being effectively enforced, 9% said only two measures were followed and 8% believed that three measures were enforced. The survey was conducted between October 15 and 25 and also sought to know whether they supported the ban on sale of firecrackers.“Only 13% (of 1,416 respondents from Noida) supported the sale of crackers,” said Sachin Taparia chief executive officer of LocalCircles. “While 25% supported the complete ban, 62% said green crackers could be sold.”The so-called green firecrackers are claimed to reduce pollutants by upto 30%. Last year, Delhi-NCR was supposed to sell only these crackers. However, by midnight on the night of Diwali, the concentration of PM2.5 pollutants – the most harmful of all aerosols -- shut up almost 16 times.Dr CV Singh former senior scientist of Haryana state pollution control board and chairman of Doaba Paryavaran Samiti said, “We are failing to mitigate air pollution from Delhi-NCR because the authorities are yet to strictly implement the Grap. Water is not being sprinkled onto roads to keep the dust in check properly, loose soil is yet to covered with grass on footpaths, traffic congestion is not being addressed and burning of solid waste is rampant, hot mix plants are functional among other violations are common causing air pollution.”The Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said, “We are strictly enforcing the provisions to contain air pollution and imposing penalty for violations. Whosoever is found violating the rules is facing punishment as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-33-in-an-online-survey-says-rules-are-not-effectively-implemented-to-contain-air-pollution/story-L2IF6tCNKdTIztzfiLs5qO.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad’s air is health hazard for most days of the current year||For most of this year, Ghaziabad residents have been inhaling particulate matter over and above the prescribed safe limits, according to records from the central pollution control board (CPCB).HT accessed the CPCB records for the 301-day period from January 1 to October 27 and analysed the number of days the city exceeded the safe limits for coarse particulate matter (PM10, that has diameter of less than 10 microns) and ultra fine particulate matter (PM2.5, diameter less than 2.5 microns). According to the CPCB, the standard limit for PM10 is 100 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) while the limit for PM2.5 is 60μg/m³, which are in any case much higher than the World Health Organization (WHO) limits of 20 μg/m³ and 10μg/m³, respectively. CPCB has four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad -- Indirapuram, Loni, Sanjay Nagar and Vasundhara. The Indirapuram station recorded 181 days when PM10 safe limits were exceeded, and 120 days when PM2.5 levels were crossed. This affected prime locality of Indirapuram and nearby residential areas of Makanpur, Kanwani etc. Likewise, the Vasundhara monitoring station (which caters to localities of Vasundhara, Vaishali, Kaushambi etc) had high PM10 levels on 191 days, while PM2.5 levels were off on 146 days. Loni was the worst of the four locations with 234 days of high PM10 levels and 156 days for PM2.5. Sanjay Nagar station caters to prime localities of Raj Nagar, Sanjay Nagar and Kavi Nagar saw PM10 levels beyond limits on 194 days while PM2.5 levels were beyond limits on 139 days. “Ghaziabad agencies have no plan to tackle pollution. Constant high levels of PM10 and PM2.5 cause severe health issues for residents and they continue to suffer silently day by day. It is only when winter arrives, officials huddle together to should show some activity and that too due to pressure of CPCB and Supreme Court appointed Environment(Pollution and Control) Authority,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. “We hardly see any activity during the major part of year other than winters when Grap is implemented. Construction works, garbage burning and vehicle emission besides industrial emission take heavy toll of environment and even the health of children, senior citizens are at risk,” said Kuldeep Saxena, coordinator of Confederation of trans-Hindon RWAs which is also contesting a case at the National Green Tribunal for shifting out of landfill site from Indirapuram. Authorities, meanwhile, say they are doing their best.“There has to be zero tolerance towards the pollution and there has to be coordinated efforts of the different cities in the Delhi-NCR region rather than cities trying to tackle pollution on their own. While keeping this in mind, we have recently written to the authorities in Delhi to work jointly to tackle e-waste issues in Loni,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad district is one of the 16 districts in the state of Uttar Pradesh which are listed as non-attainment cities in terms of having high levels of pollution. In June last year, the UPPCB has chalked out separate comprehensive action plans for the non-attainment cities including Ghaziabad. “We are taking up different measures listed under the plan. The district is located under the Indo-Gangetic plains and affected by loose soil. Besides, there is growing vehicle base and construction activities which compound pollution issues. On our part, we have ensured that industrial units are operating only when they install air pollution control systems and new ones are given consent to operate only when they have installed the systems,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The medical experts said that prolonged exposure to higher PM10 and PM2.5 levels has formed a vicious cycle which is affecting health of residents especially children and also decreasing their immunity levels in long run. “What we have observed during past 4-5 years that residents have become used to live in such conditions without knowing how much the high pollution levels is affecting them. Prolonged exposure causes respiratory illness, allergies, besides affecting lungs and also proving carcinogenic. We have patients in form of children who are getting affected with asthma and allergies and the numbers increase every year,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-s-air-is-health-hazard-for-most-days-of-the-current-year/story-eaujCdHrDpUbQPBaVZbkEP.html
28-10-2020||City||Tattoo artist dies by suicide in Kotla||New Delhi: A 35-year-old tattoo artist allegedly died by suicide by hanging himself at his home in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur late Tuesday night, police said.The man, who ran his business from a rented shop in South Extension Part-1, left behind a suicide note in his laptop, blaming his landlord for his step, police said. According to the police, the man was in a dispute with the landlord for more than a year over the payment of rent. The landlord had moved court against him. The hearing of the case was scheduled on Wednesday, a few hours after the tattoo artist’s body was found hanging in his room by his family members, the police said.“On the basis of the suicide note, we registered a case of abetment to suicide against the landlord. We will soon call the landlord to examine him,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said.Police said that the tattoo artist was unmarried and lived with his family in Kotla Mubarakpur. On Wednesday morning, his family members found him hanging and rushed him to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he was declared brought dead. The hospital authorities informed the police.A police team visited the incident scene and found a suicide note in his laptop. “The note mentioned his landlord’s name as the reason behind his death and their dispute over the payment of nearly R15 lakh as rent. There is no mention of any intimidation or physical torture in the note,” said a police officer associated with the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tattoo-artist-dies-by-suicide-in-kotla/story-wRbmKIv3cvnCBG8woOzEOK.html
28-10-2020||City||Bike-borne men pump 3 bullets into 35-year-old man; critical||Three motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly shot at a Sekhewal resident from close range and assaulted him with sharp-edged weapons near Jalandhar Bypass on late Tuesday night. The victim, identified as Monu, 35, suffered three bullet injuries. He is currently undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. In his statement, the victim said that he had passed on some information to the police a few days ago, because of which the miscreants had targeted him.He said that he was passing from the grain market late at night when the miscreants intercepted him and opened fire. Monu said that before fleeing, the accused told him that they wanted to teach him a lesson for passing on information to the police. Salem Tabri station house officer, inspector Gopal Krishan said that preliminary investigations revealed that the accused knew Monu. It has also come to the fore that Monu was facing trial in several cases, including snatchings, robbery and drug peddling. He was also wanted by the Daresi police in a loot case.The SHO added that Monu is changing his statements continuously, which is also suspicious. Meanwhile, a case under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered against unidentified persons. Police are checking closed-circuit television cameras in the area for more clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bike-borne-men-pump-3-bullets-into-35-year-old-man-critical/story-Gs97qjvIpxs0EsVuBWLZUP.html
28-10-2020||City||Sisodia meets family of murdered man in northwest Delhi||New Delhi: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday met the family members of 29-year-old Sushil Chand, who was killed while his two brothers were injured, after being stabbed by six members of a family living in their neighbourhood, in northwest Delhi’s Sarai Pipal Thala following an altercation over playing loud music on Tuesday. While speaking to the media persons, Sisodia called Chand’s death a case of “brutal murder” and said that he has assured assistance to the bereaved family in getting justice. “I met with Sushil’s (read Chand) family members. They are shattered as they have lost their young kin. I will speak to senior police officers so that the two absconding suspects are caught soon. The government will also ensure that best legal assistance is provided to the family so that the culprits get strictest possible punishment as per law for committing the murder. I will also speak to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal so that possible aid is provided to the poor family,” said Sisodia. On Tuesday around 3 pm, a fight broke out between Chand’s family members and six members of the other family belonging to different community over “playing loud music”, the police had said on Tuesday. Chand and his two brothers -- Sunil and Anil -- were stabbed multiple times with knives. While Chand succumbed to his injuries, the other two brothers survived with injuries, the police said.“Four alleged attackers - a couple and their two sons, were arrested on Tuesday itself while two are still on the run. Our teams are looking for them. They will be caught soon,” said joint commissioner of police (northern range) SS Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-meets-family-of-murdered-man-in-northwest-delhi/story-aqDpWa31gpL0FsHW81iAfK.html
28-10-2020||City||JNU students served notices, asked to vacate north gate||New Delhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University issued notices to members of the JNU students’ union (JNUSU) over “illegal occupation of the road inside the University North Gate”, eliciting a strong response from the association after one of the notices was issued to a hospitalised student on Wednesday. Since October 17, JNUSU leaders and students are camped at the north gate as a part of an indefinite round-the-clock sit-in to demand phased entry of all research scholars and restart normal academic functioning while following Covid-19 protocols. A small area inside the campus has been barricaded by the students. On Monday, the university issued notices to JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh, general secretary Satish Chandra Yadav, and joint secretary Mohammad Danish. Stating that the “illegal occupation” was “causing inconvenience to residents”, the administration on Wednesday asked the students to clear the blockade failing which “strict disciplinary action” would be initiated against them. The students’ outfit, meanwhile, said that it would continue with the protest. “In the most shameful turn of events, a Cyclops security guard was sent to Safdarjung Hospital to serve the threatening notice to (JNUSU joint secretary) Danish who is admitted there on account of dengue and is being administered blood even as we speak,” JNUSU said in a statement. The notice issued by the chief proctor said that as per the report submitted by JNU’s security department, “there is prima facie evidence that Mohammad Danish, along with a group of other students, have blocked the road, erected a tent, and drawn electric connection from the control room of JNU security to the tent.” The administration, however, said the student himself had said that the notice could be delivered to him at the hospital. “The administration had not given any instruction to hand over the notices in a hospital because the administration did not even know he was hospitalised. Security officials, who were given the responsibility to hand over the notices, said they had called the said student and the student himself said that he was in the hospital and the notice could be served to him there,” said a senior JNU official, requesting anonymity. While the university had announced a phase-wise return for final-year PhD scholars of science subjects, JNUSU said it was not enough. “The October 21 circular does not address the issue of submitting research scholars, creates a false binary between science and humanities/social science and is a ploy to suspend entry of students for an indefinite period,” they said in a statement on Wednesday. The notice comes on the anniversary of the fee hike protests that had rocked the university last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-students-served-notices-asked-to-vacate-north-gate/story-Cmx2ULNShy05ZlGaHQy61H.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality improves, though still in very poor category||Meteorological conditions a day earlier helped improve the air of Noida and Ghaziabad on Wednesday, but Greater Noida’s dipped. Noida breathed the cleanest air since the past week for a while but as the wind speed dropped, the quality dropped again. According to the weather analysts, it’s only between October 30 and November 1 that the wind speed will rise again thereby improving the air quality. “The wind speed on Wednesday was low and around 6 to 8 kilometre per hour (kmph), however on Tuesday it was moderate at a speed of 18 to 20 kmph that had its effect today as well. This is the major reason that the air quality improved on Wednesday as well because the pollutants were dispersed. However, as the wind speed is set to drop, the pollutants may aggregate again,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the data from Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 301 against 320 a day earlier and 376 before that. The AQI for Greater Noida also saw improvement from 332 a day earlier to 324 on Wednesday. The AQI of Ghaziabad however dropped from 306 a day earlier to 317 on Wednesday. “The improvement is remarkable however it’s due to the meteorological conditions a day earlier. The wind speed helped with the dispersion of pollutant both PM2.5 and PM10,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air pollution, centre for science and environment (CSE). The average PM2.5 of Noida dropped from 166.88 microgrammes per cubic metres on Tuesday to 148.64 units. The PM10 concentration of Noida also dropped from 314.30 units on Tuesday to 327.38 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 of Greater Noida saw improvement from 172.51 units day earlier to 160.23 units on Wednesday, while the PM10 values dropped from 364.665 units to 353.37 units on Wednesday. The standard limit for PM2.5 is 40 units while that of PM10 is 60 units respectively. Meanwhile, the officials of UPPCB said that they are actively monitoring the instance of violations and imposing penalty. “In past three days we have recommended environment compensation worth Rs. 5 lakh each on two builders holding construction work at sector 76 and sector 150. There were violations including uncovered building material. Another compensation was imposed on a contractor doing underpass work at sector 152 for not taking appropriate dust control measures,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-improves-though-still-in-very-poor-category/story-HGhvrRmx8FsaBh5pNyXTbI.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Opening of ISBTs in Delhi to decongest Kaushambi||With Delhi planning to re-open its inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) soon, over seven months after they were shut due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the UP State Road Transport Corporation’s (UPSRTC’s) Kaushambi ISBT is likely to get de-congested.The UPSRTC operated about 1500 buses from the three Delhi ISBTs but was now forced to shift operations to Kaushambi, where it usually operated 600 buses, after the Delhi government decided against re-opening them. While the Kaushambi was also shut initially during the lockdown, it re-opened to ferry migrant labourers leaving the cities back to their homes in other districts of Uttar Pradesh.On Monday, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said they would re-open ISBTs at Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar before Diwali that falls on November 14.“Since the three ISBTs were shut, we curtailed our operations. Of the 1500 buses, we shifted 800 to Kaushambi. Of the 800, most run on diesel,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC. Diesel is considered to be a polluting fuel as it burns inefficiently.The ISBT at Kaushambi for long has been under scanner of residents of adjacent Kaushambi township who say that it is one of the major pollution sources in the area.“Since the ISBTs in Delhi were shut there was surge in buses operating from Kaushambi. They parked on roadside and their movement generated a lot of dust, besides their constant honking was a constant irritant. Apart from these, there are about 200-300 unauthorised buses which also operate from near a mall. So, all these buses combined have led to rise in different pollution sources for our residents,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments residents’ welfare association (KARWA).“There is hardly any enforcement against the private buses. Since, Delhi has announced that ISBTs will be opening before Diwali, we will send our buses to three ISBTs and this will give much needed relief to our terminal. The 600 odd buses which we operate routinely from Kaushambi are presently taking up only single departure in a day due to lesser availability of passengers,” Singh said.He added that the diesel buses are in process of conversion to CNG while presently operating buses were using BS-VI type fuel and no pressure horns are used by UPSRTC buses.Combined, the two ISBTs of Anand Vihar and Kaushambi besides heavy traffic conditions on the Delhi’s ring road adds major contribution to air pollution in the Kaushambi area.“The conditions at ISBT Kaushambi are among several factors which add a major contribution to air pollution. Depending on wind directions, its pollution also affects monitoring stations at Indirapuram and Vasundhara and also the other one at Anand Vihar in Delhi. The effect will be more as more buses are operating from here due to shutdown of ISBTs in Delhi,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP pollution control board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/opening-of-isbts-in-delhi-to-decongest-kaushambi/story-QZnmUmBLJv5TMKF9wjwobM.html
28-10-2020||City||Why this hurry? IMA on government move to collect health workers’ data for vaccination||Pune: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has slammed the government’s decision to forcefully collect details, including Aadhaar and birthdates, of health workers, even non-medical staff, from private hospitals who will be prioritised for Covid vaccination. The association said that there is something fishy given that these minute details have been forcefully sought in just two days. IMA has been at loggerheads with the government as the former claims that the government has not been on talking terms with them especially when it comes to taking any medical decision during the pandemic. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, IMA Maharashtra chapter said, “We had sent about 150 letters to the government since the pandemic struck the city but we have not got any reply. These correspondences range from issues, including insurance for private doctors, shortage of drugs and oxygen, requisition of hospital beds and capping of price.” HT had reported that the Central health ministry has asked states to prepare a list of healthcare workers from all districts in order to prioritise them for the Covid-19 vaccine, whenever made available. The list will be prepared by district collectors who have been appointed as nodal officers for the task. The ministry had said that healthcare workers to be prioritised for vaccination will include front-line workers, nurses, paramedical staff and also clerical staff. The guidelines suggested by the Central ministry states that all healthcare workers, including those from private facilities, will be prioritised. Bhondwe said, “Why do they need the Aadhaar and PAN card details of class four employees and clerical staff? I have got calls from members that they have received the letter seeking database just two hours before the said deadline. Why is there so much rush when there is no clarity on the vaccine status?” Bhondwe alleged that the government is seeking this database only to have a detailed record of the health workers who could later be harassed just like doctors have been harassed. He said, “I feel that something is fishy as to why they need so much data in such a short span of time. I have told all our members that this is a voluntary task and not a mandatory one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-this-hurry-ima-on-government-move-to-collect-health-workers-data-for-vaccination/story-zAtwX859QKpnCca64RDjwO.html
28-10-2020||Pune||BJP holds second review meeting on development projects||The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), on Wednesday, held a second review meeting of developments undertaken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) this month. The Congress party held its own review meeting last week, inviting all its senior leaders to be present to discuss various development issues. BJP MP Girish Bapat, along with party office bearers, have since met municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and discussed the 24x7 water scheme.BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik conducted the Wednesday meeting with elected members and commissioner Kumar present. Mulik said, “A total of 73 BJP members were present, along with mayor Murlidhar Mohol, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne and leader of the house, Dheeraj Ghate. The municipal commissioner and all the additional municipal commissioners were also present for the meeting.”“We instructed all the elected members to concentrate on development works along with Covid-19 situation. We instructed the municipal commissioner to concentrate on completing the Bhama Askhed water project, the 24x7 water distribution project, drainage cleaning and various flyovers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-holds-second-review-meeting-on-development-projects/story-WQVQyImw2IvymZpXRn3CUM.html
28-10-2020||City||Pune district reports 787 fresh Covid cases, 7 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: Pune district on Saturday reported 787 fresh Covid cases and 7 deaths in the past 24 hours. The district has reported 3.33 lakh Covid-19 cases till date, of which over 3 lakh have recovered, 6,639 declared dead and 24,033 are active cases. Pune city reported 284 new cases taking the total count to 171,182 and 2 deaths taking the death toll to 3,892, while PCMC reported 190 new cases taking the final count to 84,054 and 3 deaths with 1,187 as death toll. Pune rural reported 313 new cases taking the final count to 76,356 and 2 deaths taking the death toll to 1,557, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 8,430 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 14.86 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 89.53%. Also, 6,738 new cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total to over 16.60 lakh. In addition, 91 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 44,094. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.62%. Out of 8,768,879 laboratory samples, 1,660,766 have been tested positive (18.94%) for Covid until Wednesday. Currently 2,528,544 people are in home quarantine and 12,988 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-787-fresh-covid-cases-7-deaths-in-24-hours/story-bywOXZzZzEOtkaxDOGFGRJ.html
28-10-2020||Gurugram||Doctor charred to death as car catches fire near Bhondsi||A 35-year-old doctor was charred to death after his car caught fire on Sohna Road near Bhondsi on Wednesday morning, police said. Police said they have launched an investigation in the case and are yet to rule out foul play in the incident.According to investigators, the incident took place around 6.40am near Ghamroj village, when the doctor — identified as Kanwar Pal Raghav alias Sonu — was returning home from a private hospital in Sohna. Raghav was a resident of Ghamroj in Bhondsi area.Police said that Raghav had been working the night shifts at Sohna’s Krishna Hospital ever since the lockdown was announced in March this year.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they received a call at around 7am from the village sarpach informing them that a man had charred to death inside his car, even though the vehicle itself was half burnt. “A team from Bhondsi police station rushed to the spot and identified the man. Preliminary investigations revealed that there was a fault in the CNG fitting of the car, due to which the doctor jammed trapping Raghav inside when the fire started,” he said. Villagers informed the family members who in turn identified the doctor’s body, said police. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Sangwan said the body of the doctor was taken out of his Maruti Celerio car and was sent for a postmortem examination. The family members of the deceased, in their statement, told police that they last had a word with him a little after midnight and he had informed them that he would get late as he was treating a patient admitted in the emergency ward. “The calls made by the family went unanswered in the morning following which they made a call to his hospital who said the doctor left around 6 am,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/doctor-charred-to-death-as-car-catches-fire-near-bhondsi/story-r8Ljj1B3u9gUAgEpMSoWcL.html
28-10-2020||Business||Centre must spell out stand on Maratha quota, says Congress||The Congress in Maharashtra on Wednesday sought to know the “exact” stand of the Centre over reservation for Marathas in jobs and education in the state, an issue which is pending before the Supreme Court.Addressing a press conference here, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said efforts are being made to spread “lies” about the MVA government on the sensitive issue.In this context, it was pertinent to raise questions about the Centre’s role in the Maratha reservation issue, he said.The Congress is a constituent of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government and its leader Ashok Chavan, who is also a minister, heads a cabinet sub-committee on the quota issue.“We are raising questions on the Centre’s role in the Maratha reservation issue... because questions are being raised as why the central government is not taking any stand,” Sawant said.“Today, we would like to ask a question - what is the exact stand of the Narendra Modi government on this issue?” he sought to know.Sawant said BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati has written three letters, seeking a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the quota issue, but he has not got any response so far.“The BJP came to the power using the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and today they are forgetting him.It seems the Modi government is not inclined in favour of granting reservation to the the Maratha community,” the Congress spokesperson said.The apex court last month stayed the implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs, but made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits will not be disturbed.On Tuesday, the SC termed as “unfair” the submission that Maharashtra was not heard fully when it had stayed the implementation of the reservation law.After a brief hearing, a bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi listed the pleas seeking to lift the stay on the quota law for hearing after four weeks.Earlier, the Maharashtra government had filed an application, seeking vacation of the SC stay on the implementation of the Maratha quota law amidst protests by pro-reservation outfits representing the community in parts of the state over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/centre-must-spell-out-stand-on-maratha-quota-says-congress/story-kX5C8V3azsc8eXJ3DaRghI.html
28-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s air quality worsens as mercury dips||The city’s air quality continued to deteriorate on Wednesday, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 313, categorised as ‘very poor’, in the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin, which was slightly worse than Tuesday’s AQI. The city had recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 306 (‘very poor’) on Tuesday and 258 (‘poor’) on Monday. As per the CPCB’s classification, AQI reading of 201 to 300 in categorised as ‘poor’, while an AQI reading from 301 to 400 in categorised ‘very poor’ and could lead to breathlessness and respiratory illness in case of prolonged exposure.On Wednesday, two of the four air quality monitors installed in different locations of the city recorded ‘very poor’ air quality, while two recorded the quality as ‘poor’. The monitor at National Institute of Solar Energy in Gwal Pahari and Vikas Sadan recorded AQIs of 278 and 299, respectively. The TERI Gram monitor on Gurugram-Faridabad road had AQI of 324, in ‘very poor’ category. The monitor at Sector 51 recorded the worst AQI, of 375, in the city. The level of ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5) was 299 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), as per the monitor at Vikas Sadan. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3Experts said that the air quality will deteriorate further due to low wind speeds and accumulation of local pollutants. The situation is likely to improve from October 30 and will continue till November 1.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Compared to Tuesday, air quality has deteriorated in Gurugram on Wednesday. The downfall is due to wind speed, which, until Tuesday, was blowing at 15 kilometre per hour (kmph) and has now reduced to eight kmph on Wednesday. The condition is likely to remain same till October 29. The wind speed will again increase from October 30.”Due to changing weather conditions and wind speed, the mixing height — the vertical height at which suspended particles mix with the air — has come down to four kilometres. “With the dip in temperature, the air rising from the surface cannot reach a particular height for dispersal. It leads to accumulation of particulate matter at a lower height. The mixing height has come down to four kilometre now, which was earlier at eight or ten kilometres,” said Srivastava. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 14 degrees Celsius and the maximum was 31 degrees Celsius.Sachin Panwar, a city-based expert in air pollution monitoring, also reiterated that air quality in Gurugram has worsened as local pollutants are not getting dissipated in the air. “With the decline in temperature, dew in the air is holding the particulate matter. The air pollution peak starts from 2am (and lasts) till 7am and again from 9.30pm onwards, as the temperature drops. Due to heavy concretisation, which makes air cooler, the mixing height gets lower,” said Panwar. Grap ImplementationThe Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), assigned with the task of ensuring enforcement of Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to prevent air quality from deteriorating further, is focusing on imposing fines. On Wednesday, fines amounting to a total of Rs 32,800 was imposed for dust from construction and demolition activities and garbage dumping. So far, the HSPCB’s control room, set up to address complaints pertaining to polluting activities, has received only nine calls.Shakti Singh, regional officer (south Gurugram), HSPCB, and the nodal officer for Grap implementation, said, “We have forwarded the nine complaints related to garbage dumping, waste burning and dust due to unpaved roads to the agencies concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-air-quality-worsens-as-mercury-dips/story-9fm2hVsqEAnHElxPw7ykRP.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||1.4% patients suffer from Covid-19-related strokes, reveals study by doctors of a Mumbai hospital||Almost 1.4% of the Covid-19 patients, who were treated at Nanavati Hospital, Mumbai, suffered strokes while undergoing treatment. This is part of the findings of the four-month-long study on Covid-19 patients conducted by doctors at Nanavati Hospital. Ahead of World Stroke Day which is observed on October 29, doctors have stressed on the need for timely treatment of Covid-19 patients with stroke, as none of the patients at the hospital got admitted within golden hour.The doctors have conducted the study on 1,500 Covid-19 patients between May and August. Of these patients, 21 had developed strokes. For a comparative study, 21 non-Covid patients who suffered from stroke were also included in the study. Covid-19 infection has been found to lead to development of prothrombotic state, which means the blood of the patients have a tendency to thicken or become sticky which blocks blood vessels, thus hampering the blood supply to the brain. “When a blood supply of a particular part of a brain is cut off due to clotting, it causes strokes. The infection can cause clots in different parts of the brain,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital. As per the study, 66.7% of the Covid-19 patients who suffered strokes had hypertension, 33.3% had diabetes. Along with this, they also had other underlying health issues such as heart failure, coronary artery disease, asthma, chronic renal disease among others. However, city-based neurologists have suggested that Covid-related strokes can also happen without these risk factors.“Traditional risk factors for stroke are uncontrolled blood pressure and diabetes, smoking, high cholesterol, sedentary lifestyle, atrial fibrillation, etc...but studies have shown Covid-related strokes can happen without these risk factors also. Previously viruses such as influenza and herpes have been linked to heart attacks and brain strokes. However, the occurrence of stroke is more common in Covid-19 infection as per the current literature,” said Dr Sahil Kohli, consultant neurologist, Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Gurugram.According to a Lancet report named Covid-19 related stroke in young individuals, Covid-19-related strokes might also happen among younger patients without any vascular ailments. “The mean age of patients with Covid-19 who suffered strokes was 57.29 years, whereas the mean age of non-Covid patients was 60.95 years. This shows that in comparison to non-Covid patients, incidences of stroke were more common among younger patients with Covid-19 infection,” said Dr Pradyumna Oak, director and head of neurology of Nanavati Hospital and principal author of the study.Covid-19 can cause three types of strokes —haemorrhagic stroke where the blood vessel ruptures, leading to accumulation of blood in the brain; ischemic stroke where blood vessel blockage leads to brain stroke due to lack of oxygen; and cerebral venous sinus thrombosis which leads to blockage of veins in the brain, leading to brain damage.Despite the seriousness of stroke among Covid-19 patients, in the study, none of the surveyed patients reached hospitals within the golden hour. The delay in treatment resulted in the death of three of the patients while the hospital hasn’t recorded a single death of non-Covid patients with stroke.“Strokes could lead to the death of neurons in the brain, resulting in paralysis. When a person suffers from a stroke, he/she is rushed to private nursing homes which don’t even have CT scan machines, thus delaying treatment. If treatment is provided within the golden hour, the patient can be rehabilitated and saved,” said Dr Oak.The hospital is in the process of publishing the study co-authored by Dr Priyanka Prabhu and Dr Aditya Raheja in an international journal. Mumbai’s first stroke helpline:Nanavati Hospital has launched a one-of-its-kind 24-hour stroke helpline. The helpline, 8405050548, will be attended by trained neurologists who can address all queries related to signs, symptoms, detection and treatment of stroke for people at large.“For instance, if we get a call from Panvel, we will direct the patient to the nearby hospital so he/she can procure treatment immediately without wasting time,” said Dr Oak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-4-patients-suffer-from-covid-19-related-strokes-reveals-study-by-doctors-of-a-mumbai-hospital/story-O2qEggtfJFbOcIcmi0JcaJ.html
28-10-2020||Gurugram||Teams of residents to scan city for polluting activities||Civil defence teams, comprising resident volunteers, will start scanning the city from Monday for polluting activities, such as waste burning and dust pollution, and inform the civic body for necessary action.On Wednesday, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) held a meeting with the volunteers at its Sector 42 office and designated teams for checking violations of Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).“At least four teams have been formed for this task. By analysing data of our air lab, we have identified a few areas where localised pollution levels remain high. Civil defence teams would scan such areas to spot violations, such as waste burning, biomass burning, dust pollution, among others, and inform the MCG accordingly. In addition to our enforcement teams, the civil defence teams would be our eyes on the street across the city,” said Chahat Sanghvi, consultant, MCG commissioner office.During an informal meeting last week, officials of the civic body had sought permission from deputy commissioner Amit Khatri for roping in residents to check pollution and were allowed to do so. Khatri heads all civic defence teams across the city.On October 15, the MCG opened an air lab at its office in Sector 42 to monitor hourly data from 24 air quality monitors installed across the city, to spot for sudden spike in pollution levels, which may have been caused by localised polluting activities, and accordingly inform enforcement wing officials on ground to scan the area to check for violations.With enforcement wing officials having limited reach, the MCG decided to include residents in the process as well and decided on the formation of civil defence teams.MCG officials privy to the matter said the teams would visit Udyog Vihar on Monday to check for violations. Overall, the MCG has identified five areas for civil defence teams to conduct checks on priority. Officials, however, did not disclose the other four areas.Besides checking for environmental violations, the teams would also be responsible for spreading awareness in villages, construction sites and public areas, sensitising residents about polluting activities.MCG officials said that the involvement of residents would not be limited to civil defence teams solely, as they are working on a mechanism to share real-time data of all 24 air monitors with residents so that they can also spot violations in case of a sudden spike in pollution.The MCG has a toll-free number — 18001801817 — and an email address — grap@mcg.gov.in — on which residents can report Grap violations.“Civil defence teams have been successful in keeping a check on numerous activities in the city in the past. Hence, we decided to volunteer for MCG’s latest initiative. We want to help MCG in every way to reduce pollution violations. Our local knowledge will help them in a big way,” said Mohit Sharma, a resident of Sector 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teams-of-residents-to-scan-city-for-polluting-activities/story-3Ch4asIJYmmnFiN2Xw9mHO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,354 new Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths; doubling rate 139 days||Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 1,354 new Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 254,240 and toll to 10,196. At present, there are 19,357 active cases in the city. As of Tuesday, the doubling rate in the city is 139 days, recovery rate is 88%, average growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.5%. Meanwhile, case fatality rate is 4%. So far, Mumbai has conducted 1,484,306 Covid-19 tests with a positivity rate of 17.04%. Positivity percentage is the number of people testing positive against the total number of tests done. Mumbai has conducted 114,111 tests per million people. According to data available for 19,290 active cases, 69% are asymptomatic, 34% are symptomatic, and 6% are critical. There are 616 active containment zones in the city while 7,532 high-rise buildings have been sealed. So far, more than 1,422 containment zones and 42,979 sealed buildings have been de-notified. Seven wards have more than 1,000 active Covid-19 cases with the highest of 1,800 cases in R Central ward of Borivli, followed by R South ward in Borivli with 1,641 cases, the third-highest cases is seen in K West ward covering Andheri (West) with 1,493 active cases. The lowest number of active cases is in B ward in south Mumbai with only 130 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-354-new-covid-19-cases-31-deaths-doubling-rate-139-days/story-ULHY1YWXNtlTAfjTKFpTII.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Reopen Mumbai local trains for everyone: Maharashtra government writes to Railways||In what could come as a big relief for Mumbaiites, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday wrote to the Railways seeking their approval to allow all commuters to travel by local trains. The government, in a letter to the general managers of Western Railway and Central Railway, proposed time slots to allow everyone to use the suburban train services. The proposal has earmarked three time slots during the day for general commuters, while two slots are meant for essential services staff. The government has also sought a ladies special train every hour. While the Railways divisions acknowledged receiving the state’s letter and issued a joint statement saying they are “working closely with the Maharashtra government to provide additional services”, there is no clarity on when all commuters will be allowed on the local trains.Mumbai’s local trains, used by around 8 million people daily pre-Covid-19, were suspended on March 23 after the state went into a lockdown. Some services resumed on July 15, with the state allowing only essential services workers, differently abled people and cancer patients to use the trains. On October 21, the government let all women board the trains during non-peak hours. The Central Railway currently operates 706 daily services, while the Western Railway runs 704 services as against their regular of 1,774 and 1,367, respectively.The letter signed by Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department of the state, said, “The state is looking to open up local train services to the general public while ensuring adherence to following all Covid-19 protocols.” The letter further said the government has proposed the resumption of services for general public in a staggered manner. Any person with a valid ticket or pass can travel in local trains from the first service of the day up to 7:30am, then between 11am and 4:30pm, and between 8pm and till the last service of the day, said the proposal, adding that the workforce involved in essential services can continue to use train services between 8am and 10:30am and between 5pm and 7:30pm. These staffers will, however, need to have a valid QR code or identity card, and a valid ticket or pass to board the trains. The letter was sent a day after state’s relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Tuesday tweeted, “We have held discussions with various stakeholders. Mumbaikars will get relief on this very soon.” His tweet was in response to a tweet by a commuter.The state government, according to officials, wants to restrict the number of commuters during morning and evening peak hours and encourage staggered workplace timings by private establishments by allowing general commuters during non-peak hours. The state has also asked the Railways to increase the frequency of train services as if the proposed schedule gets the approval of the Railway Board, additional services would be needed to meet the demands of commuters. “Inputs on increase in train services will be given by the Railways. Feasibility for operation of ladies special train every hour needs to be checked. We will be providing details,” said a senior railway official, on condition of anonymity.“Railways have always been ready to augment/enhance suburban services keeping social distancing norms. We are working closely with State Government of Maharashtra to provide these additional services after consultation with them,” read a tweet from CR.Passenger unions, however, have expressed their opposition to the stipulated timings set by the state government. “The timings will not be feasible for all passengers. General passengers are allowed to travel after 11am. What will happen to those who go for daily work and have to reach by a particular timing?” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reopen-mumbai-local-trains-for-everyone-maharashtra-government-writes-to-railways/story-beYDNhhpzwRELApOZQJWrO.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Model Town govt school bags 3rd spot in state-level quiz contest||A state-level online quiz competition under Rashtriya Abhiskar Abhiyan (RAA) was contested on Wednesday in which Government Senior Secondary School, Model Town, Ludhiana, clinched the third position. The team received Rs 1,150 and their efforts were appreciated by school education secretary, Krishan Kumar. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, also congratulated the winners for their achievement. Bobby of Class 6, Ramandeep Kaur of Class 7 and Zainab of Class 8 competed with students from 22 districts and brought laurels. They had previously stood first at the district-level competition in the middle wing. District mentor (English) and SST, Subodh Kumar, said, “The competition was tough and questions were asked from four subjects- English, maths, science and social studies. The students had to go through two rounds in every subject.” The first position in the quiz was bagged by a team from SBS Nagar and a team from Amritsar secured the second spot. The state-level quiz for Classes 9 and 10 students will be held on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/model-town-govt-school-bags-3rd-spot-in-state-level-quiz-contest/story-VjKw8hJOYg4ZSeAE63cXWJ.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House meet set to be a noisy affair||The Chandigarh municipal corporation General House’s first physical meeting in over seven months on Thursday is set to be a tumultuous affair.Even as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to table unlisted agendas, such as a review of GPS watches for MC staffers and steep hike in water tariff, the Congress is preparing to corner it on these contentious issues as well as its alleged failure on the development front.The BJP has come under severe pressure from the opposition Congress and resident welfare associations on the threefold increase in water tariff. Protests have been staged by different resident associations against both the BJP and the MC on the issue.“This is not the right time to increase water charges,” said Arun Sood, BJP state president and a councillor, while commenting on the planned agenda. “Though charges have to be increased to cover MC’s losses, such a sharp hike wasn’t warranted.”Left out of the agenda for the October 20 meeting, revision of water tariff is said to be one of the reasons for the BJP’s sharp criticism directed at the MC commissioner and other officials in the last couple of weeks.In fact, RWAs are threatening to call protests if the hiked water charges are not rolled back. Also, the meeting comes just a couple of days after sanitation workers and garbage collectors ended their four-day strike. While the BJP is planing to confront officials on the efficacy of the GPS watches for MC staff, the Congress plans to question the introduction of watches in the first place. MC officials are not in favour of discontinuing the use of these watches that are meant to keep a track on the field staff’s attendance. The civic body pays around ₹18 lakh per month as rent for these watches.The meeting’s outcome will also decide the next course of action to be taken by the sanitation staff. The union had ended its strike on the condition that the House would decide on stopping the use of GPS watches. “Either the House should temporarily stop the use of watches till the final decision is reached or we will stop sanitation and garbage collection work,” said Om Prakash Saini, president of Chandigarh Door to Door Garbage Collectors’ Society.Cong to demand mayor’s resignationMayor Raj Bala Malik faced a major public embarrassment when 18 of 20 BJP councillors, including Arun Sood, boycotted the October 20 meeting. They had been demanding a physical meeting, but the mayor went for a virtual one.Even the party organisational secretary, Dinesh Kumar, had sided with the boycotting party councillors. Relenting under party pressure, Malik had to finally call the physical meeting.This time around, the Congress plans to demand her resignation. “The mayor has failed totally in development of the city, and even to carry her party along. We will demand her resignation. We were not even allowed to properly speak in the previous virtual meetings by the mayor and her party,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in the House.Main agendasThough not listed, review of steep water tariff hike and GPS watches for sanitation workers are likely to be prominent table agendas.In September, water charges were hiked up to 200%. RWAs and the opposition have been up in arms against it.GPS-enabled watches are mandatory for 4,000 MC workers, including sanitation staff. The workers’ salary is calculated as per their attendance, which is marked through these watches. The workers recently went on a strike against these watches, which they allege malfunction. Other agendasImposition of user charges for door-to-door garbage collectionLicence fee for parking contractor for September, October and NovemberAmendments proposed to rural building bylawsSafety measuresThermal screening of all attendeesVisitors’ entry barredTransparent shields between councillors’ seatsMedia not to be seated in the hall, but to be given access to live coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meet-set-to-be-a-noisy-affair/story-4NniU8X85EoQyPBSZSiBdP.html
28-10-2020||Gurugram||Epca exempts 19 complexes from diesel genset ban||The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) on Wednesday exempted 19 residential and commercial complexes in Gurugram and Faridabad from the ban on diesel generator sets, till November 30. The Supreme Court-appointed Epca also granted permission to Information Technology (IT) and other commercial institutions to use diesel gensets as a secondary source of power. A letter was issued by Bhure Lal, chairman, Epca, stating that in 15 cases —14 residential complexes and 1 commercial complex — Epca is granting exemption as requested by the Haryana power department and this will be applicable only for the period up to November 30. Four other complexes, including a mall in Gurugram, which are fully dependent on diesel gensets due to non-compliance of electrical inadequacies, have also been granted exemption till November 30. However, Epca is awaiting affidavits in the four instances.“We have noted that DHBVN {Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam} has assured that it will resolve the matter within 8-10 days and post interim electricity supply will be given to them by November 30 and affidavits will be filed within 8-10 days positively,” reads the letter.Trilok Chand Gupta, additional chief secretary, state power department, said, “Nineteen builders have been granted exemption till November 30. The department will ensure inadequacies are resolved.”Diesel gensets are banned under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), which came into force on October 15, to tackle air pollution from slipping to ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ category during winter months.Earlier this week, the matter was reviewed by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. As reported by HT on Monday, the Haryana power department submitted affidavits and wrote to Epca seeking exemption till November 30 for 19 complexes. On October 15, Epca asked for the affidavits with schedules for each complex, which are fully and partially dependent on diesel gensets. The detailed affidavits by the builders were submitted by the power department to Epca on Monday. As per the letter, the number of exemptions has been brought down to around 20 this year, which is a big reduction from the 209 applications filed last year.Besides, the Haryana government also asked for permission to use diesel gensets as a secondary source of power in case of disruption in process industries and IT companies. Officials of the power department said that these industries run on servers, for which uninterrupted power supply is a must.Epca granted permission for the use of diesel gensets as a secondary source, but clearly stated that this could lead to misuse as generators could easily become the primary source of power without enforcement. It has asked these industries to maintain a logbook on the use of diesel gensets.“It will be verified fortnightly or monthly by the power department. The aim of this will be to ensure that in this period, there is an improvement in the power supply that diesel gensets are not required to be used. The state power department will have to submit a report to Epca at the end of December and February,” the letter stated.The pollution control body also advised all commercial set ups to move to cleaner sources of distributed power, such as gas-based generators or solar-powered systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/epca-exempts-19-complexes-from-diesel-genset-ban/story-P4GoYlNrDgNvNmBv2kcH2O.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP leader Pankaja Munde’s praise for Pawar and Thackeray sparks political speculation in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s political circles are abuzz with speculation after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and party’s national secretary Pankaja Munde praised Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in the past few days. Munde on Tuesday lauded 79-year-old Pawar for “working during the Covid-19 pandemic”, and at her Dussehra rally at Bhagwangarh in Beed on Sunday, she congratulated Thackeray for the relief package of ₹10,000 crore his government announced for flood-hit farmers. Munde, who attended a meeting with Pawar in Pune on Tuesday to discuss issues faced by sugarcane cutters, tweeted: “Hats off to Sharad Pawar… Your stamina to hold meetings, touring and working for hours even during the pandemic is simply commendable. Though I hail from different party, ideology and type of politics, Mundesaaheb [her late father Gopinath Munde] has taught me to respect the hard-workers.”Munde’s tweet, which was in Marathi, raised eyebrows, especially in the backdrop of Eknath Khadse moving from BJP to NCP.On Sunday, while praising Thackeray, Munde had indirectly slammed her detractors within BJP. “Some leaders at the state-level have vowed to finish me politically,” she said.However, Madhav Bhandari, vice-president, BJP, said, “These are baseless rumours. She has been recently appointed as national secretary of the party and will have opportunity to work in sync with national leadership. She has bright future in the party.”Munde, who is from the Vanjari community and is considered a prominent OBC face of BJP, is believed to be upset after her defeat in the 2019 Assembly elections. She had been expecting her rehabilitation as Member of the Legislative Council (MLC), but was not among the people nominated by the party to the Upper House. Instead, BJP recently appointed Munde as one of its national secretaries. Munde, just like Khadse, is one of the senior BJP leaders from Maharashtra who has been unhappy with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is at the helm of the party’s affairs in the state since 2014. Her supporters feel her detractors within the party had tried to cut her to size when she was part of the state cabinet in the Fadnavis government. Leaders close to her also claimed that her defeat in the Assembly elections from Parli in Beed district was orchestrated from within the party. She was defeated by her cousin, Dhananjay Munde, who had moved from BJP to NCP in July 2013. Munde had publicly expressed her disappointment after the results and dared BJP to remove her. She had even announced that she would not be part of the core team of the state BJP. In December last year, she put out an emotional social media post that held “party insiders responsible for her defeat”. BJP leaders in the state, however, said Munde is upset, but they don’t see her quitting the party like Khadse. “It is true that she is upset over treatment meted out her along with few other senior leaders like Khadse. She had almost revolted against the state leadership in December last year, after her defeat, but was later pacified by the leadership. After Khadse’s exit, she has become more vocal politically and has praised leaders from other parties as part of her strategy to build pressure on her detractors within party. She is unlikely to quit the party immediately, as her importance as an OBC leader has increased after the exit of Khadse, another OBC leader,” said a party leader.Vishwambhar Choudhari, political analyst, said, “Sena and Congress do not have base in Beed district, leaving only option of NCP for Munde. But, for it, she will first have to patch up with her cousin Dhananjay who has built his base in the constituency and district. Pankaja may compromise on the constituency and other Assembly segments like Pathardi, where Vanjari community is in dominance. But having said this, it will be too early to say that she will quit her party.” An NCP leader said although Munde has been trying to develop cordial relations with their leaders, Shiv Sena would be her first choice because of the local political equations. Recently, Sena leader and former minister Arjun Khotkar had said they would be more than happy to induct Munde in their party. Her father shared cordial relations with the Thackeray family despite their political differences at times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-pankaja-munde-s-praise-for-pawar-and-thackeray-sparks-political-speculation-in-maharashtra/story-7OeCFg93ard2k5PSqI6LlK.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana edu dept holds orientation to get more students for NTSE coaching||With few students attending the online coaching classes being conducted ahead of the National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) scheduled for December 12, the district education department organised a one-day orientation programme to motivate them at Guru Nanak Bhawan on Wednesday.Over 200 Class 10 students had given their consent to district and block mentors to attend the free online classes. However, only 100 students have attended the classes on an average in the last two weeks. As many as 135 students reached the venue at 10am and district authorities took all precautionary measures such as checking temperatures and sanitising their hands before allowing them to enter the hall which can accommodate more than 500 people. Social distancing was maintained inside the hall. The district and block mentors of different subjects encouraged the students to take attend the virtual classes to crack the scholarship exam. Sanjeev Taneja, district mentor (mathematics), Jasvir Singh, district mentor (science) and Subodh Kumar, district mentor (English) and SST interacted with students.Ektapreet Kaur of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar, and Parneet of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Hargobindpur, who had cleared the NTSE Stage 1 exam last year, spoke on how the coaching helped them.Ektapreet Kaur, 17, said, “It is necessary to be focused and time management is key. I am lucky that I was among the 40 students who were selected for free coaching and the mentors cleared my doubts. I worked hard and studied for five to six hours after coaching classes which helped me clear the NTSE Stage 1 exam.” Parneet said, “After attending the coaching classes at Senior Secondary Residential School for meritorious students, I was able to clear the exam. The coaching made a big difference as I was able to solve assignments and doubts were cleared by the teachers during the classes.”Both students were honoured by Swaranjit Kaur, district education officer (secondary). “There was a need to hold this orientation programme and we organised it after taking permission from the deputy commissioner. The scholarship exam is scheduled to be held on December 12 and to provide coaching to students, it was important to guide them. We have decided that the coaching will continue online and district and block mentors will coordinate so that more students can clear the exam this time,” Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-edu-dept-holds-orientation-to-get-more-students-for-ntse-coaching/story-V1jyH4NdxP10DV16y7rvfP.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC chief asks officials to expedite solid waste management projects||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has pulled up the health team and other officials of the civic body for failing to comply with timeline laid down by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to complete solid waste management projects in the city. Charing a meeting along with Puran Singh, project director, Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), and additional director, Naresh Kumar, to check the status of different projects being taken up to manage solid waste, the MC chief directed the staff to start the work at war footing to ensure a good ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021. The meetings are being conducted after the monitoring committee of the NGT had criticised the Ludhiana MC over improper solid waste management and failure to complete projects in time. Besides, the commissioner also directed the staff to ensure 100% door-to-door garbage collection and source segregation of waste. The MC commissioner warned that departmental action will be initiated against officials if any employee was found guilty of dereliction of duty. Eight Micro forest set up near Buddha Nullah: During the meeting, the MC chief was told that eight micro-forests have been set-up alongside Buddha Nullah. Sabharwal further directed the horticulture department to develop 25 more micro forest with the help of NGOs and social organisations. Civic body officials were also told to establish compost pits in over 800 parks in the city by the end of November. Besides, four walling of compost pits should also be done in the parks, the MC commissioner added. In August, the NGT had directed the MC to submit ₹15 lakh as a bank guarantee in favour of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) over its failure to take up proper solid waste management in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-chief-asks-officials-to-expedite-solid-waste-management-projects/story-DuwqWxBWv4ifDIMOrcW7SO.html
28-10-2020||City||HC dismisses plea against Bathinda varsity’s selection process for vice-chancellor||Jalandhar A bench of chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court, Ravi Shanker Jha and justice Arun Palli, on Wednesday dismissed a Letter Patents Appeal (LPA) that former Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, dean academics, Narinder Paul Singh, had filed against a single-bench order. The single-bench order had dismissed his plea challenging the selection process for the vice-chancellor post of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda. The Punjab government will now go ahead with the ongoing selection process. On October 16, 2020 justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu had dismissed Paul’s petition and vacated stay from the selection process of MRSPTU V-C. Paul had moved court after not being shortlisted for the interview. Justice Sindhu underlined that it is a matter of fact that averments of the petitioner qua short-listing the name of Dr Ashok Kumar Paul for the post were factually incorrect. “The vice-chancellor post is not merely a source of employment to earn livelihood, but rather to be taken as a role model. Therefore, petitioner ought to have exhibited responsible behaviour instead of making unfounded allegations and that too, supported by way of an affidavit, which concededly are not correct, thus, the petitioner has not approached this court with clean hands,” reads HC orders on October 16. The single-bench order added that the petitioner participated in the selection process, but his name did not figure on the list of seven shortlisted candidates by the search committee, and none of them had been impleaded as respondents in the present petition. “In the opinion of this court, as on today, petitioner is only a bystander and by no stretch of imagination, he could be termed as an aggrieved person for invoking the jurisdiction of this court,” the order adds. The order added that the petitioner made incorrect assertions regarding short-listing of Dr Ashok Kumar Paul and obtained interim stay on July 15, 2020 against the selection for the post of V-C, resulting in irreparable loss to the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-dismisses-plea-against-bathinda-varsity-s-selection-process-for-vice-chancellor/story-W8fSOlutyNtsRNUd3LSv7M.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Man dies, kin ransack Navi Mumbai hospital, assault staff||The relatives of a 48-year-old patient who died in the wee hours ransacked the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) hospital at Vashi early on Wednesday morning and also allegedly assaulted security guards and other staff, said police. The police have arrested two sons of the deceased and their two friends. According to police, the incident occurred around 3.45am, following the death of Venkatesh Suryavanshi, a tour operator from Juhugaon in Vashi.Dr Prashant Javade, NMMC hospital medical superintendent, said, “The patient was in critical condition when he came to us [from another hospital in Kopar Khairane] on Tuesday. He was suffering from tuberculosis and other complications. He passed away around 3am, following which the relatives turned violent and ransacked the hospital. They broke glass panes and also damaged equipment, including ventilator and dialysis machine.” The hospital authorities then called the police. In a video that has gone viral, the relatives can be seen throwing files and breaking window panes, even as a police constable is trying to stop them. A security guard who was hurt in the incident, said, “Two men armed with sharp weapons came rushing in. When we stopped them at the gate, they threatened to kill us. They went in and started ransacking the premises claiming their father had died. Some more people came later.” Sandesh, 20, and Rupesh, 21, and their friends Pankaj Jadhav, 22, and Rohit Namvad, 32, have been booked for destroying public property and assaulting the staff of the hospital. Rupesh said, “My father’s death came as a shock to us. There were obviously issues with the treatment given at the hospital, so we were upset. He couldn’t have died.” The staff refused to work after the incident, however, resumed work in a few hours. Sharda Bansode, a nurse, said, “There is very little security for us. Our CMO, security guard, cleaning staff were assaulted. How are we supposed to work under such conditions? There has to be permanent security here.” Sanjeev Dhumal, senior police inspector, said, “The deceased suffered from multiple ailments, including TB, kidney issues and some other infections. The deceased’s kin was informed by hospital authorities that he was in critical condition and should be taken to some other hospital. They, however, insisted that he be admitted. The accused were allegedly drunk. They claimed the hospital was negligent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-dies-kin-ransack-navi-mumbai-hospital-assault-staff/story-G2OHxWepZM9xz6GzXkJosN.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid test mandatory for PhD scholars of Panjab University to avail hostel accommodation||As per standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by Panjab University (PU) on Wednesday, PhD scholars willing to stay at the hostels will have to submit an undertaking regarding adherence to the guidelines and will themselves be held responsible for their stay.The scholars will also have to submit their Covid-19 reports of tests done not more than seven days prior to coming to the hostel.Those PhD scholars who have completed three years of their programmes were allowed to visit laboratories and departments concerned in October and hostel accommodation from November.Dean student welfare (DSW, women) Sukhbir Kaur said that an undertaking from the students under the prescribed pro forma will be mandatory along with submission of Covid-19 test.South campus hostels still with UTPU will not open the hostels on south campus in Sector 25 as they are still with the Chandigarh administration; PhD students will be adjusted in different hostels of the main campus in Sector 14.As per the SOPs, students also have to provide the contact number of a local guardian who can be contacted in case of emergency. They will be provided a room in the hostels sequentially so that proper distance is maintained. No night out will be allowed and no hostel resident will be allowed to go out between 8pm to 6am.No visitor will not be allowed in the hostel and the parents will be allowed to meet their wards only with the permission of the warden. The students have been advised self-monitoring and to report any illness to the supervisor/research supervisor and chairperson of the department.The use of TV in the common room or air conditioner has been prohibited.Staff members have also been directed to download the Arogya Setu application. The attendants/security guards posted at the entrance have been directed to check the temperature of every resident and staff member.The seats for use of each office staff will be fixed and their movement within the office will be minimal. High contact surfaces will be cleaned twice daily.SOPs for hostel residentsProvide contact number of guardianReport any illness immediatelyNo outings between 8pm to 6amNo visitors allowed in hostelsPermission from warden needed for parents to meetFixed chairs for office staff at hostels||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-test-mandatory-for-phd-scholars-of-panjab-university-to-avail-hostel-accommodation/story-WiGoiLySNvX8XTIpuKQMRP.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||After NCW chief’s tweets, plea in Bombay HC seeking her removal from post||A writ petition has been filed in the Bombay high court seeking the removal of National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma due to her recent tweets about meeting Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and discussing the issue of love jihad. The petition has claimed that as the term love jihad is not a term used in Indian laws and is only used informally for inter-caste marriages, especially between Muslim men and women belonging to other communities. It further said that the NCW chairperson’s attempt to highlight the term is aimed at creating animosity in society. In light of this, the petition has stated that Sharma is not capable of heading a sensitive post, hence should be relieved from the responsibility. The petition filed by social activist Saket Gokhale has stated that NCW chief Sharma has been making non-partisan communal discourses by referring to her tweets about her meeting with Governor Koshyari and discussing the issue of love jihad. The petition has claimed that based on her tweets it was apparent that her mindset was not befitting someone who could prevent crime against women, hence she should be removed from the post of NCW chief. “By invoking the baseless communal concept of “love jihad”, the chairperson of NCW has interfered with the freedom of inter-faith couples to practise their faith freely, while marrying each other without the fear of persecution and targeting based on religious grounds by NCW,” the petition reads.The petition has further stated that the tweets also indicated an official’s policy of demonising inter-faith marriages as there is no term like love jihad in Indian law, nor has such cases been reported by any central agencies, by the ministry of home affairs. Hence the petition states that Sharma had engaged in ‘blatantly communal and divisive discourse’ which casts aspersions on her ability to act in a non-partisan secular manner as NCW chairperson.The petition has also referred to some old tweets of Sharma which are misogynist and sexist and made with the intention of political attacks. The petition states that as Sharma has utter disregard for fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution of India as well as towards the ideas of secularism and pluralism, she should be removed from her post as NCW chairperson, under article 14 (equality before law), 21 (right to life with dignity), 25 (freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion) of the Constitution of India. The matter is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-ncw-chief-s-tweets-plea-in-bombay-hc-seeking-her-removal-from-post/story-MHlD708a3W7apC5NNiPTOI.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s allegations against SSR sisters mostly presumptive and speculative, CBI tells Bombay HC||In an affidavit filed in Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said the allegations made by actor Rhea Chakraborty against Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, sisters of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, are mostly speculative and should not be the basis of a first information report (FIR).On June 8, 2020, Chakraborty had lodged a complaint at Bandra police station, alleging Singh had sent Rajput illegal prescriptions from cardiologist Dr Tarun Kumar, associated with Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. These prescriptions allowed Rajput to access psychotropic substances without consultation. Based on this complaint, Bandra police filed an FIR on September 7 against Singh, Dr Kumar and others. The case was immediately transferred to CBI as it was already investigating Rajput’s death based on an FIR registered in Patna. Singh and her sister Meetu approached HC on October 5, 2020, asking that the FIR registered by Bandra police be quashed. In an affidavit filed on October 26, 2020, Chakraborty reiterated the allegation that Singh and Dr Kumar had illegally prescribed psychotropic substances to Rajput and pointed out that he died by suicide within six days of receiving the prescription from Dr Kumar. On Wednesday, CBI filed a reply to Singh and Meetu’s petition, supporting their stand and criticising Mumbai Police. The agency said Bandra police’s FIR was untenable by law as, “the complaint filed by Respondent No. 2 [Chakraborty] is mostly speculative in nature and such speculation cannot be made the basis of an FIR.” The agency further said Bandra police station ought not to have registered a second FIR. “It is a fact that the CBI is already investigating the causes relating to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput based on an FIR No. 241/2020 of PS Rajiv Nagar, Patna, Bihar based on a complaint filed by Sh. KK Singh, the father of the deceased,” said CBI in its affidavit, adding that Mumbai Police should have forwarded Chakraborty’s complaint to the Central agency instead of registering another FIR. CBI also assured the court that it is probing the roles of every person involved in Rajput’s suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-actor-rhea-chakraborty-s-allegations-against-ssr-sisters-mostly-presumptive-and-speculative-cbi-tells-bombay-hc/story-6MQh3pbMu9sSnUQVBefzkO.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||App to make wildlife rescue quicker launched in Chandigarh||For the rescue of wildlife entering human habitation or in distress, residents will now be able to approach the UT forest department through a mobile app.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday launched the mobile-based application ‘Wildlife Rescue’ for monitoring of wildlife rescue, reporting and release of wildlife online. The app works on all Android smartphones.“Through this app, timely dissemination of information to the authorities concerned is possible regarding injured and distressed wild animals in the city. The location of the incident can also be directly communicated, thereby making it easier and faster for the department to react to such calls,” said Debendra Dalai, UT chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden.The link of the app is also available on the department’s website www.chandigarhforest.gov.in. “All orders/guidelines/rules related to wildlife rescue have been uploaded by the department for general perusal. People can click pictures of the wild animal in distress and can send the same to the rescue squad directly for immediate action,” Dalai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/app-to-make-wildlife-rescue-quicker-launched-in-chandigarh/story-ErrCAesTz4obspkWUP8I5N.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Jiah Khan suicide: CBI argues for further investigation, defence lawyer seeks contempt against officers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday argued for further investigation in the actress Jiah Khan suicide case with regards to the dupatta used in the incident and the messages exchanged between her and actor Sooraj Pancholi. However, Pancholi’s lawyer has sought action against the CBI for contempt of court over their plea for further investigation.The agency had in December last year moved the special court for permission for further investigation with regards to the dupatta used in the crime. The agency said that they need to send the dupatta for forensic analysis to a lab in Chandigarh. Further, the agency said they need to retrieve the messages exchanged between Khan and Pancholi. The actress was found dead in her room on June 3, 2013. Pancholi was arrested a week after for abetment to suicide by the Mumbai Police. Khan’s mother – Rabia claimed that it was a case of homicide and not suicide.Pancholi’s lawyer Prashant Patil on Wednesday opposed the plea and said that even the Apex court had decided the matter when Rabia sought further investigation in the case. He pleaded that when the case was being argued on Rabia’s plea, the CBI had given a negative reply, based on which her petition was rejected.“CBI had then claimed that there was no need for further investigation and now they have changed their stand, without any change in any circumstances,” Patil said pleading that CBI officers are liable for contempt of court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jiah-khan-suicide-cbi-argues-for-further-investigation-defence-lawyer-seeks-contempt-against-officers/story-WYrtilbIRtSOo903xLOImK.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Drug case: Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash fails to turn up at NCB office in Mumbai; bizman arrested from Bandra||Actor Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, who was to join the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) investigation, did not appear at the NCB office on Wednesday. Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede said, “Prakash did not come for inquiry and NCB will wait for her to respond to the summons.” On Tuesday, an NCB team searched Prakash’s residence in Versova, where she was not present. During the search, the agency found 1.7 grams of hashish and three bottles of Cannabidiol (CBD) oil.Meanwhile, NCB on Wednesday arrested businessman Nikhil Saldanha, 30, from Bandra in connection with its probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Saldanha was in touch with South African national and alleged drug supplier, Agisilaos Demetriades. Saldanha is believed to have bought drugs from Demetriades and was arrested for consumption of marijuana. The total number of arrested accused in the case so far is 25, said Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drug-case-deepika-padukone-s-manager-karishma-prakash-fails-to-turn-up-at-ncb-office-in-mumbai-bizman-arrested-from-bandra/story-iO35XTVV6V0cK2eSsXdGhK.html
28-10-2020||City||Actively take up fogging to curb mosquito menace: Mohali DC||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan in the weekly health review meeting held on Wednesday has ordered the district health department, the municipal corporation and the municipal councils of the district to “actively take up fogging drive to curb mosquito menace”.This comes in the wake of 56 people taking ill with dengue within a week, with 33 cases being reported from Mohali city. The Mohali health department had in September issued a warning that coronavirus and dengue coinfection may prove risky after detecting mosquito larvae at several places.Dayalan said that with the change in climatic conditions, fogging and door-to-door container survey had to be intensified with active challaning of households where mosquito larvae are found. “Instead of pressing each fogging vehicle into operation just once a day, they may be used twice” to cover maximum areas, the DC said. Use of disinfectant spray across the city especially in public places during the festive season, dusting with medicinal powder near drains, coupled with frequent disinfection in densely populated areas, slums and narrow lanes have been ordered.The MC has pressed into service GPS-equipped fogging machines that operate once a week in the city, which is divided into four zones; re-fogging is done after 8 to10 days.Two shoulder-mounted machines are also being used for fogging in parks, villages and settlements where big machines cannot enter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/actively-take-up-fogging-to-curb-mosquito-menace-mohali-dc/story-GMPY8TMmaSG6bTHFvnNq5O.html
28-10-2020||City||10 held for running fake call centre in Nallasopara, near Mumbai||The Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar Commissionerate (MBVV) on Wednesday busted a fake call centre racket and arrested 10 accused from a flat in Nallasopara.According to police, three women and seven men were duping people from New Jersey, California, Washington and other cities in the United States.“Sub-inspector Surendra Shivade received a tip-off about the fake call centre. The scam runs into several crores, as the gang were operating since the many months,” said inspector Jitendra Vankoti.The call centre was run in a flat in Nalla Sopara (West). The accused are linked to an international gang, who transfer them money, said Vankoti.“We raided the flat at around 2am on Wednesday. The accused spoke fluent American English. They sent bulk messages to thousands of US citizens claiming that their vehicle was found involved in a crime and that drugs and bloodstains were found inside,” said Shivade.The conmen would then convince the victims to pay hefty fines ranging from 10,000 to 15,000 US dollars as a settlement to escape jail, said Shivade.Vankoti further said, “All the accused had a script which they used while speaking to US citizens. The accused would also claim that they can their social security numbers.”The victims were asked to purchase gift cards online from a popular shopping firm, scratch the 16-digit number on the card and share it with the accused. Later the accused would share the number with the international gang to encash the cards. They then transferred a share to the Nallasopara call centre and earned crores. A possible havala racket cannot be ruled out said an officer.Police have seized nine laptops, routers and headsets from the flat. The accused have been arrested on charges of forgery and cheating of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and the Indian Telegraph Act. The accused will produced before the Vasai court on Thursday said Vankoti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-held-for-running-fake-call-centre-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai/story-qIMO3ltt9guUPvCheq2G6M.html
28-10-2020||City||Paddy procurement: Fatehgarh Sahib MP takes stock of mandis in Sahnewal area||To ensure smooth paddy procurement and take stock of the arrangements, Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh on Wednesday visited the mandis at Sahnewal, Koom Kalan, Jandiali and Khasi Kalan of Ludhiana district. He interacted with farmers, commission agents, and officials to enquire about their problems related to purchasing.While taking a dig at the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Singh said that the PM is behaving like a dictator. He alleged that the Union government is meting out stepmotherly treatment towards farmers in the state. He added that in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was a challenging task to gear up for procurement of paddy but the operations have been going smoothly by taking proper precautions. He said that the number of mandis has also been increased from 1,872 to 4,260 so that farmers can sell their crops in a hassle-free manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-procurement-fatehgarh-sahib-mp-takes-stock-of-mandis-in-sahnewal-area/story-qejQtxhCqL1hWk7d4AX3aP.html
28-10-2020||City||Two Covid deaths, 38 test positive in Ludhiana||Around 38 persons tested positive for Covid-19 and two persons lost their lives to the virus on Wednesday. The total number of people from the district who have lost their lives have reached 833.The number of patients recovered so far is 19,062 and confirmed patients from the district stand at 20,134, while 236 are active cases. Those who lost their lives include a 58-year-old man from Kidwai Nagar and a 53-year-old woman from Laxmi Nagar.Sharing details, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that under the Mission Fateh of the state government, the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in the district is increasing day by day.He added that to date, a total of 3,82,377 samples have been taken, of which 3,57,651 tested negative while reports of 1,870 samples were pending. He said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 20,134, while 2,722 patients are related to other districts/states.He said that the total number of persons who lost their lives include 833 people from Ludhiana and 314 from other districts.He added that to date, 46,738 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1,032. On Wednesday, 38 persons were sent for home quarantine.Similarly, 2,872 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Sharma appealed to residents to follow all directions of the state government and stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-covid-deaths-38-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-uojEUvzUFDEPjuE63gqAZK.html
28-10-2020||City||2 Ludhiana residents duped of Rs 13 lakh on pretext of ‘treasure hunting’||A resident of Lalton Khurd village and her relative were duped of Rs 13 lakh and gold jewellery by a woman ‘sorcerer’ on the pretext of digging out the treasure from the porch of their house.The victim, identified as Bhupinder Kaur, 55, had even sold her property to give money to the accused.The accused and her family members are on the run. Sadar police have lodged a case against the accused identified as Amandeep Sharma, her husband Jaspal Sharma, and her children Neeraj Sharma and Sanju Sharma.In her complaint to the police, Kaur stated that on August 22, she along with her family members visited the Naina Devi shrine in Himachal Pradesh, where she met the accused who claimed to solve her problems with spiritual powers.Kaur said that she discussed her personal problems with Amandeep and was connected with her over the phone. The accused had told Kaur that gold jewellery is buried in the veranda of her house and she will have to perform rituals before digging it out. The accused demanded Rs 11 lakh and 60 gm gold jewellery from her. The deal was however settled in Rs 10 lakh and gold.“We had sold a plot to give her the money. The accused along with her husband and sons had dug out a pit in the veranda and performed some puja and left stating that she will come again to complete the ritual,” said Bhupinder Kaur.“The accused had duped my relative Ramandeep Kaur of Rs 3 lakh and 25 gm gold following the same modus operandi. The accused did not return and her phone is also switched off,” said Kaur.ASI Harmesh Singh said that an FIR under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been lodged against the woman and her family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-ludhiana-residents-duped-of-rs-13-lakh-on-pretext-of-treasure-hunting/story-O0NaKQPw18ki8uaJ70hVtJ.html
28-10-2020||City||Up to 600 persons being challaned daily in Ludhiana for not wearing mask||Even as 96,000 people were fined Rs 4.80 crore for not wearing masks in public in the last six months, the police are issuing nearly 600 challans on a daily basis, said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.In July alone, 24,000 challans were issued by the police, whereas in the first three weeks of October, 12,000 challans have been issued to those found without masks.In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases in the city, the Ludhiana Police had started challaning violators from May.Agrawal said that the police are making people aware of the benefits of wearing masks and had distributed reusable masks among residents.They had also initiated a special drive against violators in August. During the drive apart from issuing a challan for not wearing masks, the violators were made to stand at one place for an hour as a penalty. The police had distributed free masks among the violators as well.“Most people have realised the importance of wearing a mask, but some are still venturing out without masks, which could be harmful to others also. To deter such practice, the police are issuing challans,” said Agrawal.“The police have already issued 96,000 challans to violators in the last six months. On average, the police are issuing 600 challans daily,” he added.The police had issued 5,000 challans in May, whereas in June, the number increased to 12,000 while 24,000 in July, and 23,000 challans were issued in August. In September, the number went down to 20,000.The police chief added that they will continue taking action against violators.SHO at Division Number 8 police station inspector Jarnail Singh said that people make excuses for not wearing masks, however, they have been told to wear masks or face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-600-persons-being-challaned-daily-in-ludhiana-for-not-wearing-mask/story-cbFqokgajXghS7dVHIPhUI.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Two succumb, 149 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||Two people succumbed to Covid-19 while 149 tested positive in the tricity on Wednesday. Both Chandigarh and Mohali reported a death each.While a 60-year-old woman with comorbidities from Sector 16 died in Chandigarh, the casualty details were not shared by the Mohali administration.Chandigarh also reported 60 new cases and 80 recoveries. As many as 14,212 people have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 13,359 have recovered and 224 have died. The number of active cases stands at 629.In Mohali, 67 cases surfaced while 41 patients were discharged. Of 12,213 patients so far, 11,461 have been cured, 236 have died and 516 remain hospitalised.Panchkula reported no casualty for third time in five days. With 22 fresh cases, the tally reached 7,039. While 6,759 patients have recovered and 111 have died, 169 cases remain active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-two-succumb-149-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-yA2YuQNoS65Uoqns5PU9KP.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 5 extended till November 30 in Chandigarh||As per the Central government directions, the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday extended Unlock 5 in the city till November 30.The ministry of home affairs’ guidelines for reopening the economy, educational institutes and other social facets, which were issued on September 30, will now remain in force up to November 30, with no change.However, lockdown will continue to be implemented in containment zones.Three areas were declared as micro containment zones on Wednesday. These include House No. 3410 to 3420 in Sector 15, 501 to 508 in Sector 26 (Police Lines) and 755 to 769 in Sector 44A. Meanwhile, containment restrictions were removed from House No. 805 to 809, Kishangarh, with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-5-extended-till-november-30-in-chandigarh/story-uQPabeOFBzGOaIksPjaHLP.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 to reopen OPDs from November 2||Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will follow in the footsteps of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research to reopen outpatient departments from November 2.OPDs at the Sector-32 institute along with other hospitals were closed on March 19, a day after the first case of Covid-19 surfaced in Chandigarh. While Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, has already reopened its OPDs, the PGIMER recently took the decision to reopen them in the departments of general surgery, medicine, paediatrics, gynaecology and ophthalmology from November 2. In the first phase, even GMCH will reopen only five OPDs, namely psychiatry, pulmonary medicine, paediatrics, gynaecology and radiotherapy. The department heads have been asked to submit the number of patients that can be provided physical consultation daily, keeping in view the safety norms. It has been further decided that tele-consultation services being provided to patients will continue. “Patients evaluated through tele-consultation and requiring physical examination will be called to the OPDs through an appointment system. The medical record department will schedule the appointments, as per recommendations of the department. This is based on the pattern of the PGIMER,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, acting director of GMCH. With a view to ensure adequate social and physical distancing, a fixed number of patients will be seen in each OPD, which will be decided by the respective department heads, she said. Officials said directions for purchasing the necessary safety equipment have also been given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-gmch-32-to-reopen-opds-from-november-2/story-A70qgD869KfDnetTa4uEoM.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||BTech graduate facing 47 cases of vehicle theft held in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police have arrested a 32-year-old vehicle thief who has 47 cases registered against him in the UT besides Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.Identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Smarty, of Delhi, he has a BTech degree in computer science engineering. Police have also recovered nine stolen four-wheelers, worth over ₹1 crore, from him. He was produced in court on Wednesday, and sent to judicial custody. Harpreet has earlier been arrested by the crime branch thrice, in 2014, 2016 and 2018. He has six cases pending in Chandigarh district courts and was declared a proclaimed offender in one of them. The crime branch traced Harpreet while investigating the theft of a Maruti Esteem, which had gone missing from Maloya on July 10. After being tipped off that the suspect was in Delhi, cops caught him driving the stolen car. His interrogation led to the recovery of eight more vehicles, including three Hyundai Creta SUVs and a Toyota Innova, Jeep Compass, Maruti Vitara Breza, Maruti Swift and Hyundai i20. Stole over 200 vehicles, sold them to scrap dealers Harpreet, according to police, uses sophisticated equipment and tools to steal high-end cars. During questioning, he allegedly confessed to have stolen more than 200 vehicles.Operating with his gang members, he further sells the vehicles to scrap dealers in Uttar Pradesh for anywhere between ₹1 lakh and ₹3 lakh. The scrap dealers then affix fake chassis and engine numbers on the vehicles, which are further sold in the open market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/btech-graduate-facing-47-cases-of-vehicle-theft-held-in-chandigarh/story-4bsVWoVeg4SyxnA33sviQK.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools reopening on November 2 to follow staggered timings||Schools in Chandigarh have been asked to follow staggered timings for Classes 9 to 12 as they prepare to reopen for regular teaching from November 2.In the directions issued by the district education officer (DEO) to the heads of schools on Wednesday, students of Classes 10 and 12 will attend school from 9am to 11.30am, while those of Classes 9 and 11 from 12pm to 2.30pm.This is only for students voluntarily wishing to attend school while adhering to the standard operating procedures (SOPs), while others will continue to take online classes.Written consent of parents to send their wards to schools will be taken by schools before or on the day of reopening and it will be valid unless withdrawn by parents. School heads have been directed to prepare a schedule to enable teachers to take both online and offline classes from school.Classroom teaching was suspended following the Covid pandemic earlier this year. Under Centre’s Unlock guidelines, students of Classes 9 to 12 returned to schools last month, but only for academic consultations on voluntary basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-reopening-on-nov-2-to-follow-staggered-timings/story-zAJy1erKD4OmMh6EEB3rUI.html
28-10-2020||City||Gurugram: Active Covid cases cross 3,000-mark for first time||Gurugram: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram has, for the first time, crossed the 3,000-mark, shows data from the district health department. With 397 new positive cases on Wednesday, the total count of Covid-19 patients, who are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation, has reached 3,151 in the district. Officials said that spreading of the infection within families and lax attitude in following safety guidelines like wearing masks has resulted in the spike in the active cases. Since October 21, Gurugram has been recording more than 300 fresh Covid-19 cases per day. Since then, the highest single-day spike of 398 cases were reported on October 24. The upward trajectory of the cases has led to the record spike in active cases. The health department data shows that when cases were climbing up with positivity rate of almost 18% in June-July, active infections were still under 3,000. The active cases had been fluctuating between 2,500 and 2,900 since September, but they did not cross the 3,000-mark.Health officials said that they will continue to do more than 3,000 tests per day and focus on tracking of patients. In the last two months, testing has increased from 2,200 a day to almost 3,000 a day. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “As the infection is spreading within the families, numbers are escalating. To increase overall tests, we have started evening camps. Earlier, only 30-50 samples were being collected in evening camps, which has now increased to over 120. We might see a downfall in testing as many people due to the festive season will not come forward for testing.” Yadav said that the surge in cases is noticeable after every 21 days. According to the data, of the 3,151 active cases, at least 2,951 patients (nearly 94%) are currently under home isolation, nine are in facilities set up by the district administration for isolation and 191 seriously ill patients in various private hospitals. Although the health department administers nearly 3,000 tests every day, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among those tested — has been increasing constantly. From weekly positivity rate of 9% in August, it is now above 12%. On Wednesday, the positivity rate stood at 12.20%. Studies show that increasing positivity rate indicated widespread prevalence of infection, which can be addressed through increased testing.Despite the spike in cases, the fatality rate is restricted at 0.73% in Gurugram. On Wednesday, no Covid-19 death was reported in the district, whereby the toll stood at 206. Till now, 28,704 people in the district have been infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. When asked about the enforcement of Covid-19 protocols, Yadav said, “We can only advise people to take precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distance.” Data available with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) shows that nearly 18,000 people have been fined in August, September and October for not wearing masks in public areas. A total of 30,000 fines have been issued since April for mask violation, as per the MCG data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-active-covid-cases-cross-3-000-mark-for-first-time/story-PkseXTu4pxnKWBpQtmycwK.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||DU Vice Chancellor Prof Yogesh Tyagi suspended. All you need to know||Delhi University Vice Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi has been suspended on the orders of President Ram Nath Kovind, who is the Visitor to the university, amid a power scuffle in DU, ministry of education said on Wednesday.The president has also called for an inquiry over accusations of dereliction of duties and lack of commitment and devotion to his responsibility as the VC.“All orders issued by or issued with the approval of Yogesh Tyagi during the period of his absence on medical ground are set aside and to be treated as null and void,” the official said, as quoted by PTI.Tyagi has been suspended to ensure that the inquiry against him is fair and that he cannot tamper with material records or coerce the witnesses in the matter, PTI reported citing a senior ministry official.‘Failed to discharge the duties entrusted on him’Tyagi has been on leave since July 2 after he was admitted to AIIMS for an emergency surgery. The government had on July 17 given Pro-VC P C Joshi the charge of Delhi University Vice Chancellor until Tyagi resumes office.The power tussle started last week after Tyagi on Thursday removed Joshi as pro-VC and appointed Geeta Bhatt in his place. Joshi had appointed a new registrar, Vikas Gupta, whose appointment was cleared by the executive council on Wednesday. The same day, Tyagi appointed P C Jha as acting registrar and director of the South Campus. As the controversy erupted, the ministry intervened and said the appointments made by Tyagi were “null and void” as he is on leave.“...he (Yogesh Tyagi ) has not attended the office and is absenting himself from official duties. He has neither sought any leave nor informed the Executive Council as per requirement contained in provision made under Clause 3(3) of Ordinance XXII made under the provisions of the Delhi University Act 1922. Further, he is not attending any meeting including “Visitor’s Conference on Implementation of NEP 2020: Higher Education”, president by Hon’ble President of India on 19.9.2020,” the order said.The order says that Tyagi failed to discharge the duties and responsibilities entrusted on him as the VC and also lists a range of issues related to governance.One of the major allegations against Tyagi was that he had not appointed officials for several key posts which remained vacant in the university despite being given reminders by the education ministry. “Despite a clear message from the ministry to fill up the teaching posts in a time bound manner, the process to fill the vacancies has been delayed,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-vice-chancellor-prof-yogesh-tyagi-suspended-all-you-need-to-know/story-oTCY0inWlrohAwEXsOJy1M.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: E-auction for fancy numbers from Oct 29||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will be holding e-auction of the fancy/special registration numbers from the new “CH01-CC” series and previous series from October 29 to November 6.The leftover numbers are from the series “CH01-CA”, “CH01-BZ”, “CH01-BY”, “CH01-BX”, “CH01-BW”, “CH01-BV”, “CH01-BU”, “CH01-BT” and “CH01-BS”.Registration of the e-auction will begin at 10am on October 29 and continue till 5pm on November 6.Bidding will be held between 10am on November 7 to 5pm on November 9.Owners of only vehicles registered at Chandigarh address can register for the e-auction at “vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy” and obtain the unique acknowledgement number (UAN). This link is also available on UT transport department website – www.chdtransport.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/e-auction-for-ch01-cc-series-fancy-numbers-from-oct-29/story-AlDZPSo3HEcd90ZrPM0KCJ.html
28-10-2020||City||Karnal commission agents protest against delay in payment for paddy||Agitated over the delay in payment for procured paddy, a large number of commission agents staged a protest at Taraori grain market in Haryana’s Karnal district on Wednesday.The protesters accused the government of not fulfilling its promise of making the payments within 72 hours. They alleged that payment of around ₹200 crore was due and several commission agents have not got any money yet. Some commission agents alleged that due to technical glitches, payments of some of them were deposited into the accounts of farmers and ahrtias.“We have taken up this issue with the concerned officials but to no avail. Despite repeated assurances from them our payment has not been disbursed yet,” a commission agent said.Karnal district food and supplies controller Nishant Rathi said payment of ₹28 crore will be deposited into the accounts within 24 hours and ₹3 crore which had been deposited into the wrong accounts will be deposited into those of the 15 commission agents soon.₹3,300 crore payment released: DushyantDeputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said the state government has disbursed payment of ₹3,300 crore into the accounts of ahrtias and farmers for the paddy procured during this harvesting season.During his interaction with mediapersons at Pehowa of Kurukshetra, he said the government is committed to procure all produce of farmers on the MSP. “There were some technical issues which delayed the payment. But the problems have been solved and the payment of ₹3,300 crore has been disbursed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-commission-agents-protest-against-delay-in-payment-for-paddy/story-gvCgKzWHWE2q3Km4Iuz9RN.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Raju Shetti hospitalised||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna (SSS) president Raju Shetti has been admitted to a private hospital in Pune after he complained of uneasiness, his associates said. Shetti was in Pune when he complained of pain in the leg on Wednesday following which he decided to visit the hospital where doctors advised him to get admitted. According to Shetti’s personal assistant Swastik Patil, the SSS leader has a swelling in his leg and doctors are currently treating him. “He was in Pune and went to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital for check-up, but as he felt unwell, he has been advised to be admitted to the hospital,” said Patil. Shetti, who was a Lok Sabha MP from Kolhapur for two terms, had tested Covid-19 positive last month, though he recovered from the infection. Shetti lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Hatkanangle to Shiv Sena’s Dhairyasheel Mane by a margin of over 96,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/raju-shetti-hospitalised/story-YTkbyygN3G52fInRV5W71K.html
28-10-2020||City||Nine killed in separate road mishaps in Haryana||Nine people were killed in three separate road accidents in Kurukshetra, Karnal and Jhajjar districts of Haryana on Wednesday.In the first incident, three youths from Delhi were killed and two others sustained critical injuries after their car met with an accident on NH-44 near Shahbad town of Kurukshetra district in the wee hours, police said. The deceased are Chirag,22, of Vasant Kunj and Shantanu, 23, and Munish, 21, of Mahipalpur in Delhi. Their friends Munish,22, and Jatin, 21, who also belong to Delhi have been hospitalised.The deceased were MBA students and were on their way to Shimla. They were rushed to a nearby private hospital at Shahbad. However, three of them were declared brought dead and the condition of the other two is said to be stable.Devender Singh, in-charge of Shahbad police station, said a commuter Ramandeep Singh had filed the complaint about the accident. “According to him, an unknown vehicle hit the car from the rear and it lost control, thereby, hitting a canter coming from the opposite direction after crossing the road divider,” he said.The SHO said an FIR has been registered against driver of the unknown vehicle under Sections 304A, 279 and 337 of the Indian Penal Code. He said the bodies have been handed over to the family after postmortem. Three from Himachal crushed to death in KarnalIn another incident, three people, including a minor, were crushed to death by a speeding truck while they were replacing a tyre of their pick up near Ramba village on the Indri-Karnal road in the morning.The deceased are Yuvraj,14, Anil,28, and driver Arun,27, all residents of Sirmaur district in Himachal Pradesh. Police officials said they were on their way to Narela mandi from Himachal to sell tomatoes. The accident took place at around 5:00am while they were replacing a punctured tyre of their parked vehicle along the roadside and a truck carrying construction material crushed them to death.They were rushed to the civil hospital in Karnal, where the doctors declared them brought dead.Ramba police post in-charge Manish Kumar said a case has been registered against the unknown truck driver under relevant sections and the truck has been taken into possession. He said the bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem.Three dead, 10 hurt in bus-truck collision Three people were killed and 10 others were injured in a head-on collision between a Haryana Roadways bus and a truck near Jhajjar’s Nauganva village in the wee hours, police said.The deceased are truck driver Manjit of Birdhana village, bus driver Sanjeet and a passenger who is yet to be identified. The critically injured are Geeta, Raju, Vishal and Ankur. They are undergoing treatment at the PGIMS in Rohtak.A police spokesman said the incident took place at around 5:30 am when the bus was on its way to Chandigarh from Bahujhholari village. “The truck coming from the opposite direction collided with the bus near Patuvaas canal, leaving the bus driver and a passenger dead on the spot,” the spokesman said. No case has been registered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-killed-in-separate-road-mishaps-in-haryana/story-IrCgf1SBgQ9OoHU6CjMkZL.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Over 70 cows die in shelter in Haryana’s Panchkula due to suspected food poisoning||Over 70 cows died due to suspected food poisoning in a shelter attached to a temple in Haryana’s Panchkula on Wednesday, officials said. Thirty other cows, who were also taken ill at the Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham, are responding to treatment, an official of Haryana’s Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department told reporters in Panchkula. “We have collected water and feed samples and we can only arrive at any conclusion when we receive the test report... but prima facie, it looks like a case of food poisoning,” he said. The General Manager (honorary) of the cow shelter, Ravinder Chihgal, said that vets were called on Tuesday evening when he came to know that some cows had fallen ill. “The reports I have got is that the cows died due to food poisoning. But one thing which is clear that food poisoning was not due to the fodder we gave them. “We suspect that some devotee who visited the temple was carrying some foodstuff which he gave to the cows causing food poisoning,” Chihgal told PTI over phone. Chihgal, who is currently out of station, said the cows which died were from two particular sheds. “We have a total of seven sheds in which nearly 1,400 cows are kept. Fatalities have been reported only in two sheds. “Had there been food poisoning due to fodder, deaths would have been much higher,” he said. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is an MLA of the ruling BJP from Panchkula, visited the cow shelter and said he was deeply saddened by the incident. “We will get an inquiry done to find out if there were any lapses which led to this incident… and taking a lesson from this, we will ensure that such incidents do not happen in future. “Whatever precautions are needed, we will ensure they are taken in other gaushalas (cow shelter) also,” Gupta told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-70-cows-die-in-shelter-in-haryana-s-panchkula-due-to-suspected-food-poisoning/story-y0GxzILlQ2qTscPSy9p9uO.html
28-10-2020||City||Three of family killed in car crash on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura||Three family members died while one person was injured in a car crash on Wednesday on the Yamuna Expressway in Mahaban area of Mathura district, police said. “The accident occurred when the Agra-bound car coming from Delhi rammed into a stationary car standing at the the 114 kilometre spot on the highway,” Superintendent of Police (Rural) Shrish Chandra said. He said three members of a family were travelling from Delhi to Agra and had halted by the wayside on the highway. The Agra-bound car hit their stationary car that left all three members dead on the spot while the car driver who crashed into the other vehicle sustained injuries. The injured driver identified as Kuldeep, a resident of Gurnaam Nagar in Punjab’s Amritsar, has been hospitalised in serious condition, police said. The deceased have been identified as 55-year-old Dharamveer Singh Rana, his wife Usha and his son Avinash Rana, all residents of Rajiv Nagar in Haryana’s Gurgaon, officials said. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, the officials said, adding that the passage-hit spot on the busy highway was cleared for vehicular traffic by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-family-killed-in-car-crash-on-yamuna-expressway-in-mathura/story-uKsWFvvAyNHoslXRsGBM1M.html
28-10-2020||Jaipur||3 Rajasthan civic bodies polls tomorrow, counting of votes on November 3||Polling for election to three municipal corporations of the state – Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North – will be held on Thursday from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm, said the state election commissioner PS Mehra. He appealed to voters to follow the guidelines put in place to check the spread of coronavirus for safe and peaceful elections. Mehra said about 1.6 million voters will seal the fate of 951 candidates for 250 wards in the first phase of municipal elections. “We have increased the number of polling stations and increased polling time by half an hour to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed,” he said. The SEC appealed to everyone to wear a mask to the polling station. “People without masks will not be allowed to vote,” he said. A note from the state election department said 3,393 electronic voting machines will be used in the municipal election on Thursday, 30% of them are in reserve. The second phase of polling – for Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South – will be held on November 1. Counting for both phases will be done on November 3. The state government bifurcated municipal bodies in three big cities of the state in October last year, making way for two Mayors in each of these. Urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal had said the three cities with population of more than a million will be split into two municipal corporations each and reconstituted. In Jaipur, the Heritage Municipal Corporation has 100 wards and a population of 1.34 million, and Greater Jaipur Municipal Corporation has 150 wards covering 1.7 million population. Jodhpur was bifurcated into Jodhpur North and Jodhpur South with 80 wards each, and Kota into Kota North (70 wards) and Kota South (80 wards). The decision increased the number of municipal corporations in Rajasthan to 10 – two each in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, Ajmer, Bikaner, Udaipur and Bharatpur. Jaipur and Kota municipal corporations have been strongholds of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The Congress is seeking to win it on the plank of development while the BJP is seeking votes over the alleged misgovernance of the Gehlot government. Campaigning in the three municipal corporations going to polls on Thursday ended on Tuesday. Five Assembly constituencies are covered in Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation and four of them are represented by Congress MLAs. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi, cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khhachariyawas, and MLAs Rafeek Khan and Ameen Kagzi are putting their weight behind Congress candidates to form a board in the newly set up civic body. In Jodhpur, where municipal council was upgraded as municipal corporation in 1994, Congress has won the civic polls thrice in the five elections held for municipal corporation. Soorsaagar MLA Suryakanta Vyas and Jodhpur City MLA Manisha Panwar started their political careers as councillors. Similarly, Bhanwar Balai and Mansingh Deora were also councillors before becoming MLAs. BJP councilor Amita Chaudhary was later elected Zila Pramukh, while Rajendra Gehlot, who was BJP councilor on the previous board, is currently a Rajya Sabha member. In Kota, KNMC falls in the home constituency of Dhariwal, who has taken the command of the civic polls. For BJP, Churu MLAs Rajendra Singh Rathore and Kiran Maheshwari are handling the campaign in Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/3-rajasthan-civic-bodies-polls-tomorrow-counting-of-votes-on-november-3/story-uCgmB3Fu13rRDB6Zn0jHDI.html
28-10-2020||City||Suicide: 14-year-old girl’s body fished out of canal||Eleven days after a 14-year-old girl ended her life by jumping into Sirhind Canal in Machhiwara, her body was fished out on Wednesday. As per the police, the girl had taken the extreme step following a spat with her younger brother.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baldev Singh said that the family had cooked a dessert on October 17 and the siblings had a fight over its distribution. In a fit of rage, the girl walked out of the house and jumped into the canal.As soon as the family came to know about it, they informed the police. Divers were pressed into service to rescue her but to no avail. Her decomposed body was finally found on Wednesday.Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the statement of her father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-14-year-old-girl-s-body-fished-out-of-canal/story-UXn9Zzjdt28nYQkumRk0TK.html
28-10-2020||City||Rising air pollution in Agra reduces Taj visibility||Consistently rising air pollution in Agra has rendered the visibility of Taj Mahal poor in recent days.The air quality in Agra had been falling even before Dussehra but it deteriorated right after and the AQI (air quality index) rose above 312. On Sunday night, AQI was recorded at 367, and near the Taj, it was above 400.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) classification, air quality above 401 is considered severe; between 301-400 and between 201-300, it is considered very poor and poor, respectively. Kamal Kumar from CPCB said, “There has been an increase in construction activity, pipeline laying, road restoration by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), and the work for smart city is increasing particulate matter to various degrees and this has resulted in an AQI increase.”The high concentration of particulate matter i.e. PM 2.5 and PM 10 is to be blamed. The PM2.5 (microgram per cubic metre) level was at 306 at noon on Monday with the minimum being 99 and maximum being 367. On an average, nitrogen dioxide (NO2) remained at 69, while sulphur dioxide (SO2) was at 15 microgram per cubic metre. According to the CPCB website, the average level of carbon monoxide remained at 49 while the average level of ozone was at 30.“The harvesting of crops was a bit early this year and wind speed was low, leading to more suspension of particulate matter,” added Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-air-pollution-in-agra-reduces-taj-visibility/story-SISOHM2Dm0jEd0O6JA2iYI.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Ichalkaranji municipal council officer booked for abetment of activist’s suicide||The chief officer of the Ichalkaranji municipal council is among six people booked for abetment of suicide of local social activist Naresh Bore, who self-immolated and died on Monday. The chief officer, Santosh Mahadev Khandekar, was booked along with health officer Dr Sunildutt Sangewar; two other officials identified as Maruti Patharvat and Deepak Patil; a garbage truck driver, Amar Lakhe; and a sanitary inspector, identified only by one name, Misal. “No one has been arrested yet. We will investigate each of their roles thoroughly and then arrests will be made,” said senior police inspector Ishwar Omase of Shivajinagar police station, Ichalkaranji division, Kolhapur police, who will be investigating the case. On October 16 at 5pm, a ghanta gadi (garbage van) driver, identified as Lakhe, was dragging a dead pig by tethering it to the vehicle with a rope. Bhore asked him to put the dead animal inside the vehicle. It led to a verbal fight where the garbage truck driver allegedly hurled expletives at Bhore and threatened to kill him, according to local police. According to the complaint lodged in the case, Lakhe had used a casteist slur against Bhore. Bhore insisted on putting the dead pig inside the vehicle, to not hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community members who lived in the area from where the truck was passing. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Omkar Gopal Bhore (27), nephew of the deceased activist. Bhore was a part of an organisation called Maharashtra Bhrashtrachar Nirmoolan Vichar Sangharsha, according to police. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Shivajinagar police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ichalkaranji-municipal-council-officer-booked-for-abetment-of-activist-s-suicide/story-hjD6CXGz3VlxPp2cY46aGK.html
28-10-2020||Pune||IT engineer duped of Rs 20 lakh in job fraud in Pune||An IT engineer has been duped of Rs 20 lakh over the past year in an online job fraud. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Madhav Kenajle (40,) a resident of Kothrud. Kenjale had uploaded his biodata on a job search website, according to his complaint. The callers obtained his biodata from the website and he received several calls on his mobile, followed by emails. Under the false pretext of getting him a job, callers coaxed him into paying Rs 20,64,777 for various reasons through online transactions. The transactions happened between June 2019 and October 9, 2020, when the man realised that he was being duped. A case under Sections 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at Alankar police station. Police inspector (crime) Rajesh Tatkare of Alankar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/it-engineer-duped-of-rs-20-lakh-in-job-fraud-in-pune/story-7gLEJSf2aVc706blbGzBdI.html
28-10-2020||City||Three-member panel on Punjabi University reform meets tomorrow||Patiala A three-member high-level committee constituted to suggest measures to improve the functioning of Punjabi University will hold a key meeting on October 29 (Thursday). The committee was mandated to submit its report within a month of its formation on August 11, but it missed the deadline due to covid-19 pandemic and the admission process at the varsity. The committee comprises state additional chief secretary (revenue) Viswajeet Khanna; state higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari and vice-chancellor BS Ghuman. Bhandari said the committee is compiling its report, which will soon be submitted to the state government.“We will hold a meeting on Thursday in which issues concerning the varsity will be discussed comprehensively,” Bhandari said. The committee, which was formed with the approval of the chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, is mandated to thoroughly work upon improving the fiscal health of the university, which is presently in doldrums, as it has been toiling hard to meet its committed expenditure. According to budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, with expenditure at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. Bhandari said the committee had held several meetings and was looking minutely at the record the varsity had submitted to them. As per the notification that the state government had issued, the committee aims to suggest measures on the optimisation of salary budget, quality of staff and courses that the university offers. These steps will result in increase in revenues, rationalisation of pay scales and pension benefits for faculty and staff, based on the guidelines of the Punjab government. For other administrative areas, the committee is expected to call for a review of courses and consequent rationalisation (including redeployment) of faculty within and across departments. Reforms in the working of constituent colleges, regional centres and neighbourhood campuses is also on the agenda.The notification states that the committee will also review the system of admission and examination and suggest reform measures. It will also examine the current use of information technology in pedagogy, including digital delivery of content, and academic management of courses.NO DECISION ON SPECIAL GRANT OF Rs 20 CRORE The state government is yet to take any decision on special grant of Rs 20 crore that the varsity has sought for payment of salaries and pensions to employees.“Officials from departments of finance and higher education department are looking into the matter. This is not for the first time that the varsity has sought special grant. In July, the government provided Rs 20 crore. This was on the condition that the institution should first put its house in order before asking for funds again,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-member-panel-on-punjabi-university-reform-meets-tomorrow/story-IZf7LnNyYvdXe9IeOBywWM.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Hadapsar-based professional assassin used axe and gun to murder Rahul Shetty: Lonavala police; arrested||The Lonavala police, on Tuesday, arrested two persons, including a Hadapsar-based “sharpshooter”, in connection with the murder of former Shiv Sena local unit chief, Rahul Shetty, who was shot dead on Monday morning a few metres from his house. The police had, on Monday, arrested two persons, identified as Suraj Agarwal and Deepali Bhilare, based on the complaint lodged by the deceased’s wife, Saumya Shetty. The total arrests in the case now stands at four. Police inspector Manoj Kumar Yadav said one of the accused arrested on Tuesday, a professional hit-man, used an axe to first attack Shetty - inflicting two deep injuries on his neck - and then shot three bullets straight into his head. “He is 30-years-old and originally hails from Latur, but is settled in Sayyednagar, Hadapsar, Pune. He is using different names and so we are keeping the names guarded as the search for his Aadhar card is on,” PI Yadav said. “The other person arrested helped and guided the shooter and is aged 40. He is from Khandala. The assassin used both the weapons with ease and is professional who might have committed crimes in the past. The duo will be produced in court tomorrow,” PI Yadav said. Meanwhile, Agarwal and Bhilare have been remanded to police custody till October 31. Shetty (38) was at a tea stall near his house at Jaychand chowk in Lonavla when he was killed. Shetty’s father Umesh Shetty was also killed 30 years ago in Lonavla, as a result of personal enmity. According to the Lonavla city police, Shetty himself had as many as seven criminal cases lodged against him, including a case related to an attempt to murder. Pune city, and rural, has seen three murders the recent past. A day before Shetty’s murder, one Ganesh Naidu was murdered at Hanuman tekdi on Sunday night. On October 2, Shiv Sena leader in Pune, Deepak Maratkar (32), was murdered following a political dispute in Budhwar peth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hadapsar-based-professional-assassin-used-axe-and-gun-to-murder-rahul-shetty-lonavala-police-arrested/story-70D9OiCwCJizZJD5gUIpDO.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Official Secrets Act invoked against two for recording proceedings at Dehu road police station||Two men have been booked under the Official Secrets Act for recording audio and video at the Dehu road police station on Monday. The law is usually invoked in matters of crimes involving spying and espionage.The two booked have been identified as Kailas Nathuram Chavan (32) and Tushar Chavan, both residents of Dehu road. “Both of them were recording the voice of a police staff member and shooting a video of the police station,” said police inspector Rajendra Rajmane who is incharge of the police station in the absence of senior police inspector Manish Kalyankar.They had been called to the police station as a part of crime preventive action, according to the police. “It was part of the regular preventive action and one of them was called in order to take stock of the earlier cases against him. The other person had simply accompanied him,” said PI Rajmane.The 32-year-old Kailas has a history of cases, including body offences and a case of sexual harassment, registered against him.A case under Sections 3 and 7 of the Official Secrets Act along with Section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Dehu road police station. The sections of the act which were invoked - 3 and 7 - deal with serious cases of spying and interference with officers of police or armed forces.Section 3 is defined as penalties for spying and invites imprisonment of 3-14 years upon conviction while Section 7 is defined as interfering with officers of the police or members of the armed forces of the Union and invites imprisonment upto three years and/or fine upon conviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/official-secrets-act-invoked-against-two-for-recording-proceedings-at-dehu-road-police-station/story-Ipvf9vbqtWuEiRqym7UP2I.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Amnesty scheme: PMC collects ₹85.83cr in taxes||Many citizens are coming forward to take the benefit of the amnesty scheme announced by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in order to generate revenue during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The latest figures show that a total of 36,443 citizens have taken benefit of the amnesty scheme since October 2, 2020, and paid their taxes. The PMC launched the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters under which citizens received and 80 per cent cut in the fine amount. PMC property tax department head Vilas Kanade said, “The PMC launched the amnesty scheme from October 2nd and a total of 36,443 citizens paid taxes using the scheme. The PMC received Rs 85.83 crore in taxes and the total amount waived off is Rs 49.03 crore.” Kanade said, “This scheme is only for the period between October 2nd to November 30th. It is a usual experience that maximum citizens took advantage of any scheme in the last few weeks when the deadlines are near. PMC is hoping for a handsome amount from the month of November.” According to Kanade, in 25 days, 36,443 residents took benefit without a campaign. “This is a great sign to get more revenue. Citizens should come forward and pay the tax within a stipulated time frame is the appeal from the civic body,” he added. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Pune is the city, which receives maximum property tax in the Maharashtra state. We are even ahead of Mumbai. Despite lockdown, citizens pay tax to the civic body. As some citizens were not able to pay property tax, the elected members launched the amnesty scheme and gave relief to the citizens.”Rasne said, “Citizens having dues less than Rs 50 lakh can take benefit of this scheme. I am hoping that around Rs 1,000 crore additional revenue would be generated through this amnesty scheme.” Rasne appealed to the citizens to take maximum benefit of this scheme and clear any outstanding taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amnesty-scheme-pmc-collects-85-83cr-in-taxes/story-RDN5Eh5drmmbQmf2Ss7OoK.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Positivity rate drops in Pune during Navratri; experts advise caution till December||Pune The city continued to see decline in fresh Covid cases even during the ten days of Navratri and Dussehra festival, a pattern evident since the beginning of October. Experts, however, caution that the decline should be consistent at least till December for a clear picture of Covid situation. The city’s average positivity rate fell from 22.56% as of October 17 to 11.8% as of October 26. Positivity rate indicates the number of fresh cases being reported for every 100 tests conducted for Covid-19 During the ten days from October 17 to October 25, 27,863 tests were conducted of which 3,212 were reported positive which took the positivity rate to 11.52% for the ten-day period. The figure is a significant decline as compared to the average positivity rate record of 22.56% as of October 15. Decline in positivity rate was also seen in the state during the same period. As per the state health department, as of October 15, of the 79.14 lakh samples tested for Covid-19, 15.64 lakh tested positive which took the average positivity rate of the state at 19.77%. As of October 26, of the 86.45 lakh samples tested in the state, over 16.48 lakh tested positive which brought down the average positivity rate to 19.07%. During these days (October 15 to October 26), the state tested 7.30 lakh samples out of which 84,050 tested positive for the infection which took the positivity rate to 11.50% for the ten days. With the administration taking adequate steps to tackle a possible second wave because of the festive season, the decline in fresh cases during the ten days of Navratri and Dussehra is a positive news. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “It is evident that there is a decline in the number of fresh cases reported from Pune. Not just positivity rate, but all indicators, including vacant beds and demand for drugs, shows the decline. However, the decline needs to be consistent. Dussehra just got over and for at least the next 14 days people need to be aware about the possible virus spread. By mid-November, we would be celebrating Diwali and then we will have to make sure that the decline continues for the next 28 days at least till the festival season is over. Hence, the decline needs to be consistent till December end.” Salunkhe said that at least 60-70% of people should follow the norms to successfully break the virus chain. “Masks must be mandatorily worn by people and we must avoid touching our face. Currently this is the only weapon we have against the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/positivity-rate-drops-during-navratri-experts-advise-caution-till-dec/story-2EzWkLBSYYCwvlWKBJZtuN.html
28-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Man kills wife two months after marriage, surrenders to police||A man allegedly killed his wife late on Tuesday night in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, and surrendered soon after, said the police. The woman was identified as Anshu Sharma, 22, a resident of Jaora Compound in Indore. “Police detained Harsh Sharma who is from a reputed family after he surrendered before police at Sanyogitaganj police station in the early hours of Wednesday,” said Rajeev Tripathi, Sanyogitaganj police station-in-charge. He added, “We are in the process of registering an FIR after sending the body for a post-mortem examination.” “Anshu met Harsh a few months ago while working in the latter’s father’s company. Anshu’s family lives in Kalindi locality of Indore. They married in a temple in August this year, against the wishes of their families. Harsh told police that Anshu would often fight with him and she would also talk to other people over phone late into the night. She also refused to tell him who she was talking to and would start arguing instead. That day, Harsh was in an inebriated state when he strangulated her with his dog’s leash. Later, he stabbed her to death,” said Tripathi. Also read | Woman shot dead by stalker, murder caught on cameraHarsh called his father and informed him about the incident. The father brought him to the police station where he surrendered, said the officer.Anshu’s mother said, “I don’t know why my daughter was killed. She was 1-month pregnant. I have lost my daughter and grandchild both. I want justice.” The cause of Anshu’s death would be established only after the post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-man-kills-wife-two-months-after-marriage-surrenders-to-police/story-mKYbjOrvKBiXaLsz5V4zxJ.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Slum land acquisition at Kamgar putla begins||The district administration and the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) has begun the process to acquire slum land near the Kamgar putla (statue) for the Pune metro.Notices have been published by the district administration for the same and a list of beneficiaries for rehabilitation is also being drawn up.The slum land near Kamgar putla is needed by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro), Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA), mainly to develop the for Civil Court multimodal metro hub.Recently, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a review meeting with Maha-Metro and the PMRDA on the metro work. Pawar appointed divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to handle the land acquisition and asked for jobs for slum dwellers to be provided on the metro project.Hemant Sonawane, public relations officer, Maha- Metro, said, “We have given our requirements to the concerned authorities. Now the district administration, PMC and SRA are carrying out the land acquisition. Along with Maha-Metro, PMRDA also requires land near the Kamgar putla slum.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/slum-land-acquisition-at-kamgar-putla-begins/story-fcMk0Hnss0EKYLKEFY6CMJ.html
28-10-2020||Pune||Rising prices result in three separate onion thefts in Pune district||A number of onion theft cases have been reported from various rural parts of Pune district as the price of the vegetable rises. At least three such incidents of onion theft have been reported from Pune district in the past week. Of the three, the Pune rural police have found and seized stolen onion gunny bags in one of the cases. The police seized 49 bags of onions on Friday which were reported stolen from a farmer’s storage in Otur on October 22. The four arrested men were identified as Saurabh Subhash Maskare (19), Ketan Sudhir Haned (21), Akshay Devram Sadakal (23), and Vikram Sakharam Gode (21) all natives of Junnar. While Maskare and Gode live in Pimpri Chinchwad, the two others live in parts of Junnar. The police seized 49 of the 58 stolen gunny bags from them along with a pick-up truck used in the theft. “This case was registered at our police station on October 22. We found and arrested them before they could sell all of the stolen onions,” said assistant police inspector Parshuram Kamble of Otur police station. One day before the incident in Otur was reported, another place in the vicinity of Otur had reported onion theft from two farmers. A complaint in the matter was lodged by farmer Dattatray Natha Thorat (32), a resident of Devjali in Ganesh nagar, Junnar. The second famer who was robbed in the same area was identified as Anil Arjun Patil. In both the incidents, 550kg onions filled in 10 gunny bags were robbed from the storage near the houses of the two farmers. Of the 10 gunny bags, seven belonged to Patil while three belonged to Thorat, according to the police. Both the thefts happened between 11:30pm on October 21 and 2:30am on October 22. A case under Sections 379, 511, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered against two people at Narayangaon police station of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rising-prices-result-in-three-separate-onion-thefts-in-pune-district/story-TkPuSJQvVyAPrPvRJQ1mbO.html
28-10-2020||Election:||PM does not talk about unemployment in his speeches: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he talks about other countries in his speeches but not about the problems facing India such as unemployment.Gandhi, who arrived in West Champaran district for his second round of campaigning in the ongoing state elections, also attacked Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over unemployment and the issue of migration.Addressing his rally at Valmiki Nagar, the former Congress president said he was pained to see that Prime Minister Modis effigy was burnt in Punjab on the occasion of Dusshera, and added that it reflected the “anger” of youths and farmers.“Youths and farmers of Punjab and Bihar and youths of Uttar Pradesh are angry that our PM keeps making speeches with Bihar Chief Minister and talks about other countries, but not the problems confronting our country such as unemployment,” he said.He said the prime minister and the Bihar chief minister used to raise the issue of unemployment earlier but no longer now. “Now, the PM does not say in his speeches that he would give two crore jobs. Because the people of Bihar have realised that he had lied. “I can guarantee that if the PM comes today and promises two crore jobs to youths, perhaps the crowd would shoo him off, telling him that he had lied,” Gandhi said.The Congress knows how to run a country, how to stand with farmers and give employment, but “we don’t know how to lie”, he said.Criticising the Centre over the three recently passed farm laws, he said its “pilot project” was implemented in Bihar in 2006 when the mandi system was abolished in the state.“What Nitish Kumar did in Bihar in 2006, Narendra Modi is doing in Punjab, Haryana and across the country,” Gandhi said.The Congress has fielded Pravesh Kumar Mishra for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha bye-election, while Rajesh Singh has been nominated for the assembly poll from there.The by-poll to Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency has been necessitated due to death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Mahto.The Lok Sabha by-poll will be held on November 7 and the results will be announced on November 10 alongside the results of Bihar assembly elections.Later in the day, Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to address a rally at Kusheswar Asthan in Darbhanga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/pm-does-not-talk-about-unemployment-in-his-speeches-rahul-gandhi/story-GyE1caT8oqsW7rGTr7F94H.html
28-10-2020||Lucknow||Five BSP MLAs withdraw support for party’s Rajya Sabha nominee||In an apparent U-turn, five of the 10 BSP MLAs who had proposed Ramji Gautam as the party candidate for the Rajya Sabha withdrew their support on Wednesday, saying their signatures were forged.The five Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs have given in writing that their signatures on the senior leader’s nomination papers were forged, Vidhan Sabha secretariat sources said.But the dramatic development, a day after Gautam had filed nomination for next month’s Rajya Sabha elections, triggered speculation that the five Uttar Pradesh MLAs are planning to switch sides.The five MLAs are Aslam Raini, Aslam Chaudhary, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind and Hargovind Bhargava.The scrutiny of nominations is being undertaken Wednesday for the election on November 9.The returning officer will look into the complaint about the forged signatures and take a decision, sources said.On Monday, Mayawati’s party had fielded its national coordinator and Bihar in-charge Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha elections even though it did not have the number to ensure his victory.BSP leaders had indicated that they expected the other non-BJP parties to support his candidature, Altogether, 11 candidates, including eight from the BJP, have filed their papers for the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh going to the polls in the biennial elections.Given the overwhelming strength of the BJP in the UP Assembly, all eight candidates – including Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri – fielded by the ruling party are expected to be elected.Of the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant, three were earlier held by the BJP, four by the Samajwadi Party, two by the BSP and one by the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-bsp-mlas-withdraw-support-for-party-s-rajya-sabha-nominee/story-rAvieT1tFFKS0JmP1IosRJ.html
28-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Vehicle tracking, panic buttons to boost safety of women passengers||The Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd, a joint venture of the Delhi government and IDFC Foundation, would help Uttar Pradesh install the Vehicle Location Tracking System (VLTS) devices and emergency panic buttons in all the public passenger vehicles to improve security for women, officials said. The project is expected to begin by the end of the current financial year.“We have appointed DIMTS our consultant to suggest which technology to use, how to integrate VLTS with the control and command centre, and how to execute the overall project to achieve the best results,” transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said. “We want to roll out the project within the next six months as a long-term measure to ensure women’s safety in public transport vehicles.”Also read | Gorakhpur Sainik School to incorporate modern technology and Indian heritage: UP CMIn January 2018, the Centre issued a notification making it mandatory for all public transport vehicles, including buses and taxis, to have VLTS devices and panic buttons to especially ensure the safety of women passengers.As per the notification, all new public transport vehicles, except autorickshaws and e-rickshaws, registered on or after January 2019, were to be equipped with VLTS. Respective states were supposed to notify the date of installing VLTS devices and emergency buttons in the older vehicles registered up to December 31, 2018.Officials said the project has been delayed in Uttar Pradesh because of the lack of control and command centre to keep real-time track of the movement of vehicles and to generate alerts for police to act when a passenger is in trouble.They added the transport department is now speeding up the project in view of the state government’s increased focus on women safety as a part of the ongoing 180-day Mission Shakti. The Centre will provide the state money to implement the project.A proposed control and command centre is expected to be integrated with the police’s dial 112 for quick response to passengers in distress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-vehicle-tracking-panic-buttons-to-boost-safety-of-women-passengers/story-gPOWG7SISA2EOVs4eGCYlM.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records most delayed south-west monsoon withdrawal since 1975||Mumbai reported the most-delayed withdrawal of monsoon since the India Meteorological Department (IMD) started maintaining records in 1975.The IMD declared the south-west monsoon withdrawal from Mumbai, the rest of Maharashtra and the country on Wednesday (October 28).Prior to this year, the most delayed withdrawal of monsoon from Mumbai was recorded on October 26 in 2010. Monsoon had withdrawn from the city on October 24 in 2011 and 2017.“This is definitely one of the most delayed withdrawal of monsoon from the country. It is also the most delayed withdrawal from Mumbai and Maharashtra,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES).Also Read: Mumbai’s minimum temperature drops slightly but winter still a month away, says IMDHe attributed the reason to the presence of La Niña. La Niña is a weather pattern, where the western Pacific Ocean warms up creating a low pressure near Australia, pulling winds from the Indian Ocean and strengthening equatorial dynamics while keeping south-west monsoon circulation active.“During La Niña years, we tend to get extended monsoon and more rainfall. Conditions were favourable for sustaining those conditions for a longer time. Both the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean were very active this year,” said Rajeevan. In April, the IMD had announced the new monsoon onset date for Mumbai as June 11, against June 10, and the new withdrawal date as October 8, against September 29.The normal duration of the monsoon season over Mumbai this year was expected to span over 120 days -- from June 11 to October 8 -- as opposed to 112 days – from June 10 to September 29. The forecast turned out to be wrong as monsoon spanned over 136 days --from June 14 to October 28. This year, the onset of monsoon was declared on June 14, three days later than the prediction.Last year, monsoon withdrawal from Mumbai was declared on October 14. In 2018, it was on October 6.“In view of significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, the south-west monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country on Wednesday. Simultaneously, with the setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower levels of troposphere, the north-east monsoon rainfall commenced over extreme southern peninsular India on Wednesday (October 28),” an IMD release stated. Rajeevan said delayed withdrawals and late monsoon onset have emerged as a pattern. “In June, when we revised the onset and withdrawal dates, it was done keeping in mind an extension of the monsoon season. The onset and delayed withdrawal of monsoon has become a recurring phenomenon,” he said. Over 136 days this monsoon, Mumbai recorded a total rainfall of 3,857.1 millimetres (mm) against the annual average of 2,514 mm.According to IMD, this is the highest rainfall recorded in at least a decade for the June–October period. It was the second-highest rainfall (3,687mm) for the June-September period since readings were started to be collated in 1944. The highest all-time seasonal rainfall was recorded at 3,759.7 mm in 1958 . The official four months of the monsoon season ended just 70 mm short of the all-time record this year.Maximum rainfall was recorded in July at 1,502.7mm -- the highest since 1944 -- followed by the highest in August at 1,247.6mm since 1959. However, June recorded the lowest rainfall in five years at 395 mm. But in September, 60% of excess rainfall was recorded at 549.1 mm. Mumbai recorded the second-highest October rainfall in 10 years at 170.1 mm -- 27.6 mm short of the decades’ monthly high of 197.7 mm that was recorded in 2012. Mumbai and Maharashtra recorded 67% and 16% of excess rainfall, respectively, between June and September. Mumbai and Maharashtra recorded 103% and 75% of excess rainfall, respectively, from October 1 to October 28.“Mumbai and Maharashtra have reported an exceptional performance as far as rainfall this monsoon is concerned. Now, it’s high time for the monsoon to withdraw,” Rajeevan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-most-delayed-south-west-monsoon-withdrawal-since-1975/story-dnsREhl2zXaYX6C6lVx0UN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena, MNS demand apology from Kumar Sanu’s son for ‘anti-Marathi’ comment||The Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) have objected to Bigg Boss contestant Jaan Kumar Sanu’s comment “against the Marathi language” and have threatened to stop the filming of the reality show. Shiv Sena, Maharashtra’s ruling party, has also demanded that Bigg Boss’ shooting permit be cancelled. Jaan, the son of Bollywood playback singer Kumar Sanu, reportedly asked his fellow contestants to not talk in Marathi on the show. Following this, the two political parties that were formed to protect the rights of Marathi manoos have demanded action. Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 mortality rate continues to remain high even as national rate reducesMNS film workers’ union chief Ameya Khopkar has warmed that the MNS will not allow Bigg Boss to be filmed if both Jaan and Colors Channel do not apologise within 24 hours. “We will not allow the shooting of Bigg Boss to take place if both of them don’t apologise within 24 hours,” threatened Khopkar. He added, “We will see how Jaan gets work in Mumbai. Anyone who hates the Marathi language should get out of Maharashtra.” In the scene, Jaan is seen deriding his fellow contestant who spoke in Marathi, saying she should not speak in Marathi in front of him. He tells her he gets irritated with the language and if she has the courage, she should speak in Hindi. In a tweet, Shiv Sena secretary and the head of the party’s Chitrapat Sena Aadesh Bandekar said, “Bigg Boss showrunners and the person [Jaan Kumar Sanu] must immediately apologise to Maharashtra and the people of Maharashtra. The person should be immediately evicted [from the show]... Maharashtra government should withdraw shooting permission of those who indulge in defaming the state.” बिग बॉस च्या व्यवस्थापनाने व ह्या व्यक्ती ने महाराष्ट्राची व मराठी जनतेची त्वरित माफी मागावी ज्यानी हे कृत्य केले त्याची तातडीने हकालपट्टी करावी... अशी बदनामी करणाऱ्यांची चित्रीकरण परवानगी महाराष्ट्र शासनाने रद्द करावी... शिवसेना चित्रपट सेनाShiv Sena spokesperson and legislator Pratap Sarnaik said that show is shot in Maharashtra and earns TRPs through the state and contestants who defame the Marathi language will not be tolerated. “Bigg Boss show is shot in Maharashtra, is TRP is earned through Marathi people but the Marathi people were insulted by Jaan Kumar Sanu, this will not be tolerated. If the son of Kumar Sanu, who made his career living in Maharashtra, is disrespecting Marathi language it will not be tolerated,” Sarnaik said in a tweet. In 2008, Amitabh Bachchan had apologised to the MNS after the MNS alleged that his wife Jaya Bachchan had made anti-Marathi statements at a function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mns-demand-apology-from-kumar-sanu-s-son-for-anti-marathi-comment/story-Evd018hzrGv0I8Hr7M1TuO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||How is unfurling national flag a crime in J&K? Sena asks Centre||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Wednesday slammed the Centre while asking it what has changed in Jammu & Kashmir after the end to the region’s special status that the Indian flag cannot be hoisted in the Union Territory. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Shiv Sena called it a defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government at the Centre.The editorial comes in the backdrop of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s statement on Friday that the members of her party would not hoist the Indian tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu & Kashmir. Constitution’s Article 370, which was nullified last year to strip Jammu & Kashmir of its special status, provided for a separate flag for the erstwhile state.Also read | Shiv Sena takes potshots at PM Narendra Modi’s address to nation, calls it ‘best in last 7-8 months’“There is President’s rule in Kashmir, meaning Delhi controls it. But unfurling the tricolour has become a crime. Then what has changed after repealing Article 370?... The nation wants to know,” the editorial said.The editorial added the situation in Kashmir remains the same it was before the nullification. “The situation in Kashmir still has not changed. The improvements that seem are merely cosmetic,” it added.The editorial criticised Mufti for her statement. It called another former chief minister Farooq Abdullah’s purported comment that they will seek China’s help to restore Article 370 treasonous.Abdullah’s son, Omar Abdullah, has maintained his father’s comments were distorted and he never said they will seek China’s help.The Sena, which parted ways with the BJP last year to form the government in Maharashtra with Congress’s and Nationalist Congress Party’s help, accused Mufti and Farooq Abdullah of speaking the separatists’ language. “...opponents in Kashmir have come together and they have resolved to bring back Article 370,” the editorial said, referring to Mufti, Abdullah and other political forces who have joined hands in Kashmir against the changes to the region’s constitutional status.Sena leader and Saamana executive editor Sanjay Raut asked the Centre to take action against Abdullah and Mufti, who were among thousands of people detained last year to stem protests against the nullification of Constitution’s Article 370. “If Mehbooba Mufti, Farooq Abdullah and others want to impose Article 370 in Kashmir with help of China, then the central government should take strict steps. If any person who wants to unfurl tricolour in Kashmir is stopped, then I consider it as treason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-is-unfurling-national-flag-a-crime-in-j-k-sena-asks-centre/story-buaQVb8O1IRZc5dtmNsh2M.html
28-10-2020||City||Chhattisgarh: Congress leader’s son runs car over people; boy killed, 11 injured||In a fit of rage following a dispute with local villagers, a Congress leader’s son in Chhattisgarh’s Gariaband district ran his car over a crowd, killing a four-year-old boy and injuring 11 people, police said on Wednesday. Two accused, including the politician’s son, were arrested on Tuesday from an adjoining jungle in the district while two others are absconding. The incident took place at around 11.30 pm on Monday at Malgaon when villagers were celebrating Dussehra. Gariaband additional superintendent of police (ASP) Sukhnand Rathore said that Romit Rathore, son of ex-mayor and the president of women district Congress Mamta Rathore, had an altercation with some of the villagers over their celebration. “A child had accidentally thrown something on Romit’s car’s dashboard, which infuriated him and his three friends. The accused first threatened the villagers and seemed to have driven away. But he reversed the car and drove over the crowd. A minor, who had come under the car’s wheels, died in a local hospital and 11 others were injured,” said the ASP.Also read | On Congress leader’s complaint, Chhattisgarh police file FIR against scribeThe ASP said the accused had fled to an adjoining jungle after the incident. “The villagers identified Romit as the main accused and informed the police. Romit and one of his friends, Saurabh Kutare, were arrested on Tuesday. They were hiding in the jungle. The other two accused are still absconding,” said the ASP. Romit and Kutare have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We have identified the other two accused after recording Romit’s statement. Raids are in progress and efforts are on to nab them at the earliest,” the ASP added.Congress leader Mamta Rathore was unavailable for her comment, despite repeated attempts by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-congress-leader-s-son-runs-car-over-people-boy-killed-11-injured/story-Vvm9nOzjJwjuOG62jLO4nN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Pankaja Munde praises Sharad Pawar, triggers speculation about her exit from BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pankaja Munde on Tuesday shared the stage with Sharad Pawar, 79, at a meeting in Pune to discuss the issues faced by sugarcane cutters and later praised the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader in a tweet, triggering fresh speculation about the possibility of her exit from her party. “Hats off to Sharad Pawar…Your stamina in hold meetings, touring, and working for hours even during the pandemic is simply commendable. Though I come from a different party, ideology, and type of politics, Mundesaaheb [her father late Gopinath Munde] taught me to respect the hard workers,” she tweeted in Marathi on Tuesday night.Munde’s praise for Pawar comes a week after another BJP leader Eknath Khadse joined the NCP. She is considered the BJP’s Other Backward Class (OBC) face and is believed to be upset as after her loss in the 2019 assembly elections, she was expecting to be nominated to Maharashtra’s Legislative Council. Instead of her nomination to the upper House of the state legislature, she was named as one of the BJP’s national secretaries.Also Read: A year on, Maharashtra election results that caused drama; political uncertainty continuesMunde is seen as a rival of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has helmed the party in Maharashtra since 2014, within the BJP. Her supporters feel her detractors within the party tried to cut her to size when she was part of Fadnavis’s cabinet. Leaders close to her also say her 2019 election defeat was orchestrated from within the party. She lost to her cousin, NCP’s Dhananjay Munde.Pankaja Munde has publicly expressed her disappointment and dared her party to remove her. She earlier announced she will not be part of the BJP’s core team in the state.At a Dussehra rally in Beed on Sunday, she indirectly hit out at her detractors within the BJP. “Some leaders at the state level have vowed to finish me politically.” She also praised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for the Rs 10,000 crore package for the flood-hit farmers.BJP leaders admitted Pankaja Munde is upset with the party but said they do not expect her to quit like Khadse. “It is true that she is upset over the treatment meted out her along with a few other senior leaders like Khadse. She almost revolted against the state leadership in December last year after her defeat, but was later pacified,” said a BJP leader on condition of anonymity. “After Khadse’s exit, she has become vocal politically and has praised leaders from other parties as part of her strategy to build pressure on her detractors within the party. She is unlikely to quit the party immediately, as her importance as an OBC leader has increased after the exit of Khadse...”An NCP leader said that though she has been trying to develop cordial relations with their leaders, Shiv Sena would be her first choice because of the local political equations if she decides to shift her loyalties.Shiv Sena leader Arjun Khotkar has said they would be happy to induct her in their party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-pankaja-munde-praises-sharad-pawar-triggers-speculation-about-her-exit-from-bjp/story-jwznWVcu8izjLR9QWslsvJ.html
28-10-2020||City||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED takes CM’s ex-secretary into custody minutes after his bail plea is rejected||Minutes after the Kerala high court rejected his anticipatory bail petition on Wednesday, M Sivasankar, former secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, was detained by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the gold smuggling case. Though Vijayan and the ruling CPI(M) distanced themselves from Sivasankar after the smuggling case came to light, the senior IAS officer ’s detention is a major embarrassment to the government. The Opposition Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stepped up the pressure, seeking Vijayan’s resignation.Also read | Role of elusive businessman in Kerala smuggling racket baffles probe teamSivasankar’s is a major detention in the four-month-old case. Taken to Kochi, he will be produced in the economic offences court later, a senior officer part of the multi-agency probe said. Earlier in the day, both the ED and the Customs opposed Sivasankar’s anticipatory bail petition, saying that he knew about the smuggling and accrued financial benefits from some of the deals brokered by Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the case. Opposing his bail plea, additional solicitor general of India S V Raju contended that investigation so far had given enough indications that he was aware of the activities of Swapna Suresh and custodial interrogation was necessary to unearth these aspects. Later, a single bench headed of justice Ashok Menon dismissed his plea, observing that he should have been more careful while dealing with such people and directed him to cooperate with the ongoing probe. Earlier, the court had stayed his arrest till October 28. The gold smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of the yellow metal was seized by the Customs from a diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE Consulate. Later P S Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the luggage, was arrested by the Customs. Two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Swapna Suresh surfaced. A multi-agency team comprising NIA, ED, DRI, Customs and Income Tax is probing the case and 32 people have been arrested so far. There are reports that smuggling was going on for over a year through the UAE Consulate and they smuggled at least 400 kg gold in several consignments. State high education minister K T Jaleel was also grilled in connection with one of the consignments that came in last March. But the minister said consignment carried only religious books. Grilled twice, probe agencies are yet to give him a clean chit. Soon after Sivasankar’s arrest, the Opposition upped the ante seeking the CM’s resignation. “Pinarayi Vijayan knew about the smuggling. He can’t get away by sacrificing his secretary. We want him to resign,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But the ruling CPI(M) put up a brave face, saying the government had disowned Sivasankar him long back. “The Opposition is playing dirty politics. The government has nothing to do with his arrest. The CM had made it clear that if Sivasankar committed any wrong he will have to face repercussion also,” said party leader A N Shamseer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-ed-takes-cm-s-ex-secretary-into-custody-minutes-after-his-bail-plea-is-rejected/story-5Zc636E2D8GMZd5jy31mXK.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Industrialist commits suicide near Punjab’s Goraya town||39-year-old industrialist committed suicide by shooting himself with his licensed weapon at his native village near Goraya town in Jalandhar district on Wednesday. Police said he was rushed to the civil hospital in Phagwara before being referred to a private hospital due to his critical condition. He was operated upon and the bullet removed but he died around 12.30pm. While the victim was the director of an automobile parts manufacturing company, his father is the firm’s managing director. Goraya station house officer Hardeep Singh said that the statements of the family members are to be recorded to ascertain the reason behind his taking the extreme step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industrialist-commits-suicide-near-punjab-s-goraya-town/story-DWaPv1uYIKWCivITnwV1tO.html
28-10-2020||Lifestyle||City restaurants set to boo patrons with Halloween specials||Gear up for some chills and spooks as restaurants across Delhi-NCR are offering spooktacular Halloween specials. From grisly-looking dishes to goosebumps-inducing ambience, it’s all ghoul play for these eateries. Not to miss are some tempting offers and discounts for the most innovative costumes and scariest looking guests. “In such unprecedented times, wherein the customers are reluctant to step out to dine, days like Halloween give us an opportunity to do something new and out of the box in terms of theme, menu and entertainment with a hope of attracting customers. We are living in a scenario now where customers are fed up of sitting at home, at the same time want to step out at home. We are taking care after different precautions like social distancing, proper sanitisation, of course, masks to fight the pandemic as well and will be maintaining all this on Halloween day as well,” says Manish Sharma, founder, Molecule. They are creating larger-than-life movie sets of famous movies like Titanic, Harry Potter, Pirates of the Caribbean, and Addams Family. The menu has special dishes like Edible Lava Coal. They plan to dress their servers as iconic movie characters like Gandalf, Batman and Count Dracula, and have counters for palm reading, tarot and face painting.“The dynamics of celebrations have changed all around the world. Safety comes first and we as responsible restaurateurs want to make sure that any celebration should not be done at the cost of health. We are ensuring all safety precautions, and in fact, we have elevated our precautions much more as we are expecting more crowd, says Akshay Anand, co-founder Ophelia, The Ashok, Chanakyapuri. The season is perfect for outdoor celebrations, and this is another factor that has restaurateurs pumped for the day. “We have planned fun activities, spooky decor and a special menu for the Halloween bash. It is a rare Blue Moon night, which will add to the thrill. Our menu has dishes like Devil’s Lasagna, Creepy Pepperoni Pizza, Lava Curry Dimsums and Black Magic LIIT. We are ready to host all our patrons in Halloween costumes,” says Udit Bagga, founder, Out of the Box, Connaught Place.In keeping with the theme of the night of spooks, restaurateurs are going the extra mile in making it special. Strobe lights and fog machines set the mood for the theme party at Radioactive, Punjabi Bagh. “With just the right lighting, we can send chills up your spines. Fog machines set up outside give the spookiest lighting mood of all. Illuminating lights inside will stir fun and fear elements. There are drinks like Mr and Mrs Scary, Devil Mera Yaar and more to keep the spirits high,” says owner Chahat Kapoor. With this, restaurant owners not only plan to keep the momentum of festive season going and boost sales, but also to build faith as the F&B rebuilds itself. “People come to us for drinks and our chef specials non-veg items, hence we like to cash in on Halloween basis this. Our menu will have special items like Bhool Bhuliya, Lick Your Fingers, Truffle Mushroom Dumplings and more. We will mark tables for social distancing and ensure that safety guidelines are followed. We have received great response and are ready to host guests,” says Tushar Gulati, owner, Mic Drop in South Extension.It is a win-win situation for both as there are loads of freebies and deals up for grabs. “We are set to serve people with Halloween specials. Get dressed at your scary best and win surprise offers on drinks,” says Umang Tewari, owner, Local, Connaught Place. At the Drunken Botanist, Gurugram, the theme is Oh My Ghost and there are awards for the spookiest couple, five best costumes, the most creative mask award, and many more surprises gifts. At Junkyard Café, Connaught Place, special cocktail menu with drinks such as Scary Beer Treasure Chests, Angel and Devil, Metal Blender and Edison Bulbyard awaits. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/city-restaurants-set-to-boo-patrons-with-halloween-specials/story-Fccg8EVcSA1B3kqMIooupO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 mortality rate continues to remain high even as national rate reduces||While the positivity rate and daily count of Covid-19 cases is falling steadily, the case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra has been hovering at 2.65% for the last four weeks. The death rate of other states and the nation overall has been steadily coming down.Maharashtra has witnessed a significant reduction in the daily caseload. The state’s positivity rate in October dropped to 14.20% from over 20% last month. The case fatality rate of the state has, however, only dropped to 2.63% from 2.65% a month ago on September 27.Meanwhile, the national rate reduced to 1.5% from 1.57% over a month. Gujarat, which has ranked closer to Maharashtra in mortality rate over the last few months, has been able to reduce its CFR to 2.20% now from 2.57% on September 27.Also Read: ‘17% Covid deaths linked to pollution’“We had set the target of bringing the CFR below 1% in the beginning of July and had directed all district authorities accordingly. Despite hard efforts, we have not been able to achieve the target. Our tracing of contacts is still poor in several districts, besides the inferior quality of the health infrastructure. The machinery has not been able to bring infected people to health facilities and test them early. Proper tracing and awareness to remove stigma could have helped achieve this,” said an official from the health department, requesting anonymity.The official added that a few districts like Solapur, Chandrapur have been, however, able to bring down the CFR below 4% from over 6% two months ago.“We have been trying our level best to bring down the CFR. People report late to health facilities after having developed symptoms leading to the complications. Our My Family My Responsibility drive may help us on that front by bringing awareness among people. It is true that the daily testing has reduced, but tests are being administered as per the requirement,” said Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary, Maharashtra.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said that the CFR is high also because of the poor facilities in ICUs and shortage of oxygen and ventilators in many districts. “The focus of the state machinery should now be more on the ICUs than the Covid care centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-mortality-rate-continues-to-remain-high-even-as-national-rate-reduces/story-FjK2mgnE5n1DVbInKjqTBL.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Poor hygiene, unsanitary conditions could lead to fewer deaths due to Covid-19: Study||Poor hygiene, unsanitary conditions, and lack of clean drinking water could result in fewer deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new study by Indian researchers suggests.The study by researchers from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, and the Chennai Mathematical Institute, seems to support the hygiene hypothesis wherein improved immunity is said to be behind people developing a less severe form of the viral disease.Bihar, which faces issues like a lack of clean drinking water facilities, has the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) of 0.5%, as opposed to 1.5% nationally.CFR is defined as the number of deaths due to a particular disease as compared to the number of people suffering from it.Also Read: ‘17% Covid deaths linked to pollution’Kerala and Assam have a CFR of 0.4%, Telangana 0.5, and Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh 0.9%. CFR of 1% or less is what the Central government is also targeting nationally.In contrast, the researchers’ have highlighted that more developed states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab have a CFR of 2% or more.Various developmental parameters were looked at as part of the study that includes quality of water and sanitation, and Covid-19 deaths per million population in at least 100 countries. The researchers found that the poorer the water-sanitation quality, the fewer were deaths per million population due to the viral disease as these conditions impacted a person’s overall immunity.Several experts have also been saying that there could be a correlation between lower Covid-19 fatality rate and improved immunity due to the living conditions as a person gets exposed to a variety of disease-causing microbes.“In India, the severity of infection seems to be low because our immunity levels are better modulated to fight off any infections as compared to Europeans and Americans. In fact, other viruses kill more. However, the infectivity rate of this virus is quite high so infections could go up in the future. Deaths will remain low,” said Dr NK Mehra, former head, transplant, immunology and immunogenetics, All India Institute of Medical Science, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/poor-hygiene-unsanitary-conditions-could-lead-to-fewer-deaths-due-to-covid-19-study/story-hdKdhdVC4JLdr8scHG8d9I.html
28-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Over 3,200 people booked for not wearing masks during Durga Puja||Kolkata Police had booked at least 3,270 people for not wearing masks during the five days of Durga Puja amid a sharp spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city and the rest of West Bengal during the biggest festive occasion in the state.Bengal on Monday had added 4,121 new Covid-19 cases, which was the second-highest in the country after Kerala. Kerala had topped the chart with 4,287 cases, and Maharashtra (3.645) was ranked third. “The state government had made the use of masks mandatory in April. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been urging the public to wear masks. At least 3,270 people were booked between Sasthi (October 22) and Dashami (October 26) for not wearing masks in public places,” said a Kolkata Police official. Also read | 5 killed in boat capsize during Durga idol immersion in BengalThe social media platforms were flooded with pictures of the public not wearing masks during the puja days and while shopping in market places during the festive season. Kolkata, which was reporting around 500 new Covid-19 cases a day in the first week of September, is recording around 900 fresh viral infections daily.Kolkata Police had purportedly lowered its guard in early October against those who were not wearing masks in public places. On an average, 160 people were booked daily between October 5 and October 11. More than 300 people were booked daily between September 5 and September 11. Around 410 violators were booked daily in August. The vigil against such violators was increased ahead of the Durga pujas, when Kolkata started reporting a spike in Covid-19 cases. Kolkata Police had booked at least 2,631 people between October 16 and 20. In the preceding six days, another 787 violators were booked. The state government had given a grant of Rs 50,000 each to around 34,000 Durga puja committees in a bid to rein in the spread of the contagion. The Calcutta high court (HC) had directed the Durga puja committee to use the money to distribute masks and sanitisers among revellers. A doctors’ forum had warned the Bengal government that any laxity during the festive season could lead up to a four-fold spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-over-3-200-people-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-during-durga-puja/story-TQBSFjf8UX9GEWVrsbm1uO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC stays order asking Videocon founder Venugopal Dhoot to deposit Rs 6.75 crore in a cheque-bouncing case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday stayed a magisterial order issued in February directing Venugopal Dhoot, the founder of Videocon Industries Limited (VIL), to deposit interim compensation of Rs 6.75 crore in a bounced cheque case involving the company.Justice Revati Mohite Dere stayed the February 24 order passed by a metropolitan magistrate court at Ballard Pier in Mumbai after Dhoot’s counsel, senior advocate Aabad Ponda, pointed out that the VIL founder was not the drawer of the cheque, even though he had signed it as an authorised signatory of the firm.Ponda pointed out that under provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, VIL, and not Dhoot, would be required to deposit any amount, if so directed to by the court. He cited a Supreme Court (SC) ruling in a bid to bolster his argument.Also Read | Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, fearing arrest by CBI, request Bombay HC for early hearingPonda stated that the company was under the control of an Interim Resolution Professional (IRP), which was empowered to represent it in court.The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had acceded to a plea from a consortium of banks and in June 2018 admitted insolvency proceedings against VIL, which once was a multi-billion global conglomerate and the world’s largest picture tube manufacturer. NCLT had appointed the IRP to take charge of VIL’s affairs and from that date the board of directors surrendered its control. Ponda argued that the interim compensation order was infructuous since Dhoot did not plead guilty to the bounced cheque charge.Bank of Maharashtra lodged the complaint regarding the bounced cheque and Dhoot filed the petition through advocate Akash Menon.The petition stated that in October 2014, VIL had approached the bank for a working capital term loan of Rs 450 crore. The proposal was approved by the bank on October 22, when the loan agreement was signed by the two parties concerned.Dhoot claimed that VIL authorities were made to submit blank and signed cheques to the bank at the time of execution of the loan agreement. Later in April 2017, the bank declared VIL’s loan account a non-performing asset (NPA).Dhoot claimed that in June 2018, the bank made a bid to encash Rs 33.50 crore through a cheque.The bank initiated proceedings under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 after the cheque bounced, following which the metropolitan magistrate court passed the order on February 24.Advocate Menon said the HC has issued a notice to the bank.HC will hear the case next on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-stays-order-asking-videocon-founder-venugopal-dhoot-to-deposit-rs-6-75-crore-in-a-cheque-bouncing-case/story-pVoHJjfJoPRdvtNsro2thJ.html
28-10-2020||Lucknow||Day after Allahabad HC rap, Yogi says will send cow killers to jail||Jitendra Sarin, Haidar Naqvi & Pankaj JaiswalUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has reiterated his pledge to deal firmly with those accused of slaughtering cows within the parameters of the law. Speaking on Tuesday at a rally ahead of the November 3 by-polls in the state, he called cow slaughter unacceptable.Adityanath’s comments came a day after the Allahabad high court expressed concerns over the misuse of the anti-cow slaughter law in Uttar Pradesh and the framing of people while granting bail to one Rahmuddin, who was in jail for alleged bovine killing and sale of beef since August.Adityanath said he is committed to saving the cow and anyone found killing bovines has to go to jail. “To make bovines safe, gaushalas [cow shelters] are being constructed in every district,” Adityanath said. “Protecting cows is everyone’s responsibility.”Also Read: Cow Slaughter Act being misused against the innocent, says Allahabad high courtThe court granted Rahmuddin bail after he pleaded there were no specific allegations against him in the First Information Report filed in the case. Rahimuddin maintained he was not arrested from the place where the cow was allegedly killed and that it was not ascertained that the meat recovered was beef or not.The court noted the law was being misused against innocent people. “Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat beef] without getting it examined or analysed... In most of the cases, meat is not sent for analysis. Accused persons continue to remain in jail for the offence that may not have been committed at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-concerned-about-misuse-of-law-yogi-adityanath-reiterates-pledge-to-go-after-cow-killers/story-lpV6YS1gErElGuJ5usJ7VK.html
28-10-2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur Sainik School to incorporate modern technology and Indian heritage: UP CM||The buildings of the proposed Sainik School in Gorakhpur should incorporate modern technology along with rich Indian cultural heritage, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials on Tuesday.The chief minister said this while a presentation was made to him in connection with the construction of the building.As per an official release, the chief minister said that the residential, as well as non-residential buildings, should be constructed in view of future requirements.“Buildings should be considered to be constructed vertically, so that availability of sports grounds can be ensured as per requirement. The construction process should be completed in a phased and time-bound manner,” the chief minister said. He further said that the architecture of the Sainik School building should symbolise India and its rich cultural heritage.“Its form should reflect Indian tradition and culture. The construction of buildings and schools showcases the glory and valour Indian legends, heroes and freedom fighters. Its style should be excellent and lively. Incorporate technology and design in construction in coordination with Indian heritage as well as modernity,” the chief minister added.The release added that officials apprised the chief minister that arrangements regarding multipurpose hall, auditorium, solar lighting system and CCTV, horticulture and organic farming, cowshed, meditation centre, shooting range, horse riding and swimming pool are being ensured in the construction of proposed Sainik School.Uttar Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority Vice President General RP Shahi, Additional Chief Secretary Secondary Education Aradhana Shukla, Principal Secretary Public Works Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, and Secretary Chief Minister Alok Kumar, along with other officials were present during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/gorakhpur-sainik-school-to-incorporate-modern-technology-and-indian-heritage-up-cm/story-IfGTKrSw9cFaTfLYVZLqkN.html
28-10-2020||Kolkata||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s heath continues to be critical but stable||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition was stable but critical, doctors treating him said late on Tuesday night. Chatterjee, 85, tested positive for Covid-19 on October 6. He was hospitalised in Kolkata and put on ventilator support on Monday afternoon.“His health condition was critical. But we have managed to stabilise the parameters. There has been not much change in terms of improvement or deterioration,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading a team of doctors treating the thespian, told media late on Tuesday.During the day doctors said his gastrointestinal bleeding had stopped and the urine output had increased to “acceptable levels”. The worrying factor was that the urea and creatinine levels were going up. Nephrologists were exploring options whether he would need some support in the form of renal replacement therapy. His platelet count was stable.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“We are now mostly dealing with secondary infections and their repercussions. We are expecting that he would respond to medications that have been given and that his kidney function would bounce back,” said Kar.One of the most celebrated actors in Bengal, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, National Awards, and Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series.“As of now, our priorities are to correct the renal function and stop the deterioration of any other organs. The main issue that has been bothering us over the past few days is his consciousness level,” Kar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/actor-soumitra-chatterjee-s-heath-continues-to-be-critical-but-stable/story-pBQGUJMZ97ortoE3JIMmNK.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Amid travel restrictions, two Indians caught smuggling gold at Mumbai international airport||Two Indians arriving from Dubai were caught with gold at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International (CSMI) airport on Monday. The two passengers arriving from two different flights smuggled over 1.2kg of gold worth Rs 59 lakh. This is when the Indian government has imposed restrictions on international flight operations. Officials of Mumbai airport Customs detained Farooqui Rehman after he had landed from Dubai on GoAir’s flight G8 4012 at 7.50 am. The Indian national was carrying 705 gm gold worth Rs 3,219,294. Though the customs officials seized the gold, they had yet to release the passenger.In the second case, Panni Mohammad, who also arrived from Dubai, was detained for smuggling gold. Mohammad travelled by SpiceJet’s SG 174 and was caught in the green channel of the arrival hall. He is also an Indian national and was carrying 575gm of gold worth Rs 2,625,666. Also read | Role of elusive businessman in Kerala smuggling racket baffles probe teamThis is not the first case where a passenger arriving from Dubai has been caught. On October 8, Customs caught a man who arrived on a flight from Dubai. On searching him, officials found 24 carat crude gold chains and one bangle, weighing 548g, all of it worth Rs 24.5 lakh.In the first week of October too, Customs seized 1,127g of gold dust worth Rs 45 lakh that had been concealed in the cavities of three Indians who arrived from Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-travel-restrictions-two-indians-caught-smuggling-gold-at-mumbai-international-airport/story-7uYnf9PjmFgmr6k50AlArI.html
28-10-2020||Education||Uncertainty looms over FYJC admissions as SC adjourns Maratha quota hearing||Uncertainty looms over admissions to first year junior colleges(FYJC) in Maharashtra now that the Supreme Court has adjourned the hearing in the Maratha reservation case by four weeks.On Tuesday, the apex court adjourned the hearing on the reconsideration petition to the court’s earlier interim order staying the Maratha quota in jobs and education. While the state education department was expected to announce a decision with respect to FYJC admissions after the hearing, it failed to do so due to the adjournment. The state Cabinet meeting, which was supposed to be held on October 28, has also been pushed to October 29.“The decision of restarting FYJC admissions was to be taken after the Cabinet nod in this regard. However, with the development in the apex court and the postponement of the Cabinet meeting, a decision in the issue is still pending,” said an official from the state education department.Also read | Mumbai students may face academic hurdles due to SC stay on FYJC admissions: ExpertsOn September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. With this, the second merit list for admissions, which was scheduled to be out on September 10, was not released. It’s been over a month now and admissions are yet to restart, leaving over 242,000 students in the lurch in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone. Of these, only 2,923 students have applied for seats under the Maratha quota against 17,844 seats reserved under the quota. Nearly 400,000 students have applied for admissions across six divisions in the state this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/uncertainty-looms-over-fyjc-admissions-as-sc-adjourns-maratha-quota-hearing/story-1FD23lSexwnqBUs8GpMu9J.html
28-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Puja pandal gutted by fire in Salt Lake before immersion||A fire broke out at a Durga Puja pandal, where the idol immersion is yet to take place, at around 6.20 am on Wednesday at FD Block in Salt Lake. Fortunately, nobody was injured, but the pandal was totally gutted. The blaze was brought under control by four fire tenders. West Bengal minister for fire and emergency services Sujit Bose visited the spot. “The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Fire tenders reached the spot within 15 minutes. But the pandal was damaged before the fire brigade personnel could reach the spot,” Bose said. Local residents said closed circuit TV (CCTV) cameras were dismantled at night on Tuesday, as the idols were to be immersed later on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-puja-pandal-gutted-by-fire-in-salt-lake-before-immersion/story-yyvUQRo510uLS3b9j3G2DL.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Killer takes photograph on mobile phone after pumping bullets into rival||A closed-circuit TV (CCTV) footage of the murder of a 35-year-old man near Nawada Housing Complex at Uttam Nagar in south-west Delhi last week, is doing the rounds on social media, where the alleged killer is seen taking a photograph of his victim on his cellphone, seconds after pumping at least three bullets into him.In the 18-second video clip, the alleged killer -- in a yellow T-shirt and a white towel wrapped around his face-- is first seen chasing a man with a gun in his hand. Soon, they reach a lane, where a CCTV camera is installed. The suspect fires a bullet at the man, who is walking backwards with a red helmet in his arm while looking at his attacker.The bullet pierces the man’s left eye and he falls on the ground. The suspect walks back, only to return and pump at least two more bullets in his victim’s right eye and forehead. Then, the alleged killer takes out a cellphone from his trouser’s pocket and takes the bleeding victim’s photograph before fleeing the crime scene, the footage showed. Also read | Murder convict out on parole kills man over gambling dispute; arrestedOn Tuesday, Delhi Police arrested the father of the alleged killer in connection with the murder case. However, the prime suspect is still at large. The arrested man has been identified as Pawan Gahlot (44), a resident of Nawada village. His absconding son has been identified as Kamal Gahlot. Pawan had allegedly planned the killing of Vikas Mehta, a criminal, who operated under the jurisdiction of Mohan Garden police station, in a bid to avenge the murder of his brother, Praveen alias Golu, who was allegedly killed by Vikas Dalal, a member of Pradeep Solanki’s gang, last year, the police said. “Mehta was an aide of Dalal and also a member of Solanki’s gang. Dalal was also killed in a police encounter last year. Pawan suspected that Mehta was also involved in his brother’s murder conspiracy. He wanted to take revenge for his brother’s death,” said RP Meena, additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Dwarka, Delhi Police. On October 22, the police said, Mehta was loafing around with one of his aides, Puneet Yadav, at a road near Nawada Housing Complex, when Pawan approached them, asking them to go to his office to resolve their differences. They went to Pawan’s office and stayed there for nearly half an hour. “Pawan saw it as an opportunity to kill Mehta. He informed Kamal about Mehta’s presence using his employee’s cellphone. Kamal arrived immediately and opened fire at Mehta, and killed him on the spot. Kamal had fired eight bullets, five of which hit Mehta,” said an official probing the case, requesting anonymity. Officials said multiple teams are conducting raids to nab Kamal and recover the firearm he allegedly used in Mehta’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-killer-takes-photograph-on-mobile-phone-after-pumping-bullets-into-rival/story-nSHduUyZqxseUoA40mXmdL.html
28-10-2020||Gurugram||Woman shot dead by stalker, murder caught on camera||A 20-year-old college student was shot dead on Monday by her stalker and his friend after a botched abduction attempt outside her college in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh, police said, in a chilling incident that sent shock waves across the state and triggered protests by her classmates. Images of the two suspects — officials said one of them is politically connected — were caught in CCTV footage of daylight murder; the duo was arrested from Nuh on Tuesday after a massive search operation, according to police.On Monday afternoon, Touseef Ahmad, a resident of Kabeer Nagar in Sohna, and his friend, Rehaan (who goes by one name only), a resident of Riwasan in Nuh, arrived in a Hyundai i20 and tried to force Nikita Tomar, a B Com final-year student, into the vehicle as she came out of Aggarwal College after writing an exam, police added.After their attempt failed, Touseef chased her down and shot her in the head from a close range around 3.48pm, even as people passed by, showed the video. The suspects escaped from the crime scene, leaving Tomar, who was accompanied by a friend, in a pool of blood. She was rushed to a government hospital, where she was declared brought dead.The woman’s family said that Touseef, who district officials said is the son of a former legislator, had been harassing her for the last two years and asking her to marry him.They added that he had also been persuading her to convert to Islam. Police identified the suspects, tracked their mobile phones and traced them to Nuh. Both of them are third-year students of physiotherapy at Gurugram University. OP Singh, Faridabad police commissioner, said the suspects were arrested after a five-hour search operation. “After the murder, they fled to Nuh and did not reveal the incident to their family members. Their mobile phones were traced to different villages and were arrested,” he said. Haryana chief minister ML Khattar said he asked police to book the suspects under all relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and ensure that they received maximum punishment for the crime. State home minister Anil Vij said the murder weapon (a country-made pistol) has been recovered. “A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed; it is led by Anil Kumar, the assistant commissioner of police (crime) who would ensure quick investigation to ensure justice to the family of the victim,” he said.Anil Yadav, Faridabad assistant commissioner of police (crime), said a case under section 302 (murder) and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered at the Ballabhgarh city police station. “The brother of the deceased, Naveen Tomar, has told police in a statement that the main accused (Touseef) was known to his sister and had been harassing her; he was forcing her to convert to Islam. The brother lodged a complaint against him a few months ago for harassment and molestation, but a compromise was reached”. That wasn’t the first complaint though. “An incident of abduction was reported on August 3, 2018, against the suspect, and the victim was recovered from Nuh…after his family members and relatives apologised, the families had an agreement… Touseef was warned against repeating any such incident,” he added. According to the police, the woman wrote to officials after she returned from Nuh in 2018, saying she went there with her friends and could not inform her parents before leaving in what she termed a misunderstanding.Police said the woman and Touseef were in the same school — he was her senior — and that she had been turning down his advances since 2018. The incident triggered protests and students and local residents blocked the Sohna-Ballabgarh road for several hours on Tuesday.Officials in the district administration, who did not want to be named, said Touseef is the son of a former Congress legislator from Nuh. But Nikita Arora, a Haryana Congress spokesperson, denied any links between the suspect and the party.“The slogans of “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (a central government campaign)” are hollow and the government has failed to ensure the safety and security of women. The accused has no relationship with Congress party,” Arora said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, too, criticised the Khattar government over the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-shot-dead-by-stalker-murder-caught-on-camera/story-4R9q5aMZbStUqehoZ7JkiJ.html
28-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Wine freezer case: Victim’s kin tell cops not to take action||The family members have taken a U-turn in the case of a charred body of a 23-year-old man found from a wine shop’s deep freeze in Kumpur village of Alwar district on Sunday by filing an application, a copy of which HT has seen, that no action should be taken against the accused. However, police will continue with its probe, officials said. “My brother had slept inside the container and locked himself and due to the fire, he died in an accident. Earlier, we thought that it was done by the owners of the wine shop but when we enquired on their role, we found nothing on them. Hence, I request that no action should be taken against the owners,” the application filed by the brother of the accused said. When a family member was asked whether they have taken the case back under any pressure, he hesitantly said, “When we enquired their role didn’t surface.” Ram Moorty Joshi, superintendent of police, Bhiwadi, said the police that they will continue the investigation on the merits of evidences. The deceased, Kamal Kishor, used to work as a salesman at the wine shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-wine-freezer-case-victim-s-kin-tell-cops-not-to-take-action/story-ABTWPypYxrz5jEjX5aJ0nN.html
28-10-2020||Dehradun||HC tells CBI to file FIR, probe allegations against Uttarakhand CM Rawat||Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to register a case and investigate allegations against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.The HC in its 83-page order, while hearing writ petitions filed by Umesh Kumar and Shiv Prasad Semwal, said “...In view of the nature of the allegations, this Court is of the view that the CBI should be directed to lodge an FIR on the basis of allegations levelled...and investigate the case.” According to the allegations in the petition, one Jharkhand-based AS Chauhan had claimed that he knew TS Rawat (present chief minister of Uttarakhand) who was the state in-charge of BJP of Jharkhand had in 2016 struck a deal worth Rs 25 lakh with Rawat (CM) for his appointment as chairman Jharkhand Gau Sewa Aayog. The petition filed by Umesh Kumar, a journalist, also sought quashing of FIR filed against him in July this year. According to HC order, on June 24, 2020, Umesh Kumar uploaded a video on social media, showing documents with certain bank accounts allegedly belonging to Dr Harender Singh Rawat and his wife Savita Rawat, claiming that after demonetisation in 2016, money was deposited in their accounts, which was “meant as a bribe for Trivendra Singh Rawat” . “In the video, the petitioner also claimed that Savita Rawat is the real sister of the wife of TS Rawat”, it said.  In July, Dr Harender Singh Rawat, a retired professor, wrote to police to conduct an inquiry into the allegations. The HC has quashed the FIR against Umesh Kumar and the other petitioner.Welcoming the order, Darshan Singh Rawat, media coordinator of the CM said, “We also want this to be investigated so that people come to know about the truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/hc-tells-cbi-to-file-fir-probe-allegations-against-uttarakhand-cm-rawat/story-wL6j28xCwJ4Qmvhh36CvcN.html
28-10-2020||Patna||1 killed, 27 injured in Munger clash||An 18-year-old man was killed and 27 others injured in a clash during the immersion of Durga idols late on Monday night in Munger town, police said. The injured include 20 policemen, they added.While people present on the spot said that the police opened fire to control the crowd, officials alleged that the devotees participating in the procession fired at the security personnel.Prakash Bhagat, a member of the Durga idol immersion committee said that over 50 idols were installed in the town out of which devotees took 15 for immersion at the Deendayal Chowk on Monday night. Traditionally, the idols are immersed three days after Vijayadashami. However, in view of the first phase of assembly polls scheduled for Wednesday, the administration insisted on the immersion by 5 am on Tuesday.According to people present on the spot, police personnel allegedly beat up devotees participating in the procession around midnight which sparked off a protest with the organisers and devotees demanding action against the personnel.The devotees started pelting stones on the police which prompted a lathi charge, the locals in the area said. Munger’s superintendent of police Lipi Singh, however, said, “The mob pelted stones and opened fire on police which led to the death of one person and injured 27 people including 20 policemen.” The deceased was identified as Anurag Kumar. One of his relatives, Sadhna Kumar, said that he was shot in the head. At least 20 policemen, including SHOs of Sangarmpur, Kotwali, Kasim Bazar, Basudeopur police stations, were also injured, police officials said.“Seven other persons received bullet injuries. One of them was rushed to Bhagalpur in critical condition,” the deputy superintendent of Munger Sadar hospital, Dr Niranjan, said.The situation in the town and surrounding areas continued to be tense on Tuesday even after deployment of personnel from the Bihar Military Police (BMP) and paramilitary forces, apart from the district police officials.“The police later took the help of public representatives to facilitate the immersion. We are seeking video footage from local residents,” Munger district magistrate Rajesh Meena said. The Munger SP said police recovered three firearms, live cartridges and empty bullets from the scene of the clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/1-killed-27-injured-in-munger-clash/story-SMgw5GoAkiU1XWwZcvWZIP.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Single-day Covid-19 cases in Capital touch new peak||The Capital on Tuesday added 4,853 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — the most cases reported in a single-day so far since the first case was detected in the city on March 2. Before this, 4,473 new cases reported on September 16 was the previous single-day case record. The city had seen the first surge in cases in June-July.An expert committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had, earlier this month, warned that Delhi could see up to 15,000 Covid-19 a day during the winter months.  The number of cases picked up after a dip on Sunday when fewer people had been tested. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that returned positive among those tested — however remained well over 8%. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday claimed the positivity rate spike was down to testing the contacts of patients in a “targeted manner”. “If one person tests positive, we are looking for all their family members and contacts and getting them tested. This strategy is being closely monitored. What we have seen is that if one person tests positive, usually several members of the same family test positive,” Jain contended. But experts have also blamed the spike on poor adherence to safety norms such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, as “pandemic fatigue” appears to have kicked in, particularly during the festive season.To be sure, the rise in daily cases coincides with an increase in the number of reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. On average, over 15,200 RT-PCR tests were conducted over the last seven days in Delhi, up from 13,900 the week before, and 10,471 the week before that. RT-PCR tests are more accurate than rapid antigen tests, which constitute about 72% of the tests conducted in the Capital over the last seven days and miss several positive cases. The Centre on Tuesday praised the Capital’s containment efforts, saying nearly 50% of all cases being reported in the city were coming from containment zones. “We have seen the efforts that were being made to contain the disease spread in Delhi that has led to about 50% of the cases being reported from designated containment zones,” said Dr VK Paul during a Union health ministry briefing on Tuesday. Delhi has 3,032 containment zones,as of Tuesday.New cases being reported across the country have declined gradually since September-end, dipping below 50,000 new cases a day this week. But Delhi has witnessed a spike, putting it among the top five states and Union territories reporting the highest number of cases. The Capital also reported 44 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll in the city to 6,356. The number of deaths brought Delhi’s seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – to 1.01% on Tuesday. The cumulative CFR – based on the total number of cases and deaths reported in the city so far – stands at 1.74%, which is higher than the national average of 1.50%. With the increase in the number of cases over the last two weeks, the number of hospitalisations have also started increasing. There were over 5,400 people admitted to city hospitals with the infection as on Monday, up from about 5,100 admissions during the week. However, over 10,000 beds earmarked for the treatment of the pandemic infection continue to be vacant, as per data from the Delhi Corona app. Almost, 60% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds, however, are occupied.“We are trying to put in more Bipap and non invasive ventilation on our existing beds in the wards to create more intensive care beds,” said a senior Delhi government official. “Delhi has been showing an up and down trend — this is the third time numbers are going up. Delhi is a mixing pot of people, and this non-steady-state is expected. There has been a lot of in-migration from other states — with some bringing the infection. That, coupled with the relaxation of discipline has led to a rise in cases,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/single-day-covid-19-cases-in-capital-touch-new-peak/story-ElSBfxzY0kCYFxkCOAsPAO.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Hotel Broadway checks out||The friendly doorman is nowhere to be seen. A printed notice slapped on the glass door says that Hotel Broadway is closed —“Since the running of... is no longer economically viable, the management is constrained to close down the same with effect from 21st May... workmen are being paid closure compensation...”A piece of Delhi is now history.Broadway’s closure was not reported until now. It shut down so noiselessly that the news would have gone unnoticed but for a chance occasion of coming face-to-face with its locked door. Like many businesses these days, the landmark fell victim to Covid-19. “It was heavily dependent on foreign tourists,” said Mukta Kapoor, Group Head - Communications of Old World Hospitality Group that owns the property. “With the social distancing norms and lack of tourist inflow expected to continue in the foreseeable future, it was thought best to shut down,” she added.The destination will, however, continue to live in outdated guidebooks. It finds a quaint mention in the Lonely Planet India, 2019 edition—“Five-storey Hotel Broadway was Delhi’s first “high-rise”, when it opened in 1956, with single room going for 15 rupees. Today, it’s comfortable, charming, quirky and slightly more expensive. It’s worth staying here for the restaurant Chor Bizarre and Thugs Bar. Some rooms have old-fashioned wood panelling, while others have been kitted out by French designer Catherine Levy.”Opened with 26 rooms, Broadway enjoyed a unique location among hotels — it stood at the point where New Delhi gives way to the old city, on Asaf Ali Road, just a picturesque stroll from the Walled City. For many Delhiwale, it was the hotel’s Kashmiri speciality restaurant, Chor Bizarre, that was the stuff memories were made of. Late actor Shashi Kapoor often dropped by during his visits to the Capital, according to many anecdotes told to this reporter by the restaurant waiters in the recent past. Shashi Kapoor would always say in Hindustani that “Janab (sir), what will you serve me today… Give me whatever you feel like, but please give it from the heart.” Pakistani leader Nawaz Sharif had a lunch here in 1991 when he was in town to attend Rajiv Gandhi’s funeral.Stepping into the dimly lit restaurant was like entering into a black-and-white Bollywood classic. Old Hindi songs played in a loop. It was impossible to finish the delicious Tabaak Maaz and Haakh without hearing the same Mohammed Rafi song from the Dev Anand film Guide at least twice. The restaurant’s decor had all the madcap curios you’d expect from a place whose name puns on “chor bazaar”, or thief market. Each table was different. One had sewing machine pedals. Another had Kashmiri jewellery displayed under its glass top. A staircase that went up to nowhere was a showstopper. The buffet’s salads and chaat would be arranged on a 1927 Fiat Balilla. The buffet was discontinued some years ago, but the car remained, and diners would get photographs taken by the stewards, some of whom were long-time servers who gave the restaurant its courtesy, class, and gravitas.Chor Bizarre came up only in 1990 though. Earlier, the Broadway’s in-house guests dined upstairs in a no-frills hall. Upstairs was also home to Thugs, the bar famous for its portraits of iconic Hindi film villains. As the only watering hole in this part of the city where one could while away an afternoon with whiskey or vodka, it was truly special. One often spotted the same set of middle-aged gloomy men sitting on their regular tables, alone and self-immersed.This morning the hotel’s exterior is looking as morose. A lone bicycle is parked by the hotel sign. Meanwhile, there is no decision on what use the building will be put to in the future, according to the owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-hotel-broadway-checks-out/story-qq7DyQ6QEfOVtmKBEqsUTJ.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||New land laws strengthen idea of India: J&K BJP chief||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday welcomed new land laws announced by the Centre for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and dismissed allegations of Kashmir-centric parties that the BJP was selling out Jammu and Kashmir to outsiders. Reacting to the claims of the Opposition, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina called it a ‘propaganda of the unholy Gupkar Alliance’. “If people from Jammu and Kashmir can purchase land and settle in other parts of India then why cannot people from other parts settle in J&K? India is one nation and the new land laws strengthen the idea of India,” Raina said. “J&K is an integral part of India. If a citizen of J&K can purchase land, establish businesses and live in any part of the country then why cannot a citizen of India live in J&K? Any citizen of India is entitled to live in J&K because J&K is an integral and inseparable part of India. There is nothing wrong in it,” he said, adding that Article 370 and 35-A were a stumbling block against the complete integration of Jammu and Kashmir. “The Opposition is trying to create a controversy out of the new land laws,” he said. Former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta also welcomed the new land laws and said, “If we can go and settle anywhere and purchase land then why cannot they? It has strengthened our slogan of ‘one India. Earlier, when Article 370 existed, our daughters getting married to outsiders were deprived of their right to property in J&K”. Gupta also said that the new laws will also give an impetus to the investment and business in J&K and in turn will provide employment to the youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-land-laws-strengthen-idea-of-india-j-k-bjp-chief/story-txXwrkGrGEULmsbdOqRY1H.html
28-10-2020||City||KDMC seizes 50-kg plastic from Kalyan APMC market||In a surprise drive against the use of plastic, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) seized 50kg of plastic bags from Kalyan’s APMC market on Tuesday morning. The drive was conducted around 4.30am by a joint team of KDMC officials and police personnel. The team checked stalls of vegetable and flower vendors and seized 50kg of plastic bags. Those using and stocking plastic bags were fined. The civic body collected fines worth ₹32,000. Bhagaji Bhangre, ward officer, KDMC, said, “Drives against plastic use are carried out at regular intervals in KDMC limits. We had many complaints of plastic being used in the APMC market. We, therefore, visited the market on Tuesday morning and found many vendors with plastic bags. Some had even stocked the bags.” The drive continued till 7am, by which time the entire market was inspected. “The seized items will be sent to our plant at Barave for recycling. Such drives will continue in different places,” added Bhangre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-seizes-50-kg-plastic-from-kalyan-apmc-market/story-ohPZL4kfgevVTh5t0o90IN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad high-speed railway corridor project moves a step forward||The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) on Tuesday announced that it will prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad high-speed railway corridor project. The high-speed rail corridor project is expected to reduce travel time by 50%. Presently, the Central Railway (CR) operates Hussainsagar Express, which is the fastest train between Mumbai and Hyderabad. The train takes 13 hours to complete the 711-km journey. The DPR will include identification of land requirements, number of railway stations, construction of station premises, identifying overhead and underground utilities.The survey will also include identification of power sourcing for the railway corridor project. “The DPR will include complete information about the project. Once the DPR is prepared, the process to acquire land will begin,” said a senior NHSRCL official.“First tender for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad High Speed Rail Corridor (711 km approx.) floated today.” tweeted NHSRCL. Apart from the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed railway corridor, seven other high-speed corridors will be constructed by NHSRCL. The corridors include Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad (767km), Delhi-Varanasi (865km), Mumbai-Nagpur (753km), Delhi-Ahmedabad (886km), Chennai- Bengaluru-Mysore (435km), Delhi-Amritsar (459km) and Varanasi-Patna-Howrah (760km).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-pune-hyderabad-high-speed-railway-corridor-project-moves-a-step-forward/story-6ESgHXfKEYEOC816zurQAN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Ghatkopar death: Mumbai civic body report inconclusive as manhole lid found in place, no eyewitnesses||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) inquiry into the death of woman who fell into a drain at Ghatkopar on October 3, remains inconclusive. The inquiry report submitted on Friday last week, states that the old manhole cover was in place when the civic body staff visited the site for inspection, and no eyewitness came forward to recount the incident or own up that they had removed or replaced the drain cover.In absence of such evidence, the report claims it is unable to conclude what happened on October 3. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has now directed the ward office to lodge a first information report (FIR) with Mumbai Police to continue with the inquiry, check CCTV footage of the area, or find eyewitnesses to the incident and record their statements.A 32-year-old woman, identified as Sheetal Dama, had died after falling into an open manhole near Global Hospital in Ghatkopar (East) on the evening of October 3. On October 4, locals spotted a bag of wheat flour near an open drain and the members of Dama’s family were informed. The fire brigade and BMC staff from the stormwater drains department conducted rescue and search operations for the missing person, but called it off after having no success by the end of the day. Dama’s body was later recovered by the locals near Haji Ali in Worli on the morning of October 5. BMC then set up an inquiry under deputy municipal commissioner (infrastructure) with a 15-day deadline to submit the report.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the stormwater drains department said, “When a team of civic body officials visited the spot for inquiry, the original cover was in place, but the BMC had not replaced it. No one came forward to own up that they had replaced the cover. There were no eyewitnesses to the incident either. No one saw the woman falling into the manhole. We have been unable to determine what happened.”BMC also said, the fact that the woman fell into the drain can be established circumstantially, as a bag of groceries she was carrying was found lying near the manhole the next morning, whereas it is not possible to conclude the events in the absence of above facts.“There is no question of taking action against anybody as we have not been able to conclude what happened. Police can determine if an element of mischief is involved in the incident,” Velarasu said.In 2017, renowned doctor Deepak Amrapurkar died after falling down an open manhole near Elphinstone Road when the area was inundated after heavy rain. It was later investigated that a local had removed the manhole cover to quicken the pace of water draining out of a waterlogged street. Following this, BMC had decided to install protective grills under the manhole covers.As per data available with Hindustan Times, until June this year, BMC has installed 2,772 protective grills under manhole covers across Mumbai, of which 2,008 are in the island city, 203 in the western suburbs, and 399 in the eastern suburbs. Velarasu said, “After that incident, BMC has been issuing strict instructions to all ward staff to regularly inspect manhole covers. We receive a monthly report about it. This is a very sensitive issue and is taken seriously by the civic body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ghatkopar-death-mumbai-civic-body-report-inconclusive-as-manhole-lid-found-in-place-no-eyewitnesses/story-8vH0fjZfXVIsLzFPH7w5gO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s minimum temperature drops slightly but winter still a month away, says IMD||The Mumbai suburbs on Tuesday experienced a nip in the air as minimum temperatures dropped to 22 degrees Celsius, a three-degree drop from 25 degrees Celsius the previous day. The Santacruz weather station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 33.5 degree Celsius, and minimum temperature of 22.2 degrees Celsius – one degree below the normal temperature of 23 degrees Celsius. The Colaba station recorded a maximum temperature of 32.2 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperature of around 23 degree Celsius with partly cloudy sky is expected over the next two days, according to IMD’s forecast.The meteorological bureau clarified that while temperatures have dropped and may remain low for the next couple of days, winter is still at least a month away. “Temperature dropped slightly on Tuesday, but it is not an indication of the onset of winter. As monsoon will start withdrawing from Mumbai, it is expected that humidity will decrease and temperatures will be recorded around 22-23 degrees. Low temperatures may continue for a couple more days,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. However, the onset of winter will begin only in December, as per usual, he added. There was no change in the withdrawal line of monsoon from north Maharashtra. IMD had declared the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from north Maharashtra on Monday. Withdrawal is likely to start on Wednesday. The line of withdrawal passes through Dahanu in north Konkan, Nashik, north-central Maharashtra, parts of Marathwada and entire Vidarbha. Monsoon withdrawal from other parts of the Konkan coast including Mumbai is expected over the next 24 hours, the IMD said. This is expected to be one of the most delayed withdrawals from the city in the past 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-minimum-temperature-drops-slightly-winter-still-a-month-away-says-imd/story-0Hxwk9GRJzZVVvsTjlAsTL.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sessions court rejects pre-arrest bail plea of retired bank manager||The sessions court rejected the anticipatory bail plea of a 63-year-old retired bank manager who was arrested for ‘casually’ sanctioning a loan worth ₹2.50 crores to property without proper verification of a company, which later turned out to be fake.Balkrishna Vyas, a resident of Indore, was the bank manager of Bank of India when the alleged fraud took place in 2014. As per the complaint lodged with Mahim police on May 26, 2018, by Rafiq Maniyar, one Sunil Gupta had availed the loan of ₹2.50 crore by mortgaging his property illegally to Bank of India, Kalbadevi branch. According to an informant, in the year 2014, due to financial issues, he approached co-accused Sharad Rochlani through mediator for selling his property situated at Dasai Naka, Murbad. Rochlani gave him ₹8 lakh as a token amount and informant gave him documents of his property. In the year 2016, he received notice of Bank of India. On enquiry, he learnt that his property is mortgaged by Rochlani for availing the loan in the name of Sunil Gupta.On the complaint, the Mahim police summoned the bank manager to join the investigation. Fearing arrest, Vyas approached the court for pre-arrest bail and claimed after receipt of the loan application, a necessary procedure like spot inspection, search report from registrar office and other miscellaneous things were done with due diligence. He has no concern with the fraud committed by the co-accused.The prosecution objected to the plea and claimed the loan which is sanctioned for expansion of Gayatri Export Company is a fictitious company. The applicant has misused his authority and caused wrongful loss to the bank and wrongful gain to the co-accused. It is further contended that the applicant and other bank employees are also involved in the alleged scam.The court while rejecting the plea observed that, “Survey of the application and appended documents indicates that applicant being custodian has processed the loan proposal hastily without verifying the loan documents. The co-accused who are bank employees had visited the spot and submitted a fake report at the connivance of the applicant. Though the loan was sanctioned for expansion of Gayatri Export Company, all the documents are found false and fabricated. The loan of ₹2.5 crore is sanctioned casually.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sessions-court-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-retired-bank-manager/story-oL8B7wsMrOahCwOJguQllM.html
28-10-2020||City||350 project-hit people detained for protest against Navi Mumbai airport project||A large number of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) of Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) project marched to Cidco Bhavan on Tuesday with their long-standing demands for jobs and extension of rents.Around 350 protestors who had planned a gherao at the Cidco building were forcefully stopped by the police and were detained at various police stations. Cidco authorities claimed that it has fulfilled all the commitments made by it.Even as Cidco claimed that the airport project was on track with more than 90 per cent land having been acquired and the local villagers supporting the project, there have been protests over the years with PAPs of the 10 villages acquired, claiming that Cidco has not been fulfilling its promises.The protest on Tuesday was the latest in the series and comprised large number of women PAPs who raised slogans against Cidco and demanded justice. Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) trustee and leader of the PAPs, Bhushan Patil, said “Cidco has been taking all of us for a ride. It has not fulfilled several promises made. Today (Tuesday) the police prevented us from protesting. Protests are taking place all over the country. Why are we not being allowed our right?”Speaking of the demands, Patil stated, “The PAPs want jobs for their children as they have lost their livelihood of agriculture, salt pans among others due to the land acquisition and the project. The house rent given for 18 months should also be extended till the project is completed and the PAPs are rehabilitated. Several PAPs are not getting the rent.”Patil added that the Navi Mumbai NMIA committee under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha had protested for 38 days in December-January last for the demands and had been assured by Cidco that they would be met, but nothing was fulfilled.Ashok Mhatre, a PAP, said, “The 12 Balutedar communities in the villages that have been acquired rendered various services in the villages and did not have land. Cidco should rehabilitate them as they have no other option left in the absence of the villages now. The farmers and the fisher folk have lost their livelihood. So, we all should be compensated well by Cidco. The construction package for the houses should also be increased as the costs have increased over the years.”Krishna Patil, a woman protestor, claimed that Cidco made false claims. She said Cidco made tall claims in its relief and rehabilitation package but most of them are only on paper. She added, “We still have not been accommodated in the new areas that were being developed for us. We have been left in a lurch. We have lost our land and livelihood. We did not go to Cidco, but it came to us seeking our land.”When contacted, Cidco public relations officer Priya Ratambe said, “There is nothing to add to what we have repeatedly stated. Cidco has fulfilled all the demands of the PAPs as per the instructions of the state government and its approved R&R package. We have not gone back on any commitment and, in fact, fulfilled all of them. We are now awaiting the construction of the terminal building of the project.”Dinkar Mohite, senior inspector at CBD Belapur police station, said, “We have detained 350 persons as they had gathered without permission. After bringing them here at the police station, the persons have been sent to different police stations where they are currently detained. As of now, we have booked them for unlawful assembly and violation of orders under the Indian Penal Code.”Officials said they have not decided yet if any of the protestors on Tuesday against Cidco would be placed under arrest.(With inputs by Farhan Shaikh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/350-project-hit-people-detained-for-protest-against-navi-mumbai-airport/story-24x4sOmjm098ohVxxfniAL.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Dog bite cases in Mumbai drop by 50% during the lockdown; Doctors warn of rise of cases with ease in restrictions||During the lockdown, the city recorded approximately 50% fewer cases of dog bites. As of September, there have been 41,337 cases in Mumbai, which is the lowest recorded in nine months since 2001. Doctors have warned of increased cases with restrictions being eased.According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai recorded 24,285 cases of dog bites this year between March and September. Compared to this year’s daily average of 90 cases of dog bites in this period, the daily average in the corresponding period in 2019 was 180 cases. Between March and September 2019, the city had recorded 48,706 cases of dog bites. “As the movement of people was restricted, cases of dog bites decreased drastically. Last year, we had recorded over 85,000 cases [in total]. So far, in the last nine months, we have just got around 41,000 cases,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health official, BMC. The civic body’s data shows 6,466 cases of dog bites in March, followed by 3,504 in April; 2,880 in May; 2,809 in June; and 2,622 in July. In August, there was a marginal increase to 2,700 and September saw a spike, with 3,284 reported cases. Children and rag pickers make up the majority of dog bite cases. “These cases of bites include pets. Dogs often get agitated during their breeding period and they tend to bite in retaliation,” said Gomare.Bite cases are treated at the 100 anti-rabies vaccination (ARV) centres in Mumbai, located in various civic hospitals. The vaccines are provided free of cost. “As a precautionary measure, even when a dog scratches a person, they take ARV. So all registered cases are genuine,” said Dr Yogesh Shetye, general manager of Deonar Abattoir.Cases registered as dog bites include bites or scratches from cats, rats and monkeys. Animal bites can be dangerous because they can transmit rabies, a virus spread to humans from the saliva of infected animals. “In 99% of the cases, rabies is fatal. It takes 12 days to a few months for the virus to reach the brain, depending on the location of virus entry and viral load. As the virus spreads to the central nervous system, it leads to fatal inflammation of the brain and spinal cord. There is no specific treatment for rabies except a preventive vaccination,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital.Last year, there was one case of an eight-year-old boy who contracted rabies and died but had no history of a dog bite. Doctors suspected he may have contracted the virus by being licked or scratched by an infected street dog.During the lockdown, vaccination of animals was impacted. “The number of daily vaccinations at our hospital fell by more than 60%. However, the situation has improved in the last month,” said Colonel (retired) Dr JC Khanna, of Bai Sakarbai Dinshaw Petit Hospital for Animals, in Parel. He added, “With the relaxation in the lockdown, cases of dog bite might increase as more people will step out.”Khanna said many street animals have developed malnutrition during the lockdown and advised people to exercise caution around them. “Hundreds of street animals were left hungry. Even though several NGOs [non-governmental organisations] are providing food, we are still receiving dogs and cats with malnutrition. Also, hunger often makes these animals irritated, and when they see humans with masks, they get suspicious and start barking,” he said.For 24 wards in Mumbai, BMC has 12 dog-catching vans and four NGOs work with animal vaccination in Malad, Bandra, Mahalaxmi and Mulund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dog-bite-cases-in-mumbai-drop-by-50-during-the-lockdown-doctors-warn-of-rise-of-cases-with-ease-in-restrictions/story-whfmRaQvyOjIKvL1p3ZXBL.html
28-10-2020||City||Prepare action plan for PMC Bank similar to the one made for Yes Bank: Maharashtra speaker tells RBI||Maharashtra legislative Assembly speaker Nana Patole directed central bank officials to prepare an action plan to provide a relief to nine lakh depositors of Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Patole in a joint meeting of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and state government officials on Tuesday asked RBI to keep in mind the interest of the depositors and chalk out a plan similar to the one made to bail out Yes Bank depositors. The speaker also directed authorities to provide fortnightly status reports on the website for the depositors. Patole, in the meeting held at Vidhan Bhavan, said, “The appointed administrator, arbitrators and RBI must take immediate steps to sell off the properties [seized of the accused in the case] and the sum raised [from them] be used in the functioning of the bank. Like RBI bailed out Yes Bank when it was in trouble, they must prepare an action plan to give respite to 9 lakh depositors of PMC Bank too.” The meeting was attended by RBI’s assistant general manager Abhinav Pushp, state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, co-operative department principal secretary Abha Shukla, and Siddhesh Pandey and Nikhil Vora who were representatives of a committee of PMC Bank’s depositors. Over a year since the RBI superseded the board of the Mumbai-based PMC Bank after discovering major financial irregularities and fraud by the financial institutions board members, the RBI-appointed administrator is yet to succeed in finding a resolution plan for the bank. According to a statement by the speaker’s office, Pushp acknowledged during the meeting that several transactions of PMC Bank were not recorded at all. Account-holders and depositors of PMC bank have alleged that the sense of urgency shown by the central bank in the bailout of the private bank was not shown to give relief to depositors of PMC Bank. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena legislator Ravindra Waikar wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union financial minister Nirmala Sitharaman to restart the activities of PMC Bank. Waikar in his letters said that it has been over a year that the accounts of “innocent investors” have been frozen for “no fault of theirs”. He argued that depositors are unable to withdraw their life’s savings in cases of medical emergency and for festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prepare-action-plan-for-pmc-bank-similar-to-the-one-made-for-yes-bank-maharashtra-speaker-tells-rbi/story-Yn6b5nGUqhDZavrxlUseiJ.html
28-10-2020||City||Two stab man in Navi Mumbai, over borrowed money, arrested||The Rabale police have arrested two autorickshaw drivers for stabbing a 28-year-old man’s neck over a monetary dispute. One of the accused was having a dispute as the latter asked him to return a borrowed loan amount of ₹26,000. The victim Chandrakant Bhosale, a resident of Rabale, was at home when the accused duo Amol Khare, 32, and Kalpesh Tambe, 24, showed up at his house around 7.15pm on Sunday. The duo told Bhosale they need to talk to him about money and asked him to walk outside with them. The men got into a heated argument, during which the accused held Bhosale and stabbed him on the neck. The accused men used a sharp blade to attack Bhosale, said police. “Khare had taken ₹26,000 on loan from Bhosale’s friend Rahul Ghadsi. However, he was not returning the money on time over which Bhosale had been asking him repeatedly to repay the amount soon,” said Sandeep Patil, assistant inspector at Rabale police station. Around 8pm, an injured Bhosale bleeding from his neck landed at Rabale police station. The police then shifted him to a nearby hospital where he was admitted. Following the incident, and based on preliminary details from Bhosale, the police began to hunt for Khare and his accomplice. Within an hour, the police managed to trace the duo with the help of informant network in Ghansoli, from where they were arrested. The duo has been booked on charges of attempt to murder. They were produced before a magistrate and have been remanded in police custody till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-stab-man-in-navi-mumbai-over-borrowed-money-arrested/story-EBoJ5aIVHz8nlUvNbuY2bN.html
28-10-2020||City||Man stabs sister-in-law in Bhiwandi, near Mumbai, booked||The Bhiwandi police booked a 35-year-old man for allegedly stabbing his sister-in-law in a fit of rage. The accused was angry as her children who would visit his house to play and disturb him. The accused Shahid Ansari, 35, is absconding. According to police, the incident happened on Monday at 11.30pm near Handi compound of Bhiwandi. According to complainant Khurshid Ansari, 30, the husband of the victim Najma Ansari,25, the accused worked as a power-loom worker and resided in the same area. “Najma’s two children often visited Shahid’s place to play with his two children. Few months ago, Shahid had a fight with Khurshid on the issue, but later the women sorted the matter and the children started visiting each other’s place. On Monday, Shahid saw the two children playing with his kids. He then went to Khurshid’s house and an argument broke out between them. Najma intervened and tried to pacify the situation. The accused then took out a knife and stabbed her thrice. He then fled from the spot.” The Bhoiwada police reached the spot after residents informed them about the incident. Senior police inspector, K Karpe said, “We have admitted her to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa and registered a caseagainst the accused. We have started search for him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabs-sister-in-law-in-bhiwandi-near-mumbai-booked/story-81Ib9AFmvR8PFX0XQ3nUCP.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Committee probing Mumbai power outage to submit report by November 5||A committee appointed by the state government to probe the Mumbai power outage has been given an extension till November 5 to submit its report. State energy minister had constituted the committee on October 21 to submit a report within a week. However, it has been given an extension considering the extent of the probe. The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has also constituted a committee, which is expected to submit an interim report within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/committee-probing-mumbai-power-outage-to-submit-report-by-november-5/story-Og5pwkIJRx6BGUbqKNAdFI.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Outstation passengers at Mumbai’s CSMT now screened at QR gates||Central Railway (CR) recently started the use of flap gates with quick response (QR) codes for screening of outstation train passengers at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The system will also be introduced at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Churchgate station and other passenger terminals in the city. Passengers have to place the QR code generated on their e-tickets at the entry points of the station for validation of their tickets. The tickets will be generated through the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. Passengers who purchase their tickets from booking windows will receive QR codes on their mobile phones.“Flap gates with QR code have been installed at CSMT. Passengers are being screened. The gates will facilitate safe travel and promote social distancing between passengers,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.The railways, along with the state government, have also introduced QR codes for essential service employees travelling by local trains.The QR code system has been introduced at CSMT, Dadar, Mulund, Kurla, Thane, Diva, Ghatkopar, Dombivli, Kalyan, Byculla, Wadala, Mankhurd, Panvel, Titvala and Badlapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outstation-passengers-at-mumbai-s-csmt-now-screened-at-qr-gates/story-UnLXRWiaQnsd2uYvTYXEeN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||GATE registration portal reopened for candidates to make changes||The Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) 2021 registration portal is being reopened for successfully registered candidates to modify/change choice of city of exam, paper and category. This option is being made available to candidates due to the ongoing lockdown and the organising committee has also added 11 new cities across the country in order to give more options to candidates. Such changes, one or more, can only be done once by a candidate anytime between October 28 and November 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gate-registration-portal-reopened-for-candidates-to-make-changes/story-MxUqEkVbe1sHweMprFUbaO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Man stabs TV actor in Mumbai for turning down proposal||Television actor Malvi Malhotra, 29, was stabbed with a knife thrice allegedly by a producer, Yogeshkumar Singh, whose marriage proposal she had rejected in the past, in Versova on Monday night. An attempt to murder case has been registered at Versova police station. The actor is currently undergoing treatment at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Andheri (West) for injuries to her back and hands. Prashant Bajaj, Malhotra’s friend, said, “She was in Dubai for a shoot and had returned to Mumbai on October 25. As she had given her car for service, she decided to go walking to a nearby coffee shop at Versova for a meeting on Monday. Around 9 pm, as was walking back after finishing her meeting, Singh came from behind in his car and offered to drop her. She refused and continued to walk.” Singh then parked his car, came out and attacked her with a knife, said Bajaj. “He tried to attack her face. She suffered injuries to her back and hands. The accused fled after which Malvi called me. She was asking me to save her,” said Bajaj. The accused had introduced himself as a movie producer and befriended Malhotra on Facebook in 2019. They became friends and met about three to four times in coffee shops, said Versova police officials. Malhotra told Versova police that later Singh proposed to marry her, which she refused, after which Singh started following her everywhere. Later, the television actor also stopped taking his calls and even blocked him on social media, said police. “We have identified the accused’s possible hideout and will arrest him soon,” said an officer. Chaitanya S, deputy commissioner of police (operation), said, “We have registered a case under section 307 (attempt to Murder) and 354 (D) (stalking) of Indian Penal Code and section 37 (1), 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-stabs-tv-actor-in-mumbai-for-turning-down-proposal/story-KunKhHT80rcfS7EFHcd0IO.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Maratha quota: Supreme Court adjourns hearing on stay on reservation for 4 weeks||As the Supreme Court on Tuesday adjourned the hearing on vacation of the interim stay on Maratha reservation for four weeks, the community accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of lack of strategy, demanding steps to expedite the procedure to safeguard the interest of Maratha students seeking admissions. The Marathas were given reservations of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions respectively under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. A three-judge bench, on September 9, transferred the case to the constitution bench, putting interim stay on the reservation. Challenging the stay, the state government and respondent representing the community on Tuesday requested the three-judge bench to hold the hearing before a constitution bench, after which the hearing was adjourned for four weeks. The adjournment will lead to further delay in college admissions and the appointment of community members whose recruitment has been completed. The state had put the admission process of junior college and medical courses on hold, anticipating the vacation of the stay. It has also deferred written exams for Maharashtra Public Services Commission for more than 200 posts of officers in various government departments. The state cabinet is expected to discuss the issue in its meeting on Thursday. “The adjournment is the result of lack of strategy and coordination from the state government. We brought it to their notice, but the state delayed taking steps to constitute the larger bench. There were legal lacunae in the applications made by the government. The state government did not even present the side properly on Tuesday. We had requested the state to seek the court’s guidance on prolonged admissions due to stay during Tuesday’s hearing, but in vain. The state should now take necessary decisions to begin the admission process,” said BJP legislator and chief of Shiv Sangram Party Vinayak Mete. He has also demanded replacement of public works department minister Ashok Chavan as head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation. Vinod Patil, one of the respondents in the Supreme Court in the reservation petition, said, “The state should have intimated the court that it wants the hearing before the constitution bench when it was listed 10 days ago. We are wasting our time for want of coordination and strategy. Students are left in the lurch.” Chavan, however, rubbished the allegations. “We filed an application in the apex court on the constitution bench on October 7 and we were informed on October 10 that it is before the larger bench. Despite this, the hearing was listed before the three-judge bench which stayed the reservation. The state government’s counsel could not attend the hearing initially only because of technical reasons, but later put forth our stand very effectively. The state will again approach the chief justice of India to constitute the bench at the earliest,” he said. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said the MVA government failed to make adequate preparations for the SC hearing and the adjournment was a result of it. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the BJP was politicising the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-supreme-court-adjourns-hearing-on-stay-on-reservation-for-4-weeks/story-8JGtDVzC92rMYnyvcgW4LI.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||26-year-old from Mumbai arrested for rape, abetting suicide of woman||The RCF police in Chembur on Tuesday arrested a 26-year-old man for allegedly raping a 23-year-old woman and later forcing her to terminate her pregnancies and also abetting her suicide. The woman was found dead on October 1 in a Chembur pond. According to RCF police, the man and the victim were in a relationship since 2018. The woman became pregnant on twice during the course of their relationship and both the times, the accused had forced her to terminate the pregnancies, said the police. The victim’s father had told the police in his statement that the accused used to assault his daughter and had also threatened to kill her if she forced him to marry her. Police officers said that on September 30, around 8pm, the woman left her home without informing anyone. Later, her body was fished out from a pond in Chembur. “Initially, we registered an accidental death report (ADR). But during the course of our investigation, we got to know about the man’s involvement. The victim had messaged the accused on WhatsApp and told him about that he was the reason behind her taking the drastic step. Once we found the evidence, we immediately arrested him,” said Sopan Nighot, senior inspector, RCF police station. The accused has been booked under sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 376 (punishment for rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent) and 506 (2) [punishment for criminal intimidation] of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-year-old-from-mumbai-arrested-for-rape-abetting-suicide-of-woman/story-KYGnlghJxaLuiMz0PTp3fP.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases for tenth day in row||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 5,363 Covid-19 cases, making it the 10th consecutive day where the daily count was less than 10,000 cases, bringing the tally to 1,654,028. The number of active cases continued to fall, coming down to 131,544 – 7.95% of the total cases reported so far. The toll has reached 43,463, with 115 casualties in the past 24 hours, health officials said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said the next two months are very crucial. “We have to be very cautious. We have seen a decline in countries such as Germany, Italy and Spain, but after some time, it resulted in a sudden spurt in cases, which is known as ‘second wave’. We should be prepared for any resurgence, believing that this could be a deceptive decline.” Apart from ongoing festivals, winter is another reason to keep the guard up. “There is a possibility of rise in cases in the coming season, which is favourable to respiratory diseases. We have to watch the situation in November and December. We also have to stock medicines, oxygen supply and keep hospitals ready for any situation. If a constant drop in cases continues till January, it would mean things are getting better,” Dr Salunkhe said. The total number of cases recorded from October 1-27 is 270,736, compared to 593,192 cases reported in September. Last month saw the highest number of cases in the state since March, when the first Covid-19 case was detected. Mumbai, however, continues to record the highest number of cases in the state with 801 fresh infections on Tuesday. Its case count is 252,886, and the number of active cases 18,633. The city’s toll touched 10,165, with 23 casualties. Nashik city contributed to the second highest infections in the daily caseload, as it recorded 337 cases, taking its tally to 63,890. Ahmednagar district recorded 250 cases, third highest, pushing its case count to 36,999. Although there is a decline in cases, the number of deaths has not reduced in proportion, so the case fatality rate (CFR) is yet to come down. The state has maintained second position after Punjab in the country, with CFR at 2.63%. Punjab’s CFR was 3.14% (with 4,125 deaths) on Monday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department. The state is also far away from its target of CFR of 1%. “The drop in casualties is not significant. It means that there are issues that need to be addressed,” Dr Salukhe said. The state has completed 87 lakh Covid tests, with 54,838 conducted on Tuesday. The positivity rate for the day was 9.77%, against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 19.01%. The number of recovered patients also reached 1,478,496 as 7,836 recoveries were recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was 89.39%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-less-than-10-000-covid-19-cases-for-tenth-day-in-row/story-yi78nKvCadaY80p3b9EZ0K.html
28-10-2020||City||Maharashtra education department to develop 300 ‘model schools’; none from Mumbai make the cut||The state education department will develop 300 zilla parishad schools in the state as ‘model schools’ as a part of its initiative to improve the quality of learning in state schools. On Monday, the department released a list of schools which will be developed as model schools. From the neighbouring region, eight zilla parishad schools from Palghar and three from Thane are part of the list. “The initiative will consist of ensuring quality infrastructure, good quality of education and desired learning outcomes in these schools. These schools will be at par with the 21st-century teaching needs – with critical thinking, creative thinking, collaboration and communication being key,” stated the circular issued by the department. The list released by the education department does not include any schools run by the municipal corporations across the state. As a result, none of the schools from Mumbai and Navi Mumbai made it to the list. “The government should have included civic body schools because even in cities, there is a need to build model schools for providing quality education to the underprivileged students. It is very disappointing that the government has ignored the category of civic body schools altogether,” said the principal of a civic school from the western suburbs. An official from the education department said, “The said project is for zilla parishad schools and is only the first phase of the larger project of strengthening public schools in the state.” Schools which will be developed as model schools will have teachers working for at least five years at a stretch and will have to adopt innovative teaching methods including activity-based learning. Government officials from every district have been asked to approve the list of 300 schools and the department has asked them to convey any suggestions and objections in this regard by November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-education-department-to-develop-300-model-schools-none-from-mumbai-make-the-cut/story-ox3FN2KDxhqSD4LYsLzOxN.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Sea as source of drinking water? Mumbai civic body mulls plant||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities plan to set up a desalination plant near Gorai beach, amid the growing need for an alternative potable water source due to changing patterns of rainfall.The desalination plant will purify seawater into potable water.Maharashtra minister for environment Aaditya Thackeray on Monday gave a go-ahead to the project and has directed the BMC to prepare a feasibility report by reviving the civic body’s 2007 plan.The 2007 desalination proposal was meant to provide an alternative water source owing to poor rainfall in the catchment areas of the dams that supply water to Mumbai.Later in 2016-17, the BMC had initiated the process to set up two desalination plants – one in south Mumbai and another either in the suburbs or anywhere in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The plants were supposed to have a capacity of processing 100 million litres per day (MLD) of seawater into potable water. However, later, the project was put on hold due to high cost.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), BMC, said, “The cost for a desalination plant has been optimised because of evolution of technology. The cost of construction of the plant is the same as that of a dam. It is estimated to cost around Rs 1,800 crore to construct a 200 MLD plant.”“We had to find a sustainable solution because of changing patterns of rainfall. We cannot go on constructing dams by cutting trees. We need a back-up plan,” he added.At present, seven lakes such as Bhatsa, Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tulsi, Tansa and Vehar supply drinking water to Mumbai. The lakes are located in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,750 million (m) litres (l) of water daily, as compared to the demand of 4,200 ml.BMC officials said they would collect seawater samples from the west coast in north Mumbai for setting up the desalination plant.Initially, a pilot project will be undertaken, which will cater to 5% of Mumbai’s drinking water needs, and later the capacity will be successfully augmented to 200 MLD.“A suitable plot will be considered for the project on the west coast as the Port Trust authorities own land on the east coast. We plan to acquire a plot owned by the government owing to the cost factor,” said a BMC official, requesting anonymity.The BMC has zeroed in on a plot near Gorai beach for the project. However, a final call will be taken after the submission of the feasibility report.“An Israeli company has been tasked to submit the feasibility report, which was involved in a similar 650 MLD-capacity plant in Israel. It will take around three years to construct the plant,” said Velrasu.Dubai is the first city in the world to construct a desalination plant.Chennai, which has three such plants, had constructed its first project in 2003 that supplies 90 MLD of water to the city.Rakesh Kumar, director of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI), said, “If it is possible to have desalination plant to convert seawater into potable water worldwide, it is certainly possible in Mumbai also. This is the future if we have to deal with shortage of water. However, these are costlier options, and it again brings back to the problem of how we handle our water resources. This does brings us back to the discussion of how we should be doing water conservation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sea-as-source-of-drinking-water-mumbai-civic-body-mulls-plant/story-UJK8Q4Dt0YzFvJxAqtxFxJ.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||In a first for west coast, 3 Olive Ridley turtles in Maharashtra to be satellite-tagged to understand their migratory route||In a first for Maharashtra and the west coast, three Olive Ridley turtles along south Konkan will be satellite-tagged to understand their migratory pattern and nesting. The project at a cost of ₹9.87 lakh will be undertaken by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun and was sanctioned during the third governing body meeting of the Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation on Tuesday chaired by forest minister Sanjay Rathod. “The satellite telemetry study will commence soon since the final nod has been received. Presently, we have no information about how turtles migrate along the west coast of India whether they move towards the Middle East, Pakistan or towards Sri Lanka,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) adding, “This study will help us get access to authentic scientific information on their movement, which would be followed up with more conservation-based studies.” Olive Ridleys are endangered sea turtles found in warm tropical parts of the Indian and Pacific oceans. They travel thousands of kilometres into the ocean and only the females return to the original breeding sites within a minimum of two years. According to the mangrove cell, approximately 600 Olive Ridley turtles find their way to nesting sites across prominent beaches in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad districts of Maharashtra. “We are yet to finalise which district the study will be undertaken. We will be selecting three turtles from maximum turtle movement observed,” said Manas Manjrekar, deputy director, Mangrove Foundation adding, “Platform transmitter terminal (PTTs) will be used, which will be fitted with epoxy resin and fixed on the carapace (hard shell) of the turtle. The project duration is 12-14 months, and once the turtle is tagged, the study will depend on the life of the satellite tag and how long we will receive the data.” Manjrekar added that there have been similar studies from the east coast. “This is the first time it is happening on the west coast and will give us an insight into where they migrate and information on the west coast population of Olive Ridley turtles. We hope to get valuable data over the next two years,” he said. Meanwhile, a string of other decisions were taken on Tuesday by the Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation constituted by the state in 2015. It is an autonomous body that assists the mangrove cell in coastal marine conservation through research projects. Over five years, the foundation has undertaken numerous research projects to improve the livelihood of coastal communities as well as increase awareness and capacity building through marine biodiversity research along the Konkan coast. The governing body approved the deployment of 183 guards of Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) for the protection of mangrove areas in Mumbai suburban and Thane districts. Both districts had 117 guards so far since 2017. On Tuesday, the foundation’s governing body approved a ₹21 crore budget for the financial year 2020-21 for various activities including mangrove protection and conservation, sustainable livelihood projects, research activities, capacity building, awareness programs, coastal and marine biodiversity conservation measures, management of marine animal strandings etc. The meeting approved expenditure of ₹17.27 crore for the previous financial year. “The protection and conservation of mangroves is our focus and all efforts for this coming financial year are focused towards this especially considering the impacts of climate change and sea level rise,” said forest minister Sanjay Rathod adding, “I have instructed the foundation to prepare a detailed plan for maximum coastal mangrove plantation, and the project shall be jointly implemented by the fisheries and forest departments.” The governing body also approved the country’s first solar powered marine mammal museum - Giants of the Sea – at the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre at Airoli, Navi Mumbai at a cost of ₹10 crore. The museum will house skeletal remains of endangered marine species. “The body approved the appointment of a project management consultant on Tuesday,” said Tiwari. Other approved projects by the governing body on Tuesday Other approved projects include: · A study of dolphin population and monitoring along the Sindhudurg district. · A fresh exercise to assess the exact boundary of the Malvan Marine Sanctuary protected area at a cost of ₹40.05 lakh by WII · Overall approval to establish a multi-species hatchery at Vengurla, Sindhudurg for ₹21.14 crore with a ₹12 crore grant by the foundation and remaining cost by the fisheries department and various national level funding agencies. (Source: State Mangrove Cell)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-for-west-coast-3-olive-ridley-turtles-in-maharashtra-to-be-satellite-tagged-to-understand-their-migratory-route/story-WctjLyodQeQpRzS8PmAn7K.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||JJP leader’s son booked for assault, villagers say he flashed gun at them||Yamunanagar police on Tuesday booked former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Jagadhari and currently Jannayak Janta Party’s (JJP) district president Arjun Singh’s son Bhupinder and his friends for allegedly pointing gun and threatening some villagers on Monday night. On the complaint of a villager, Balram, police booked Bhupinder, Anil, Sachin and Ram under sections 323, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Arms Act. Arjun Singh, however, rubbished the charges against his son as politically motivated.Some villagers of Damohpura in Jagadhari area had gathered on a road to protest against mining where Bhupinder and his friends reportedly had an argument with them in the presence of police officials, including in-charge of Buria police station Lajjaram. “Bhupinder had a gun in his hand, but didn’t point it on anyone. It will be investigated if he has a licence or not. The accused seemed to be under the influence of alcohol,” Lajjaram said. Yamunanagar SP Kamaldeep Goyal said the matter is being investigated.Arjun Singh said his son has a pistol for his personal safety. “I accept that he was drunk, but he didn’t point gun at anybody. He didn’t even flash it or fired it, but just gave it to the police officer so that it is not misused by anyone from the crowd,” Singh told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jjp-leader-s-son-booked-for-assault-villagers-say-he-flashed-gun-at-them/story-Y34gMfVoLFZut5eanL9qxM.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court issues notice to Hooda, Vora in AJL plot allotment case||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has issued a notice to former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and senior Congress leader Moti Lal Vora for joining proceedings through video conferencing in the Associated Journal Limited (AJL) plot allotment case.In the order, special judge, CBI, Jagdeep Singh said, “Since the case involves legislators and proceedings in such cases are to be conducted expeditiously, so, notices be issued to the accused as well as their counsel to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through video-conferencing, if the physical hearing of the matters does not get fully functional till the adjourned date.”The order further said : “In case physical hearing of the matters is made mandatory in the meanwhile, then all the accused shall be present on the adjourned date. It is made clear that effective hearing is to be started in such matters and accordingly all parties are directed to ensure participation in the proceedings of the matter either through physical mode or through virtual mode.”The issue is about an institutional plot number C-17 in Sector 6, Panchkula. It was allotted by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to the AJL in 1982, but because the construction was not carried out in 10 years, so it was taken back in 1992. In 1995 and in 1996, appeal and revision were filed by the AJL against resumption of plot but these were also dismissed by HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner, town and country planning. However, when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed re-allotment of the plot to the AJL.The ED had said that Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the then CM and HUDA chairman, “blatantly misused his official position and dishonestly allotted the said plot afresh in the guise of re-allotment to the AJL at original rates plus interest in violation of the rules, causing loss to HUDA and wrongful gain to AJL”. In December 2018, the CBI filed chargesheet against Hooda, Vora and Associated Journals Limited (AJL), publisher of the National Herald newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-court-issues-notice-to-hooda-vora-in-ajl-plot-allotment-case/story-qYgQneFTQG1wqxXDaMRDAJ.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Project opening, stone-laying-spree marks year of Haryana’s BJP-JJP govt||Grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic that had hit when the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition regime was struggling to take-off four months after assuming office, Haryana government on Tuesday marked one year in office by inaugurating and laying foundation stones of 306 developmental projects. In what was a less than 10-minute oath ceremony held at Haryana Raj Bhawan, Khattar was sworn in as CM on October 27, 2019, on a public holiday on account of Diwali for a second successive term as the Haryana chief minister. Dushyant Chautala of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) was sworn in as the deputy chief minister. The BJP had entered into a post-poll alliance with Dushyant’s JJP having 10 MLAs to form the government after the saffron party won 40 seats in the October 2019 assembly elections and was short of a simple majority in the 90-member Vidhan Sabha. Even after one year the fate of the much-talked about common minimum programme (CMP) for which the JJP had been pushing is still unknown. A committee was set up to give final shape to the CMP that is yet to see the light of the day. Meanwhile, the state government held functions at district level, while chief minister Khattar along with his deputy CM attended a state-level function in Hisar where a ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony was held for the expansion of Hisar airport runway. Coinciding with the importance of the occasion, the government on Tuesday resorted to inauguration and foundation stone-laying spree. As per the claims of the government, as many as 306 projects worth ₹1,848 crore across 21 districts of the state were either inaugurated or foundation stones were laid. “While 140 projects completed at a cost of Rs 889 crore were inaugurated, the foundation stone was laid for 166 projects worth Rs 959 crore,” an official spokesperson said. In his address, Khattar took digs at opposition parties for their remarks over the fate of BJP-JJP government in the state. “The leaders of Congress party had been issuing statements that BJP-JJP coalition government would collapse within three or six months. Nowadays, they are saying that the government would fall after the Baroda by-elections. I would like to thank the Congress party for making such remarks as they help us to remain more cautious while running the government,” Khatttar said, pointing out that such statements put a question mark on the credibility of the Congress party. The CM said Hisar airport will be developed to enable it handle international flights. Deputy CM Chautala was among other dignitaries present on this occasion at Hisar, while the ministers, MPs, MLAs and other prominent people joined the programme in the 20 other districts through video-conferencing. On the recent farm laws introduced by the Centre, he said the Congress has been misguiding the farmers. “The farmers are innocent, but no one can deceive them,” Khattar said. Key decisions Parivar Pehchan Patra ‘Housing for all’ department Foreign cooperation department Citizen resources information department, and constitution of MSME department Every village to have a website 24-hour electricity for 4,755 villages out of 6,700 ₹1,700-crore plan sent to Centre to install 50,000 solar pumps In 6 years, 67 government colleges were opened New medical colleges being opened in Mehandragarh, Bhiwani, Gurugram, Sirsa, Kaithal and Yamunanagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/project-opening-stone-laying-spree-marks-year-of-haryana-s-bjp-jjp-govt/story-sJGVWWMsecs08o1CYuoXZI.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Male tiger, suspected of killing 8 people, captured from Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district||The Maharashtra forest department on Tuesday captured an elusive male tiger, aged about five to six years, near Sindhi village in Rajura forest at Central Chanda, Chandrapur. The tiger, RT1, is suspected to have killed eight people and injured three others since January 2019. RT1 had evaded all the capture efforts since February this year, when the chief wildlife warden had issued orders to capture the wild cat. Forest officials said the tiger was captured in a two-hour operation with a special-designed trapping cage placed under a narrow railway underpass where a bait had been kept at compartment number 179 in the Rajura forest area. “The animal was captured between 3pm and 4pm within the culvert. Once the tiger entered the cage, the automatic trap doors were shut, and a team of veterinarians were deployed to the site. One of the veterinarians darted the animal and by 5pm, the tiger was shifted to a separate (transport) cage that was transported to Chandrapur transit treatment centre. The animal will be shifted to Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur on Tuesday night,” said MK Rao, acting principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF -wildlife), Maharashtra forest department, adding, “The entire process was followed as per the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).” The trapping team headed by deputy conservator of forest (Central Chanda) Arvind Mundhe consisted of around 150 people, with 25 Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) officers, employees from the Central Chanda forest division and four veterinarians assisted by staff members, along with 35 volunteers from 14 villages in the region. “Teams were equipped with night vision and CCTV cameras and were well-versed with the landscape. There had been fear in the minds of the villagers as the tiger had become a threat to human life. The trapping team swiftly carried out the operation,” said Rao. The range of the tiger’s movement was 15 to 20 square kilometres (sq km) in the Rajura forest area, said officials. Chandrapur chief conservator of forest NR Praveen said, “This trap had been placed around 15 days back. We had been monitoring the tiger’s movement and had tracked it to this special cage set up with automatic trap doors on either sides of the culvert. Once the tiger entered, the automatic trap doors from both sides dropped and a team headed by Dr Kundan Podshelwar darted the animal soon after reaching the spot. Collective effort by all persons involved ensured success of the operation.” Praveen added that as per the preliminary examination, the tiger was healthy. Forest officials said the tiger had eaten close to 30 baits during the course of various capture operations. Last week, the tiger had entered another cage set up in compartment number 170 in Rajura forest under a bridge but escaped by breaking the cage. “Forest staff was holding onto ropes pulling up the steel gate of the main cage. Unfortunately, we failed then but ensured we managed to trap the animal much before the capture tenure that would lapse on December 31,” said Praveen. The first permission to capture the tiger was issued by the PCCF-Wildlife on February 14 by invoking section 11 (1) (a) of the Wildlife Protection Act (WLPA), 1972, in which the PCCF of a state can declare a wild animal protected under Schedule 1 of WLPA a threat to human life. Since then, the permissions have been extended four times as the tiger evaded all the capture efforts over eight months. Activists, however, had written to the state government on Monday requesting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to avoid the tiger’s capture until there was proof that the tiger had been involved in killing all the eight people. RT1’s last kill was reported from the Khambada forest area in Rajura on September 28. “All the kills cannot be attributed to RT1. Of the eight deaths, samples of five cases were sent for DNA analysis. Results had confirmed that two cases were due to a large male tiger. However, in other incidents, the gender could not be established,” said Mundhe. Six tigers captured from Maharashtra this year This is the sixth tiger involved in human-animal conflict captured from Maharashtra and fourth from Chandrapur district alone this year. Maharashtra has witnessed the highest number of human deaths (33) owing to tiger attacks in 2020 in at least two decades, with over 85% of cases recorded in Chandrapur district. An approximately two-year-old sub-adult tigress (T2C1) was tranquilised and captured by the Maharashtra forest department near the Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS) in Yavatmal district on September 23. Another tiger that killed four people was captured in Gondia in May. In June, forest officials had captured a sub-adult male tiger that killed five people from the buffer area of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, and an adult tigress that had entered a house in Nagbhid range of Brahmapuri. However, both died at the Gorewada Rescue Centre due to old age and septicaemia. In July, a three-year-old male tiger (NT-1) was captured at Talodi range, Bramhapuri forest division in Chandrapur. It is said to be responsible for the death of three people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/male-tiger-suspected-of-killing-8-people-captured-from-maharashtra-s-chandrapur-district/story-2sfO22LRCqnjrH3Jw1tWbK.html
28-10-2020||City||Punjab health minister distributes 4,771 smart ration cards in Mohali||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday distributed 4,771 smart ration cards in Sohana, Mataur, Balongi and Shahi Majra villages.Among the recipients, 900 were from Sohana, 752 from Mataur, 594 from Shahi Majra and 2,525 were from Balongi.The minister said that with the implementation of the scheme, the process of grain distribution had become transparent. With a smart ration card, one can get food grains from any approved depot in the state.He said the government had not only provided the ration cards, but also health insurance of ₹5 lakh per card holder. The cards have a special chip which has been linked with the ePOS machines available with the depot holders to provide hassle-free assistance to the beneficiaries or their family members, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-minister-distributes-4-771-smart-ration-cards-in-mohali/story-XoehKSSmiYp2yowbjCHJ3I.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid claims 13 lives in Haryana, 1,248 new cases surface||Thirteen people succumbed to the Covid-19 and 1,248 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday in Haryana, the state health bulletin stated. Four fatalities were reported in Hisar, three in Ambala, two in Gurugram and one person each died of the infection in Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Palwal and Jind. The death toll has reached 1,750 and the tally of people tested positive stands at 1,60,705. As many as 937 people recovered on Tuesday, taking the number of those cured to 1,48,503 and the number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 10,452. As per the bulletin, the cases doubling rate further rose to 49 days from 48 days on Monday. Gurugram reported 346 new cases, Faridabad 190, Hisar 110, Rewari 82, Rohtak 79, Jhajjar 51, Sirsa 47, Mahendergarh 45, Sonepat 37, Bhiwani 33,Yamunanagar 15, Fatehabad 5, Ambala 28, Palwal 20, Kurukshetra 23, Karnal 22, Panipat 31, Charkhi Dadri 8, Jind 32, Panchkula 33, and Nuh 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-claims-13-lives-in-haryana-1-248-new-cases-surface/story-eg7azy4viWoMFg9rydYdFN.html
28-10-2020||City||Khattar inaugurates government college in Panchkula’s Raipur Rani, sports stadium in Kalka||On the completion of one year of his government’s second term, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced 15 development projects worth ₹105.21 crore for Panchkula.Of these, five projects were inaugurated, while foundation stones of 10 were laid, an official statement read. The chief minister, accompanied by his deputy Dushyant Chautala and other cabinet members, inaugurated the projects via videoconferencing from Hisar. Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta said among the new projects were special drains for safe passage of flood and waste water from Barwala and Bataur into Tangri river, a government polytechnic college in Sector 26, a multi-skill centre, another government college in Raipur Rani and a sports stadium at the Kalka government college.The foundation stone of multilevel parking at Nada Sahib gurdwara under PRASAD scheme was also laid. Besides this, repair works worth ₹3.5 crore of the road between Firozpur and Hangola, improvement of link roads to Natwal worth ₹1.95 crore, reconstruction of link roads in Thane Ki Sair worth ₹1.16 crore, and widening of other link roads worth ₹1.34 crore were also announced.The foundation stone of a primary health centre worth ₹4.6 crore was also laid in Barwala. An old-age home will also come up at the Mansa Devi Complex, besides a multilevel parking. Construction of a school building in Raipur Rani and the office building of directorate social justice and empowerment department in Sector 17 were announced as well.Speaker Gupta said that work of building cycle tracks has begun in Panchkula district. A rail over bridge (ROB) to connect Sector 20 is also being constructed at a cost of ₹52 crore, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khattar-inaugurates-government-college-in-panchkula-s-raipur-rani-sports-stadium-in-kalka/story-prbrVziY506LfvX3Ja6rHO.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Cop suspended in Chandigarh||An inspector posted in the security wing of Chandigarh Police was placed under suspension on Tuesday on allegations of indiscipline and disobedience of orders. In the order issued by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal, inspector Rajdeep Singh was transferred to police lines after suspension after reports of his disobedience with regards to election duty in Baroda. “He had refused to proceed to election duty and on the basis of the DSP’s report, the inspector was placed under suspension,” said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cop-suspended-in-chandigarh/story-V3SttkG6wMuiXJZb55pprI.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet starts online booking of Covid-19 test for passengers in India, UAE||Low budget airline SpiceJet has commenced online booking of Covid-19 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for its passengers that can be taken at home in India and the United Arabic Emirates (UAE). This makes SpiceJet the only airline to offer such a facility to its passengers. The airline is working with VFS Global, a visa outsourcing and technology services specialist, to provide this facility.The airline said the cost of the test would be as per the price set by local government bodies, and the same rates will apply for children and adults.The aim is to ease passengers’ travel experience because it is mandatory for international passengers to produce Covid-19 negative test reports on arrival. According to SpiceJet, there are rising apprehensions among travellers regarding the process of complying with various pre-travel requirements. This facility will help passengers book RT-PCR tests using the appointment booking service offered by VFS Global.The airline spokesperson said, “Passengers will have to visit SpiceJet’s website and avail the service under the ‘Add-ons’ section. To initiate the booking process, they will have to click on the ‘Book now’ button and follow a few simple steps to book an appointment. They can either request for a test at their doorstep or visit the nearby lab, as per their convenience and the available schedule. Besides, customers will also be offered the option to select their preferred testing location and appointment slot.SpiceJet chief commercial officer Shilpa Bhatia said, “SpiceJet’s online booking of the Covid-19 test is a step in that direction, and we believe that this will give our passengers the confidence and peace of mind while adjusting to the new norms of travelling. Though the service is currently available for customers in India and the UAE, we plan to roll it out for a host of other countries soon.”The airline said that Indian customers can also visit an associated ICMR approved lab in Mumbai, Delhi, Kochi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad and Pune.Passengers travelling from UAE will have to submit their test samples at the partnered laboratory in Ajman, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, or Sharjah, or a choice location within UAE. The test prices will start from AED 160 for both children and adults, and results will be sent to the registered email address within 24 to 60 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-starts-online-booking-of-covid-19-test-for-passengers-in-india-uae/story-O2IrkjqrtpIzKsHPzxKafI.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two held with drugs in Chandigarh||Two men were held from different nakas and 608g charas and 112.58g heroine worth ₹12 lakh were recovered from them, the police said on Tuesday.On the intervening night of October 26/27, special nakas were laid. A 32-year-old man of Nayagaon was held with 608g charas on a motorcycle near the dividing road of Sector 2/11 and PEC light point. The accused was identified as Vineet Thakur, who works for a private company. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered. In another case, a 24-year-old youth of Anandpur Sahib was arrested with 112.58 gram heroin. Accused Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassa, alias Jass, who works as a driver was arrested from the dividing road of Sector 8/9 near the Sector 4-5-8-9 roundabout. A case was registered.Both the accused were on Tuesday produced before a court and remanded to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-with-drugs-in-chandigarh/story-32lDlYk0W3N983LeBXtUgK.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students protest, demand extension in last date to apply for PG courses||The students of Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday held a protest at the administration block of the varsity, demanding extension on the last date to apply for postgraduate courses falling under PU-CET (PG).The last date was October 22, but the students said due to the present scenario, many were unable to apply at that time. The students have also demanded a refund on the entrance test fee.In an official communication, PU has said the process of opening of the admission portal will take a minimum of five days and will delay the admission process. “The candidates who had registered on the entrance test portal but could not apply on the admission portal have to come to the computer centre on the campus by October 28 to complete the admission forms,” the communique said.Regarding the request of the candidates for refund of entrance test fee, PU has said they have already constituted a committee to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-protest-demand-extension-in-last-date-to-apply-for-pg-courses/story-tnSM7dU7HHXVZyRYMxtSnN.html
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Multilevel basement parking lot near Punjab and Haryana high court likely to get green signal||The proposed multilevel basement parking in the vicinity of Punjab and Haryana high court (HC), which falls within the Sukhna eco-sensitive zone (SESZ), is likely to get a green signal as it falls within the “regulated” zone of the SESZ where construction is allowed.The UT environment department has communicated to the UT engineering department that even though the project falls within the SESZ, construction is allowed there as per the SESZ norms and court orders.Confirming the development, Debendra Dalai, director environment, said, “The site of construction is located 1.66 km from the boundary of the Sukhna wildlife sanctuary, where construction is a regulated activity.”Up to 0.5 km from the sanctuary, there can not be any construction. From 0.5 km to 1.25 km, a construction up to 15 ft is permitted. Beyond 1.25 km, construction is allowed and it is to be regulated as per the building bylaws.A ‘regulated’ zone means that “whatever building laws and rules are applicable for any other area are also applicable for this area. So far as eco-sensitive zone is concerned it does not come under the restricted zone but only a regulated zone, so the proposed parking can be constructed,” said a senior UT official who didn’t want to be named.The engineering department had recently shared the exact location and size of the proposed site with the environment department. A meeting had also taken place between the two departments on October 23, in which UT urban planning department officials had also participated. The engineering department has also sought the exact geographical coordinates from the environment department of the SESZ in relation to the site.On December 20, 2019, the HC had directed the UT administration to submit the layout plan for the proposed multi-level underground parking lot opposite the high court museum within four weeks.The HC directions had come after the administration official had submitted that the site falls within the SESZ. The bench, however, was of the view that if parking can’t be constructed, how could a tourist information centre come up on the same site. It further observed that amendments could be made in the master plan and questioned as to how a green belt could come under heritage status.Other concernsThe proposed site also “slightly” falls within the Sukhna catchment area where all construction activity is prohibited. “As the court has ordered no construction in the catchment area, the administration will have to approach it for clarification on this issue,” the official said.The site falls in the buffer zone of UNESCO World Heritage Site of Capitol Complex. “UT administration may have to apprise and take consent from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) to undertake the construction work in Sector 1,” the official said.In the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031, the site is earmarked as a green belt.The parking planAs per the layout plan submitted with the HC in January this year, three underground floors are planned. In the first phase, the parking lot will have space for over 2,800 cars. In the second phase, installation of stacks has been proposed. With that, the parking could be expandable to over 5,000 cars. The ground level of the parking lot will be a green area. Ramps for exit and entry of vehicles to the basement parking spaces will be the only construction on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multilevel-basement-parking-lot-near-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-likely-to-get-green-signal/story-lzyiUxX2CYSluUBAPmq8nI.html
28-10-2020||Mumbai||Decision to allow all to travel on Mumbai local trains very soon, says Maharashtra minister||The state government may decide to allow all commuters on Mumbai’s local trains in the next few days. State’s relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Tuesday tweeted, “We have held discussions with various stakeholders. Mumbaikars will get relief on this very soon.” His tweet was in response to a tweet by a commuter. Mumbai’s local trains, used by around 8 million people daily pre-Covid-19, were suspended on March 23 after the state went into a lockdown to stop the spread of the virus. Some services, however, resumed on July 15, with the state allowing only essential services workers, differently abled people and cancer patients to use the trains. On October 21, the government even let all women board the trains during non-peak hours. The Central Railway currently operates 706 daily services, while the Western Railway runs 700 services as against their regular of 1,774 and 1,367 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-to-allow-all-to-travel-on-mumbai-local-trains-very-soon-says-maharashtra-minister/story-xZCchbAqxVQmFvU005zkNN.html
28-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Sahibabad underpass, Dasna flyover temporarily shut||Ghaziabad: Commuters in Ghaziabad city will have to travel more now due to the closure of two major road stretches – an underpass near the Sahibabad railway station and the Dasna flyover which connect city commuters to the National Highway 9. The traffic department said that commuters will now have to take alternate routes.The officials of the municipal corporation said that they have, on recommendation of the traffic police, shut the Sahibabad underpass due to repair works being undertaken at the Saur Urja Marg in Sahibabad Site IV industrial area. The underpass caters to a large number of motorists from Lajpat Nagar, Shalimar Garden, Rajendra Nagar, etc., to the Vasundhara intersection, from where they move to Delhi, Noida or NH 9.“The underpass will be closed for about 28 days as we are constructing a cement-concrete road over a stretch of 500 metres. Since it is a low-lying area, water gets collected here which often results in damage. The road will be dry in a period of about 28 days,” said Deshraj Singh, executive engineer from the corporation.Due to closure of the underpass, drivers will now have to use the Mohan Nagar intersection to get to the Vasundhara crossing, which would mean an extra travel of five to seven kilometres.The second site which has been shut down is the Dasna flyover, which also caters to large number of vehicles travelling from the city to NH-9 near Dasna. “We have shut down the flyover till October 30 as we are placing segments over the pillars, which cross the elevated section of the flyover. The work will be completed by October 30 and the flyover will open the next day. However, we have decided that the work will be taken up during the day and the flyover can remain open during night,” said Mudit Garg, project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The segments are being placed as part of the Phase 4 of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) project. Phase 4 is scheduled to be completed by the end of December. The Phase 4 will be connected to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.Due to the shut down, from 8am to 6pm, commuters will have to use an alternate route, via the Diamond flyover, to move to NH 9. This will increase travel by about 10-12 kilometres. “The NHAI has sought permission for three days as they have launched major works for the DME project. The Dasna flyover will remain open in the night. For the Sahibabad underpass, we have asked the civic agency to complete the works in phases of five days. Otherwise, it will create a lot of traffic movement at Mohan Nagar close to Diwali,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-sahibabad-underpass-dasna-flyover-temporarily-shut/story-cjDXOIQYdUSNfp9MKuQAwI.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||AAP versus BJP: Explaining the municipal funds crisis||The dispute over allocation of funds for the municipal corporation in Delhi stems from the unique constitutional position of Delhi -- a Union Territory with a legislative assembly, the trifurcation of the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and the flow of grants from the Centre to the Delhi government, experts have said. While the Delhi government says that it has paid all dues to the three BJP-ruled MCDs, the municipal leaders claim that the AAP dispensation still owes thousands of crores to the civic bodies. The cash-strapped corporations have been facing protests by their employees who have not been paid for months. The Delhi government on Monday said that the Centre owes the corporations Rs 12,000 crores. On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reiterated his government’s stand. “The Centre gives grants to all municipal corporations across the country, based a formula of Rs 485 per person of the population. However, it is not paying grants to the three MCDs for the last 10 years.”However, North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said there was no such provision in the current financial rules. “When there is no such financial provision currently, how can the Centre release the funds? The CM is diverting from the issue. As per provisions, the Delhi government has to pay Rs 13,500 crore to municipal corporations as per the recommendations of the Delhi finance commission (DFC).”The government’s position is based on the recommendations of 14th Finance Commission’s report in which the Centre gives a grant of Rs 2.87 lakh crore to state governments of which Rs 87,144 crore is meant for municipalities.But Delhi doesn’t get a share from this fund as it is a Union Territory, said a senior official with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.A senior East DMC official explained that the Delhi government releases funds to the civic bodies under the Basic Tax Assignment (BTA), which is meant to pay salaries. According to him, the Delhi government was yet to pay the funds under BTA for the second quarter. The official said while East civic body has got only Rs 94 crore of the total Rs 961 crore, the north corporation has got only Rs 212 crore of the total Rs 850 crore allocation. Experts said what has worsened the situation this year is the fact that the government has slashed the BTA component by 57% due to a drop in revenue collection because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Kejriwal also said on Tuesday the three corporations owed the government Rs 3,800 crore in the form of a loan.The corporations said that the East and North corporations had to take loan to streamline its functioning post-trifurcation in 2012. Former Delhi chief secretary Rakesh Mehta, who was also the commissioner of erstwhile unified MCD from 2002 to 2007, said, “The Centre has never paid directly for the functioning of the civic bodies in the past. It used to give funds for various schemes such as education, health etc. but that fund used to come via the Delhi government.”The devolution of funds till 2019 was based on the recommendations of the 3rd Delhi Finance Commission (DFC), which had no provision for a trifurcated municipal corporation. While the municipalities are demanding implementation of the recommendations of the 4th DFC, a government spokesperson said that it could be done only after the Centre increases Delhi’s share in the central pool of taxes. Calling the current crisis unfortunate and avoidable, Mehra said, “It is unfair that the corporations were paid funds for a long time as per the 3rd DFC. The fund allocation to the corporations has to be reviewed and revised every five years, as the cost of providing municipal services increases due to inflation and increase in rate of material.”He also said that the corporations have to do their bit to boost their revenue. “The municipal corporations also have to think of revamping the revenue model to boost collection. They have to look for new sources of revenue and increase the taxes on services. For example, areas where the Metro network is there, the property tax rates should be hiked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-versus-bjp-explaining-the-municipal-funds-crisis/story-qkkvJtwNTUfUA3Ngi4avfK.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Shameful that MCD doctors have to protest for their salaries: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said it is “shameful” that doctors of hospitals run by municipal corporations in the Capital are forced to protest for their salaries and urged the Centre to disburse funds so that they could be paid. Kejriwal’s criticism of the three MCDs, ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), came a day after mayors of the civic bodies staged a sit-in protest outside the chief minister’s residence on Monday, demanding immediate release of dues to the tune of Rs13,500 crore they claimed the Delhi government owed them. However, on Tuesday, the chief minister’s office called this number “completely fictitious” and asked the MCDs to show how they arrived at the figure. “The MCD doctors are on strike due to non-payment of salaries for many months now. This is utterly shameful. They are the ones who risked their lives to protect, treat, and serve us and our families. This is a very sensitive matter, and there should be no politics on the issue,” Kejriwal said at an event in east Delhi’s Ghazipur on Tuesday, even as doctors working in municipal hospitals continued to protest over non-payment of their salaries since June. Rebutting claims by MCDs that they were not paid enough money in the current financial year, a government spokesperson said the Delhi government has already disbursed over Rs 1,750 crore to the three civic bodies between April 1 and October 26 this year.“The Delhi government’s total amount due to the three civic bodies in this fiscal is Rs 1,965.91 crore, of which Rs 1,752.61 crore has been given. The remaining amount has been sanctioned and is under the disbursal process. The MCD should tell us where this money was used. Usually, the Delhi government disburses around Rs 4,500 crore each year to the MCDs, but it has been slightly lower this because our own tax collection has nosedived,” the government spokesperson said. Kejriwal instead asserted that MCDs owe the Delhi government Rs 3,800 crore loaned to them. Apart from this, he added that the civic bodies also owe Rs 3,000 crore as bills to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB).“The MCD cannot run with such mismanagement and blatant corruption. Let me give you an example. I inaugurated the Seelampur-Shastri Park flyovers day before yesterday. They were to be completed at a cost of ₹303 crore, but we completed them in one-and-a-half years at a cost of Rs 250 crore. On the other hand, the Rani Jhansi flyover, work on which was started in 2006 and was to be completed by 2010 by the MCD. But it took 14 years and got completed in 2018. The cost of the project was Rs 178 crore, but it took Rs 750 crore for the project. The time has come to stop this corruption in MCDs,” the chief minister said. MCD elections are scheduled to be held April 2022. The chief minister also urged the Centre to pay the ‘grant-in-aid to the local bodies’ as mandated under the 14th Central finance commission, which the MCDs claimed Delhi was never eligible for because it is a union territory. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “We have the detailed break-up of Rs 13,500 crore. This amount is due as the government has not paid funds as per 3rd, 4th and 5th Delhi finance commission’s recommendations. To hide their failure to release funds on time, they are diverting the issue and blaming the Centre for it. I want to ask Kejriwal, why didn’t your government ask for this fund earlier?”A government spokesperson said the recommendations of the fourth Delhi finance commission could not be implemented because the Centre refused to pay the state government from its central pool of taxes, from which Delhi was supposed to give more funds to the MCDs. “But, the Centre did not even respond to our plea and hence, the 4th DFC was not enforced,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shameful-that-mcd-doctors-have-to-protest-for-their-salaries-kejriwal/story-ecTTjXyo2VqHU38gmlOcSN.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Centre invites applications for new JNU V-C||With the tenure of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar coming to an end in January 2021, the Union government has initiated the process for choosing his successor.An advertisement by the Union education ministry on Saturday said that the vice-chancellor, being the academic and administrative head of the institution, is expected to be a person possessing the highest level of competence, integrity, morals, and institutional commitment.According to the advertisement, a distinguished academician with a minimum of 10 years’ of experience as professor in a University, or 10 years’ of experience in a reputed research or academic administrative organisation with proof of having demonstrated academic leadership, can apply for the post.The tenure of Kumar, who came to JNU from the department of electrical engineering of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi in 2016, has been marked by multiple protests and controversies.Among them was a 2019 disagreement between the administration and its student and teacher unions over a hike in hostel fee that snowballed into a protest and led to demands for his removal. The protests went on for weeks, and could be quelled only after the education ministry stepped in and the hike was also rolled back.In January this year, the varsity also saw a violent incident where masked persons armed with sticks and rods attacked students inside the campus. Many students received serious injuries. There were allegations that the police and the administration did not do enough to stop the perpetrators. Kumar, however, maintained that his administration had responded with urgency.Kumar also made headlines when he suggested in 2017 that a battle tank be installed in the varsity, reportedly, to instil a love for the army. The request is yet to be fulfilled.Vice-chancellor Kumar did not respond to calls and text messages requesting comment.During Kumar’s tenure, the university opened several new departments, including a management and engineering school. It has drew up plans to contruct new buildings for these departments. But the moves were criticised because several faculty members and students feel it has come at the cost of preserving JNU’s liberal arts focus.He was also blamed for alleged irregularities in appointments of faculty members.Commenting on the developments, JNU Teachers’ Association president DK Lobiyal said, “The process should be transparent and someone with a good academic vision should be appointed. The appointment should be based purely on academics. The present V-C has already undermined the democratic processes of decision making in JNU.”JNU students’ union vice-president Saket Moon said the selection process for the next V-C should be free of bias. “The vice-chancellor should be selected on the basis of her or his academic credentials and have the required experience to run a University like JNU. The present V-C lacks both the values,” he said.According to the advertisement by the education ministry, the applicant for the post should not be more than 65 years of age. The post carries a monthly salary of ₹2,10,000, with Special Allowance of ₹11,250, and some other usual allowances.Appointment will be made from a panel of names recommended by a Committee constituted under the provisions of Jawaharlal Nehru University Act, 1966, the advertisement said.Apart from the JNU V-C, the education ministry has initiated the process of filling up several posts or finding replacements where the incumbent is set to complete his or her term soon.One such post is that of the director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), with Hrushikesh Senapaty, the present director, completing his term later this year. The other prominent posts include director of National Bal Bhawan, vice chancellor of North Eastern Hill University, and director of Indian Institute of Management, Tiruchirapalli.As part of the regular process the ministry invites applications as and when is required, said a Union Education ministry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-invites-applications-for-new-jnu-v-c/story-rKcuyfVS7fuO0j2PywIihM.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||North MCD doctors refuse to withdraw strike||Doctors of North Delhi municipal corporation-run hospitals, dispensaries and clinics on Tuesday refused to call off their strike even as the civic body said salaries till the month of September had been released for all doctors. Resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital, which was the only Covid-19 facility under the north corporation, began the strike over delayed salaries 23 days ago. Their counterparts from all north MCD-run hospitals as well as senior faculty and doctors later joined them. Some resident doctors also began a hunger strike five days ago, which was joined by four senior doctors on Tuesday. The doctors are now looking for a permanent solution to ensure timely payment of salaried. A decision on the strike will be taken after a general body meeting of senior and the resident doctors at 10 am on Wednesday after checking if everybody has received their salaries. Dr Sagardeep Bawa, vice-president of the resident doctors’ association of Hindu Rao, said, “Since the senior doctors joined the strike, we will convene a general body meeting tomorrow morning where a decision will be taken together.” “We will not call of the strike till we ensure that each and every doctor, including those in dispensaries and clinics, have been paid. We are trying to look for a permanent solution so that doctors do not have to get on the road and protest every few months,” said Dr RR Gautam, president of the municipal corporation doctors’ association. Meanwhile, the National Board of Examination -- which governs the Diplomate National Board postgraduate training of doctors -- has threatened to withdraw accreditation of Hindu Rao hospital for not paying salaries to the trainees on time. “The hospital is required to release the pending stipend of the trainees immediately, failing which NBE shall be constrained to take appropriate action, including but not limited to withdrawal of accreditation of Hindu Rao hospital, Delhi,” read a letter signed by Dr Pawanindra Lal, executive director of the board.Earlier on Tuesday morning, north corporation mayor Jai Prakash had called a meeting with doctors in his office . “We requested him to come to Hindu Rao hospital where all the doctors were present and give his solution. If the solution was acceptable to all, we would call off the strike. No permanent solution was offered by him,” said Dr Gautam. Doctors from several government hospitals in Delhi stopped routine work for two hours or worked with a black ribbon in solidarity with the doctors from the north corporation on Tuesday morning. The three mayors had also protested outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Monday, demanding that the Delhi government pay “R 13,500 crore it owed to the MCDs” so that they could pay the doctors. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday morning, “Whatever we had to pay as per the finance commission, we are paying it on time. But MCD does not run on that money alone. Their tax collection is about Rs 18 to 20,000 crore. What the Delhi government pays is just 15 to 20% of their funds. What about the rest?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-doctors-refuse-to-withdraw-strike/story-Etgk0620dQ1tlX5qG09MRN.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||MoU signed to build multi-level bus depots in Delhi||More than a decade after it was first ideated, the Delhi government has finally moved ahead with its long-delayed plan to create multi-level parking depots with commercial facilities for buses run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). The step is significant as the lack of parking has been one of the primary reasons for the delay in strengthening Delhi’s bus fleet, especially now when the government is in the process of procuring nearly 3,000 more buses. On Tuesday, the state-run DTC and NBCC India signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for constructing these one-of-a-kind depots in Hari Nagar and Vasant Vihar. At present, Delhi has a combined strength of around 6,600 DTC and cluster scheme buses. Taking to Twitter to announce the move, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “DTC and NBCC have signed MOUs today to build multi-level bus depots at Hari Nagar and Vasant Vihar -- the first such depots in the country, with all modern facilities. More buses could now be parked in limited available space. The parking cost per bus will be much lower now.”The MoU was signed in the presence of Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot, the commissioner of transport and the managing directors of DTC and NBCC along with other senior officials.Gahlot said this would hopefully become India’s first multi-level bus depot. “NBCC will also redevelop a few other DTC properties. I am really happy to note that these projects will be developed on a zero-waste, self-sustainable model. With more buses set to arrive in the next few months, increasing the capacity of its depots is a very crucial step in ensuring effective utilisation of available land,” Gahlot said.A senior government official said the DTC will rent out space for commercial activities at some locations.The plan to construct multi-level depots for state-run buses was first conceived by the Congress government under former chief minister Sheila Dikshit in June 2008. Later, when the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power in 2015, it took over the same proposal and started working on it in 2016, but nothing concrete materialised back then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mou-signed-to-build-multi-level-bus-depots-in-delhi/story-cH5T7i7XAz4vkPELbVWFJN.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||New sensors by IIT-Kanpur to give local data on pollution to residents||The Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur, in partnership with a Mumbai-based start-up, has developed and installed first-of-its-kind, low-cost air quality monitoring sensors at 30 locations across Delhi and the neighbouring satellite towns to provide local data on the sources of pollution. The data from the sensors, which have been designed to measure particulate matter of size 10 microns (PM10) and 2.5 microns (PM2.5), will not only be available to anti-pollution agencies but local residents as well, the developers said. IIT-Kanpur scientists explained that the sensors gathers and transmit data more effectively than air quality monitoring stations in Delhi-NCR. Delhi has 36 monitoring stations run by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee. Scientists said it is a collaboration between IIT-Kanpur, Mumbai-based Respirer Living Sciences and Ericsson (India), which for the first time in has used Narrow Bandwidth-Internet of Things technology in India.The project is led by Sachchida Nand Tripathi, head of department (civil engineering) who is also a member of the National Clean Air Programme and professor Abhay Karandika, director, IIT-Kanpur. Data generated from these sensors will be shared on a common platform to help community groups in understanding air quality situation in their areas. The first batch of these sensors have been installed at 30 locations, including Dhaula Kuan, RK Puram, Mundka, Rohini, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Noida.“This is a patent-pending technology that IIT-Kanpur has developed. These sensors are low-cost but they are very well calibrated. This will not only provide a clear picture of which local sources are acting up, but also provide information of how much contribution is coming from outside,” said Tripathi. Ronak Sutaria, founder and CEO of Respirer Living Sciences, which is the industry partner in this project, said that these sensors cost just 1/20th the price of reference grade stations that are currently installed in Delhi. Setting up a reference grade station may cost ₹10 lakh to ₹12 lakh per station, but these new sensors cost around ₹50,000, with an accuracy of over 90%. “One of the objectives of these sensors is to provide local residents information about what his happening in their neighbourhood. Also, when you are taking certain actions to improve the air quality you need such hyper-local air quality data, which is presently not available in the country. This device can also run on a single charge battery for at least six months,” Sutaria said. Experts and residents both welcomed the concept. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said, “Data access is the first step of solving the problem of pollution in the region. Hyper-local data will also help government agencies make dedicated plans for each area and address the sources more efficiently.,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-cost-air-quality-sensors-to-provide-pollution-data-to-residents/story-A9lcN1LuXB0YwylOHN6E3L.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Air quality may worsen from today, stubble burning to add to Delhi’s woes||Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) improved a few notches on Tuesday from a day before on account of a higher wind speed, but remained in the “very poor” category, with scientists warning of a further deterioration from Wednesday as stubble fires in Punjab have peaked.On Monday, 2,047 fires were observed over Punjab and crop residue burning may have already crossed the peak in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, according to scientists. Farmers said the impact of stubble fires may wane by the time Diwali festivities begin. The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin on Tuesday reported an overall AQI of 312. This was several points below the AQI of 353 recorded on Monday in Delhi. Forecasts by various air monitoring agencies, however, said the respite would be short-lived and Delhi’s air quality may start deteriorating again from Wednesday as the high stubble burning count in Punjab and Haryana, and the continuation of northwesterly winds are likely to make things worse for Delhi. Lower temperatures expected over the next few days will also trap pollutants closer to the surface, experts said. On Tuesday, a maximum temperature of 32.4 degrees Celsius was recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather. The minimum temperature settled at 14.4 degree Celsius, two degrees below normal.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), showed that the impact of stubble fires was 23% on Monday but Delhi’s air quality improved because of favourable meteorological conditions. “Favourable winds aided dispersion of pollutants in Delhi, otherwise air quality would have deteriorated. On October 24, there were 900 fires in Punjab; on October 25, there were 1,400 fires and on October 26, it had crossed 2,000. But we expect some deterioration in air quality on Wednesday as wind speed is likely to decline marginally,” warned Vijay Soni, scientist at India Meteorological Department (air quality management division). “Every year, there are around 60,000 stubble fires cumulatively. This year, there have been over 16,000 fires in total until now. It appears like fires are peaking now,” Soni said. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab, said fires may have peaked already or ar about to peak in a day or so. “Harvesting will be complete by November 10-15. This is the peak of stubble fires, pollution has increased in Punjab where fires are burning. This year fires are high because farmers are agitating together against the farm bills.” “Wind speed increased to about 18 kmph on Tuesday at Safdarjung and so the impact of stubble fires was not felt as much. Wind speed will reduce from Wednesday and the direction will remain northwesterly, so the air quality is likely to deteriorate,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, added. The ventilation index was 12000 m2/s on October 27. It is likely to be 4000 m2/s on October 28 and 8000 m2/s on October 29. The ventilation index is a function of mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-may-worsen-again-from-wednesday-stubble-burning-to-add-to-delhi-s-woes/story-amfAsjxOKCdk6urWSVRgrN.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Green Delhi mobile app ready, likely to be launched by CM Kejriwal on Thursday||The government’s Green Delhi mobile application – which will enable users to register complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms – is ready and scheduled to be launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, a government official said.The mobile application is part of the government’s seven-point action plan to fight air pollution, which was announced by chief minister Kejriwal on October 6. The action plan includes dust-control strategies, a tree transplantation policy and schemes to encourage electric vehicles among other measures.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday held a review meeting with officials of various departments regarding the grievance redressal mechanism in connection with the new mobile application.Users of the Green Delhi app will be able to upload photos and videos and send them along with their complaints. Each complainant will get a unique code to track the status of the complaint and action taken.The departments that sent representatives for the meeting includeed police, public works department, Delhi Development Authority, the National Highways Authority of India, the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council, the revenue department, and the environment department, Rai’s office said in a statement, adding all these departments are to appoint nodal officers.“Failure to address the issue on time will result in action against the concerned nodal officers. The nodal officers are also provided training to address issues. Through the Green Delhi application, people will be able to notify the government about burning waste, industrial pollution, dust, etc., by registering complaints online,” the statement said.Delhi battles high levels of pollution every winter because of factors such as stubble and garbage burning, dust, local industrial and vehicular emission, which are compounded by unfavourable weather conditions. The air quality in Delhi remained in the “very poor” category on Tuesday, with the overall AQI settling at 312.The statement said, “There will be a time limit for redressal of complaints received through the Green Delhi application, under which the departments concerned will have to work towards resolving the complaints. All departments concerned will be connected to the app and a complaint lodged through the app will be received and addressed by the departments. Nodal officers of the concerned departments and other officers subordinate to them will remain connected to the app. The Green Delhi app will be a photo and a video-based app.”The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), environment department, the Central Pollution Control Board and the Union environment ministry also operate helpline numbers for pollution-related complaints. Those helplines numbers would continue to function, the senior government official said, adding, “The idea of the Delhi government’s app is to conveniently bring complaint registration and tracking mechanism under one platform for convenience of the complainant and better accountability on part of agencies handling each case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/green-delhi-mobile-app-ready-likely-to-be-launched-by-kejriwal-on-thursday/story-IngIVrLAOHI6PMEc7OM28J.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Waste-to-energy unit inaugurated at Ghazipur market||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated a power plant in east Delhi’s Ghazipur in which 15 tonnes of waste generated every day at the wholesale agriculture and livestock market can be processed to produce 1,500 units of electricity.Kejriwal said, “The waste-to-power (WTP) plant is starting today. The waste generated from this mandi will be processed to convert organic waste into electricity. Delhi is the national capital of the country, and so it should be clean to be regarded as a national capital. But there are waste dumps all across, and there are three waste mountains in Delhi.”Several waste-to-power plants are needed across the city, he said. “This is a small plant that will combust only 15 tonnes of waste to produce 1,500 units of electricity. Many such small plants should be established across Delhi.” “With an existing big waste-to-power plant and the establishment of hundreds of such small plants, waste should no longer be dumped on these garbage mountains. This waste should be recycled to generate electricity or be used in brick kilns. It is only through this judicious recycling that Delhi can prosper, or these mountains will keep on increasing. The starting of this plant is a step in this direction,” he said.Kejriwal was accompanied by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and environment minister Gopal Rai at the inauguration event.The Delhi government, senior officials said, plans similar plants at the Okhla and Azadpur markets too by next year as part of an initiative to modernise the city’s wholesale agriculture and livestock markets and to ensure that the height of the landfills in Ghazipur, Okhla and Bhalswa remain under check.The power plant inaugurated on Tuesday is located near the poultry market in Ghazipur. Another waste-to-power plant operated by the east Delhi municipal corporation in the vicinity combusts garbage from the landfill in Ghazipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waste-to-energy-unit-inaugurated-at-ghazipur-market/story-aqNSK7vt1tpTcbPKh5gtiP.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Interim bail to continue for prisoners who were released at start of lockdown||The high-powered committee appointed by the Delhi high court has extended the interim bail of prisoners who were released at the start of the lockdown to decongest the three prison complexes in Delhi.The Delhi High Court had on October 23 ended its blanket order extending all interim bails and paroles to around 6,000 prisoners granted prior to and during the Covid-19 lockdown. That order will come in effect from October 31. All under trials, whose bail was extended, have to surrender in a phased manner between November 2 and November 13, it said.During a meeting of the committee -- BS Bhalla, principal secretary(home), Delhi prisons’s director general Sandeep Goel and Kanwal Jeet Arora, member of the Delhi State Legal Services Authority — the committee decided to extend the interim bail of those under trials who were released as per the criteria set out by the committee. Others (those arrested recently or were granted interim bail by the court in regular hearings) will have to surrender as per the timeline set by the special bench of the Delhi High Court between November 2 and 13. The dates for the return(surrender) in December of those released as per criteria set out by committee is yet to be decided.The first category of prisoners who were released as per the criteria were those who were already lodged in prison for a long time and were not involved in heinous cases. Another important criterion for release of prisoners was that they must have already served half of their sentences in non-heinous cases.According to the minutes of the meetings, the prisoners from the second category(those released on interim bail by the order of the court in regular hearings) will return in batches from November 2. They will first be kept in isolation for 14 days at the Mandoli Police Complex. The complex has already been turned into a temporary quarantine jail by the Delhi government. The new prisoners will be shifted to prison only after they complete the 14-day mandatory quarantine period. The officers also decided that they would advise prisoners to get tested for Covid-19 and also get a test report, but this will not be made mandatory.Until October 24, the three prisons -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli - had reported 89 Covid-19 cases among prisoners and 219 among jail staff. Two prisoners had succumbed to the virus. At present, there are three active cases, while the rest have recovered. Among the jail staff, 209 have recovered and there are 10 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/interim-bail-to-continue-for-prisoners-who-were-released-at-start-of-lockdown/story-crnZbaQGpi9guHYBbm86KL.html
28-10-2020||City||Teen killed as car falls off bridge on Airport Road in Mohali||A 19-year-old youth was killed while his two friends sustained injuries after their speeding car fell off a bridge on Airport Road near TDI City in Mohali past midnight on Monday. The accident took place after the driver lost control of the Swift Dzire on slamming the brakes to avoid collision with stray cattle, said police.The deceased has been identified as Deshraj Kumar, who was staying as a paying guest in Balongi. He along with Pradeep and Deepak, also of Balongi, was going towards Mohali from Sunny Enclave side around 12:30am when the mishap took place, said inspector Amardeep Singh, station house officer, Balongi. The car hit the bridge railings before falling 15 feet down into the ditch.Pradeep, who was behind the wheel, is undergoing treatment at the PGIMER, Chandigarh. Deepak, who was discharged from hospital on Tuesday, said he was sitting on the rear seat while Deshraj was sitting next to Pradeep.Deshraj’s body was handed over to his family after postmortem. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-killed-as-car-falls-off-bridge-on-airport-road-in-mohali/story-0DvkUltov0GU1jeQArNyzM.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Alleged gang members of Neeraj Bawana arrested after shoot-out in Rohini||Three men allegedly associated with the Neeraj Bawana gang were arrested early Tuesday morning after a shoot-out in Rohini, police said. Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the arrested men have been identified as 27-year-old Manish Dabas, Deepak Katiya, 26 and Prince Panchal, 23, who were involved in several extortion cases. Yadav said, on October 2, a businessman in Model Town received an extortion call for Rs 50 lakh. The caller identified himself as a member of the Neeraj Bawana gang. The businessmen got a second call on October 21, the the caller threatened to kill him or his family members if he didn’t pay the money. Two days later, three unidentified men fired at the businessman’s house, the DCP said.“During investigation, we came to know that the three men who shot at the businessman’s house would be going to Karala Village in a Maruti Swift car. A trap was laid and around 4.30 am on Tuesday, they were intercepted near Rohini. They were asked to surrender but they instead opened fire at the police team. Our team retaliated and both Dabas and Katiya were shot in their leg. Prince was also overpowered by the police,” the DCP said.Three loaded pistols along with the car and four mobile phones were seized.Police said Dabas was involved in 10 murder cases, illegal possession of arms, attempt to murder, extortion and assault. While Katiya has eight criminal cases registered against him, Panchal was a new recruit, Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alleged-gang-members-of-neeraj-bawana-arrested-after-shoot-out-in-rohini/story-OOOgGDBr12cMomn2hCLA1I.html
28-10-2020||Delhi||Online booking for HSRPs, stickers to reopen from November 1||Online booking for getting high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour coded stickers affixed in vehicles will restart from November 1, even as the Delhi government will launch home delivery of the same on a trial basis at some select locations from next month, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Tuesday. On October 1, the minister had directed that no new application should be entertained until the backlog of HSRPs is cleared and all the complaints of customers are resolved. It will be after a month that the application window for the registration plates will be reopened. The minister announced these decisions after holding a high-level meeting with stakeholders late in the evening to discuss ways to sort out the problems faced in affixation of HSRP and colour coded stickers on vehicles registered in the national capital.“The meeting had representatives of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) and OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) in attendance. It was decided that there will be a single website URL from November 1 for applying for HSRPs and stickers. The number of outlets from where these number plates can be collected have been increased from 150 to 650. It has also been decided that at every stage, the customer will be kept informed through SMS about the status of the number plate. Also, the option of Home Delivery will be provided to those who want to avail it,” Gahlot said.A spokesperson of HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited confirmed that booking for HSRP will begin from November 1 and installation will start from November 7. “Customers will be sent a message by the automobile dealers when the number plate will be ready,” he said.Transport officials said that each vehicle owner booking HSRP online will get a receipt so that even if there is any future drive by transport department to penalise violations, they are not punished even if there is delay on the part of dealers or manufacturers.Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited also said that it will solely operate the home delivery service for which it is now expanding its call centres and also roping in companies which provide riders. “Till now our call centre was manned by only 20 people. Now we are increasing it to over 100. For home delivery, we are also creating a pool from our own staff who will be riders. Besides, we will also be roping in two companies which provide riders if there is a surge in demand,” the official from Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-booking-for-hsrps-stickers-to-reopen-from-november-1/story-g9XPw0YHTCPfcGOaUMKIYN.html
28-10-2020||City||Extra-curricular activities for students in Mumbai go online way||Nearly three months into the lockdown in May, Arpita Shinde (name changed), a Mumbai-based parent, was worried as her six-year-old daughter Aahana, who plays football as a hobby, was getting anxious about not being able to go out of her home to practice the sport. “Initially, she would throw tantrums but when she realised that there was no way she could go out, she began spending more time on the mobile phone. This was alarming to me as a parent, as my daughter was never someone who would sit in a place for hours,” said Shinde. In the days to come, Shinde researched a bit and found her daughter an online sports tutor. “She could meet children of her age online and play small games within the house and on our building terrace. That made her happy,” said Shinde. With schools operating classes online for the past several months owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, playing and extracurricular activities have also moved online as children remain cooped up inside their homes. Through online platforms, social media pages and activities organised by schools and non-governmental organisations, students are being offered a wide array of options to pursue their hobbies, take up an activity or learn a skill from the comfort of their homes. One such platform is KRAYON, which is an exclusive, secure online video platform for students. It features 12 different competitions including music, dance, art, writing, quiz etc for students from Class 1 to Class 12. “The platform allows students to upload pre-recorded videos of their performances and share it with their peers from across the country. We also ensure complete safety and privacy of the children. The platform offers a non-judgemental and non-competitive approach, and children can just have fun and learn from each other,” said Dr Syed Sultan Ahmed, managing director and chief learner, LXL Ideas, which runs the platform. Students from nearly 1,000 schools across India are a part of the platform. For younger children, online platform KLAY offers in-person teaching and care-giving services at home. “The learning environment for children shifted away from physical classrooms to the online space overnight. While schools and teachers have harnessed their innovative best to ensure continuity in learning for children online, some parents and children are still getting used to the new format. To serve such parents, we have built KARE@Home as the next best alternative,” said AK Srikanth, CEO, KLAY. So far, more than 250 families have subscribed to the platform and the packages for calling a teacher and caregiver at home begin from ₹10,000. In order to cater to the developmental needs of underprivileged children in Mumbai, NGO Salaam Bombay Foundation began ‘Masti ki Paathshaala’, an initiative that encouraged children to play games and display their talent before their peers. “A large number of children in Mumbai live in 10x10 rooms with very little space to move around. The lockdown had caused a lot of anxiety in their families as many had to fight for daily survival. To help such children stay positive in these tough times, our facilitators would make video calls to them, hold game sessions, ask them to perform and boost their confidence. This had a huge impact not just on the child but on the entire family. Over 1,000 students attended these sessions in the city,” said Aditi Parikh, vice-president, communications, Salaam Bombay Foundation. Ruchita Dar Shah, a parent from Mumbai who runs online parenting platform First Moms Club, said that the past few months have been challenging for children as well as their parents. “My older son is an avid footballer while my younger one is into theatre. Not getting to go to school or pursue their hobbies was disappointing. But slowly, as a family, we came up with alternatives for them to spend some quality time at home. For instance, we encouraged them to buy lots of books, read and discussed them together. Also, my younger one draws up quizzes for us and we play as a family. While a lot of online options exist for pursuing extra-curricular activities, parents should not pressure their children on accomplishing something from a hobby or a talent. Then the whole purpose of the exercise is lost,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/extra-curricular-activities-for-students-in-mumbai-go-online-way/story-5cbCITjNSrqEhiQKVHvS2L.html
