31-10-2020||Noida||Noida authority imposes ₹18.5 lakh penalty against eight firms for violation of pollution norms||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Saturday imposed a total of ₹18.5 lakh penalty against eight entities, including three developers, for violating pollution norms. The authority’s team in work circle 6 imposed ₹2 lakh against three firms, which were found violating norms of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). In another case, the authority in work circle 9 imposed a total of ₹15 lakh penalty on three developers for not following rules while carrying out the construction.The authority has divided Noida into 10 work circles for better administrative purposes. The authority has created collection points at different sites to collect construction and demolition waste across the city with an aim to better disposal of construction waste that causes air pollution.According to the construction guidelines issued by NGT, the construction material should not be left uncovered, construction site should be covered with a sheet and large size construction sites should be surrounded by plantation to keep dust under check, among others. Also, installation of anti-smog guns at all kinds of construction sites spread on 20,000 square metre plot or bigger area is a must.“Our teams are conducting inspections in their respective areas assigned to them. They act against whosoever found flouting the NGT norms,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.Meanwhile, the health department of the Noida authority imposed ₹50,000 penalty against a private company for not handling its waste and ₹1 lakh penalty was imposed against an automobile dealer for not segregating the waste and mixing the hazardous waste into biodegradable waste.On Saturday, the authority sprinkled water on 107.980 km roads with the help of 63 water tankers. It collected 320 tonnes of construction and demolition waste to recycle the same at its Sector 80 plant. It carried out mechanical sweeping on total road length of 243 km on city’s 67 main roads, said the officials.The authority in the next one week will create 16 points at different sites, where anyone can hand over their construction waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-imposes-18-5-lakh-penalty-against-eight-firms-for-violation-of-pollution-norms/story-FlgbCj629SQZa9aRbZV2bO.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Four held for burglaries, 60 mobile phones recovered||Noida: Four men of a gang were arrested on Saturday for allegedly being involved in several cases of theft and burglary in Noida and Ghaziabad. The police have recovered 60 stolen phones from them.The suspects were identified as Bharat Singh and Sajid, both residents of Delhi, and Sahadat and Abdul Mateen, both from Ghaziabad. According to the police, the four were nabbed by a team from the Sector 24 police station from near the Morna bus stand following a tip-off. All four are in their mid-twenties and educated, said the police. “The suspects would break into shops and industrial units to steal valuables in bulk which they would then sell,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Police officials said that they have recovered 60 stolen mobile phones from the suspects, along with one laptop, one countrymade pistol and two knives. Of the 60 phones, 33 have been traced to a burglary at a mobile store in Ghaziabad’s Loni area earlier this month, the police said.“We are looking for other cases in which the suspects may have been involved,” said the DCP. The officials said that the gang seems to have only the four members now, but they are on the lookout for the buyers to whom they sold the stolen goods. Their criminal history is also being verified and the police suspect them to have been active for the past at least six months.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-four-held-for-burglaries-60-mobile-phones-recovered/story-NmXCAO8lFX2mqEr9cZzmwJ.html
31-10-2020||Noida||NHAI staffer killed, 2 others hurt as truck rams patrolling party on Eastern Peripheral E-way||Noida: One staff member of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) died while two other staffers were injured when a speeding truck allegedly hit them, on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on Friday night in Badalpur, Greater Noida. The victims were at the spot to attend to a call of a vehicle breakdown.The complainant, Sadhan Kumar Tiwari, a resident of Raebareli in Uttar Pradesh, said that his nephew, Atul Tiwari, worked as a driver for the NHAI’s patrolling team. “At 10.15 pm, Atul received a call for help as a Maruti Swift Dzire car had broken down near Bambawad village on the EPE. Atul and two other staffers – Kamal Kumar and Mukesh Kumar – went to the spot in a patrolling vehicle,” he said. However, as soon as the three got down from the patrolling vehicle to help the stranded motorist, a speeding truck came from behind and hit the three three, Sadhan alleged in his complaint.Dharmendra Sharma, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said the person to whose car had broken down – Amit Sharma – was going to Mathura from Haridwar with his family. “Amit’s car had stopped working and he had made a call for help. It appears a speeding truck hit the three staffers, in which Atul, the driver of NHAI patrolling vehicle, died while Kamal and Mukesh were injured. The injured were rushed to a private hospital where they are undergoing treatment,” Sharma said. The patrolling vehicle and Amit’s car were also damaged in the accident, the police added. Atul was from Raebareli while Kamal is a resident of Aligarh and Mukesh is a resident of Bulandshahr. “Based on the complaint, we have registered a case against unknown persons under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence), and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others. We are scanning CCTV footage of cameras installed on the EPE to identify suspects,” said police. Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI, said the three victims were contractual staff of the authority. “Primary investigation shows that a speeding truck hit the patrolling team. The truck driver might have been under the influence of alcohol. We have filed a complaint with the police in this regard. The contractor is looking into the medical and insurance claims pertaining to the victims,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nhai-staffer-killed-2-others-hurt-as-truck-rams-patrolling-party-on-eastern-peripheral-e-way/story-IQ752ibjAs6wS30ikOaOnL.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Wife, teen daughters held for man’s murder||Noida: A day after the body of a 50-year-old man was found near the Morna bus stand, the police on Saturday arrested his 45-year-old wife for allegedly murdering him. The man’s two minor daughters were also apprehended for their alleged involvement in the case, the police said. According to the police, the man, whose body was found in a ditch on Friday morning, lived with his wife and four children near the bus stand in Sector 35. “There were ligature marks around his neck which suggested that he was strangled, and the autopsy has confirmed this. Also, we suspected that he had been attacked by someone close to him as there weren’t signs of struggle,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.A case of murder was registered at Sector 24 police station on Friday based on the complaint of the man’s nephew. During the preliminary investigation, the wife herself confessed to the act, the police said.“It was surprising when she mentioned that their 13 and 16 years old daughters were also involved in the incident,” said a senior police official.The police said that the man worked as a private sweeper at the Morna bus stand and was an alcoholic. According to the family, he would often abuse them while intoxicated. Neighbours have also confirmed that the man would often hit the wife and daughters, the police said.“It seems that they were fed up with his behaviour, and in a moment of rage they attacked him on Thursday night, dumped his body in a small ditch and covered it with a fibre sheet. They used a dupatta to strangle him and even hit him on his face. They had also helped look for him before the body was found the next day around 7.15am. This was not a premeditated murder,” said the DCP.The couple has six children, two of whom are adults and live separately, the police said, adding that the two youngest ones were not involved in the incident.“The woman did not mention any sexual assault, but she did say that he would often hit the daughters and misbehaved with them. She also said that he was abusive and doubtful of her character,” said Rajesh.The woman was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, while the girls were sent in juvenile custody, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-wife-teen-daughters-held-for-man-s-murder/story-zjGpRIHgSLiKojmMCNVseI.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Noida begins drive to test salon visitors, public vehicle drivers, shopkeepers||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has begun a special drive to test people visiting beauty parlours or salons, besides auto drivers, rickshaw-pullers and small shopkeepers at different localities – mainly in and around the containment zones. Health officials have been stationed outside parlours and salons in many areas and to take the samples of visitors visiting them. With the festive season round the corner, lapses in self-regulation or partaking in large congregations might prove costly, said officials.According to data provided by the district health department, while samples of 1,371 auto-drivers and rickshaw-pullers have been collected so far, samples of as many 1,269 persons at different beauty parlours and saloons have also been collected. While one woman tested positive for Covid-19 at a beauty parlour in Dadri, while none of the public transport drivers have been tested positive via rapid antigen tests so far, said officials. The 15-day drive began on Friday. So far, 4,227 rapid antigen kit tests and 2,853 RT-PCR tests have been done under this drive.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that festivities without social distancing could cause sudden surge in the number of positive cases. “Being an industrial hub, the district already has a floating population. Going by doctors, the season nowadays has maximum viral load, which is always a good carrier for many virus-borne diseases. What is more alarming that people forget social distancing norms while enjoying the festive season,” he said. The DM further said that special testing in these places will give the actual figure of the Covid-19 spread. “While beauty parlours have a large turnout of ladies, auto drivers, rickshaw pullers and small shopkeepers mostly cater to middle class people – who have started venturing out to eke out their livelihood. The number of positive Covid-19 cases will give a clear picture of viral spread or second wave in the district,” he said. The DM, however, expressed his concern over the sudden surge in positive cases this week. On Saturday, the district recorded 205 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district’s tally to 17,839. The number of active cases reached 1,225, up from 1,133 on Friday. Many people supported the administration’s decision to test visitors to beauty parlours. Jahnavi Nayak, an entrepreneur who lives in Greater Noida Extension, said exercising caution is important. “I appeal all ladies to take all safety measures while visiting parlours,” she said.However, shopkeepers in Noida believe that people are already taking precautions before coming out to markets. Sushil Kumar Jain, the president of Sector 18 market association, said the buzz usually seen preceding the festivals is absent this year. “On the one hand, there’s a cash crunch in the market, and on the other, people are scared due to the pandemic. Besides being particular about following Covid-19 protocols, we don’t have any option left other than to interact with the public to sell our wares,” he said. CB Jha, the president of the Atta Market Association, however, said that maintaining social distancing and other safety protocols have been partially side-lined by customers. “They are mostly from the lower economic strata. When we request our customers to carry masks and sanitisers, they say they would rather buy goods or than spend money on these safety items. However, we are voluntarily giving them masks and sanitisers,” he said. Meanwhile, district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri also agreed that any lapse in maintaining social distancing might prove to be costly. “Number of positive cases has started surging again. Though our recovery and case fatality rates are very good, venturing out for large gatherings and public places might be dangerous,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-begins-drive-to-test-salon-visitors-public-vehicle-drivers-shopkeepers/story-jg0iMqjmD8M7YkKxgLT8nL.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Permits for selling firecrackers will be issued after assessing pollution situation, say Ghaziabad officials||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad district administration on Saturday said it will issue temporary licenses for sale of fireworks only if pollution levels remain under control and the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) gives its nod for the same ahead of the Diwali festival. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the administration has started receiving applications for issuance of licenses for sales of firecrackers ahead of Diwali. “Any decision for issuing licenses will be reviewed keeping in mind the pollution levels in the city. Further, an assessment of the situation will also be made by the UPPCB and only if they give a nod will we allow licenses to be issued. If we allow licenses, there will be bursting of firecrackers well before Diwali and this will deteriorate the air quality further,” Pandey said. On Saturday, the air quality index (AQI) for Ghaziabad stood under ‘very poor’ category with a reading of 363. According to officials, they have received 85 applications for issuance of licenses from city areas and another 13 from other tehsils in the district so far. They added that the state home department has also added certain conditions for issuance of the temporary licences. The conditions stated that the licensee shall not possess or sell fireworks of foreign origin; they will sell ‘reduced emission’ and ‘green crackers;’ crackers having compounds such as Barium, Lithium, Lead, Arsenic, Mercury, etc., will not be sold and there will be no sales of items such as ‘;ari’ (firecrackers joined in a string). WEEKLY OFF FOR MARKETS TO REMAINTaking further measures to keep a tab on heavy rush in markets, the administration said markets will not be allowed to open on all seven days. The officials said that they have decided that the weekly off day in markets will remain in place on their respective days. “There has been a lot of demand from the different traders’ associations to allow for opening of markets on all seven days in wake of the festival season. I have disallowed this and one weekly off day will remain in place. The decision has been taken in the wake of the Covid-19 situation as a lot of mixing of people will take place in markets before the festival. So, traders have also been asked to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols,” Pandey added. “During these days, we will also send our inspection teams to different markets. If any shop owner is found violating protocols or social distancing norms are not followed at their establishment, the shop will be closed down for 24 hours,” he added further. The officials said that one of their primary tasks during November is to tackle the Covid-19 situation with the sudden spike in the number of fresh cases in Delhi, besides tackling the ongoing air pollution scenario during the festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/permits-for-selling-firecrackers-will-be-issued-after-assessing-pollution-situation-say-ghaziabad-officials/story-jpXuVQUca3PlDxSO0wUL2O.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Leftovers from festivals, polythene bags clutter river Hindon banks||Ghaziabad: The banks of the river Hindon near Arthala, adjacent to the GT Road, are strewn with leftovers, polythene material and other garbage items after the recent festivities of Dussehra and Durga Puja. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation said it will rush teams to get the area cleaned.The banks of Hindon, popularly known as Chhath Ghat where the annual event is held after Diwali, are lying in a dilapidated state. “Throwing garbage in the river and at the banks has been a recurrent problem which has persisted over the years in the city. This is why we moved a petition with the National Green Tribunal in 2015, after which the tribunal had directed for a fine of ₹20,000 on anyone found dumping garbage at the river banks,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. “However, despite all directions and penalty clauses in place, the authorities are not harsh on polluters. Even at daytime during the festival season, one can see people throwing puja leftovers at the banks and even inside the river. Before every Chhath Puja, the corporation has to undertake a major cleaning drive to get rid of waste material dumped before and after Diwali. There has to be a check on these things,” he added. An HT team went to the site on Saturday and witnessed garbage strewn around, and approached MS Tanwar, the municipal commissioner. “I have rushed a team to the spot and they will ensure that the river banks are cleaned and clutter is removed at the earliest. Action will be taken against the violators,” Tanwar said. According to environmentalists, the dumping of garbage in the river water can further deteriorate the water quality.“Already, the dissolved oxygen levels are very less in the waters of the Hindon and several drains empty sewage in it without treatment. Garbage dumping will further deteriorate the water quality. The polluters should be fined heavily so that they don’t turn up again near the river banks to dump puja leftovers or any other form of garbage,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/leftovers-from-festivals-polythene-bags-clutter-river-hindon-banks/story-8wWDz5lgxNyy7j9bbJOo8O.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad saw zero ‘severe’ air quality days this October||Ghaziabad: The past month was the first October in four years when air quality levels did not spike to the “severe” category in the two cities of Noida and Ghaziabad. According to records of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), although the air quality index (AQI) for both the cities deteriorated, it did not fall below the “very poor” category in October 2020.An assessment of the CPCB records by HT indicates that AQI had spiked to “severe” category in Ghaziabad and Noida in October of 2017, 2018 and 2019 but not this year. The AQI for Ghaziabad was in the “severe” category on four days in October 2018 and three days in October last year. Explaining the possible reasons behind this year’s progress, Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP-pollution control board (UPPCB), said: “There were favourable meteorological conditions, as well as the fact that the festival of Diwali this year falls in November. Besides, we had taken up awareness and enforcement measures at the local level. The work for the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) is also nearing completion, which is another factor that helped curb pollution. But the major challenge will be seen in November when the festive season is on full swing. For this, we have identified traffic hotspots, and the administration has also given directions for strict enforcement.”Noida had one “severe” category AQI day in October 2018 and three such days in October 2019. Last year, the festival of Diwali was on October 27, 2019, which could be one of the propellers for the rise in AQI around that time. Greater Noida, meanwhile, had one “severe” category air quality day in October this year, and three such days in October last year, however saw no “severe” days in October 2018.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that wind speed has been better this year, which, coupled with higher temperatures, helped in the dispersal of pollutants.“We had wind speed of an average of about 10-12kmph, besides which mercury also remained high during the day, at an average of about 30-33 degrees Celsius. Apart from this, instances of stubble burning started early this year and not concentrated to a few days around Diwali. So, all these factors have helped the situation this year,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. Experts, however, caution against letting the guard loose as commercial activities slowly regain their former strength and Diwali, when people usually burn firecrackers, is close.“As a result of the lockdown, industrial, construction and commercial activities are yet to reach their optimum levels, besides which the weather was clearer this October due to meteorological conditions. However, it will now depend largely on the authorities to take up strict enforcement in November during Diwali days. Otherwise pollution levels will further deteriorate,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. On the other hand, the primary pollutants of particulate matter (PM)10 and PM2.5 still remain a major cause of concern as they dipped a little this October, albeit still multiple times higher than the prescribed limits, as compared to the same period last year. According to experts, prolonged exposure to the two pollutants often result in respiratory issues, allergies besides other ailments.In October 2019, the severity of PM10 levels had reached their highest – up to 6-6.7 times of its standard limit – at four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad. The levels were recorded in range of 3.7-5.6 times this October. Likewise, PM2.5 also ranged 6.7-8.2 times higher than the standard limit in October, 2019 at four stations in Ghaziabad. This October, they were recorded a little lower in range of 3.6-5.4 times than the standard limits. Similarly, PM10 levels were almost five-seven times than the standard limit in October last year at the four monitoring stations in Noida. But this year the levels came down and remained in the range of 3.6-5 times in October. Also, the PM2.5 levels in October, 2019 were 6-6.7 times higher than the standard limits but this October they were recorded in the range of 2.9-5.7 times. The PM10 has a standard limit of 100 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) while PM2.5 has a standard limit of 60 mpcm. “Our primary focus is to ensure that no garbage burning incident takes place and there is strict enforcement at construction sites. Further, during Diwali days, there are also plans for a drive for strict enforcement of traffic rules,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-saw-zero-severe-air-quality-days-this-october/story-poHtUiVPPKxOmd8CuIbFVL.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University yet to implement reservation roster for teachers’ recruitment||Months after the Panjab University (PU) syndicate decided to revise the reservation roster for the direct recruitment of teachers, its implementation is still pending at the university.PU in December last year had received a letter from the University Grants Commission (UGC) regarding the implementation of reservation in teachers’ cadre. The draft reservation roster for recruitment of assistant professors prepared by the university was taken up by PU syndicate in March but was not approved.Following the syndicate’s decision, a panel headed by syndicate member Navdeep Goyal was constituted by PU to revisit the reservation roster and remove the discrepancies in it. However, till now, the reservation roster was not taken up again in PU syndicate for approval. The panel has asked the departments to come up with objections (if any) in the draft reservation roster.Syndic Navdeep Goyal said, “The committee has finalised the reservation roster a few months ago. It is pending for approval as no syndicate meeting is being called.”In March 2018, the UGC in its notification had directed the universities to prepare a reservation roster keeping the departments or subjects as one unit for all levels of teachers as applicable. Also, it has notified that the roster, department wise, shall be applied to the total number of posts of each category (professor, associate professor and assistant professor) within the department.Roster under review: V-CPU, which is already grappling with faculty crunch, cannot appoint teachers without the reservation roster. During a meeting in January, PU syndicate had restricted the new appointments of assistant professors in the university till the reservation roster is prepared.In the draft reservation roster, which was tabled in the syndicate in March for the recruitment of assistant professors, out of total 978 posts of assistant professors, 146 have been reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates, 73 posts for Scheduled Tribes and 39 for physically handicapped.PU senator Rajat Sandhir said, “The university cannot initiate any recruitment till the reservation roster is finalised. It is high time to finalise the same so that recruitment could be initiated in the teaching departments soon.”“The reservation roster is under review,” said Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-yet-to-implement-reservation-roster-for-teachers-recruitment/story-sJE0qCtSBLTlXoXavRJcaJ.html
31-10-2020||City||2 fake email ids created in name of hospital director; Mumbai Police register FIR||The director of a prominent cancer treatment hospital lodged a complaint with the Bhoiwada police after two fake email accounts were created in his name. The complainant told the police that emails were sent to his senior colleagues from the fake accounts, requesting them for ‘favours’, to ruin his reputation. The police have registered a complaint against an unidentified person and have begun investigating the case. In his complaint, the director said that on September 18, his colleague from the radiation department informed him that she had received an email from an id that had his name. According to the police, the email stated: “I need you to please purchase some e-gift cards for me online. There are some prospects that I need to send these to but I haven’t been able to get them myself as I am tied-up in a meeting. I can’t take calls now, so an email will be fine. Let me know if it’s possible to get them for me right now, so I can give further details. I’II reimburse you before the end of the day.” The director told his colleague that the email account did not belong to him and was a fake one that appeared similar to his. On October 23, similar emails were sent to three other senior colleagues of the director. “All the three emails stated: ‘Can you please drop me a mail if you’re free’,” a police officer said. The recipients found something amiss and informed the director. He then approached the police to file a complaint, based on which a first information report (FIR) (a copy of which is with HT) was filed against an unidentified accused under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation) and 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 66C (identity theft) and 66E (violation of privacy) of Information Technology Act. “The process of writing to the email service provider has already been initiated to get the details, including the internet protocol (IP) address, of the email sender,” said another police officer. Despite repeated attempts, the director of the hospital did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-fake-email-ids-created-in-name-of-hospital-director-mumbai-police-register-fir/story-l4k7o1sQauEkSBVjV1MVxN.html
31-10-2020||City||Celebrate November 8 to 14 as Children’s Week: Maharashtra education department to schools||Ahead of Children’s Day on November 14, the Maharashtra education department has asked schools in the state to celebrate Children’s Week from November 8 to 14. As a part of the initiative, schools have to conduct activities and upload photographs of celebrations conducted online. During the week, various competitions such as essay writing, elocution and video-making will be organised for students by the schools. The education department has also announced prizes in each category for students between Class 1 and Class 12. “Teachers can upload photographs of students using the hashtag #baldivas2020. They can share these photographs across social media handles,” stated the circular issued by the education department on Thursday. Taluka and district-level committees will be formed to judge student entries as part of the competition. Several teachers said that conducting these activities for an entire week will prove to be cumbersome for them at a time when they were struggling to complete their syllabus and exams. “The department should have left the activities to schools as following a rigorous timetable will be tough at the moment. Also, as some students do not have access to internet, communicating these events to them is a tough task,” said the teacher of a suburban school. Officials from the education department said that the idea of organising this event is to encourage students to take up activities when schools are online. “It would give them an opportunity to interact with teachers and peers which will be a good change from daily classes,” said an official from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/celebrate-november-8-to-14-as-children-s-week-maharashtra-education-department-to-schools/story-huUh8uVlc45X1qf1y9is5H.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore launches ‘one nation, one ration card scheme’ in Chandigarh||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore launched the ‘one nation, one ration card’ during Rashtriya Ekta Diwas celebrations at Sukhna Lake on Saturday. The official release claimed that Chandigarh is the first Union Territory to introduce the ‘one nation, one ration card’ (ONORC) scheme with the integration of direct benefit transfers. ONORC enables migrant beneficiaries to get ration, even when they move to other states or UTs. Migrant workers can register themselves at the helpline number 14445 or at the service window in the department. Those wishing to register themselves must bring their Aadhar Card, ration card, provide bank details and their address in Chandigarh. They must visit the office for biometric authentication. After successful registration, the food subsidy amount in lieu of food grains will be transferred into their bank account as per their entitlement under the National Food Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badnore-launches-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-in-chandigarh/story-PQ9kERqXiyhGbtWvmhqsqI.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police career counsel juveniles with criminal past||For an 18-year-old boy from Shadipur, Diwali this year will be a life changing experience, much different from last year’s, which he says brought along “life’s worst horror”. The boy, who is the son of a driver and a homemaker, had spent last Diwali at a juvenile correction home after being apprehended in a case of attempt to murder. But now, with the help of Delhi police’s career counselling workshop organised especially for juveniles with criminal past on Thursday, the 18-year-old expects to be an earning member of his family this Diwali.The 18-year-old recalls how he was in a group of boys from his neighbourhood who had stabbed a passerby to rob him of his valuables last September. “I was also apprehended and was sent to juvenile correction home where I spent 28 days. My parents were heartbroken. I was 17 then,” he recalls.Aspiring to become a fashion designer, the boy is completing class 12 and will be enrolled in a job by next month. “During counselling, I expressed my interest in fashion designing. I have enrolled myself for a vocational course to start earning some money and be able to support my family financially and have also been guided by experts on how to pursue my dream career,” the boy said.As many as 200 juveniles having criminal past in cases like murders, attempts to murder, theft, rape, pickpocket and snatching, attended the event on Thursday.At least 1,000 juveniles are apprehended every year for their alleged involvement in different crimes. Majority of them were first time offenders. Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia, who organised the sessions for the juveniles on Thursday at Raj Ghat, said the juveniles were introduced to a variety of vocational training that they can enrol for and earn sustainable income. Many who are not in a position to pay for vocational courses were enrolled free of cost. They will all be placed in different jobs as per their interests, once they’re trained, the DCP said.Another boy, a 15-year-old from Prem Nagar, who had spent ten days at a juvenile correction home in June this year, for attempting a murder, was offered a vocational course free of cost.“In June, I was accompanying a friend who stabbed a tempo driver to death following an argument. I was apprehended too and sent to a correction home. I am out on bail and my case is still pending. My father works as a labourer at a steel factory and mother at a bedsheets manufacturing unit. Because I could not pay, I have been promised free of cost training. Since I am in class 10, I have also been guided how I can pursue higher studies,” the boy said.Bhatia said, apart from career counsellors there were also criminal psychologists who interacted with the juveniles and advised them on how to be strong-willed to be able to stay away from criminal activities even in future.Anuja Kapur, a criminal psychologist who counselled these juveniles, said the first thing is acceptance. “We need to look at things from that person’s perspective. Most of the first crimes are committed under peer pressure. While reforming these children and making sure they do not return to crime, we make them realise how the crime they commit also affects their own parents and loved ones in family, similarly as it affects their victim,” Kapur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-career-counsel-juveniles-with-criminal-past/story-YaUtCONl61kgHHuOKdbyRL.html
31-10-2020||City||Congress holds Satyagraha in Maharashtra against farm laws||As part of its ongoing protests against the new farm and labour laws passed by the Parliament last month, the Congress staged a state-wide Satyagraha on Saturday (October 31), which was commemorated as the death anniversary of India’s only woman prime minister Indira Gandhi and the birth anniversary of the country’s first deputy prime minister, late Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Senior party leader and Maharashtra unit in-charge HK Patil, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, ministers Nitin Raut, Vijay Wadettiwar, Yashomati Thakur and other leaders from Vidarbha participated in the main event at Sevagram Ashram in Wardha. Throat said that the Narendra Modi government was “crushing” the farmers and workers by implementing the laws. “The laws were passed in hastily without any discussion. The system of APMCs (Agriculture Produce Market Committees) will be crushed by these laws, leaving the farmers in a lurch,” he said. Patil said that the laws were enacted to extend the benefit to a handful of industrialists at the cost of the farmers’ livelihood. He said that his party will stand by the farmers and that the central government’s motive behind the enactment of the law was “suspicious”. Over the past five weeks, the party has already held a virtual farmer rally, a state-wide dharna and a social media campaign to protest against the legislations. It said in the coming days, it will hold a tractor rally to protest against the laws and its agitation will continue until the “anti-farmer” legislations were not revoked. The party has also set an aim of collecting 1 crore signatures from farmers to register their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-holds-satyagraha-in-maharashtra-against-farm-laws/story-7fy99LRUA14ZdCk6fPODLI.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Road map to implement NEP 2020 at Panjab University discussed in webinar||A webinar on National Education Policy 2020 – Road map for implementation at Panjab University was organised by the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) on Saturday. Faculty members, research scholars and students of various departments and other institutes participated in the event. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar deliberated upon how PU was contributing to the implementation of the NEP.Dr Vijay Kumar Saraswat, member of NITI Aayog, emphasised on improving the current education ecosystem and talked about the role of science education in tackling new world challenges and improving DIKSHA (an online platform for school education) infrastructure.Saraswat also highlighted the importance of collaboration and university autonomy to raise the standards of higher education for effective implementation of NEP 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-map-to-implement-nep-2020-at-panjab-university-discussed-in-webinar/story-v3P0JFHluqJrlPZAf0pNWI.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Fissures in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government? Congress ministers speak out on issues||Congress leader and public works department minister Ashok Chavan has complained that local bodies under Congress don’t get adequate funding, once again bringing to light the discontent within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The ruling alliance comprises Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. Chavan, who has been touring Marathwada, visited Parbhani on Friday. At a meeting with Congress party workers and local elected representatives, he said some local bodies get less funds from the state. The municipal corporations of Parbhani and Nanded and the district council in Jalna are controlled by Congress.“We have taken the issue to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and demanded adequate funding to these bodies. We have as many as 76 corporators of the total 81 in Nanded municipal corporation; we are in power in Parbhani and Jalna’s local bodies; but there are complaints of inadequate funding from the state government,” said Chavan.Chavan also alleged Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had tried to suppress Congress and its workers when BJP was in power. “Had it continued in power, Congress would have faced tougher times. Almost 90% of Congress legislators [after Assembly polls last year] urged us to ensure the party came to power,” he said. Also expressing discontent was Congress leader and relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. Speaking in Nagpur on Friday, Wadettiwar said he would support protests by those who identify as other backward castes (OBC) if admissions and recruitments are delayed further because of the legal process of securing reservation for Marathas. “We are not against reservation for Marathas, but OBCs should not suffer because of them. I have told this to the CM and will not hesitate to take the battle to the streets if the injustice continues,” said Wadettiwar. Since the MVA government was formed 11 months ago, Congress leaders have expressed their reservations on multiple occasions. In June, Congress leaders met CM Thackeray to communicate their discontent at secondary treatment, particularly in the process of decision-making. In August, Congress legislator from Jalna Kailash Gorantyal threatened to go on hunger strike with 11 other party legislators, alleging unequal distribution of constituency development funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fissures-in-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-government-congress-ministers-speak-out-on-issues/story-Vu9m1uhXMEfmKiGQwfyeJP.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dissolve MC, let administration take over: Opposition councillors write to Chandigarh administrator||The councillors in Opposition in the municipal corporation (MC) House have written to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore asking him to dissolve the MC for the administration to take over so that “some development works can be carried out and the problems of the city residents can be addressed”. Miffed over the imposition of new taxes, the councillors said that: “It will be imperative for you as an administrator to interfere in the affairs of MC at this stage…. BJP has failed so miserably to run the MC that now it is putting all the blame on the officials, when the same BJP councillors have been putting pressure on the officials to pass all taxes in the House.”Leader of the Opposition in MC House Devinder Singh Babla said mayor Raj Bala Malik was the least successful mayor in the history of Chandigarh and that rather than undertaking any development for the city in the last seven months, she had only burdened the residents with taxes.“Ethically, the mayor should resign because the BJP councilors have boycotted their own mayor’s meeting which shows that BJP is only doing petty politics and has no interest nor any concern for the development of Chandigarh,” the letter to Badnore read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dissolve-mc-let-administration-take-over-opposition-councillors-write-to-chandigarh-administrator/story-jRBFlvxRmxI0inSDcH81LM.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||42-year-old killed in bike-truck collision in Chandigarh||A bike-borne man was killed after he was hit by a truck on a slip road near Hallomajra Chowk on Saturday evening. The victim, Varinder Kumar, 42, of Raipur Khurd, worked as a supervisor in a factory in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. He was on his way back home when he met with the accident. Varinder was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead. Police have arrested the truck driver, Gyan Chand, 49, of Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/42-year-old-killed-in-bike-truck-collision-in-chandigarh/story-xXu3eQzTpzvPLGQGOsSgZJ.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Raj Bhavan not a place to practice politics: Shiv Sena on Maharashtra Governor’s nod for MLC nominees||Shiv Sena parliamentarian and its chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, in an indirect remark on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, stated that nobody should practice politics in Raj Bhavan. In a veiled jibe at Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray, Raut said that meeting the Governor, who does not have executive powers on issues pertaining to Maharashtra, is an insult of the state. Raut, who was speaking at a function of a journalists’ body, Pune Shramik Patrakar Sangh, said that he does not think there would be any dilly-dallying by Koshyari to clear the 12 names proposed by the state for nominations to the legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. “I don’t think there will be any politics over the names of the 12 MLCs (Members of Legislative Council). If the Governor wants to practice politics, then he must come out of Raj Bhavan and do so. This is applicable to all the Governors. Raj Bhavan is not a place to play politics. We keep the honour and prestige of the position,” Raut said when asked if the Governor would create any hurdles to fill the 12 vacant seats in the upper house of the state legislature. Raut also said that it has become a trend for political leaders to knock the doors of Raj Bhavan on matters of policy or execution. Recently, leaders from the MNS and Bharatiya Janata Party had met Koshyari and put forth several demands before them. “Meeting the Governor directly on state-related issues is an insult of Maharashtra. The chief minister and the government are elected by the people. All the issues must be first taken to the minister concerned and the chief minister. Everybody knows that the Governor does not have executive powers,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raj-bhavan-not-a-place-to-practice-politics-shiv-sena-on-maharashtra-governor-s-nod-for-mlc-nominees/story-TtfnXZXabWaYelYrpQwN9K.html
31-10-2020||City||Guard injured in attack on mining inspection team in Ambala, one booked||A guard was injured in Ambala’s Naraingarh when some tractors tried to run over a mining team that was on inspection duty, the police said on Saturday. The team, comprising three special arms guards, led by mining guard Jai Parkash was checking for illegal mining along the Begna river in Choti Kohdi village of Naraingarh. “When we reached the area, the drivers fled away and unloaded sand from moving tractors. Two of them tried to flee through village lanes, but were surrounded by villagers and special guards Sukhdev Singh and Rajiv Singh from both sides,” Parkash said.“Sukhdev managed to save his life, but Rajiv received a lot of internal injuries. The drivers even tried to strangle him. One Kamal, his brother and a few unidentified men attacked us,” he alleged. An FIR was lodged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Mines and Minerals Act.After the incident, the team inspected the areas near Roon river in Sangrani village on Saturday and found some discrepancies.Another FIR was lodged under the Mines and Minerals Act on the complaint of mining officer Bhupinder Singh, who told the police that some unidentified men were loading gravel in a trolley but unloaded it when the team arrived.“The men fled towards Sangrani, but photos and videos of tire marks of the tractor were taken for identification,” Singh said.Meanwhile, the police on Saturday arrested Raj of Panchkula and Ashok of Naraingarh in an illegal mining case dated August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/guard-injured-in-attack-on-mining-inspection-team-in-ambala-one-booked/story-ZuEGNd8gdiml7RJdpD58cL.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 74 Covid-19 fatalities, least in a day since May 25||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 74 Covid-19 fatalities, the least deaths reported in a day in the past 159 days. Before Saturday, the state had reported 60 deaths on May 25. Maharashtra’s toll rose to 43,911, while its case tally stands at 1,678,406 with an addition of 5,548 Covid-19 infections. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 2.62%. Maharashtra has now reported less than 10,000 cases a day for two consecutive weeks, with October recording 293,960 cases and 7,249 deaths as against 591,905 cases and 12,079 deaths in September. The state had reported 370,423 cases and 9,589 fatalities in August. Of the total Covid-19 infections, 17.51% cases in the state have been recorded in October, against 35.27% in September and 22.07% in August. Active cases in the state, too, have fallen steadily and the stand at 123,585 as on Saturday from 2.59 lakh a month ago on September 30. This in turn has improved the recovery rate of the state to 89.99%. Although Covid-19 infections and fatalities are on the decline in the state, authorities have a word of caution for citizens. “The dip in cases is a good sign, but at the same time, citizens should not be complacent. The possibility of a second wave still cannot be ruled out if people step out of their homes and violate Covid-19 guidelines. European countries and many states in the US have been witnessing it. We, too, have opened up almost all activities coinciding with the festivals and even the winter has set in. This could translate in the surge in cases in next few days,” said an official, on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, 60,577 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state in the past 24 hours at the positivity rate of 9.16%, against the cumulative positivity rate of 18.72%. The average daily tests have come down significantly to 70,393 in October from 88,209 in September. The state currently has 2,537,599 people in home quarantine and 12,342 at institutional quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-74-covid-19-fatalities-least-in-a-day-since-may-25/story-1r1MB0LlCMcm6lIcaEYkFI.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for manhandling cops in Chandigarh’s Sector 15||A man was arrested for manhandling cops, who were trying to break up a fight, near Congress Bhawan, in Sector 15, here on Saturday. The Police Control Room cops had been called to break up a fight between members of a family. The accused, Izlas Ali, misbehaved and quarrelled with the cops and proceeded to tear the uniforms of head constable Harkit Singh and constable Gaurav. Ali has been charged for deterring policemen from discharging their duties. He was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody. A case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-manhandling-cops-in-chandigarh-s-sector-15/story-dXRScQZBQvLNlrlv9JfDEK.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||From Bombaim to Mumbai: City’s journey over the centuries narrated through postage stamps||The city of Mumbai has often been explained through books and movies but on Saturday, the changes that the city witnessed over the centuries were explained through philately or a collection of postage stamps. These stamps, part of the personal collection of city-based historian Pascal Roque Lopes, were presented to a host of citizens through a virtual presentation, explaining the changes witnessed by the city through its railway lines, trade and banking industry, university and education institutes, law and order, sports as well as individual personalities who became synonymous with the growth of the city.The presentation was part of a project put together by Mumbai Research Centre for the Asiatic Society. “The oldest stamp shown is from 1935, showing the Gateway of India and a portrait of King George V which was worth half anna back then, while the most recent stamp is from 2019 — a commemorative stamp of Churchgate station,” said Lopes, 42, a resident of Vasai.The presentation started with Lopes showing stamps highlighting the story of the Portuguese colony of Bombaim being gifted as dowry to the Portuguese princess at her wedding in early 1500s, followed by the takeover of the province by the British. It then goes to show the coming together of two key personalities — Jagannath Shankarseth and Jamshed Jeejeebhoy, who pushed development of the city with the formation of JJ School of Arts as well as the Victoria Terminus (now Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)). “Slowly the story goes to look at locomotive engines with a stamp released in 1953 which shows two train engines — one from 1853 and another from 1953. This was followed by the formation of the University of Mumbai and some of the first few educational institutes, all of which found their way to postal stamps,” he said.A computer engineer by profession, Lopes’s childhood interest in collecting coins or numismatics soon turned into passion for coins as well as stamps. At present, Lopes has a unique collection of over 3,000 coins and 1,000 stamps. “Coins and stamps bring out a lot of history of the city. While in the beginning I was only collecting coins from the British era, after pursuing my master’s degree in Numismatics and Archaeology out of passion, I got engaged in collecting stamps as well,” said Lopes, a stamp and coin collector. Along with commemorative events and historical buildings that have found their way to postal stamps over the years, the presentation also highlighted the people whose photos were printed on stamps. “The first living person whose face was on the stamp was Dhondo Keshav Karve, an educator who fought for women’s education, and this stamp was released in 1958 as a commemorative stamp for his centennial birth year. Since then, many personalities have found their way into postal stamps including cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar,” added Lopes.“The idea for this presentation is to get more people interested in the world of coins and stamps and make a different niche among historians and even those whose interest lies in history of the city. Hopefully more will participate in conserving our history through philately,” said Lopes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-bombaim-to-mumbai-city-s-journey-over-the-centuries-narrated-through-postage-stamps/story-HpURfBLWC7AEVFT1gymiGN.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Illegal wildlife trade: 88 animals rescued in Lalbaug near Mumbai||Maharashtra forest department and animal welfare group Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA), Thane undertook one of the largest live wildlife seizures across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) so far and rescued 88 wild animals on Friday. Two people have been arrested.A total of 24 Indian black spotted terrapin turtles which are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 (WPA); 16 Indian tent turtles (Schedule I); three Alexandrine parakeets (Schedule I); 10 Indian palm squirrels (Schedule IV); 27 rose-ringed parakeets (Schedule IV); and eight plum-headed parakeets (Schedule IV) were rescued from a godown-cum-apartment in Lalbaug by the investigation team.Narendra Muthe, range forest officer (Thane), said that based on a sting operation by the department and WWA on Friday, two persons were apprehended from Thane for possessing three Alexandrine parakeets which is in violation of the WPA. “Interrogations led us to the storage area in Lalbaug from where we seized a host of live wildlife. However, the main accused who owns the property was missing. We have taken a statement from his mother and are currently tracing the person,” said Muthe adding, “For this reason, we are not making the names of the accused public as we do not know how big this nexus might be.”Meanwhile, the accused were granted custody till November 2 by a local district court.All rescued animals are under the care of WWA. “Their rehabilitation protocol has been initiated and hopefully they will soon be released back to where they belong,” said Aditya Patil, president, WWA.Patil added that wild animals were being poached in huge quantities and sophisticated supply-chain made the nexus difficult to trace. “These numbers are an indicator that illegal wildlife trade is on the rise. However, efforts by the investigation team saved these animals from being illegal pets. What’s worse, even the people who buy these species as pets are not aware of how they are equally guilty in this crime and are enhancing the demand for this illegal trade,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/illegal-wildlife-trade-88-animals-rescued-in-lalbaug-near-mumbai/story-xS0QvU4YXQkzW9vmmi4JWO.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Weather to stay cool, pleasant in Mumbai: IMD||The city experienced cool weather on Saturday morning followed by warmer conditions in the evening but overall pleasant weather owing to a drop in humidity. Pollution levels continued to be in the ‘moderate’ category with the air quality index (AQI) at 111 for PM2.5 pollutant. On Thursday, AQI was 125, the worst since March.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a clear sky for the next three days and the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to be 21 and 35 degrees Celsius respectively.Santacruz weather observatory, representative of Mumbai and suburbs, recorded the minimum temperature at 21 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which was 1.4 degree below normal and a two-degree drop from Friday’s 23 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature in the suburbs was 34.7 degrees Celsius, 0.2 degree above normal. However, Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 24.5 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degree above normal. On Friday, south Mumbai had recorded the temperature at 25 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 33.5 degree Celsius, 0.7 degree below normal.Humidity levels were 49% in the suburbs and 66% in south Mumbai on Saturday.IMD said the wind direction had led to a drop in temperature. “Mumbai and Maharashtra are both experiencing north-easterly to easterly winds which are dry and bring in cool air during the day. However, by the evening the wind direction changes to westerly, leading to a marginal rise in temperature. The pleasant weather is a result of humidity levels being low,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Meanwhile, majority of the state recorded the minimum temperature below 25 degrees Celsius on Saturday. Nashik was the coldest region in the state at 15 degrees Celsius (minimum temperature), while Ratnagiri was the hottest at 36 degrees Celsius (maximum temperature).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/weather-to-stay-cool-pleasant-in-mumbai-imd/story-TtLx3Mjw2aBlJrz0onfGxI.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Manimajra remains Covid hotspot in Chandigarh||Among 93 sectors, colonies and villages in Chandigarh, Manimajra remains the major Covid-19 hotspot, accounting for nearly a tenth of the total cases, maximum deaths (13) and highest number of active cases (45).Of 14,212 cases reported in the Union Territory till October 28, 1,246 have surfaced in Manimajra alone. In fact, it is the only locality where more than 1,000 people have tested positive for the virus, and the number is equal to the combined tally of the first sixteen sectors of the city.Manimajra is one of the densely populated areas of the city, and thus the chances of infection spread are very high, said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director of health services and family welfare, Chandigarh. “Manimajra remains our focus area, and our strategy remains to identify the cases as early as possible, so that clusters do not develop. If around two to three families test positive in close vicinity, we seal the area around it. Health teams then undertake extensive testing in that area, with the goal being 100% coverage,” she said. Dr Kang said special camps for testing have been planned in Manimajra, and even Pulse Polio teams that will visit the area on November 1 and 2 have been directed to report any suspected Covid-19 case.In the early days of the pandemic, the cases were largely concentrated in Sector 26’s Bapu Dham Colony, which at one point of time accounted for 75% of the total cases in the city. However, as of now, it accounts for only 2.4% cases.A senior health official said that due to strict perimeter control, infection spread was contained in the colony, but the option was not viable anymore.“In the case of Bapu Dham Colony, strict restrictions were imposed accompanied by extensive testing. However, now many people are found violating containment restrictions. Many people in low-income neighbourhoods do so as their livelihood is at stake,” said the official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manimajra-remains-covid-hotspot-in-chandigarh/story-m3TFLRLhfzqJ8k4Cc9lukN.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi government allows buses to run with all seats occupied||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday said passengers can travel on all seats of public transport buses from November 1, and cautioned that travellers will have to wear face masks and maintain physical distancing. Gahlot, however, said no passengers will be allowed to travel in standing position. With the rise in number of Covid-19 cases, Delhi government had in May fixed the number of maximum passenger in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster scheme buses to 20.Lt Governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairman of Delhi Diaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently gave approval to Delhi government’s proposal to run the public transport buses with full seating capacity. In a tweet, Gahlot said bus travellers will require to wear face masks and appealed to people to observe proper physical distancing in view of the Covid-19 threat.“The passengers can travel on all the seats of buses from tomorrow. No passenger, however, will be allowed to travel in standing position. Wearing mask is compulsory and I appeal to all the travellers to maintain social distance to check the spread of Corona virus,” Gahlot tweeted.With the opening of various economic activities and government and private establishments in the city, people were forced to wait in long queues often at crowded bus stands, due to restricted number of passengers in buses. The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40 passengers. There are around 3,800 buses run by the DTC and over 2,600 run under Cluster scheme of Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System.The DDMA chairman had also approved the proposal of the Transport department to resume inter-state bus service. The inter-state bus services was stopped after the imposition of lockdown in March, resulting in shutting down of inter-state bus terminals at Anand Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Kashmiri Gate.The Transport department is preparing a standard operating procedure for opening the inter state bus services. It is expected to begin next week, officials said. PTI VIT TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-allows-buses-to-run-with-all-seats-occupied/story-MiVqSqx6kEQKs9XHde62cK.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Satyendra Jain urges people to treat face mask as vaccine for Covid-19||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Saturday said it is “impossible to wipe off” Covid-19 transmission through a lockdown as the virus has “spread through the community” and people should treat wearing a face mask as a vaccine till the real medication is made available.His remarks comes amid a massive spike in fresh cases with a record 5,891 incidences reported on Friday, the third consecutive day when over 5,000 cases have been registered in a day.Interacting with reporters, the minister said that the lockdown was imposed in the beginning as “it was a new virus then” and its behaviour was totally unpredictable.“There have been a lot of learnings from the lockdown, and a lot was also said that after the 21-day lockdown the virus spread will stop or with temperature going to 40 degrees Celsius, it will stop. Did it stop? So, the learning from that exercise has been that it is impossible to wipe off Covid-19 transmission through a lockdown as the virus has spread through the community,” he said when asked if lockdown-like restrictions could be imposed if spike in cases continue.The other learning from the lockdown has been that the use of mask is an effective way to reduce the spread of the infection, he said.“So, people should treat wearing a mask as a vaccine till we get the real vaccine, which is expected in a few months,” Jain said.The Centre late March had announced a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. From June 8, the central government brought in gradual ‘Unlock’, under which restrictions have been eased accordingly.The Delhi health minister flagged that a large number of people in the city had become carefree and were not wearing masks in public places, and warned that ‘challans’ (fines) are being issued and stricter action will be taken against those not wearing masks.In an interview to PTI early September, Jain had ruled out the possibility of another lockdown here, saying an economy “cannot be kept shut for eternity” as livelihood of a large number of people is dependent on it.He has also asserted that “extreme caution and not panic” should be the response of the city and people should exhibit greater alertness and responsibility in public places to deal with this health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/satyendra-jain-urges-people-to-treat-face-mask-as-vaccine-for-covid-19/story-LeBKS6QqztYLXM9rFjSuLI.html
31-10-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||BJP councillors in House are family that agrees to disagree Left high and dry by her own party colleagues during the October 20 Chandigarh Municipal Corporation general House meeting, mayor Raj Bala Malik got their support back when the Congress councillors launched an attack on her during the October 29 meet. When a Congress member stood up and demanded Malik’s resignation, all BJP councillors stood up in unison in her defence. “We have differences within the family but that doesn’t mean we will allow outsiders to attack our own,” said a BJP councillor, requesting anonymity. Chandigarh lawyer puts doli ceremony on hold to attend virtual court hearing A Chandigarh lawyer, who put his doli ceremony on hold to attend a hearing via video-conference was in for a couple of surprises last Wednesday. The court not only wished him a “blissful and happy married life” in the judicial order but also granted his client interim protection from arrest till the next date of hearing. While reacting to a state counsel’s request for adjournment, the lawyer apprised the court of his wedding the previous day and said that he had been waiting for four hours for the virtual hearing since morning even as the doli ceremony was on hold. The FIR in the case was registered in May 2019 and the police had failed to file the challan even after a year. The court sought a report in the case. Meanwhile, the lawyer and judicial order have become a talking point among lawyers on social media. No more allies, but personal equations keep SAD-BJP together in Mohali Though the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has pulled out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm laws, former councillors of both the parties can be seen together at several meetings in Mohali to work out strategies to counter the Congress. Last week, it was reported that 70% of wards of both the SAD and BJP councillors have gone into delimitation. Twenty-three of the 33 wards from where they won last time are either in for delimitation or have been reserved for women for the upcoming municipal corporation elections. Though both sides claim they will contest separately, they have already gone to court against the Congress. Some BJP councillors are in touch with the SAD for the ticket. They were even seen in the Akali war room on Thursday. Caught on wrong foot, cop suspended for gymming Can exercise be injurious to your job? Ask Chandigarh police inspector Rajdeep Singh, who was recently placed under suspension for indiscipline after he sought exemption from election duty for Baroda bypolls in Haryana on medical grounds. What went against Rajdeep was that he was spotted working out in the gym when he had been advised rest on medical grounds. “If he can go to the gym despite being advised rest, he can go for election duty,” a senior officer said, adding election duty was one of the most sensitive duties for the men in khaki. Fine follows Sukhna photo-op for couple without masks Sukhna is crowded even on weekdays during these Covid times. People head for the lake as though it’s the only place to unwind in Chandigarh. It becomes a concern when they ignore safety guidelines, forcing the authorities to fine them. A police team stationed at the lake was issuing challans to people found without mask. A middle-aged couple that arrived without mask was merrily clicking pictures of one another right under the nose of the officials issuing challans. Once their photo shoot got over, the team promptly handed them the challan of Rs 500 each. The couple was prompt to create a scene. God knows if the fine was paid or not but hue and cry sure did alert everyone in earshot to wear a mask. Garbage collectors’ strike and the collateral damage When the municipal corporation’s sanitation workers struck work last week, some sectors with private garbage collectors were also hit. Baljinder Singh Bittu, the chairman of the Sector 21 Resident Welfare Association (RWA) and chairman of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said: “We had hired private garbage collectors and paid them Rs 8,500 per month from the RWA’s side. However, they also joined their MC counterparts on strike!” Then there were some garbage collectors who were unaware of the strike. In Sector 48, for instance, a garbage collector was seen working during the strike. PGI drills in Covid-19 safety at start of meetings The Post Graduate Insitute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) authorities have asked officers to ensure that every meeting begins with the message on precautions against Covid-19. The aim is to sensitise officers and staff about the pandemic. The messages focus on the importance of wearing masks, maintaining social distance, hand hygiene and adherence to the health ministry’s standard operating procedure. PU’s PR director works overtime to overcome Covid curbs Taking the Covid-19 lockdown challenges in her stride, Panjab University director, public relations, Renuka Salwan has ensured the smooth flow of information from the university to the media while working from home. Not taking even her day offs during the pandemic, she has ensured PU stays in the news, for the right reasons. Facilitating the flow of information and addressing media queries in such times hasn’t been easy, but she says she managed by putting in extra time and effort. Inputs by Surender Sharma, Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-6pjv99iZYUWWu5SZpZVUsI.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha inspects water treatment plants||Delhi Jal Board vice chairperson Raghav Chadha on Saturday inspected the production of water at the Sonia Vihar water treatment plant, a day after the ammonia levels in river Yamuna shot up to dangerous levels, forcing the Sonia Vihar and the Bhagirathi water treatment plants to operate at 70-80% capacity. By Saturday evening, both these plants resumed functioning at full capacity, Chadha announced. Water treated at these plants is supplied to south Delhi, east Delhi and northeast Delhi and parts of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) areas, which was affected. “Happy to report that both Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar water treatment plants are now functioning at full capacity. Owing to tireless efforts of the Delhi Jal Board engineers, ammonia discharge in Yamuna by Haryana has been brought within parameters. Normal supply of water now restored (sic),” Chadha tweeted on Saturday evening. Earlier in the day, Chadha inspected the Sonia Vihar water treatment plant, where water production had decreased due to the increase in ammonia levels.He also held high-level meetings with officials concerned to ensure that water production increases at both the water treatment plants, Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi.The acceptable level of ammonia in the water is between 1.7 PPM and 1.9 PPM (parts per million), but on Friday, the level shot up to around 3.5 PPM, which is perceived as an extremely high level of toxicity and is not fit for human consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/raghav-chadha-inspects-water-treatment-plants/story-SXKwMHBwfPSz2jTU2OD3CN.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two succumb, 174 test positive for Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Two people succumbed to Covid-19 while 174 tested positive in the tricity on Saturday.Mohali accounted for 81 fresh cases, followed by 67 in Chandigarh and 26 in Panchkula.A death each was reported in Mohali and Chandigarh, while Panchkula recorded no casualty.The infection tally has climbed to 12,379 in Mohali, of which 574 cases remain active. So far, 11,568 patients have recovered, including 32 discharged on Saturday, and 237 have died.In Chandigarh, 14,418 people have tested positive so far, of whom 641 are yet to recover.With a 39-year-old man from Sector 46 succumbing to the virus, the toll has reached 226.Meanwhile, 82 more patients were discharged after being cured on Saturday, taking the number of recoveries to 13,551.Panchkula has recorded 7,150 cases, 6,831 recoveries and 113 deaths. The number of active cases stands at 206.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-succumb-174-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-CpPY0ArsPRaErvlO9YajXP.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Use of Aarogya Setu app to be mandatory for liquor shop workers: Delhi government||The Delhi government has directed all wholesale liquor vends in the city to ensure mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app by their staff, touch-free sanitizer dispenser and other measures against the novel coronavirus.The Excise Department has also asked its bond inspectors deployed at these establishments to ensure strict compliance of anti-coronavirus guidelines and submit a report.In a circular issued earlier this week, the department said wholesale liquor vends will have to install touch-free sanitizer dispenser at entry and exit points besides coronavirus awareness banner inside as well as outside the building.According to the circular, these establishments will have to ensure mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app by their every worker.At wholesale liquor vends, there should be strict compliance of social distancing norms during loading and unloading of stock besides compulsory mask wearing, it stated.Earlier this month, the government had also directed clubs, hotels, liquor shops and restaurants to ensure strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19.According to the SOPs, no standing customer has to be served liquor and all establishments also have to ensure provision for sanitiser dispenser and thermal scanning at the entrance.Last month, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had issued SOPs while allowing reopening of hotels, clubs and restaurants with only 50 per cent of the approved seating capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/use-of-aarogya-setu-app-to-be-mandatory-for-liquor-shop-workers-delhi-government/story-ZrwMK1ijumgYrkKh8k9BlJ.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||History-sheeter wanted for murder during parole held in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police on Saturday arrested a notorious criminal who was wanted for the murder of a painter in Mohali’s Balongi in June this year.A countrymade pistol and two live cartridges were also recovered from him. Identified as Balwant, 23, of the rehabilitation colony in Dhanas, he has 12 cases of murder, rape, dacoity, theft and rioting registered against him at various police stations in the tricity, and has been convicted in three of them.Balwant was on a motorcyle when he tried to turn back and flee at a naka set up near the Sarangpur botanical garden on the Mullanpur-Chandigarh road. As his bike stopped, he left it and ran towards the adjoining forest area. Police team, led by inspector Ranjit Singh, chased and caught him. Besides a pistol, which he claimed to have procured from Muzaffarpur in Uttar Pradesh, police seized his Bullet motorcycle. A case under Arms Act has been registered at the Sarangpur police station.12 FIRs, 3 convictionsUntil his recent conviction, Balwant had been booked for various crimes in seven cases in Chandigarh (registered at Sectors 11, 19, 34 and 49, besides Maloya and Sarangpur) and for dacoity in Sector 14, Panchkula, and rape in Zirakpur. He was awarded 10-year-jail in the rape case, seven years for the dacoity in Panchkula and four for a dacoity in Chandigarh. Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, he was granted parole as part of measures to decongest jails in March this year. Since then, he has been booked twice for rioting in area falling under the Sector-36 police station and for a murder at Badhmajra village in Balongi. Sanjay Yadav, 32, a painter, was allegedly stabbed to death by Balwant and his two aides on June 28. The trigger: Yadav’s wife had confronted them on spotting them urinating near her house. While they left initially, they returned at night with more men and called Yadav outside and started beating him up. When the wife tried to rescue him, the men assaulted her as well until she fainted. When she regained consciousness, she saw her husband collapsing on the road with stab wounds, while the assailants fled the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/history-sheeter-wanted-for-murder-during-parole-held-in-chandigarh/story-CtXDSzgNYtBXRerVDuXYFL.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Decline in Punjab’s stubble burning area this year, says official||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday said the state has so far reported stubble burning over 7.49 lakh hectares, about five per cent lower than what it had witnessed in corresponding period last year. “Five per cent less stubble burning area is reported this year in the state with the effective management of crop residue and concerted efforts to sensitise farmers,” said Mahajan in a release.During a virtual meeting with senior officers, deputy commissioners, and senior superintendent of police (SSPs), she expressed satisfaction over the steps taken by the state government to end the hazardous practice.Mahajan directed officials to further intensify their efforts to eradicate the menace.She said about 137 lakh metric tonnes of paddy has so far arrived in the mandis, which is 33 per cent higher than the previous year.She said the district administration should enforce the instructions strictly to ensure zero stubble burning in coming days.The total straw burning area this year was 7.49 lakh hectares as compared to 7.90 lakh hectares last year, which is 5.23 per cent lower, she said. Additional Chief Secretary Development Anirudh Tewari told the chief secretary that on October 30 this year, 2,799 cases of straw burning were reported as against 3,135 last year. In Bathinda district, 202 cases have been reported this year as compared to 343 last year.Similarly, in Ferozepur 290 cases of farm fires have been reported against 328 last year.Taking stock of the procurement, lifting and payment for paddy, the chief secretary was told that of total Rs 22,753.44 crore, payment of Rs 22,506.10 crore has been made to farmers so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/decline-in-punjab-s-stubble-burning-area-this-year-says-official/story-iHa0H3lUub4VZ6iFZexsVM.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three held for stabbing sanitation worker to death in Chandigarh||Three youths have been arrested for stabbing a 58-year-old man to death at his house in Ram Darbar on Friday night. Identified as Vishal, 21, Bobby, 22, and Ravi, 26, they reside in the same area and work for a private firm. Police have also recovered weapons used in the crime: a knife and an ice pick.Victim Attar Singh, who worked as a sanitation worker with the Chandigarh health department, had intervened to save his son from the three youths, who had reached their house to attack him following a confrontation in the afternoon. His son Anil, 28, who works as a sweeper at the government college in Sector 50, was also injured in the attack.The family had initially refused to cremate Attar Singh’s body, but relented after the trio was arrested by Saturday evening. Anil in the police complaint stated that he was returning home when he found the three youths standing outside his house and blocking the passage. When he asked them to give him way, the trio allegedly started arguing with him, which led to a scuffle. Later, around 8pm, when Anil was sitting outside his house with his father, the trio returned and attacked him. As Anil was stabbed, Attar Singh intervened, and was stabbed with a knife and an ice pick. When Anil raised the alarm and neighbours rushed to the father-son’s rescue, the assailants fled. The two were rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where Attar Singh was declared brought dead. A case of murder was registered at the Sector-31 police station. The body was handed over to the kin after postmortem on Saturday. During raids, the accused were held from different areas in the Industrial Area, Phase 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-for-stabbing-sanitation-worker-to-death-in-chandigarh/story-Cpzs39RiWMpFvRrA7PDoqL.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Art versus administration in the tricity||Listen! There never was an artistic period. There never was an art-loving nation ... James Whistler, an influential American artist based in the UK, shocked London town by making this statement way back in 1885. Over 200 years later one remembered Whistler when UT adviser Manoj Parida recently said, “Government money cannot be left to private hands. Culture department manages these academies as the nodal department. It ensures that rivalry among artists is contained and political selections are curtailed.” Parida was speaking to the Hindustan Times on the unceremonious ouster of some of the Akademi chairpersons and handing over of the interim charge of the Akademis to secretary cultural affairs Vinod P Kavle instead of the vice-chairman.While Chandigarh has always been infamous for its babudom with even Nek Chand, creator of the world famous Rock Garden, being forced to toe the administration’s line, Kavle’s new role evoked sharp reactions on social media. “ This is truly disturbing and bureaucratic meanness at its height. Bureaucracy is trained to be small minded, suspicious and mean,” said veteran theatre director Neelam Mansingh. Senior painter Balwinder took a dig at the Chandigarh Lalit Kala Academy being spared by the administration since wives of senior bureaucrats were allowed to share exhibition spaces with established artists. “We the local artists perhaps deserve all this.By remaining mute spectators and playing minions to babus we have been treated thus. Otherwise, how could bureaucrats have continued heading the city museum for decades? Not just the museum, even the College of Art has not had a professional artist as principal, which has proved to be very discouraging for students who come to study art.”Things are looking gloomy for the entire tricity, which boasts of the cultural academies of Punjab and Haryana and the Central body of the North Zone Cultural Centre. For many years the Haryana state akademies lay dormant after the change of government. Another problem is that the same set of names keep cropping up at one academy or another as office-bearers. Can this order be changed? Control codeShould bureaucrats manage the tricity art scene?Will bureaucratic control of the akademis and Art College negatively impact the tricity art scene? Send your responses to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/art-versus-administration-in-the-tricity/story-xH8iaQktuDGXa3OduNn5bM.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: In Covid times, weddings can be simple, chilled out and joyful too||The Covid-19 lockdown restrictions could not dampen the enthusiasm of my son and daughter-in-law for the wedding. After all, their bosom friend was trying the knot with her long time beau. Dressed in ethnic party wear, they were all set to attend the wedding. In amazement, I watched them open their laptop, log into their Zoom link, and voila! There they were: Attending the marriage online with friends from different parts of the country and across the world.Online wedding! No, that is a misnomer. It was real wedding complete with all the rituals of jaimala (garlanding) and phere (when the couple circumambulate the sacred fire). The only difference was that the guests were present ‘virtually’ via video conferencing.It was all about technology doing wonders, creating a virtual reality when physical presence was not possible in unprecedented times.I sat in disbelief to watch the wedding sans band, baaja and baarat, the big fat Indian wedding reduced to a simple ceremony with just a few people around. No grandeur, no flashy decorations, no big pandals, no array of food stalls serving a variety of cuisines, it was just a simple wedding with rituals performed solemnly.Covid-19 has cast its shadow on everything and jeopardised big events. Plans to tie knots have got tangled up hopelessly as the pandemic shows no signs of abating, so weddings are simpler with the scale of celebrations downsized drastically. Fortunately, they are lighter on the pocket of the host too.Lockdown restrictions have meant significantly pruned lists of just a 100 guests, a number much smaller in comparison to the huge gatherings in the days before coronavirus. I recall the reaction of my son’s Australian colleague when he came to know that we were expecting around 300 to 400 guests for my son’s wedding, of course during the pre-coronavirus days. “Do you actually know so many people?” he asked.Well! It was not easy to explain to a foreigner that guests in India include not just the immediate family and extended family but also neighbours, colleagues and former colleagues and sometimes even acquaintances.Weddings in India are not supposed to be intimate family affairs, but big social gatherings offering opportunities to people to flaunt their riches and connections.But then, two people coming together in holy matrimony is a special once-in-a-lifetime occasion, meant to be celebrated with friends and relatives. Virtual participation of guests may be the new norm due to abnormal circumstances, but it can never replicate the feel of physical participation; in no way replace the real experience, even though weddings don’t have to be crowded affairs.One invisible virus has shown us how a wedding can be a chilled out affair with limited guests in an intimate gathering and spark off joy. Yes, such events can be simple and joyful too.The author is a retired associate professor of MCMDAV College in Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-in-covid-times-weddings-can-be-simple-chilled-out-and-joyful-too/story-LCb6Opyxow0xJVf1oqLjQL.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Man, his friend arrested for forcing minor daughter into flesh trade in Mumbai||A 57-year-old man was arrested by Chunabhatti police for allegedly forcing his 13-year-old daughter into flesh trade. Police officers also arrested a 40-year-old woman who was helping the accused in getting customers. Both the accused were nabbed on Thursday after the police received a tip-off about the racket. Deepak Pagare, senior inspector from Chunabhatti police station, said, “On October 28, the police control received a call from an unknown man who informed about a girl’s father and his female friend taking her to the place which is not suitable for her. The information was relayed to us and we immediately laid a trap near City Mall in Nagpada and rescued the minor.” “She was afraid and didn’t want to talk initially. A day later, she opened up and told us that it was her father’s decision. Following this, we arrested him from Kurla,” Pagare added. Pagare said the accused, during questioning, revealed the name of his female friend and the role she played, following which we arrested her. Both the accused were produced before court and have been remanded in police custody till November 5.The accused have been booked under sections 376(2)(N) [commits rape repeatedly on the same woman], 376(2)(J) [commits rape, on a woman incapable of giving consent], 376(2)(L) [commits rape on a woman suffering from mental or physical disability], 370(1) [buying or disposing of any person as a slave], 366(C) [Procuration of minor girl] and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 (penetrative sexual assault), 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 8 (sexual assault), 10 (aggravated sexual assault), 17 (abetment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and sections 4 (living on the earnings of prostitution), 5 (procuring, inducing or taking person for the sake of prostitution) of the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-his-friend-arrested-for-forcing-minor-daughter-into-flesh-trade-in-mumbai/story-he2uWreuFprZcZXTM4mM3O.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Adding years to life and life to years with gardening||If a Chinese proverb is to be believed, “Life begins the day you start a garden”. Interestingly, whenever anyone talks about gardens, or I read about them, the thought of my neighbours’ magnificent garden comes to mind.There are many of us living around this stunning work of art which, considering its size of roughly half a football field, is more of a park.Visitors to my home too are taken in by this green space that can be a great choice for magazine covers and, I am sure, can effortlessly win gardening contests. I also consider myself fortunate to have bedrooms facing the garden, as are some people in my locality. Even while cooking we can look out and get a glimpse of the wonderful trees and shrubs.Mornings too are special as we spot the green expanse immediately after getting up from bed in the morning and drawing the curtains.The first sight brings me joy, and like a ritual, makes me smile my first smile.A lot of activities happen in the garden. As I look on, I admire the riot of colours and course the birds – some exotic – which keep flying in.An active person, the gardener is kept busy as members of the house to which the garden is attached keep walking up to him and sometimes help him with his work.An elderly aunt takes her rounds of the garden in the morning and evening, inspecting each plant closely. The vegetable patch seems to be her favourite as fresh produce is picked up every day from there and distributed among neighbours.She also has long chats with the gardener, scolding him one moment and appreciating his work in the next. Whenever I happen to meet her and as usual, praise the garden, she echoes her favourite refrain: “If I am alive it’s because of this garden, where every plant is my child. It takes away all my worries and is the heart of the house …” It’s no wonder then that English philosopher Francis Bacon felt gardening was the ‘purest of human pleasures’, and why it is also aptly said that ‘gardening adds years to life, and life to years.’However, I also want to know why we forget to create green spaces at home – even if it has to be a small corner, in the concrete jungles we live in.Green spaces can be magical. According to a National Geographic article, researchers from the University of Exeter Medical School in England analysed data from 10,000 city dwellers and found that those living near green spaces reported less mental distress. The same article also points out that Dutch researchers found a lower incidence of 15 diseases – including depression, anxiety and migraines – in people who lived within about a half mile (800 meters) of green space. Not long ago, Richard Mitchell, an epidemiologist and geographer at the University of Glasgow in Scotland, found fewer deaths and less disease in people who lived near green areas, even if they didn’t use them. Ever since I read these facts, my love for my garden loving neighbours has grown.What they have created provides us abundant joys without them seeking anything in return.And certainly, adding life to years certainly lies in our own hands too as John Muir, a Scottish American author and naturalist has said: “Nature in her green, tranquil woods heals and soothes all afflictions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-adding-years-to-life-and-life-to-years-with-gardening/story-5RzQmZqr8w6naoghzzMEzI.html
31-10-2020||City||Ragpicker held for hacking Ludhiana man to death||The Salem Tabri police claim to have solved the October 19 murder of a factory worker with the arrest of a ragpicker, who was his neighbour.Investigators have recovered the murder weapon – a hooked iron rod used to pick scrap – and the blood-soaked clothes of the accused, Dharminder Kumar, 30, who was arrested from Jassiyan Road on Saturday.A pillow recovered from near the body of the victim, Uday Bhan Rao, 50, helped the police crack the case.After murdering Rao with a sharp-edged hooked rod on the intervening night of October 19 and 20, Kumar had abandoned his shanty that was on the same plot as Rao’s residence in Gurnam Nagar.“After Rao’s body was found at a vacant plot near his house, investigators realised that nothing was stolen from him, which led them to suspect rivalry behind the murder,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Gurbinder Singh.“During further probe, a pillow similar to that lying near Rao’s body was found in an abandoned shanty, located close to the murder spot. Police started zeroing in on the shanty dweller, Dharminder Kumar, and traced him to Jassiyan Road, where he had moved to after the crime,” said the ACP.Attacked victim in fit of rage“The accused has confessed to killing Rao. He disclosed that he and Rao knew each other as they both belonged to Bihar. But, Rao used to abuse and humiliate him for picking scraps. On the night of October 19, Rao again passed offensive remarks about him. In a fit of rage, he attacked the victim with the sharp-edged hook of his scrap rod and fled,” ACP Gurbinder Singh said.Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO at Salem Tabri police station, said Kumar later hid his blood-soaked clothes at a vacant plot near Old Session Chowk. These and the weapon used in the crime were recovered after information provided by him.Rao, who hailed from Deoria, Uttar Pradesh, had been living in a rented accommodation at Gurnam Nagar with a distant relative. He worked at a woollens’ factory in Ludhiana for nearly a decade and had planned to migrate back to his native place October 20.The accused is facing a murder case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced in court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ragpicker-held-for-hacking-factory-worker-to-death/story-BDeOmQjSf5z8iGPDOvaFWK.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Active Covid-19 cases surge again, infection tally reaches 17,839||Uttar Pradesh’s(UP) Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday recorded 205 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district’s infection tally to 17,839, official data showed.The number of active cases reached 1,225, up from 1,133 on Friday and 1,086 on Thursday, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the brighter side, 114 more patients got discharged during the period and the overall number of recoveries in the district reached 16,546, sixth highest in the state, it revealed.The district’s death toll stood at 68 with a mortality rate of 0.38 per cent. The recovery rate of patients dropped slightly to 92.75 per cent from 93.18 per cent the previous day, the statistics showed. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in UP came down to 23,768 from 24,431 on Friday, 24,858 on Thursday, 25,487 on Wednesday, 26,267 on Tuesday, 26,654 on Monday and 27,317 on Sunday.The overall recoveries in the state reached 4,51,070 as the death toll linked to Covid-19 climbed to 7,025. So far 4,81,863 people have tested positive for the infection in UP, according to government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-active-covid-19-cases-surge-again-infection-tally-reaches-17-839/story-IYn7148VurOpdHzysGxalJ.html
31-10-2020||City||Congress stages protest over new land laws, “anti-farmer” policies||The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee on Saturday staged a protest against the new land laws and “anti-farmer” policies of the BJP government.Congress leaders and workers led by former minister Raman Bhalla marched towards the Civil Secretariat, raising slogans to protest against the recently amended J&K land laws and farmers’ bills passed in the Parliament. Scuffles were witnessed between protesting Congress workers and policemen. The protesters were stopped by the police near Shalimar Chowk, where Bhalla addressed the workers and media.Bhalla said, “Recently amended J&K land laws are anti-people, anti-poor and anti-Jammu”. He described this move of the BJP government as sheer frustration and deviation from what Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He reminded BJP of the promises made by Modi about the safety and guarantee of jobs to people here at the time of the revocation of Article 370. Bhalla also questioned BJP’s ‘one nation one constitution’ slogan reminding the people of different land laws in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and North-eastern states. He warned the government not to test the patience of peace-loving citizens of J&K by snatching their land and jobs. He demanded an immediate review of these laws ensuring the guarantee and safety of the land and resources of residents.He added that more than 62 crore farmers are up in arms against the Modi government’s new agrarian laws.He urged the BJP government to review the recent bills passed related to farmers and told the gathering that the Congress party will fight for their rights till these “black laws” were not rolled back or reviewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-stages-protest-over-new-land-laws-anti-farmer-policies/story-0kWXMNDqB0ipj3xpGmEucN.html
31-10-2020||City||864 more recover from Covid in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded seven more Covid-related deaths and 455 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday. The UT’s covid count has mounted to 94,330 and the death toll stands at 1,478.Officials said that 294 people tested positive in Kashmir and 161 in Jammu. Two people died in Jammu and five in Kashmir.Also, 864 more people recovered in J&K taking the number of recovered patients to 86,888. The recovery rate has increased to 92%. Presently there are now 6,419 active cases in J&K.A total of 983 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 495 in Jammu. Also, the total tests conducted in the UT have crossed 23.04 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 110. In Kashmir, the maximum fresh cases were witnessed in Srinagar where 124 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 60.Srinagar tops the case tally with 19,369 cases and 357 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,568 cases and 257 deaths.Till date, 6.556 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15,895 in home quarantine, 6,419 in isolation, and 45, 173 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.87 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/864-more-recover-from-covid-in-j-k/story-uBY8y3nLW3wMG8tlCb8TpI.html
31-10-2020||City||L-G inaugurates workshop on youth engagement, outreach||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said that the UT administration is aiming to create an institutional mechanism, an assembly line, to groom youngsters. “We are open for business and committed to building strong and sustainable partnership,” he said while inaugurating a day-long workshop on youth engagement and outreach in Jammu and Kashmir organised by the administration.The workshop was attended by top industry heads from Ashok Leyland, ICICI Foundation, Bombay Stock Exchange, IIMs/IITs and policy analysts from across the country.Officials said the outreach programme is aimed to create opportunities and infrastructure for engaging youth, addressing their issues and concerns, and empower them in entrepreneurship, self-employability and create a livelihood for them in a well-curated and holistic manner.Addressing the gathering of policy analysts and corporate heads of different organisations during the inaugural session of the event, Sinha said that in the past, many initiatives were taken to engage the youth here but all of them somehow fell short of meeting all the requirements so there is a need to have an umbrella programme that dovetails all the resources meant for this purpose to achieve the goal of youth empowerment and youth development.“I believe in concrete plans and immediate execution. My idea of the institutional mechanism under Mission Youth is to ensure that we have a concrete framework and a definite timeline to execute it on the fertile ground that we have prepared,” he said.On the occasion, Sinha also announced that a seed fund of Rs 200 crores has been earmarked for creating initial infrastructure and institutional support for meeting the initial needs of this program.The Lt Governor also sought support from the national-level investors and industry experts in creating robust infrastructure and employment avenues for the youth of the UT.During the workshop, Ashok Leyland proposed the establishment of rural schools where school dropouts could be admitted to learn skills and trained to deliver in trades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-inaugurates-workshop-on-youth-engagement-outreach/story-6B7vAupIJs5UAgGyy6X7vJ.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Will extend support to Apex Body of People’s Movement: LAHDC executive councillor||Newly elected Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council chief executive councillor Tashi Gyalson on Saturday promised to run a ‘good and responsive council’ for the next five years. Gyalson, an advocate, was elected chief executive councillor on Saturday morning. Upon taking over the chair, he said, “I promise a good and healthy hill council. We will nominate executive councillors and a strategy will be drawn for the next five years.” Gyalson said, “There are new challenges and responsibilities on our shoulders as Ladakh has now become a UT. However, I assure the people of Ladakh that we will work together to take Ladakh to new heights.” On the sixth schedule, Gyalson said The Apex Body of People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh had recently met home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and had returned satisfied: “The apex body looked satisfied and I am hopeful that everything will be done in the interest of the region. We will also extend every possible help to the apex body,” he added. The people of Leh have been demanding constitutional safeguards under sixth schedule and on September 28 former BJP minister and ex-president of the BJP’s Ladakh unit Chering Dorjay had cautioned the Centre of a sustained campaign in case the apex body was hoodwinked. The Apex Body of People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh is an apolitical body, comprising former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the constitution for Ladakh along the lines of north-eastern states. The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organizations and all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. Chhewang had resigned from his post and primary membership of the BJP in November 2018 over not conferring UT status to Ladakh region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-extend-support-to-apex-body-of-people-s-movement-lahdc-executive-councillor/story-hr6Yr2p8Bcdxan2wgZRgpL.html
31-10-2020||City||Snowfall blocks Manali-Leh highway, closed for traffic||The Manali-Leh National Highway has been blocked for vehicular movement after heavy snowfall in higher reaches of the state on Friday night.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) said that the road in Manali and Atal Tunnel is clear and vehicular movement is normal. Manali-Leh highway is also clear up to Keylong.Snowfall has been witnessed in many places of Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Chamba and Kullu district. Baralacha Pass witnessed 30cm snowfall, Keylong received 10cm, 8cm in Rohtang Pass, 5cm in Sissu.Due to snowfall, temperatures have decreased marginally in the higher reaches of the state, and water bodies in Lahaul-Spiti have started to freeze during the nightApart from this, light rainfall also occurred at isolated parts of the state while the weather remained mostly cloudy throughout the state.The minimum temperature increased by one to two degrees during the last 24 hours while maximum temperatures were normal as no appreciable change has been witnessed.The minimum temperature in Shimla on Saturday morning was 11.4°C, while Kufri, which is 14 kilometers away from Shimla recorded 9.3°C minimum temperature.Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 4.8°C, 11.4°C. and 8.4°C minimum temperature respectively. Solan recorded 8.8°C, Bilaspur 11.5°C, Hamirpur 11.2°C, Nahan 14.7°C, and Kalpa, 2.3°C as the minimum temperature.Una recorded 9.9°C minimum temperature while Keylong was the coldest as it recorded minus 0.8°C as the minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snowfall-blocks-manali-leh-highway-closed-for-traffic/story-6Jvj8345NqU2tghTRlJHgM.html
31-10-2020||City||Himachal Congress holds satyagrah for farmer rights||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Saturday said the central government was jeopardising farmers’ interest and were conspiring to turn small and medium scale farmers into slaves of big corporate houses and moneylenders.Speaking on the occasion of Indira Gandhi’s death anniversary and the birth anniversary of the first deputy prime minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rathore said Congress was yet again fighting for the rights of farmers. He said, “The laws that the Congress had enacted to improve the condition of farmers after Independence were being replaced by new anti-farmer laws.Later, the Congress sat on satyagrah on The Ridge before the statue of Indira Gandhi and observed Farmers’ Rights Day to protect the interests of farmers in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-congress-holds-satyagrah-for-farmer-rights/story-Ti9Qa0WDhNnPctXkFSIFSN.html
31-10-2020||City||Five more succumb to Covid in Himachal||Five more patients have succumbed to coronavirus in Himachal on Saturday taking the death toll to 312, officials said.Of these, two deaths were reported in Mandi, and one each in Kullu, Kangra and Solan district.Meanwhile, 261 more persons have tested positive on Saturday, taking the state’s covid tally to 22,059. Of these, 2,880 are active cases.As many as 267 patients were cured on Saturday taking the total recoveries to 18,838.Of the new cases, 60 were reported in Mandi, 43 in Kullu, 37 in Kangra, 24 in Solan, 20 in Sirmaur, 16 each in Bilaspur and Shimla, 15 in Hamirpur, 12 in Una, eight in Chamba, and five each in Kinnair and Lahaul-Spiti districts.With 3,633 case, Solan remains the worst-hit district till date, followed by 3,081 cases in Kangra, 2,985 in Mandi, 2,498 in Shimla, 2,279 in Sirmaur, 1,551 in Una, 1,550 in Kullu, 1,284 in Bilaspur, 1,235 in Hamirpur, 1,149 in Chamba, 387 each in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-succumb-to-covid-in-himachal/story-iNvjOJxbwk8xeXSB2GMjNO.html
31-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Father-son duo, five aides booked for thrashing home guard jawan||Police have booked a father-son duo and their five accomplices for assaulting a home guard jawan, who had visited them to serve summons to join investigation.The accused have been identified as Surjit Singh Walia and his son, Karan Walia, residents of Hargobind Nagar. Their five accomplices have yet to be identified.In his complaint to the Division Number 3 police, Lal Ji, said he visited Surjit’s house on Friday to serve a summons to join police investigation in a case.However, Surjit refused to accept it. When he tried to click a picture of Surjit outside his house, to have a proof of his visit, Surjit called his son and accomplices and assaulted him. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pyara Singh, who is investigating the case, said all accused had been booked under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code at the Division Number 3 police station. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-father-son-duo-five-aides-booked-for-thrashing-home-guard-jawan/story-V3ZRSSX40j6PaWN8IkWjXO.html
31-10-2020||City||Married Ludhiana woman booked for marrying underage man||Police have booked a 30-year-old married woman for solemnising another marriage with an underage man and producing forged documents in court regarding her initial marital status.Her 20-year-old husband, Jagvir Singh of Bahadurke Road, has also been booked for underage marriage.The woman, identified as Rani, alias Anjali, lives in Chitti Colony and hails from Uttar Pradesh. Jagvir’s mother Narinderpal Kaur complained to the police that Rani married her son on November 5, 2019, despite knowing that he was only 20 years old. After marrying him, Rani sought security from the court and lodged a complaint against her mother-in-law for harassment.Meanwhile, Narinderpal came to know that Rani was already married and had not divorced her first husband. Therefore, she approached the court regarding this. In her response, Rani furnished an affidavit in court and recorded her statement claiming that it was her first marriage with Jagvir.Investigating officer ASI Sukhpal Singh said following a probe, Rani was booked for furnishing false documents before the court and getting married again without divorcing her first husband, while Jagvir was booked for tying the knot despite being below marriageable age. An FIR under Sections 193 (false evidence), 199 (false statement made in declaration which is by law receivable as evidence) and 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/married-ludhiana-woman-booked-for-marrying-underage-man/story-Ty9mt70bcfGqrjpI8N0RHM.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hospital honours front-line Covid workers from nursing dept||Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) organised an appreciation ceremony on Saturday to express gratitude towards 500 front-line Covid workers from the nursing department including nursing supervisors, ward-in-charges, nurses, clerks and ward attendants.Dr William Bhatti, director of CMCH, Dr Anil Luther, medical superintendent, Dr Jeyaraj Pandian, principal of medical college, Dr Abi M Thomas, principal of dental college and Dr Reena Jairus, principal, college of nursing, were also the part of the appreciation ceremony. They were welcomed by Gladis S Kumar, nursing superintendent, CMCH.Dr Bhatti spoke on the steps being taken by CMCH to manage Covid patients and appreciated the health care workers for coming forward and working together as a team during the pandemic. Dr Luther highlighted the great care being provided to Covid patients and also expressed his gratitude to all employees working in the Covid unit. Dr Thomas said the nursing department is the backbone of CMCH during the Covid crisis. Dr Jairus compared the nurses to soldiers who are always ready to fight in battle. Kumar thanked the employees of the nursing department for taking care of the patients.Certificates of appreciation and gifts were also distributed to acknowledge their outstanding work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-hospital-honours-front-line-covid-workers-from-nursing-dept/story-uVcJ4ifwsOzV854ZpbataM.html
31-10-2020||City||Ludhiana teacher booked for post on God Valmiki||Division Number 8 police on Saturday booked a teacher working in a private school here for hurting religious sentiments.The accused has been identified as Poonam Sharma.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Naveen Kumar alias Johny Dumra of Mahavir Jain Colony. In his complaint, Naveen Kumar stated that the woman teacher posted a video on social networking sites in which she had made inappropriate comments on God Valmiki.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station said that a case under Section 295A of the IPC has been lodged against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-teacher-booked-for-post-on-god-valmiki/story-kW5sLKGX8NekpwxnRxxfAJ.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||DU announces fourth cut-off, admissions to some courses reopened||Delhi University (DU) colleges released their fourth cut-off list for admission to undergraduate courses, with a marginal drop in eligibility score, between 0.25 and 1 percentage points, on Saturday. Despite 64.7% seats having already been filled in the first three cut-offs, seats in several popular courses — like English (Hons), Mathematics (Hons) BCom (Hons), and Economics (Hons) — are still up for grabs in some colleges. While around 45,342 out of 70,000 available seats across DU colleges were filled in the three cut-offs, there have been around 4,500 to 5,000 withdrawals and cancellations of admissions . DU dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said, “The reason behind these cancellations and withdrawals is that results of entrance-based courses have been announced and admissions in non-collegiate women’s education board (NCWEB) have also begun. Some students have shifted to those courses. Things will start balancing themselves out in the fourth and fifth cut-off lists, as most of the entrance exam results have either been declared or will be in the coming days.”In the fourth list, seats are available in English (Hons) in around 18 colleges, including Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) (98.25%), Miranda House (98%), Ramjas (96.5%), and Gargi College (96.25%) and Hansraj College (97.5%). Similarly, seats are still available in BA (Hons) in Economics in at least 16 colleges — including Miranda House (97.75%), Daulat Ram (96%), and Ramjas (97.5%). Students wishing to pursue BCom (Hons) can still apply in 22 colleges — including LSR (98.25%), Shri Ram College of Commerce (98.12%), Hansraj (97.25%), and Gargi (96.5%).History (Hons) is available in at least nine colleges including the most-sought after colleges — such as Kirori Mal College (97.25%), LSR (97.75%), Miranda (98%), and Ramjas (97%). Seats in Political Science (Hons) are there in around 13 colleges in the fourth cut-off list, including LSR (99%), Ramjas (98%), Ramanujan College (93.75%).Officials across many colleges said that seats were available in popular courses in the fourth cut-off due to cancellation and withdrawals of admissions. Vipin Aggarwal, principal of Shri Aurobindo College, said that the college has witnessed over 200 withdrawals. “Most of the cancellation took place in the second list after the results of DU entrance exams were announced. We had closed the English (Hons) in the first list itself, but now we have reopened it in the fourth cut-off list after some withdrawals,” he said. Seats are also available in Science courses. For instance, BSc (Hons) in Mathematics still open in around 23 colleges, including Miranda House (96.5%), Hindu (98.25%), Gargi (95%), and Daulat Ram College (95.5%). BSc (Hons) in Chemistry is also available in around 17 colleges including Hindu (98%), Kirori Mal (95% ) Miranda House (96.67%), and Ramjas (95%). The process for admissions under the fourth cut-off will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday.In LSR — which had announced a 100% cut-off for admissions to Political Science, Psychology, and Economics in the first list — seats are still available in many courses. While the college has closed admissions in Economics (Hons) in the fourth cut-off in the unreserved category, it has dropped the cut-off by 0.25 percentage points for admission to Political Science (99%) and Psychology (99.25%). SRCC has closed admission to Economics (Hons) in the fourth list and for admissions to BCom (Hons), it has fixed the same cut-off as in the last list --98.12%. In Hindu College, admissions closed for the unreserved category in many courses, including English, History, Political Science, Economics, and Physics. The college has re-opened BSc (Hons) in Chemistry at 98% in the fourth list. At Miranda House, the cut-off has dropped by a marginal 0.5 percentage points for courses, including Economics and History.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-announces-fourth-cut-off-admissions-to-some-courses-reopened/story-jGB7Q136XkcjEtq2j8DzJL.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Soldiers rose to the occasion||But fell like petals before their time, young blood staining white ice. Where soldiers rest in eternal sleep, flowers grow in memory’s bright glow. All along river valleys and tumbling water courses of the Ladakh war theatre are found sprawling bushes of xerophytic wild roses. The roses not only bestow upon the world’s highest battlefield, the Siachen glacier, its enigmatic name but their omnipresence lends them the status of the poet’s flower of remembrance for soldiers and airmen who laid down their lives battling two inimical neighbours since 1947.The roses, which go by the botanical nomenclature of Rosa webbiana, ornament battle sites from the Tololing nallah to Drass river to the Yaldor-Junk Lungpa nallahs in Batalik and Galwan river in eastern Ladakh. The abundance of roses in Ladakh is like that of Red poppies blooming in gay abandon across ravaged WWI battlefields of Western Europe. Derided once as a weed, the peerage of poppies was elevated after the Great War to assume grace in an official role: as an evocative and powerful symbol of remembrance for Commonwealth soldiers gone raging into the night.For long, two inimical neighbours have coveted Ladakh’s rich water resources and India has fought many a war over the water roses. “Wild roses at Siachen base camp were gorgeous. As I would fly in helicopter sorties from Sassoma and along the Nubra river valley to Siachen, I could see rose bushes coming alive along flowing water. But one could not stop thinking: here was a place of such beauty and out of the world roses and yet so many of our people were dying here,” Air Vice-Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), who flew in supplies to High Altitude Warfare School soldiers in the first ever landing on the glacier on September 20, 1978, in a Chetak, told this writer. A wee short of six years later, on Baisakhi 1984, the Army launched its finest super high-altitude operation capturing passes of Saltoro ridge that guard the glacier’s western flank. The officer in the vanguard of Op Meghdoot was Capt Sanjay Kulkarni of 4 Kumaon along with 29 soldiers. That small, indomitable platoon held on to Bilafond la for 90 days securing India the glacier. Having retired as director general, Infantry, Lt Gen Kulkarni shared a poignant aside from his finest hour. “Roses were all over the base camp and snout of Siachen. Each rose had precisely five petals. They were like buttercup roses and not the conventional roses we find in gardens,” Kulkarni told this writer.Currently additional DG, Centre for Air Power Studies, Delhi, Bahadur piloted helicopters of the Siachen Pioneers in two stints totalling 700 hours of flying in the highest theatre. “Had I been married at that time, I would have picked some charming Siachen roses for my wife, Vinita,” quipped Bahadur. “Siachen means the Place of Roses (in the Balti language, sia is rose and chen is place of). The threat they face at the Siachen snout is that they come in the way of Army activities, so they were uprooted, stems used as tent pegs or even as extravagant decorative pieces. The Army assured me they would protect the roses. Hopefully someday, there will be peace on Siachen. Roses (sias) will grow wild, ibexes will roam and mountaineers will explore and climb freely,” legendary mountaineer and author of Siachen Glacier: The Battle of Roses, Harish Kapadia, told this writer.When winters render food scarce, birds such as Yellow-billed choughs nibble at seeds of the benign rose bush. Petals yield ethnomedicinal cures for nasal bleeding, nose swelling, hepatitis, jaundice and liver diseases. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-soldiers-rose-to-the-occasion/story-VN2SsHI9LD7qIOk57PRuxL.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||114 govt schools in rural areas of Ludhiana dist to get ₹9.5 lakh for construction of toilets||As many as 114 government schools in rural areas of Ludhiana district will receive Rs 9.5 lakh for the construction of 183 new toilets. Each school will get Rs 50,000 to construct one toilet.The Ludhiana Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) office has transferred the grant to the respective blocks, who will further disburse the amount to the selected schools. Out of the 114 schools , 61 are primary, 22 are senior secondary and high schools and nine are middle schools. Government Senior Secondary School, Kadiana Kalan, will get Rs 2 lakh to get four toilets constructed and three toilets will be built at Government Senior Secondary School, Nurpur Bet. The others will get one or two toilets built based on the demand raised by school authorities in the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) performa.Out of these 114 government schools, most of them have separate toilets for girls and boys. But, many of them are in bad shape.Government High School, Andhlu, which has a strength of 126 students, will get two new toilets. The school has separate toilets for male and female students. But, Gurpreet Singh, the school headmaster, said they are not in use due to their poor condition. “The students are using the toilets meant for children with special needs. We will receive the grant in a day or so and the process to construct toilets will be decided by holding a meeting with members of the school management committee,” he added.Government Senior Secondary School, Nupur Bet, has six toilets of which three are dysfunctional. The school has a strength of over 645 students. Jaswinder Singh, the school principal, said, “Due to the large number of students, there was a need to construct more toilets. We have been informed about the grant, and once we receive it, we will start the process so that students can get better facilities at school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/114-govt-schools-in-rural-areas-of-ludhiana-dist-to-get-9-5-lakh-for-construction-of-toilets/story-6tjyBSWoLsWVIA1kczbxYP.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police destroy 2.5-lakh litre hooch||The anti-smuggling wing of Ludhiana police destroyed 2.5 lakh litres of hooch recovered from the banks of Sutlej River near Nawan Razapur and Khaira Bet villages on Saturday. Police also recovered 15 litres of illicit liquor, 12 empty drums and utensils from the spot.A case has been registered against Surjit Singh of Khaira Bet village, Jagir Singh and Gurnam Singh of Bholewal Jadid village and an unidentified smuggler from Sangowal village in Jalandhar.Inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of the anti-smuggling cell, said police conducted raids on the basis of a tip-off that bootleggers are brewing illicit liquor on the banks of Sutlej River. He added that the accused managed to escape the spot.The case has been registered under Sections 61,1 and 14 of Excise Act. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-destroy-2-5-lakh-litre-hooch/story-8A8YiDl6jZOKfP19XogekL.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 856 fresh Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in 24 hours||Pune district reported 856 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in 24 hours on Saturday as per the state health department. Of the 3.33 lakh Covid-19 cases reported till date from the district, at least 3.02 lakh patients have been declared as recovered and discharged from home isolation or hospital treatment.The total death toll for Pune district as per the state health department is 6,680 and currently 24,702 are active cases. Pune city reported 463 new cases taking the total count to 1,72,229 and six deaths took the death toll to 3,906 while PCMC reported 145 new cases taking the final count to 84,519. Zero deaths were reported from PCMC on Saturday. Pune rural reported 248 new cases taking the final count to 77,214 and one death took the death toll to 1,572, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 7,303 patients were discharged on Saturday in the state taking the final count to over 15.10 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 89.99%. Also, 5,548 new cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total to over 16.78 lakh. In addition, 74 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Saturday taking the death toll to 44,468. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.62%. Of 89,67,403 laboratory samples, 16,78,406 have tested positive (18.72%) for Covid-19 until Saturday. Currently, 25,37,599 people are in home quarantine and 12,342 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-856-fresh-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-in-24-hours/story-59fZF5SFaTODX50Gaaav1M.html
31-10-2020||City||Cabinet minister launches scholarship scheme for SC students in Ludhiana||To mark Maharishi Valmiki Jayanti, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday formally launched Dr BR Ambedkar post-matric SC scholarship scheme in the district.Participating in the district-level Valmiki Jayanti celebrations organised at Bachat Bhawan, here, the minister distributed post-matric SC scholarship certificates to five SC students.While speaking to media persons, Ashu said that the Amarinder Singh-led state government is committed to the welfare of the SC community.He said that the state scholarship scheme will ensure that poor SC students get a free higher education, which the Centre had unfairly deprived them of with its abrupt withdrawal of central aid of Rs 800 crore to the state. He said that the scholarship, being launched by the state government without any financial contribution from the Centre, will provide a 100% fee waiver for SC students to give them net savings of about Rs 550 crore.He added that this scheme would benefit more than 3 lakh SC students in the state annually, and would involve no upfront payment by these students to government/private educational institutions.The institutes will provide free education to SC students under the scheme against direct subsidy from the state government, besides the students will also get a monthly stipend to buy books, uniforms, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-minister-launches-scholarship-scheme-for-sc-students-in-ludhiana/story-088OrsClzspYn8p7dvRfTO.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Election Commission is BJP’s branch: Raut||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament in Rajya Sabha Sanjay Raut on Saturday alleged that the Election Commission of India (ECI) is a branch of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the constitutional authority is desisting from taking action against the party. Raut, while responding to a question on the ECI giving a pass to BJP’s promise to distribute Covid-19 vaccine for free, said that the opposition cannot expect anything better from the Election Commission. “The Election Commission is BJP’s branch. What can anyone do? What else we can expect?” Raut asked. The Sena MP, who is also the party spokesperson, said that while Bihar polls are being watched keenly, he would not be surprised if the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav became the chief minister after the assembly elections. “The youngster does not have any support and investigation agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are hounding him. While his family members are in jail, he is challenging the Union government as it is suppressing opposition parties,” the Sena leader said, referring to Tejashwi. “Therefore, I will not be surprised if he became the chief minister of Bihar,” Raut added. He also hit out at National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti who have sought restoration of Article 370 which gave autonomy to Jammu and Kashmir. When asked about opposition leaders meeting Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari with their demands, the Sena leader said they should meet the ministers concerned instead. Meeting the governor directly shows disrespect for the state, he said. On Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s role in the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition, Raut said that Pawar advises the state government and no one should mind it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/election-commission-is-bjp-s-branch-raut/story-TyJKuyv974IXSSjrGbtKCL.html
31-10-2020||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa promises cabinet expansion soon after assembly bypolls||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said cabinet expansion would take place soon after the November 3 assembly bypoll and that the BJP candidate in RR Nagar, Munirathna, would be made a minister “soon after he wins”.“It (expansion) has been put on hold for quite some time due to various reasons. I will go to Delhi to discuss it with party leaders. It will take place soon after the bypoll results are announced,” he told reporters ahead of a road show in Rajarajeshwari Nagar.Asked about his announcement at the road show that Munirathna would be made minister, he said “I am 100% going to make him minister after he wins the bypoll.” Congress state chief D K Shivakumar flayed the announcement on Munirathna, saying that it was a violation of the model code of conduct.“Let him be made chief minister, but now saying that he (Munirathna) will be made minister itself is a poll code violation,” Shivakumar told reporters.Addressing the road show, Yediyurappa asked voters to elect Munirathna by at least a 50,000 vote margin, “paving the way for him to be made minister soon after he wins.” He lauded the steps taken by Munirathna to help people of his constituency during the coronavirus induced lockdown and urged them to help him win by at least a 50,000 margin, “paving the way for making him a minister.” The Chief Minister said Rs 900 crore worth work has already been sanctioned in the constituency.Yediyurappa, seeking to silence his critics within and outside BJP, reiterated that he would continue as Chief Minister for the rest of the term and run the party and government.On October 21, senior BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had said that Yediyurappa would not remain Chief Minister for long and the high command had decided that his successor would be from the north Karnataka region.While BJP leaders downplayed Yatnal’s statement, saying there was no truth in it, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah told a private news channel recently that the Chief Minister will not continue after the Bihar election.Basavaraj Horatti of JD(S) too had claimed a week ago that Yatnal has the backing of the BJP high command as he has not been removed from the party yet.The RR Nagar bypoll has become a prestigious battle with all three political parties -- BJP, Congress and JD(S) fighting it out intensely.The election was warranted as Munirathna, a former Congress MLA, resigned from the assembly last year and joined the BJP.The Congress has fielded former IAS officer late D K Ravi’s wife and senior leader Hanumantharayappa’s daughter H Kusuma, while the JD(S) has fielded V Krishnamurthy.The by elections at RR Nagar in the city and Sira in Tumakuru district will be held on November 3.Counting of votes is on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bs-yediyurappa-promises-cabinet-expansion-soon-after-assembly-bypolls/story-rOxU5ZhnyGM8hN2fAy8zbK.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi buses to run with full capacity from Nov 1; face mask mandatory, standing not allowed||At a time when Delhi is witnessing a surge in the number of daily Covid-19 cases, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday allowed passengers to occupy all seats of Delhi buses from November 1. The Capital breached its record for the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases four times this week.As per the revised order, it is mandatory for commuters to wear face masks during travel and no passengers will be allowed to stand in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster scheme buses. The travellers are also asked to maintain physical distancing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“From tomorrow, passengers can travel by sitting on all the seats of buses. However, no passenger will be allowed to travel standing up. Wearing a mask is mandatory and I appeal to all travellers to maintain social distance to prevent the spread of the coronavirus,” Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Twitter.Earlier, only 20 people maximum were allowed to travel in buses, in view of the Covid-19 spread in the city. The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40-45 passengers.There are around 3,800 buses run by the DTC and over 2,600 run under the cluster scheme of Delhi integrated multi-modal transit system.With 5,891 new cases on Friday, Delhi set a new record for the highest single-day new infections for the fourth day in a row, pushing the total number of cases to 381,644.As many as 5,739 cases were recorded on Thursday, and 5,891 infections and 47 deaths on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-buses-to-run-with-full-capacity-from-nov-1-face-mask-mandatory-standing-not-allowed/story-TaDDB8cCfCauJgymn3pi0H.html
31-10-2020||City||Major admn shake-up in HP, 16 IAS, 13 HPAS officers transferred||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Himachal Pradesh government transferred 16 Indian Administrative Services and 13 Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services officers on Saturday evening.Nisha Singh, a 1987 batch IAS officer, was transferred to the post of advisor (health) government of Himachal Pradesh in New Delhi. Singh will also hold the charge of additional chief secretary (agriculture animal husbandry and fisheries). Sanjay Gupta was transferred as additional chief secretary (social justice and empowerment) in Shimla.Captain (retd) JM Pathania was transferred to the post of director, HP State Electricity Board Limited, Shimla, and will also hold additional charge of director (finance), HP SEB Ltd.Rajesh Sharma will now be registrar, cooperate societies in Shimla, Rakhil Kahlon will hold additional charge of special secretary (health and family welfare) in Shimla, Chander Prakash Verma will hold additional charge of special secretary (industries) and commissioner, departmental enquiries in Shimla, Sandeep Kumar will be managing director of HRTC in Shimla, Rakhil Kahlon will hold additional charge of special secretary (health and family welfare) in Shimla.Neeraj Kumar is now labour commissioner-cum-director of employment in Shimla replacing Amit Kashyap who has been transferred to the post of managing director of HP Power Corporation Limited in Shimla and will continue to hold additional charge of managing director, General Industries Corporation in Shimla.RD Dhiman is now additional chief secretary-cum-FC (revenue) in Shimla and will also hold additional charge of additional chief secretary (forests and language art and culture) in Shimla. Kamlesh Kumar Pant will hold additional charge of principal secretary (environment science and technology) and chairman HP State Pollution Control Board in Shimla, Dr Ajay Sharma will be secretary (ayurveda technical education and printing and stationery) in Shimla, Dr SS Guleria will hold additional charge of chairman Appellate Tax Tribunal in Dharamshala, Rakesh Kanwar will hold additional charge of director, public finance and public enterprise-cum-special secretary (finance) and examiner, local audit department.Abid Hussain Sadiq will be director, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs in Shimla and will also hold additional charge of chief executive officer-cum-managing director, Smart City Limited in Shimla, and Anupam Kashyap will be director, transport in Shimla. Registrar HP University Suneel Sharma will now be additional secretary to chief minister and will also hold additional charge of director, language art and culture in Shimla, while Bhupender Kumar will be the new registrar of HP University, Shimla and will continue to hold additional charge of managing director, Milk Fed in Shimla.Virender Sharma has been transferred to the post of state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan in Shimla and will continue to hold additional charge of project director, HP Infrastructure Development Investment Project in Tourism in Shimla.Ashish Kohli has been transferred to the post of commissioner, Shimla municipal corporation, Manoj Kumar who is presently under order of transfer as executive director, HRTC is now posted as executive director, HP State Electricity Board.Assistant commissioner (protocol) in Parwanoo, district Solan, Vikram Singh has been transferred to the post of sub-divisional officer (civil) in Sangrah, district Sirmaur, while Gaurav Mahanjan will now be assistant commissioner (protocol) in Parwanoo, district Solan. Sangeeta Gupta will be secretary, HP State Food Commission in Shimla.Apart from this, five HPAS officers have been handed over additional charges of various posts. Kumud Singh will now hold additional charge of managing director, HP Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation, Praveen Kumar Taak will hold additional post of deputy secretary (forests), Dr Bhawna will hold additional charge of member secretary, HP State Commission for Women, Gurdas Kalta will hold additional charge of deputy secretary, HP Backward Classes Commission in Shimla, and Dinesh Kumar will hold additional charge of additional secretary (tourism and CA) in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/major-admn-shake-up-in-hp-16-ias-13hpas-officers-transferred/story-mrZFkFeta7zZYtUApGEE7O.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate’s term ends amid uncertainty over polls||The four-year term of Panjab University’s senate — the institution’s elected apex governing body — ended on Saturday amid uncertainty over fresh polls, which have been postponed indefinitely in the wake of the pandemic.It is for the first time since the Partition that fresh elections were not held before the end of the incumbent senate’s term. The term of the syndicate — an executive body elected from among members of the senate annually — will also end by the end of the year. On October 15, PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar had postponed the polls for the second time, citing the pandemic. Senators in favour of holding the polls had also written to vice-president of India Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the university’s chancellor .Syndicate member Navdeep Goyal says, “Respecting the PU calendar, senate elections should be held to ensure smooth functioning of the university and to avoid a vacuum.”The PU senate has 91 members, of which 36 are nominated by the chancellor. As per the varsity’s calendar the senate ‘shall have the entire management of, and superintendence over the affairs, concerns and property of the university and shall provide for that management, and exercise that superintendence in accordance with the statutes, rules and regulations for the time being in force’.Calling the indefinite deferment of senate polls an unfortunate development, senator Ashok Goyal said, “The university has never been in such a vacuum. The elections were postponed on unfounded grounds and we have demanded that term of senate, whose term ended on Saturday, should be extended till the next senate is formed.”Apprehensions over change in governing structure Members are also apprehensive that the governing structure of the varsity may be changed and the senate will be replaced with a board of governors. In a recent notice, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had asked higher educational institutions to initiate governance reforms in universities as per the National Education Policy (NEP-2020).Former Panjab University vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover said, “I am sad that the democratic structure at PU may not continue. However, the system had also been misused to an extent that it was no longer a democratic system. It needed reforms but the governing bodies at PU failed to bring about the much-needed changes.”A response from the chancellor’s office is awaited.A student body, Students for Society (SFS), has also demanded that the senate polls be held. The Punjab Educationist Forum also passed a resolution on Saturday expressing concern over the delay in senate polls and appealed to the vice-chancellor to conduct elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-s-term-ends-amid-uncertainty-over-polls/story-fK85PScz1UVzwmn9N437qI.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Man places grocery orders in others’ names, flee with items and change money||A 24-year-old man, who was into snatching and robbery until two years ago, was arrested Friday after he started a new con -- placing grocery orders in the name of some resident and then making off with groceries and change money, police said. Posing as a resident of different south Delhi neighbourhoods, the arrested accused Vikash Kumar would allegedly place orders over phone at local grocery stores, and collect the items from the delivery agent, after claiming to be entrusted by the resident to do so, and then decamp with the items as well as the change money for large denominations.Kumar kept up this con for two years until Friday, when one of the residents complained to the police, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).“It so happened that a grocery store owner received a call on Tuesday from Kumar who posed as a resident of Lajpat Nagar’s D Block. “He ordered ghee and a face wash and asked the store owner to send the delivery agent with ₹1,700 as change for a ₹2,000 note,” said the DCP.When the delivery agent arrived outside the house, Kumar stepped forward and said he was the house owner’s driver and had been asked to collect the items.“Kumar collected the two items worth ₹300 and also the ₹1,700 change from the delivery agent and left saying he would return with the ₹2,000 note, but he never did,” Meena said.When the shopkeeper got to know that no such order was placed by the owner of that house, he informed the police control room.The DCP said it was a rare occasion when any of Kumar’s victims had sought police help. “Kumar would place orders for products worth less than ₹1,000. He got away with it as hardly anyone would approach the police for that small a loss,” Meena said.But this time, the police registered a cheating case and began checking CCTV footage and call detail records. That led them to Kumar’s home in Dakshinpuri, from where he was arrested. The DCP said Kumar was into robbery and snatching until two years ago. He had eight such police cases against him. “We are ascertaining if his other victims had filed police cases in the past,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-places-grocery-orders-in-others-names-flee-with-items-and-change-money/story-VbvLWEIuPzAHGCVwLtZDaO.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||No water shortage in Delhi from Sunday as two water treatment plants resumes operation: Raghav Chadha||Water treatment plants at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi which was shut as water from the Yamuna contained spiked levels of ammonia have now resumed working, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice president Raghav Chadha said on Saturday, after inspecting the plants.Raghav Chadha said that ammonia levels rise in the Yamuna was due to discharge pollutants from Haryana which impacted the capacity of the two water treatment plants. “Ammonia level had risen in Yamuna river so we had to shut two water treatment plants. The level of the pollutant is reducing now and the two plants have resumed operation. There’ll be no problem in the supply of water from tomorrow,” Chadha said.With the rise in levels of ammonia, people in parts of the city had complained of dirty water and water supply shortage. The DJB vice president, on Friday, had assured normal water supply in the city from Saturday.“The Yamuna river water coming from Haryana to Delhi had spiked levels of ammonia and reached 3 ppm (parts per million). Because of this, two major water treatment plants had to be shut. This affected water supply in few parts of north, north-west and south Delhi,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-water-shortage-in-delhi-from-sunday-as-two-water-treatment-plants-resumes-operation-raghav-chadha/story-LQuEgByEtXp4I7gABUojHI.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Civil society comes forward to pay CBSE exam fee of class 10, 12 students in govt schools||From doctors and book publishers to grocery store owners and members of resident welfare associations, several civil society members have come forward and helped pay the board exam fee of Class 10 and 12 students of Delhi government schools. Saturday is the last date to pay the fee. In 2019, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had hiked the board examination exponentially. The fee of class 10 and 12 students (general category) in Delhi government schools was increased from ₹375 and ₹600, respectively, to ₹1,500 for five subjects. For SC/ST candidates in class 10, the examination fee was increased from ₹375 to ₹1,200 and for class 12 from ₹600 to ₹1,200. CBSE controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj had explained that the increase was necessary since CBSE is a self-financing board and the expenditure to conduct exams was likely to increase this time due to the Covid-related precautionsFollowing this, the Delhi government had announced that it would pay the fee for over 3.14 lakh Class 10 and 12 students in government schools. However, this year, owing to fund crunch, the education department asked heads of schools to follow the “2018-19 status”, meaning that the fee had to be paid by students themselves. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector-8, said, “We had initially planned to help around five or six needy students by paying the fee from our own pockets. But due to the coverage on the issue which raised much awareness, scores of people came forward to pay the fee and we managed to raise around ₹2 lakh, thus helping over 100 students.” On September 28, HT had reported that principals of government schools were setting up funds and expediting their efforts to arrange the money for needy students. The last date for payment of exam fee had been extended from October 15 to October 31. “From doctors to publishing houses, everyone contributed to the cause. It has also helped us in other ways. For instance, one of our students was working as a domestic worker to meet her education expenses. When we got to know that, we immediately helped her so that she didn’t have to work anymore,” said Jha, adding that even those who had taken loan to pay the fee were returned the money from the funds collected. The response is similar across schools. Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar, said, “We raised about ₹1.22 lakh from donors, of which ₹66,500 was used to pay the CBSE board exam fee. The remaining money will be used to provide smart phones to financially weaker students. Alumni members, teachers, bureaucrats, retired officials, and even friends living in countries such as the USA donated money,” he said. “Grocery store owners, RWA members, and vegetable vendors from my locality also made contributions.” The All India Parents Association also ran a campaign to help class 10 and 12 students with the board exam fee. “The children of the poor should not be burdened with any kind of fee, particularly during a pandemic crisis. We have raised over ₹6.5 lakh, helping more than 250 students,” said advocate Ashok Aggarwal, national president of AIPA. A senior official from the education department had said the government was unable to pay the fee this year due to “major shortfall in revenue collection” due to the Covid-19 crisis. In October, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had told HT that the government was functioning “at less than 50% of its revenue collection”. Taking note of various people and organisations that came forward to help, the Directorate of Education had also released a circular on the matter on October 9. Through the circular, heads of schools were asked to “maintain proper records of such transactions including acknowledgement to the donor and information to the parents whose child’s fee had been paid.” The department also asked schools to refund the fee paid by students if a donor still comes forward to pay. “A number of requests have been received from parents, expressing their inability to pay the board exam fee of their children in class 10 or 12 due to loss of income during the pandemic,” said a senior DOE official.The official added that the education department had asked CBSE to waive the fee but the board had expressed its inability to do so. In such a scenario, people approaching schools to offer financial support as a welfare measure was welcome as “a noble cause” in the interest of students, the official added. Despite repeated attempts, there was no response from Delhi government spokesperson on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/civil-society-comes-forward-to-pay-cbse-exam-fee-of-class-10-12-students-in-govt-schools/story-ttcyBrzDSJs1OExn5Hb0XK.html
31-10-2020||City||Seven Ludhiana businessmen held for gambling; ₹1.05 lakh, cheating device seized||The Sadar police arrested seven businessmen, who were found gambling at a private club in Lalton Kalan village on Friday night. Cash amounting to Rs 1.05 lakh, two cars, one scooter, a playing card reading sensor and a pack of cards were recovered from their possession. The sensor was used to cheat by determining the motifs on the opponents’ cards, the police said.The traders arrested have been identified as Rajan Gupta of Kitchlu Nagar, South City; Bhupinder Singh of College Road; Naveen Kumar of Sunil Park, Haibowal; Satpal Singh of Janakpuri; Surinder Singh of Model Gram; Harish Kumar of Bajwa Nagar and Dipas Kalra, alias Chinki, of old vegetable market, Daresi.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said the raid was conducted following a tip-off about bets being set on card games. “Bhupinder had taken the club on lease from club director Rajan Gupta and frequently organised gambling parties,” he added.A case under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act and Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. They were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-ludhiana-businessmen-held-for-gambling-1-05-lakh-cheating-device-seized/story-bKRlmZit90dN7TtBpkhAwO.html
31-10-2020||City||Mansa DC office working hit, as farmers seek Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia for woman||Bathinda Public grievance redressal system in Mansa district has been severely hit for three weeks with deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal unable to attend office at the district administrative complex (DAC) since activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) laid siege to the secretariat. The union began the protest after an 80-year-old woman Tej Kaur, of Haryana, died after losing her balance on tracks during the ongoing farmers’ agitation on October 9. Due to this blockade, public dealing with the administrative head of Mansa district has been minimal. The senior bureaucrat avoids stepping out of the camp office or the official DC residence, as a large number of protesters is also on dharna there.BKU district president Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha said on Saturday the agitation would continue until the state government accepted their demands of ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh, government job for a family member and waiver of Kaur’s family’s debts.“The district administration has offered a compensation of Rs 3 lakh that we have rejected. Her family has an outstanding loan of Rs 26 lakh, which must be waived. We will continue the agitation,” said Bagha.Union activists are on round-the-clock dharna at the main gate of the DAC, BKU supporters gherao DC camp office from 11 am-4 pm daily, said the union leader.Mansa DC added authorities were sympathetic, but the administration had limitations to demands it could meet. “The woman was a registered voter at Ratia in Fatehabad district of Haryana where she lived with one of her four sons. Her sons also reside at Bare village in Mansa and they collectively have taken loans of about Rs 30 lakh. She had no financial liability and was drawing old-age pension from the Haryana government. We are trying to convince protesters to end their agitation,” said DC.“Protesters blocked entrance to the DC camp office from October 19. I could not step out of my residence for six days. Even now, I drive out only if there are a fewer number of protesters. The administration does not want to get into confrontation mode with BKU supporters,” he added. Sources said the general public has not been able to get their works done with the DC and additional DC (general) not available. “Due to a dharna outside the camp office, visitors cannot be allowed to meet the DC staff for security reasons. Traffic on road has also been disrupted,” said a source.Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said movement of vehicles in the DAC had become troublesome, and even he was finding it challenging to visit the secretariat. Lamba said he visited the office on fewer occasions this week.“Due to the sensitivity, we are trying to pursue the BKU to end dharna. The administration awarded Rs 3 lakh compensation to the family of a farmer Jugraj Singh from Gurdi village, who died of a heart attack, while sitting on an indefinite ‘rail roko’ agitation against farm laws in Mansa on October 17. The issue is being handled at the government level,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mansa-dc-office-working-hit-as-farmers-seek-rs-10-lakh-ex-gratia-for-woman/story-XIfK3eiVVx7Rbb5V1TNshJ.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Pune police chief urges builders to file complaints if threatened by local labour “unions”||Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta has urged builders in the city to come forward to file complaints against labourers, known locally as “mathadis”, i.e. labourers involved in lifting and loading consignments if harassed by them in any away. Gupta spoke at the special general body meeting of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) - Pune Metro on Friday. The association had sought help from the city police regarding threats from workers who coerced them into giving work. Gupta said, “There have been complaints against certain groups of people who have been harassing builders over random issues. We urge developers to co-operate with the police and file a complaint so we can take it forward and take action against such groups.”Gupta was attending a meeting wherein builders raised the issue of being coerced into giving work to a certain group of workers in various places. Suhas Merchant, president of Credai Pune said, “We have had multiple instances which were also reported even before the lockdown. There are groups of workers who enter the building premises and force builders to give them work despite the fact that the builders have their own head loaders and masons. These people come in specifically when the material is being loaded or unloaded and force them to give them work which is causing us trouble, we raised this issue with the commissioner who promised support.” Gupta who assured action against such offenders said, “We have an Economic Offences Wing (EOW) where developers can send their complaints online. We also want them to install CCTV cameras in all residential societies to ward off anti-social elements. There are already over 10,000 cameras in the city and we are planning to add 14,000 more. It will also help us tackle the issue of accidents on sites and make investigations easier. I also urge developers to take proper precautions and install warning signals at construction sites to prevent accidents. I want to make Pune a safe city for all.” Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) CEO and commissioner Suhas Diwase said that the PMRDA will have a crucial role to play in the coming years as the town planning will have to be done at a micro-level. “Sustainability of the resources will be the key and while making residential and industrial townships, we’ll have to focus on the issues of water, drainage, and solid waste management in each region. I urge CREDAI members to come up with schemes and implement new ideas to work on these issues,” he said.Diwase and members of Credai-Pune Metro including secretary Aditya Javdekar among others were present during the interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-chief-urges-builders-to-file-complaints-if-threatened-by-local-labour-unions/story-N9OXtKCXwxNHZh4g29LvQL.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Pune civic body education department forms committee to look into school fee payment issue||Amid protests held by parents from various city schools over the fee payment issue the education department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed a three-member committee to look into the issue.In the last couple of months, parents and private schools are at loggerheads over the school fee payment issue. The parents have alleged that schools had discontinued the online classes of students who have not paid the fees.According to the order issued by Minakshi Raut, PMC’s education officer, now a three-member committee will conduct an enquiry in the matter.“The committee will conduct an enquiry of schools about whom we have received complaints. Parents have complained that schools have not sent login id or password and in some cases have sent them the school leaving certificate,” she said.“The committee will conduct an enquiry and submit a detailed report to the department,” said Raut.During the hearing in the Bombay High Court on October 14 regarding the order about fee payment during a pandemic disaster, the court had asked the government to bring the matters of coercive action by schools, if any, to the notice of the high court. If the school are not providing online education or expel the child for non-payment of fees or take any other action, now such actions by the school will be contempt of court.According to the court, the education authorities now have to take ‘administrative and criminal’ action and report it to the court as it will be contempt of the high court.Swapnil Pangare, a parent said, “Due to the current pandemic situation we are suffering a financial loss in business and many parents have even lost their jobs. How can we pay lakhs of rupees in fees right away? There should be some concession for this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-education-department-forms-three-member-committee-to-look-into-school-fee-payment-issue/story-hLwleFzJdDq1Rz9hRZ7fHK.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Parents of Class 11 students in Pune region demand beginning of admission process||At least one lakh students in the Pune region are awaiting the resumption of the Class 11 admission procedure, as it has been put on hold by the state education department. The wait has now started worrying students and parents, as delay in the admission may cost the students an entire academic year. Due to an interim stay by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in employment and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for Class 11 on September 9. Private coaching classes have started taking online classes for students who want to keep abreast of the Class 11 syllabus, but now parents have demanded that the admission process begin immediately. “This entire year has been very worrying for us. First our Class 10 examinations were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic; the last paper, Geography, was cancelled. Then there was a delay in the results and now, the admission process is halted. When the online admission process started I was hoping to get a good college of my choice, but the SC order came and the process stopped. It is uncertain when the process will resume. It will certainly hamper our future career plans,” said Tushar Mundada, a student waiting for his Class 11 admission. Four lakh students have applied for online admission in six divisions across the state. After the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) announced the SSC results in July, the online admission process began in August for Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Amravati. Similarly, parents are worried about the admission process. Vandana Mhatre, a parent, said, “Our children were at home during the lockdown and couldn’t do anything during that time. When the unlock began, the online admission process started and we hoped that now online classes will resume once the admission is done. State government should have a solution and immediately start the admission process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parents-of-class-11-students-in-pune-region-demand-beginning-of-admission-process/story-jPCm78wVWkjvjJMFcGR14H.html
31-10-2020||City||Four more trips on Pune-Lonavla local train route||The Pune railway division has decided to increase the trips of Pune – Lonavala local trains which restarted on October 12 after six months. Daily trips on this route will be increased to eight from the present four. The train service is only for people working in emergency fields. Earlier, there were two trips from Pune to Lonavla and two return trips. As per the new schedule, the train will start from Pune at 6.25 am, 8.05 am, 4.15 pm and 6.02 pm. While from Lonavla, it will run from 9.55 am, 5.30 pm, 5.50 pm and 7.35 pm. Regular passengers traveling on this route have welcomed the decision. Shantanu Khamta, a banker, said, “Earlier only two trips were there and we had to travel by bus or other means of transport when we missed it. I daily travel from Chinchwad to Pune for work. The increase of trips has benefited many commuters like me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-trips-on-pune-lonavla-local-train-route/story-7HqHPooqet8IbSRQQrfijK.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||6th Leh council: 26 newly elected councillors administered oath||Twenty-six newly elected councillors of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council were administered oath of office and secrecy around 9:30am at the Sindhu Sanskriti Kendra on Saturday. Principal and district sessions judge Ranbir Singh Pathania administered the oath. Additional district commissioner Sonam Chosjor said BJP’s Tashi Gyalson of Lingshet constituency had been elected the new chief executive councillor while his party colleague Tsering Angchuk of Diskit constituency was elected the deputy chief executive councillor. The term of the fifth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC, Leh) will end on Friday. The oath-taking ceremony coincided with the first anniversary of Ladakh’s conversion into a Union Territory (UT) without legislature. On October 31, 2019, Ladakh was made a UT without legislature while J&K was converted into UT with legislature. BJP had won 15 seats in the LAHDC polls conducted on October 26. Congress had bagged nine seats, while independent candidates had won two seats. The Leh council has 30 seats, of which four councillors are nominated. The BJP and Congress had fielded candidates in all 26 constituencies while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) fielded 19 candidates. Twenty-three independents were also in the fray. Leh has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule. The safeguards also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil. Notably, the BJP government has not extended the new land laws to Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6th-leh-council-26-newly-elected-councillors-administered-oath/story-fy4hx2sFsLnhs5Sfe8tODP.html
31-10-2020||Pune||BJP to hold graduate voter registration drive on Nov 1||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will conduct the registration drive for graduate voters in the city on Sunday (November 1). The party’s secretary Rajesh Pande, incharge for voter registration, said, “Our target is to register 25,000 voters.” The national party will organise the drive by following the Covid-19 prevention norms. Pande said, “The BJP is going to put up registration centres near housing societies for voters’ comfort.” The party claimed to have registered more than 40,000 voters by using various virtual platforms as the city was in the grip of Covid infection. The election commissioner has cancelled the 2014 voter list for graduate assembly constituency and is preparing a new list. Pune graduate assembly constituency includes voters from Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Solapur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-to-hold-graduate-voter-registration-drive-on-nov-1/story-9ObWPObeVwBAffR9kWt3WJ.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Custom officers at Pune airport seize gold worth Rs 7.89 lakh||The customs officers at Pune’s Lohegaon international airport have seized 151.82 grammes of 24 carat gold, valued at Rs 7.89 lakh, from a passenger travelling to Dubai on Thursday. The gold bar was sealed in a chocolate bar and hidden under the handle of the trolley bag. This is the first seizure since the lockdown was lifted and international flights resumed at Lohegaon airport. Lohegaon airport currently operates international flights to Dubai only.Vaishali Patange, joint commissioner, Pune Zone Customs, said, “This is the first case of a gold seizure since the lockdown was put in place in March. International flights have started operations only now. We had cases of the smuggling of animal parts, but this is the first case of gold smuggling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/custom-officers-at-pune-airport-seize-gold-worth-rs-7-89-lakh/story-z2pNgHBA9epVpl4INna2pK.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Woman duped of Rs 3.2 lakh while trying to get refund for flight||A 54-year-old woman from Pune was duped of Rs 3.2 lakh while she was trying to claim a refund for a flight ticket. The transactions happened on October 20 when the woman was trying to get a refund on a Chennai to Pune flight that she booked. The woman called a number she found online and the person who answered the call tricked the complainant into downloading two applications onto her phone. Once the woman had done so, the person on the call asked her to send a test message which she did and it granted access to the caller to her phone, according to the complainant. Once the message was sent, the person managed to use an application on the mobile phone to transfer money from three bank accounts of the complainant and her family members. The money was siphoned through 32 transactions of Rs 10,000 each within three hours, according to the complaint in the matter. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station. Police inspector (crime) Amrut Marathe of Warje police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/54-year-old-duped-of-rs-3-2-lakh-while-trying-to-get-refund-for-flight/story-RzcjM14mOJ43JKc2D253UI.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Nigerian national in Chakan drug case arrested for visa forgery||A Nigerian national was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for forging visa of residence in India. The man was identified as Jubi Ifneyi Udonko (41), a resident of Sawant Vihar in Vasai, Palghar, according to the police. A complaint against him was lodged by an official of Unit 5 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch which is investigating a drug bust against him and others. A case under Sections 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 14(a)(b) of Foreigners Act, 1946 was registered at Chakan police station against the man. The man was arrested in a drug possession case registered at Chakan police station related to a massive drug bust including 20kg MD. Udonko has served 10 years in Kolhapur jail. There are at least 14 others arrested in the case registered at Chakan. The Nigerian is believed to have been a major player in the sale of over 110kg MD from Chakan. The drugs case is registered under Sections 8(c), 21(c), 22(c), 29, 31(a) of NDPS Act, Section 120(b) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nigerian-national-in-chakan-drug-case-arrested-for-visa-forgery/story-fLZcUScG8psbFYwRCIyoFJ.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Sexual assault of 15-year-old in Pune: Two arrested, two at large||The Pune police on Friday arrested two men in a case of sexual assault of a minor girl who had left her house in a fit of rage after having a fight with her parents, according to officials of Hadapsar police station.The girl was reported missing by her parents on October 27, a day after she left their house.“We have arrested two men and two are at large. The girl is in trauma and not in a position to provide details. For now, we cannot comment on the series of events, but there are four accused and they are not known to each other as per preliminary information,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 5 of Pune police.She was found by a local person in Bopgaon village in Saswad police jurisdiction on October 29.“We had registered a kidnapping case immediately after her parents lodged a missing complaint. A local of Bopgaon took her to Saswad police station and informed us. When she was brought here, she told us what had happened,” said senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of Hadapsar police station.The girl’s family had moved to Pune from another district three months ago and, after the fight with her mother, the girl was trying to return to her native place.The girl underwent a test at Sassoon General Hospital to verify other injuries on her person. The police have seized a car registered in Pune over suspicion of being involved in the case.As per preliminary information, the girl has mentioned four places in her complaint and at least two different modes of transport used during the three-day period when she was missing. However, the series of events could not be verified immediately.A case under Sections 376(d), 363 and others of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8, 12 and others of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act has been registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sexual-assault-of-15-year-old-in-pune-two-arrested-two-at-large/story-VM8YyYKTMBeUeq0mgPkxOP.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Pune police to restart vehicle anti-theft department||To curb the rising cases of vehicle theft and boost the detection rate, Pune police plan to restart the vehicle anti-theft department after directions from Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.All efforts are being made to restore the department to its original status, said officials.The vehicle anti-theft department was instituted in 2015 the objective to curb the rising number of vehicle thefts, but it was defunct from last year.Currently, Pune witnesses vehicle thefts averaging between 1,000 to 1,500 annually and out of which half of them are recovered by the crime branch during the year as a standard practice.Police officials said that a team with the necessary expertise and know-how about the vehicle theft cases is being readied. “This will help to detect more cases and bring down the vehicle theft crime in the city,” said officials.Ashok Morale, additional commissioner, said, “We will study the vehicle theft cases in detail and investigate accordingly, this will bring down the vehicle theft crime rate in the city. Experts will be deployed in the cell to bring about the desired results.”According to the statistics available with the police, as many as 1,968 vehicles were stolen in 2018 and 667 were detected; while 1,678 vehicles were stolen in 2019 and 546 were detected and in 2020 as many as 653 vehicles were stolen till October 16 and 189 have been detected.GRAPHICYear/Vehicles stolen/ Vehicles detected2018/1,968/6672019/1,678/5462020 (till October 16)/653/189(Source: Pune police)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-to-restart-vehicle-anti-theft-department/story-J99afqFOZTxv26Bkyf9v2J.html
31-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 752 fresh Covid cases, 14 deaths in 24 hours||The district on Saturday reported 787 fresh Covid cases and 7 deaths in the past 24 hours. The total death toll for Pune district as per the state health department is 6,673 and currently 24,573 are active cases. The city reported 277 new cases taking the total count to 171,766 and 6 deaths taking the death toll to 3,900 while PCMC reported 153 new cases taking the final count to 84,374 and one death with 1,200 as death toll. Pune rural reported 322 new cases taking the final count to 76,966 and 7 deaths taking the death toll to 1,571, according to the state health department. Pune district’s recovery rate crossed over 90% as of the 3.33 lakh Covid cases reported till date from the district, over three lakh patients have been declared as recovered and discharged from home isolation or hospital treatment.The state health department reported that 8,241 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 15.03 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 89.85%. Also, 6,190 new cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total to over 16.72 lakh. In addition, 127 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 44,390. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.62%. Out of 8,906,826 laboratory samples, 1,672,858 have been tested positive (18.78%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 2,529,462 people are in home quarantine and 12,411 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-752-fresh-covid-cases-14-deaths-in-24-hours/story-HHN0ylQpxaz2sTlwuGqLaO.html
31-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government introduces bill to amend Essential Commodities Act||Aiming at protecting “consumers from hoarding and black marketing of agricultural produce”, Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the state Legislative Assembly.The fifth sitting of the current Assembly session of Rajasthan resumed its business on Saturday after it was adjourned on August 24.The discussion on the Bill will take place from Monday.An official document read the Bill will “amend and add special provisions in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in their application to the State of Rajasthan, with a view to protecting consumers from hoarding and black marketing of agricultural produce and to secure and protect the interests and livelihood of farmers and farm labourers as also all others engaged in agriculture and related activities.”This is an attempt by the Congress-run state government to modify one of the three farm laws, passed in the last monsoon session of Parliament.The three laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-government-introduces-bill-to-amend-essential-commodities-act/story-EUO3N2e9yWdBpJbywV5xIO.html
31-10-2020||Pune||PMC temporarily closes down two swab centres||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to close down two of its swab centres, temporarily, citing a drop in the number of Covid-19 patients in the city as the reason.PMC is currently operating 20 Covid testing centres in Pune city.Sanjeev Wavare, PMC’s assistant medical officer, said, “PMC increased its testing facility to 20 centres after an increase in the Covid-19 positive cases. Now, as the cases are coming down, two centres are going to close, temporarily. The other 18 centres will be functional.”PMC will close the centres at the Mahatma Phule school on Dhole Patil road and at the Sundrabai Raut school at Kelewadi, in Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-temporarily-closes-down-two-swab-centres/story-dSBkf6NwioJGgoaNFPCenM.html
31-10-2020||Pune||More than two months after the first survey, Pune’s second sero survey yet to begin||The second sero survey for Pune city is yet to begin, even though it has been over two months since the pilot survey was conducted by the Pune Municipal Corporation in the city.The neighbouring civic body, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), has begun its sero survey in association with DY Patil Medical College. The survey for Pune city to be undertaken by the BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital is yet to start. The survey indicates the prevalence of the virus by testing samples from random households and helps the administration to plan for containment zones accordingly and understand the spread of the virus. A serological survey assesses the prevalence of a disease in a population. It is done by detecting the presence of specific antibodies that are produced against the virus. IgG Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test is conducted under the survey to estimate the proportion of the population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection that causes Covid-19 The first sero survey conducted in July and made public on August 17 had collected 1,664 samples from five highly inflicted sub-wards to determine the spread of the virus. The study found a whopping 51.5% of the samples testing positive for antibodies against Covid-19 causing SARS-CoV-2 virus. Pune is currently the worst affected district in the country with over 3.23 lakh Covid cases as of Thursday. However, the sample size and areas selected for the study were not representative of the entire city or district and so the second sero survey with a higher sample size and a wider area was declared. The first study was conducted in collaboration with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore and funded by Persistent Foundation. However, it has been more than two months now since the first results were announced, the second survey is yet to begin. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The second sero has already started in PCMC area and it is being done by DY Patil along with the local civic body. For Pune district, which will include areas from both city and rural areas, it is more comprehensive. This survey is being planned by Sassoon and NIV.” A senior doctor from BJ Medical College said, “I have not yet got any message on the same. There is no update on beginning the survey anytime soon.” With the second wave possibly in December as projected by the Central team, a comprehensive sero survey will help the administration to ensure strict measures are put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/more-than-two-months-after-the-first-survey-pune-s-second-sero-survey-yet-to-begin/story-zBdfKQt59qlGttWYm1fsZJ.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees coldest October since 1962, says IMD||India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Safdarjung observatory in Delhi has recorded October 2020 as the coldest in the national capital since 1962, with 17.2 degrees Celsius as the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this year.On October 29, Delhi’s minimum temperature plummeted to 12.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal. It was also the lowest for this month over a period of 26 years.The normal minimum temperature for October is 19.1 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, New Delhi, told ANI that the Safdarjung observatory recorded 2020’s October as the coldest since 1991 in the corresponding month.“The reason behind dip in the temperature is the absence of the cloud cover, along with no impact of western disturbance on the plains (mainly in Jammu and Kashmir) now. Another important reason is north-westerly wind direction.”In 1954, the mean minimum temperature (MMT) in October was recorded as the lowest with 16.7 degrees Celsius. Later, in the year 1962, the October MMT was recorded at 16.9 degrees Celsius.In 1991, 1993, 1994, and 2007, the October MMTs were recorded at 17.6, 17.8, 17.9 and 17.5 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the IMD.The winter season mostly depends on western disturbance. When western disturbance approaches northwest India, winter commences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-coldest-october-since-1962-says-imd/story-vyCUBNZzDfdcC1udskEa1M.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Post-Covid, Himachal’s placement initiative meets limited success||Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, an estimated 2.4 lakh Himachalis working in domestic and international companies have been rendered jobless and have returned to their native state.With a majority of companies retaining experienced staff, the axe fell mostly on employees below 30 years in white-collar jobs such as professional desk, managerial or administrative work.Since June 1, the government’s Himachal Pradesh Kaushal Vikas Nigam (HPKVN) has been trying to provide jobs to skilled and semi-skilled natives through its portal, skillregister.hp.gov.in, but has met with limited success. HOW THE JOB PORTAL WORKSSkilled and semi-skilled unemployed citizens returning from other states register themselves on the portal, where companies and industries can also register their requirements, after which the HPKVN tries to provide job opportunities to applicants in the nearest company or industry according to their ability and eligibility.Despite government campaigns, so far only 16,406 people have registered themselves for employment on the portal.AS TOURISM TAKES HIT, HPKVN TAPS INDUSTRIESTourism, the biggest job provider industry in the state, has been adversely impacted by the pandemic and faces a loss of more than Rs 20,000 crore, limiting opportunities in the sector.The HPKVN approached industries in Una, Sansarpur, Kala Amb, Paonta Sahib and Baddi and Barotiwala and identified 1,802 job opportunities in companies such as Havells, Voltas, Tafe, Indoco Remedies and MT Autocraft.It mapped the jobs available with the eligibility, qualification and aspiration of applicants. “Based on this mapping, the HPKVN identified 1,685 eligible candidates for jobs in these industries,” says its managing director, Rohan Chand Thakur.Those who had lost their jobs were contacted, counselled and motivated to take up the opportunities available. Consequently, 405 candidates expressed interest to join. Of them, 282 appeared for interview and 102 were shortlisted in the past three months.“Those who could not make it are being further counselled and motivated by our team so that suitable jobs can be offered to them,” says Thakur.The major reasons for aspirants unwilling to join despite being qualified are the location of the work and higher salary expectations, he says, adding that the HPKVN is working on providing multiple offers to each candidate so that they have options to choose from.HIGH LITERACY BUT JOB CREATION BELOW PARHimachal Pradesh, which has the fourth best literacy rate of 86.6% behind only Kerala, Delhi and Uttarakhand, is the third state with the highest unemployment rate, according to thinktank Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).Tripura topped the unemployment chart at 28.6% in December 2019, followed by Haryana at 27.6% and Himachal 20.2%. The national average was 7.7%.An estimated 60,000 youngsters of Himachal Pradesh join the queue for jobs every year. On the contrary, job creation has remained below par.According to government data from January 2018 to July 2019, 1.46 lakh jobs were generated; 6,637 in the government sector and 1.4 lakh in the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-covid-himachal-s-placement-initiative-meets-limited-success/story-vMdlWptAUHQE8unH7SzN2O.html
31-10-2020||Bhopal||MP by-polls: BJP candidate tests positive for Covid-19 ahead of election||A BJP candidate contesting state legislative assembly by-poll in one of the constituencies in Bundelkhand region tested positive for Covid-19 just three days before the polling day, BJP leaders and doctors said. The candidate was busy canvassing in his constituency on Friday when he complained of restlessness after which the local hospital, where he was rushed to, referred him to a private medical college’s hospital in Bhopal. His test report came back positive for Covid-19. Dr Sumit Rawat, Bundelkhand medical college virology department in charge, said, “The sample came from Damoh district and we conducted an RTPCR test on it. The report was positive and we informed the party leader about the test result.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted on Friday night wishing the party candidate a speedy recovery. Also read: ‘I steered clear of controversies but…’ - PM tears into Cong over PulwamaThe BJP candidate happens to be one of three Congress MLAs who resigned from the state legislative assembly in July this year and later joined the BJP. These three MLAs’ resignation came four months after 22 Congress MLAs resigned from the assembly in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath. Their resignations led to the fall of the Congress state government. All 25 ex-MLAs are now BJP candidates from the same constituencies they represented till their resigned from the state assembly.By-polls in the state are slated to be held in 28 assembly constituencies on November 3. Counting of votes will take place on November 10 as per the Election Commission schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-by-polls-bjp-candidate-tests-positive-for-covid-19-ahead-of-election/story-V5OFvSNesJIvuCp1zzNXXP.html
31-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: With Cong’s Luv and debonair debutants, BJP’s Bankipur set for a contest||Patna’s Bankipur assembly constituency, comprising 3.91 lakh voters, is set for an interesting contest. BJP’s Nitin Nabin (40), who is seeking his fourth successive win as a legislator here, is pitted against Congress’s Luv Sinha (39), son of actor and former Union minister Shatrughan Sinha who quit BJP last year and joined Congress. Luv Sinha is fighting his first election. So is Pushpam Priya (33), an alumnus of London School of Economics (LSE) who has floated The Plurals Party, a newly formed entity. Also in the race is Manish Barriarr (44), an Oxford University alumnus and academician. He is contesting as an Independent candidate. Altogether, there are 22 candidates in the fray from Bankipur constituency, which goes to polls on November 3. Located in the heart of Patna, Bankipur has its own issues. Traffic snarl-ups, water-logging, lack of infrastructure and civic amenities like public hygiene and sanitation, drainage, streetlight, encroachment of public property, illegal slums, poor public transportation, lack of auto-rickshaw and city bus stops, are the pressing ones. The incomplete Mithapur flyover, open drain in Mandiri and Bakerganj, delay in execution of projects under Smart City, the Namami Gange and the laying of gas pipeline because of which roads have been dug up, are the broader issues people want the government to address on priority. The youth on Ashok Rajpath, which has several private hostels for students, want better education and employment avenues. “There’s traffic mayhem on SP Verma Road, Fraser Road, Exhibition Road. The roads are poorly lit with either no streetlights or just a few of them. Public hygiene is poor, with garbage littered on flanks of roads and footpath, hardly leaving any space for commuters,” said Sadanand Agarwal, 51, a businessman, who resides on SP Verma Road. Also read: Bihar polls - ‘BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine promise not a poll violation,’ says ECIt’s all about water-logging, encroachment and illegal slums near the Buddha Murti in Kadamkuan. “Encroachment, leading to illegal slums, with urchins creating nuisance, is a worry in our area, especially around the Buddha Murti which should ideally have been taken up as a national heritage and converted into a tourist spot. Our area, which is low-lying, is perennially waterlogged during monsoon. The government should do something to improve its drainage and promptly address other issues as well,” said Dr Abhishek Kumar Sinha, 40, a resident of Justice Raj Kishore Path near Buddha Murti in Kadamkuan. Manish Kumar, 21, a student of Patna University on Ashok Rajpath, talked about the need for employment avenues. “Unemployment is the main reason for the migration of youth. Besides, higher education also needs to be improved,” he said. Ghanshyam Agarwal, 48, a resident of Mainpura, talked about the lack of parking facility in his area, animal shelter house, leading to cattle and stray dogs roaming freely on road, also the increasing incidence of dog bite, incomplete work on covering the Mandiri drain, besides encroachment and open manholes. “The government should also improve the crematorium at Bans Ghat and Gulbi ghat and not allow vendors by the roadside,” said Agarwal. However, Rashmi Kumar, 60, a school teacher, and resident of Maa Bhagwati Apartment on the Boring-Canal Road, had a different take. “I will vote for a leader who helps in strengthening the political leadership of our country. I prefer a seasoned political leadership over the youth. The government has done good work and will do better if we give it more time,” she said. “Our choice (of political leader) is not an issue, but party-based. I will vote for a strong and self-reliant India,” she said. The Bankipur seat, which came into existence after the delimitation of constituencies in 2008, has been a BJP stronghold. Nitin Nabin’s father, late Navin Kishore Prasad Sinha, won the 1995, 2000 and 2005 assembly elections from the Patna West seat, most areas of which now come under the Bankipur assembly constituency. In 2006, following his father’s death, Nabin won the Patna West seat in 2006 (by-election), and then Bankipur in 2010 and 2015 assembly elections. Also read: Lalu, Rabri’s native villages on boil over Nitish’s remarksCongress candidate Luv Sinha talks of the lack of development in Bihar. “Bihar is still the least developed for the last 27 years in terms of people living below poverty line, infrastructure, healthcare and education. People here also have less opportunity. I am here to bring about a change in Bihar,” said Sinha. “My priorities will be to improve education, work on industrialisation because they go side-by-side to increase employability. I will also work on town planning because Patna is quite unlike a state capital. It has no concept of town planning, which needs to be developed,” said Manish Barriarr. BJP candidate Nitin Nabin, on the other hand, countered allegations of slow pace of development work. “As for the Mithapur overbridge, there were some design issues, which the railways had objected to. It has now cleared the design and the work will be complete in the next three months. The Rs 65-crore project on covering the Mandiri drain was stopped at the order of the high court. After its clearance now, the work will recommence soon,” said Nabin. “We have also worked on the sump house and drainage to end waterlogging in wards 15 to 19 of Chirayantand, Chandmari Road and Khasmahal localities, besides the Congress Maidan in Kadamkuan. As many as 15,000 LED streetlights have been installed in the last three years and a Rs 3.5 crore foot-over bridge is coming up between Mithapur and R-Block. We have been striving for development and will continue to do so in the coming years,” he said. Efforts to reach out to Pushpam Priya proved futile, as she was unavailable over phone. 182 - Bankipur assembly constituency Total voters: 3,91,100 Male voters: 208299 Female voters: 182772 Transgender: 29 Polling booths: 589 Total candidates: 22 In fray: Nitin Nabin (BJP), Luv Sinha (Cong), Pushpam Priya (The Plurals Party) 2015 polls Winner: Nitin Nabin (BJP); Votes polled: 86,759 Runner-up: Kumar Ashish (Cong); Votes polled: 46,992 Winning margin: 39,767||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-with-cong-s-luv-and-debonair-debutants-bjp-s-bankipur-set-for-a-contest/story-TydmvEGVKJRZUGKL6WOr9N.html
31-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt introduces bills to negate impact of Centre’s farm laws||The Rajasthan government introduced three bills on Saturday to negate the impact of the farm laws recently enacted by the Centre.Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal introduced the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020.He also introduced the Code of Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 on the first day of the Assembly session.After the Assembly passed the obituary remarks on the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee and other leaders who passed away recently, the speaker adjourned the House for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-introduces-bills-to-negate-impact-of-centre-s-farm-laws/story-4SK6oWN9oyqgTEqA4tr8AJ.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases soar in Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain lists reasons||The ongoing festive season, onset of winter and an increase in air pollution are among the reasons for a sudden spike in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital, according to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. The Capital breached its record for the highest number of Covid-19 cases recorded in a day four times this week. An alarmed home ministry has called a special review meeting with officials of the Delhi government to discuss the issue on Monday. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 4,853 cases and on Wednesday it reported a record 5,673 Covid-19 cases. As many as 5,739 cases were recorded on Thursday and 5,891 infections and 47 deaths on Friday.Also Read: Alarm over new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; Centre may step in“It’s a combined effect of the festive season, decrease in temperature and increased pollution. Experts had also suggested that at this time Covid-19 cases could rise,” Jain said on Saturday, according to news agency ANI. Delhi and the National Capital Region’s (NCR’s) pollution level has been a matter of concern for over a week now. The air quality index hovering dangerously close to the ‘severe’ zone in the past 10 days. On Thursday, a new umbrella agency was set up by the Centre to fight air pollution in the region.Jain also listed carelessness of people as one of the factors in the spike of Covid-19 cases. “People are giving less importance to wearing face masks. Masks can save us to a large extent from the winter pollution too,” he said. On Friday, Jain had urged Delhiites to consider masks as a vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Encouraging people to wear masks at all times, he said, “When we had imposed the lockdown, cases did not go down. If 100 per cent of people wear masks, Covid-19 infection can be controlled to a certain extent. Benefits of wearing masks are just as many as those of a lockdown, if not more. Until there is a vaccine, masks should be considered as vaccines.”Also Read: ‘Consider face masks like Covid-19 vaccine,’ says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainThe meeting called by the home ministry on Monday will be the Centre’s second such intervention to control the rising Sars-Cov-2 infections in Delhi. In July, Union home minister Amit Shah held meetings with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other officials after which testing, contact tracing and sero-surveillance were ramped up in Delhi.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla will chair Monday’s meeting and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, and other senior central officials will be in attendance, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-soar-in-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-lists-reasons/story-Z4bHXGXCvN8dGlXHtsGITL.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC collects about Rs 3.5 crore for face mask norms violation since April 20||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has collected approximately Rs 3.5 crore in fine for over 1.6 lakh violations of face mask norms between April 20 to October 29 this year, the civic body said.Wearing face masks in public places, apart from other measures such as following social distancing, is part of the guidelines by the Centre to control the spread of coronavirus.As per the data provided by the BMC, there were 9,107 fines for violations on October 29 alone from which Rs 18,21,400 were collected.According to it, from April 20 till October 29 there have been 1,60,279 violations of face masks in total for which Rs 3,49,34,800 in fines have been collected by the BMC.As per the Union health ministry on Saturday, Maharashtra continues to be the most severely affected state by Covid-19 in the country with 1,25,971 active cases. However, 15,03,050 patients have been cured and discharged in the state so far, while 43,837 deaths have been reported due to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-collects-about-rs-3-5-crore-for-face-mask-norms-violation-since-april-20/story-upCnEWYccl1ARsO4PfZ6ZK.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai authorities to set up walk-in testing facilities for Covid-19||In an attempt to scale up its Covid-19 testing capacity up to 24,000 a day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to have at least four walk-in Covid-19 testing facilities in each of the 24 administrative wards of the city. All ward officials will be directed to identify spots where testing facilities will come up likely by next week.Citizens will be able to approach these facilities for Covid-19 testing between specified timings that are yet to be decided. Covid-19 tests conducted at civic-run or government-run facilities are free of cost. Authorities also anticipate a surge in Covid-19 cases in the upcoming festive month for which strict wearing of masks and no overcrowding will be enforced.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “We are chalking out the plan to execute walk-in testing facilities in all wards. The timings for testing and staff required will likely be finalised by this weekend. We are taking utmost care and have intensified our campaign for strict masking. The public movement on roads has also increased and it is necessary to ensure there is no overcrowding at places.”Civic officials said that the plan is to have adequate testing facilities in a decentralised manner. Currently, there are very few civic testing camps in several wards and some of the wards have even shifted these camps to major civic hospitals or civic dispensaries only. A senior civic official said, “Testing camps are intensified once there is a surge in cases from a particular area. Ward officials monitor their areas to decide how frequent these camps are to be set up.”Also read: J&J to test vaccine in children, Novavax plans an ethnicity-based studySince September, the BMC conducts anywhere between 8, 000- 15,000 Covid-19 tests on a daily basis, 30-40 percent of which were comprised of rapid antigen tests. The civic body has now marked a target of conducting up to 24,000 Covid-19 tests in the city daily. “Now as we see the pandemic receding, we do not want another Covid peak in Diwali. Increasing testing capacity is just one component of containing the spread of the virus but intensifying strict mask policies and avoiding overcrowding at places will ensure better results,” said Shashank Joshi, member of state’s Covid-19 task force.Mumbai crossed the 10-lakh-mark of Covid-19 tests on September 20 and has so far conducted 15.13 lakh tests. Of these, 2.56 lakh individuals have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-authorities-to-set-up-walk-in-testing-facilities-for-covid-19/story-TGrsjnDEoqQ3MADiEDBfaL.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||At 365, Delhi’s air quality still in ‘very poor’ zone||Delhi’s air marginally improved on Saturday as winds picked up speed and the contribution of stubble fires from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana remained relatively low. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the hourly average air quality index of Delhi at 7am was 365, in the “very poor” category.The overall AQI of Delhi on Friday was 374, also in the same category. This was better than Thursday’s 395. At many monitoring stations, the AQI had entered the severe category on Thursday afternoon.An AQI reading of 301 to 400 is in the “very poor” category and is associated with respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. An AQI of 400-500 is considered “severe”. IMD scientists said that strong winds helped clear off the accumulated pollutants and that winds are expected to be favourable over the weekend.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the wind speed on Friday remained in the range of 12-15kmph, which helped disperse pollutants. “For a brief period, the wind speed had even touched 16kmph. On Saturday, the winds will pick up more and we are expecting that the air quality index can even reach the poor zone,” Srivastava said. He said that on Sunday too, weather conditions will remain favourable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-365-delhi-s-air-quality-still-in-very-poor-zone/story-HDJ3Wq6JFAXCqJXnmNyZyM.html
31-10-2020||Bhopal||EC order withdrawing Kamal Nath’s star campaigner status unfair: Digvijaya Singh||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday said that the Election Commission (EC) order withdrawing star campaigner status from former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath is unfair. “It is a strange order. After an advisory was given to him, he gave no further statements. The statement, which is being mentioned, is from October 13. I think this order is unfair. We are contemplating as to what legal suggestion has to be taken,” Singh said.“There is pressure being applied and it is not right,” he added.Election Commission of India had earlier revoked the star campaigner status of Congress leader Kamal Nath, citing repeated violation of the Model Code of Conduct.Digvijaya Singh said this in response to the statement of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who had stated that the stains on Kamal Nath will not be washed by washing powder“First ask Jyotiraditya Scindia Ji whether Shivraj’s blood-stained hands should be washed or not,” Scindia had said while he was in Congress that Shivraj Singh Chohan’s hands are stained with the blood of the farmers of Mandsaur.Singh was in Indore’s Sanwer to campaign for the Congress candidate Premchand Borasi.Voting on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh by-polls will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10.By-elections are due on 28 seats following the resignation of 25 MLAs and the death of three legislators earlier.In March this year, 22 Congress MLAs resigned from the state Assembly paving the way for BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan to take over as Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister for the fourth time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ec-order-withdrawing-kamal-nath-s-star-campaigner-status-unfair-digvijaya-singh/story-CZvcKJ2r73JLqhj8Pjn2eM.html
31-10-2020||Lucknow||Amid fight against Covid-19, UP attracts investment worth over Rs 7,000 crore||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday claimed to have received investment worth Rs 7000 crore to Rs 10,000 crore amid the fight against Covid-19. It also claimed to have attracted over 40 intents for investment of about Rs 45,000 from 10 countries that include Japan, the US, the UK, Canada, Germany and South Korea.Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner (IIDC) Alok Tandon and additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development department) Alok Kumar said various industrial development authorities allocated nearly 426 acres of land (326 plots) for projects involving an investment size of around Rs 6,700 crore with the potential for creating nearly 1,35,362 jobs. They said the companies that had grounded their investment by getting land for the projects included the Hiranandani Group, Surya Global, Hindustan Unilever, MG Capsules, Kesho Packaging and Mountain View Technologies. Tandon said the companies that had shifted from China included Dixon. He also said the state government held two rounds of discussions with Microsoft for investment to set up their software development centre on about 10 acres of land in the state. A Microsoft team would visit the state soon, he added.He said the ease of doing business and infrastructure development had helped in attracting investment in the state. Uttar Pradesh had ranked second in the ease of doing business recently.Also read: Alarm over new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; Centre may step inHe said the state government launched new policies post-Covid-19. These include the “Post Covid-19 Accelerated Investment Promotion Policy for Backward Regions 2020”. The state government is providing attractive incentives to new industrial units to create growth centres in Purvanchal, Madhyanchal and Bundelkhand regions of the state to fast-track investment there. These regions have also witnessed the highest influx of returning migrant labourers.Under this policy, Ankur Udyog proposes to set up a steel unit in Gorakhpur. Another proposal for investment to set up a steel plant in the backward region has been received.Tandon said three centres of excellence, including one by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) for start-ups in artificial intelligence, were also coming up. He said Tata Technologies proposed to set up a centre of excellence for defence in Lucknow.The commissioner said the new Startup policy 2020 to promote non-IT based start-ups had been launched. The eligibility limits of private industrial and logistics park had been reduced from 100 to 20 acres in Bundelkhand and Purvanchal, 150 to 30 acres in Paschimanchal and Madhyanchal for private industrial parks and from 50 to 25 acres for logistics parks. Tandon said post Covid-19, seven projects worth about Rs 8,500 crore commenced commercial operations, while 19 projects of about Rs 6,400 crore had entered the active implementation stage.He said with this, nearly 43 percent of the leads generated worth around Rs 2 lakh crore were under active stages of implementation. The upcoming Jewar international airport in Greater Noida has accelerated activities in the region. He said with the airport, projects like MRO/cargo complex and aerotropolis were likely to come up there. MSME park, electronics park, apparel park, handicraft park and toy park were also proposed in the region.Tandon added that the state government recently announced a film city on a 1,000-acre plot located just about six kilometres from the proposed Jewar international airport. These schemes are expected to bring investment worth Rs 40,000 crore and around 2.5-3 lakh employment. He said a dedicated agency, Invest UP, had been recently established for facilitating and handholding investors. Unlike similar organisations in the country, which either focused on investment promotion or investment facilitation, Invest UP had been mandated to carry out both the activities to provide complete investment life cycle support to the investors.Covid-19 hits investmentsRs 750 crore of investments have been grounded in data centre by Hiranandani Group in Greater Noida region. Rs 300 crore of investments in setting up integrated food processing unit by Britannia Industries Ltd in Barabanki.Rs 750 crore of investments are stalled in yeast manufacturing by Associated British Food Plc (AB Mauri) (UK) in Bargarh, Chitrakoot. Rs 200 crore of investments in consumer electronics by Dixon Technologies in Noida/Greater Noida region. Rs 300 crore of investments are pending in footwear manufacturing by Von Wellix (Germany) in Yamuna Expressway area. Rs 953 crore of investments in POPP, BOPET, Metalized Films Production Plant by Surya Global Flexi Films Pvt Ltd in Yamuna Expressway area.Discussions in progressRs 200 crore of investments in software development by Maq Software (US) in Noida region.Rs 746 crore of investments in grain infrastructure equipment by Ekagrata Inc (Canada) in Lucknow.Rs 750 crore of investments in electric vehicles by Edison Motors (South Korea).Rs 2,000 crore of investment in wiring harness and components by Yazaki (Japan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amid-fight-against-covid-19-up-attracts-investment-worth-over-rs-7-000-crore/story-p3A9BWuBLIosctXhoVCPeL.html
31-10-2020||Patna||100 years on, residents on lease struggle against ‘British rule’ in Patna||More than 70 years after Independence, a number of Patna residents are still struggling against the British rule, literally. And as they are about to vote in the assembly elections — their constituencies in Patna are going to polls in the second phase November 3 — they have decided to vote for the party that delivers them freedom from the rule created almost 100 years ago. In 1915-20, the British, who themselves settled mostly on the banks of the Ganges in Patna, created a number of settlements in the city, called Khas Mahal, where small and big plots were sold on lease to government servants, judges, doctors, big landlords and even political eminences for the purposes of building houses. The biggest Khas Mahal came up Kadam Kuan, in the heart of Patna, where plots ranging from two katthas to 12 katthas were sold to eminences which included political heavyweights like Anugrah Narayan Sinha, the eminent Congress leader and father of former chief minister Satyendra Narayan Sinha, Sundari Devi, sister of Lal Bahadur Shastri, Babu Jagjivan Ram, Jaiprakash Narayan and businessman Bachha Babu, owner of a number of ships that then cruised in the Ganges ferrying people across.Later, similar but smaller such settlements were created in other areas like Mahendru Mohalla, Chiraiyyatand, Chhajju Bagh and Patna Museum area. But the land ownership remained with the British government. Though some were given rights of perpetual lease, which continued from one generation to another, most others got land on a lease either for 99 years or for 66 years or 30 years and were obliged to get it renewed before expiry. Also read: Generational shift in Bihar’s political arena?In Bihar, there are over 3,700 acres of land under Khas Mahal area, of which 500 acres are in Patna alone. “The system continued even after Independence. People had paid heavy amount for this land. My grandfather, who was a deputy collector during the British period, along with others, had paid Rs 1,700 -2000 per kattha at the time when gold was available for hardly for Rs 5-6 per 10 grams. Despite this, they were not allowed ownership. More depressing thing is that the ownership is still being denied,” says Rakesh Sharan, a member of the Khas Mahal Citizens Welfare Society from Kadamkuan, which falls into Bankipur Assembly constituency. The limited ownership means there is always a danger that the lease may not be renewed for various reasons and the “owners” are not free to develop the property into commercial complexes. “During every election, political parties assure us that the system of lease will be eliminated, but we still have no ownership. This time, we have threatened to boycott polls. Even if we agree to join polling, we will vote only for political party which promises to take action in this direction,” says Sharan. Rajiv Sharma, vice-president of Khas Mahal Citizen Welfare Society, who lives in Naval Kishore Path, also a part of the Bankipur constituency in Patna, says, “The threat of losing rights of the lease and being ousted from their houses is always there. It’s all because of the system of lease. Renewal has always been a big problem. Though the amount is not big, it’s the system which has made things difficult,” he says. Also, no commercial use of the property is allowed as it was created by the British rulers purely for residential purposes, he says. “Many of the family members have now shifted to the other cities or are in foreign countries. They want to put the property on rent to some commercial enterprises. Many also want to dispose of the property. But nothing is possible unless the area is turned into freehold,” Sharma says. No alteration is possible in the old structure created decades ago over the land, he says. “Even if we plan to remodel our wash room, we cannot do so without prior permission of the government because we are the lessee. Do you think getting permission for any kind of construction or any other paper work is easy and smooth in this system? Recently, one of our neighbours lost patience and got created a structure for commercial purposes. Within a few days, the unit was sealed while the family was served notice of cancellation of lease. Now my neighbour who has marriage in her family and needs to get the houses painted, is scared of doing so without government permission,” says Sharma. More than 10,000 families in the state capital live in these Khas Mahals. Nitin Naveen, the BJP candidate from Bankipur constituency, said he would definitely try to sort out the issue and take concrete steps in this direction. A century-old tenancy: What is a Khas Mahal?It’s a residential township developed by the in 1915-1920 for government servants and eminent personalities of the time.Khas Mahal enclaves in PatnaThe first came up in Kadam Kuan to house officials, judges, doctors and landlords Later, some more were created in Mahendru Mohalla, Chiraiyyatand and Chhajju Bagh. Elsewhere in the stateKhas Mahal also came up in districts like Munger, Katihar and Purnea. Their sprawl3,700 acres: Total land in the state under Khas Mahal area 500 acres: Total land in Patna under Khas Mahal area, housing 10,000 families Leases long and shortSome were given rights of perpetual lease, which continued from one generation to another99 years 66 years 30 years Eminent tenantsAnugrah Narayan Sinha, the first deputy CM of Bihar Sundari Devi, sister of Lal Bahadur ShastriBabu Jagjivan RamJayaprakash NarayanBachha Babu, owner of a number of small ships use to cruise in the Ganges ferrying people acrossSource: Khas Mahal Citizens Welfare Society||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/100-years-on-residents-on-lease-struggle-against-british-rule-in-patna/story-jKZWcDn9YtvnygXmak0GcI.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A cab driver’s pandemic exodus||He is all cloistered within plastic, as if in an echo chamber of his own.This sight perfectly encapsulates the surreality of the age of coronavirus. Cab driver Dharmendra Partap Singh is sitting on his driving seat, sealed from the rest of the car by a cabin-like wrap of plastic; the side-window of course is free. “This (plastic) is to protect the customer in case the driver has the infection,” he says, referring to the ongoing pandemic.He doesn’t say it, but the sealing might protect him too, if it is the passenger who is shedding the virus.In his 20s, the masked Mr Singh is driving a client around the Millennium City, though he himself lives in Delhi’s Janakpuri. Parked for the moment outside a Gurugram market, he speaks about his dramatic acquaintance with the pandemic. Like thousands of people in the city, he too quickly left for native home in the countryside. But he started his exodus not in a car, as one would expect of a driver, but on foot. “Like so many others, I urgently wanted to go home when suddenly everything shut down, and we became jobless,” he recalls, explaining that he himself didn’t have a car of his own.Just before the lockdown began in late March, Mr Singh’s employer, a cab rental agency, was forced to relieve some of its drivers because of the sudden lack of work. Living in the city since 2011, he barely had savings to pull through. Besides, “mata ji (mother) in the village was worried about me... and I was also scared.”During the entire recalling, Mr Singh mentions the pandemic in cataclysmic terms by calling it “corona kaal”. His home is in a village near Allahabad, a night-long train journey from Delhi.“My long journey began on 27 March. There was no transport available in the city. First, I walked all the way to the Delhi-UP border, then I found a place on the roof of a bus but it was so packed with public that I got down a short time later.” Fortunately, he spotted an acquaintance from his village, riding a bike. Together they drove in turns, reaching the destination 22 hours later. His wife, mother and sister were anxiously waiting for him. “I first took a bath, and then had dal-chawal... home is home... one can never depend on a big city.”Mr Singh still needs the big city, though. He returned early this month, in the cab of a friend who was driving back to Delhi after dropping a client in Allahabad. “This time it took me 12 hours only to cover the distance.” He is again working for the same firm.Looking restlessly about the plastic wrap, the driver shakes his head, asking, “When will corona kaal end?”His quizzical eyes suggest that his question is not rhetorical. He expects an answer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-cab-driver-s-pandemic-exodus/story-QAll1xjGl9FdBfScifGu8J.html
31-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal custodial death sparks row||A political controversy has erupted in West Bengal’s Birbhum district after the mysterious death on Thursday night of a 15-year old boy arrested for the alleged theft of a mobile phone. While the police claim it was suicide; the boy’s family had insisted in the morning that he was beaten to death. However, later in the day the mother said that it would be futile to raise allegations as they have lost their son. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) says he was killed because his parents are BJP workers. On Friday morning, irate villagers clashed with the police and blocked National Highway 114 by burning tyres; they hurled bricks at the police, who resorted to a lathi charge to disperse the crowd.The BJP has called a 12-hour-bandh in Mallarpur on Saturday. “A 15-year-old boy died inside the police station. He was arrested following all norms and brought to the police station on Thursday. At night he went to the toilet and hanged himself. We have ordered a magisterial probe and a post-mortem by a three-member medical panel following guidelines laid down by the National Human Rights Commission,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police, Birbhum district. The victim’s parents and villagers alleged that the boy was picked up at least three days ago and was never produced in the court. “He was arrested for stealing a neighbour’s mobile phone at least three days ago. When I went to the police station, they told me that my son would be released soon. But now he has been beaten to death. He was not produced in court nor sent to any home,” the victim’s father told media persons earlier in the day. “My son had started taking heroin and ganja over the past two months. I have lost my son. What will I do by raising a complaint against the police?” the victim’s mother told media persons. Although the protest was initially restricted to villagers from the victim’s village, BJP workers joined the protest soon. “How can a minor hang himself in the police station when everything, with which he can commit suicide such as a towel and even the sacred thread, is taken away in police lockup? He was treated like this because his family members were BJP supporters,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the West Bengal BJP unit. The ruling Trinamool Congress has however rubbished the allegations saying the BJP is politicizing the issue. HT couldn’t independently confirm that the boy’s parents are BJP workers. Later in the day, however, the victim’s father said: “I am not a supporter of any party. My son used to sometimes participate in TMC rallies.” “The BJP is a liar. When the parents are saying they do not support any party, how can the BJP say that the parents were BJP workers?” said Anubrata Mondol, TMC’s Birbhum chief. While the BJP has been claiming that more than 100 party workers have been killed in the TMC’s regime, the TMC has rubbished the claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-custodial-death-sparks-row/story-UylBhpJR4HusG3LhyQqjEJ.html
31-10-2020||City||Six deaths, 322 fresh Covid cases in Himachal||Six more deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Himachal on Friday. With this, the state’s death toll has reached 307, officials said. Two deaths each have been reported in Kullu and Kangra districts while one death each has been reported in Mandi and Hamirpur.Meanwhile, 322 more persons were tested positive on Friday, taking the state’s covid tally to 21,798. Of these, 2,891 are active cases.Out of new cases, 62 were reported in Kullu district, 55 in Shimla district, 48 in Kinnaur, 45 in Kangra, 43 in Mandi, 14 cases each were reported in Solan and Una districts, 13 in Chamba, 10 in Lahaul-Spiti, nine in Bilaspur, seven in Sirmaur and two in Hamirpur. Also, 193 patients have recovered on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 18,571.With 3,609 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district till date, followed by 3,044 cases in Kangra, 2,953 in Mandi, 2,482 in Shimla, 2,259 in Sirmaur, 1,539 in Una, 1,507 in Kullu, 1,268 in Bilaspur, 1,220 in Hamirpur, 1,141 in Chamba and 382 cases each in Lahaul-Spiti, and Kinnaur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-deaths-322-fresh-covid-cases-in-himachal/story-fwJyfJnWnekZoZSrAG0g2O.html
31-10-2020||City||NC protests land laws, restricting Farooq from offering prayers||National Conference workers, led by provincial president Devender Singh Rana, staged protests against the new land laws and administration restricting party president Farooq Abdullah from offering prayers at Srinagar’s Hazratbal shrine.Farooq was reportedly stopped from offering prayers at Hazratbal shrine on Milad-un-Nabi, NC claimed in a tweet.After protests outside party office, Rana took a swipe at the alleged arm-twisting tactics employed by the administration to stifle the voice of Opposition.“Farooq is the most secular and nationalist leader in J&K. We are fighting for rights of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh within the Indian Constitution to safeguard their rights,” he said.Rana recalled how post August 5, 2019, BJP leaders had assured that land and jobs will be protected for the citizens of J&K and that they won’t go to outsiders.“Today, we were holding a meeting to discuss land laws when a strong posse of police force surrounded the party office as if we are terrorists and anti-national elements. In the meantime, we came to know that Abdullah was not allowed to leave his house to offer prayers,” he said.“A leader like Abdullah, who is a symbol of secularism and nationalism in J&K, was not allowed to offer prayers. What sort of system is this? What kind of democracy is this?” he added.The NC leaders were not allowed to march towards Raj Bhawan in Jammu. Police laid concertina wires outside the NC headquarters to prevent protesters from coming out on Residency Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nc-protests-land-laws-restricting-farooq-from-offering-prayers/story-JFnvAAYXFaZeoG3vKkkgNK.html
31-10-2020||City||J&K: 5 dead, 7 injured in Ramban, Reasi mishaps||Five persons including a five-day-old girl died and seven others were injured in two separate accidents in Ramban and Reasi districts late on Thursday and on Friday morning.In the first incident, a five-day-old girl and a driver were among three people who died and six others were injured after a light motor vehicle that they were travelling in skidded off the Dam-Rajgarh link road in Ramban on Thursday.The vehicle rolled down the hill and fell on another road beneath, at Kana Batti. Soon after the incident, locals and Chanderkot police launched a rescue operation. The dead and injured were shifted to Ramban district hospital. Two of the deceased were identified as Vipan Singh of Saroo Rajgarh and driver Firdous Ahmad of Chakka Rajgarh.The injured are Haleema Begum, 35, Hafeeza Begum, 45, and Rustam Ali, 50, all of Rajgarh, Ramesh Kumar, 32, of Kastigarh, and Mushtaq Ahmed, 40, of Chhuchhattar. In another incident, two persons died and two others were injured after a Mahindra pickup vehicle fell into a deep gorge in Dharode area of Reasi district on Friday morning.The deceased were Mohammad Abbas, 27, and Abdul Latief, 42, both residents of Dhanour Arnas. The injured re Mohammad Shabir, 22, and Mohammad Saleem, 25, of Dhanour Arnas.The injured were shifted to Reasi district hospital, from where Mohammad Saleem was referred to GMCH Jammu for further treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-5-dead-7-injured-in-ramban-reasi-mishaps/story-nmuam2UU43TZlFEpFRtl1L.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Will Mumbaiites wait for Metro network get longer?||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government managed to save green space by shifting the proposed car depot for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) out of the Aarey Milk Colony, but the move is expected to affect the schedule of construction of Metro network in Mumbai, at a time when Covid-19 pandemic has already affected the work. With the car shed shifted to Kanjurmarg, there will be changes in designs of Metro-3 as well as Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar to Vikhroli) line, which are expected to lead to time and cost overruns, which, experts say, is a highlight of infrastructure projects in Mumbai. Cases in point The foundation stone for the Bandra-Worli sea link was laid in 1999 when it was estimated to cost ₹660 crore. Mumbai’s first sea link, however, was delayed by five years, increasing the cost to ₹1,630 crore, with an additional interest cost of ₹700 crore, which is still being borne by Mumbaiites, 11 years after the line was opened for traffic in 2009. Another project, the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link, connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, was on the drawing board for three decades before the project work started in 2018, with its cost increasing from ₹350 crore when it was mooted in the 1980s to ₹17,843 crore, the cost at which it is being executed now. Mumbai’s first Metro – the 11.5-km corridor connecting the suburbs of Versova, Andheri and Ghatkopar – took six years to be executed. It has been six years since it was made operational and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which operates the line, are in a bitter tussle over the cost of the project. While the former claims it to be ₹2,356 crore, the latter says it escalated to ₹4,026 crore. World over, reasonable delays in project implementation are expected, however, the numerous legal, environmental, technical, political and contractual hurdles in executing infrastructure projects in the financial capital of the country mean commuting stays a nightmare in the city, especially as the railways are overburdened and roads are choked. Ground reality Currently, 180km of Metro lines are under-construction in the city. These include line 2A, 7, 3, 2B (DN Nagar-Mandale), 4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali), 4A (extension of line 4 till Gaimukh), 5 (Thane-Bhiwandi-Kalyan), 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) and line 9 (extension of line 7 from Andheri to the airport and Dahisar to Mira Bhayander). Another 42.6-km line is at tendering stage. These include 10 (Gaimukh-Shivaji Chowk), 11 (line 4 extensions till Azad Maidan) and 12 (Kalyan-Taloja). Three other lines of around 103km are at the detailed project report stage. These include line 8 (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport-Navi Mumbai International Airport), 13 (Shivaji Chowk-Virar) and 14 (Kanjurmarg-Badlapur). The total cost of the 337-km line is ₹1.40 lakh crore, of which ₹41,308 crore or close to 30% is being funded by national and international agencies. The Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which is funding Metro-3, will also have to approve the change in plan for it to go ahead. Impact of change In 2004, then Congress-Nationalist Congress Party government had made a plan for a 146-km network by 2021. The Mumbai Metro master plan underwent major changes in the last decade, but was put on fast track in 2014. Paresh Rawal, transport planner and public policy expert, said, “The Metros were a need of yesterday for the city. Its need has, in fact, increased in today’s scenario. All major infrastructure projects that were undertaken in the past few years were to further private transport. Nothing has been done to augment public transport in the city.” The earlier deadline for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri) East was December 2019, which was later revised to December 2020. Now it is expected to be operational by May 2021. A part of Metro-3 (Aarey to Bandra-Kurla Complex as per the earlier plan) was estimated to be operational by June 2021, which was later revised to December 2021. Officials now estimate the line will be operational only by 2023-24. A per day delay in executing Metro-3 costs ₹5.87 crore to the exchequer. A committee appointed by the MVA government had in February 2020 stated that a delay of 2.5 years would lead to a cost of ₹5,356 crore. Zoru Bhathena, environment activist and member of Save Aarey Group, said, “Even if the depot at Kanjurmarg will take two years to be completed, Metro-3 is nowhere close to being completed in two years.” Nitin Killawala, an architect, who has been demanding underground Metro corridors, said, “It is common sense that optimising lands for a single comprehensive year instead of two years, in itself is a huge saving, especially if one can save a land as sensitive as Aarey forest.” The decision also means tweaking designs for Metro-6, which is already under-construction. Officials said the platform size for six stations will have to be modified to accommodate the line 3 trains which are of eight coaches, whereas all other Metros are designed for six coaches. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, who has been the brain behind the new plan, said system integration of two lines was possible. “MMRC has to make a new DPR for the extension and depot. For Metro-6, the platform will have to be worked out.” For the rest of the corridors, he said, the ongoing pandemic, which affected manpower and machinery for a few months might delay the timelines by around four-six months. “In terms of timeline, we expect a four-six month delay. However, we do not see major cost escalation for most of the corridors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-mumbaiites-wait-for-metro-network-get-longer/story-jrwal6RtV6y03Ljfs4Qs7J.html
31-10-2020||City||Police seize car used in killing of 3 BJP workers in Kulgam||The police on Friday claimed to have seized the vehicle used in the killings of three BJP workers in a “pre-planned” attack by militants.Three BJP workers — Fida Hussain, Umer Hajam and Umer Rashid Beigh — were shot dead by militants in the Y K Pora area of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district late on Thursday evening.Inspector general of police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the attack was possibly pre-planned and carried out by Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants and The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow group of the LeT.“The militants came in an alto car and fired on the BJP workers indiscriminately. The car used in attack has been seized,” said Kumar adding that search and cordon operation has been launched at eight locations in south Kashmir to track down the attackers. “We are hopeful the group behind the killings will be neutralised soon.”Officials said that the BJP workers were without any security at the time of the attack. Their mortal remains were laid to rest in their respective villages amid emotional scenes on Friday.BJP leaders demand security for workers Outraged by the continued attacks on political persons in Kashmir, the BJP leadership has demanded security for its workers.Former legislator and BJP vice-president Sofi Yusuf said the killing of their workers was unfortunate. “They (workers) were moving without security and till it provided, such killings are likely to continue in the valley. We have already apprised the police about the security lapse and raised concerns about our workers in Kulgam district,” said Yusuf.Reacting on the security issue, the IGP said that 157 BJP workers have been provided security and PSOs while 30 persons have been given guards. “Security will be provided to all those who have more threat perception,” he ensured.Kumar added that protected persons have been advised not to move in sensitive localities without police protection. “I request all protected persons not to move in sensitive areas without gunmen and follow all the SOPs.”Congress condemns BJP workers’ killings Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) has condemned the killing of three BJP workers by terrorists in Kulgam district and conveyed condolences to the bereaved families. In a statement issued on Friday, the JKPCC described the killing of BJP workers as a highly condemnable, mindless and shameful act and demanded exemplary punishment to the culprits. Expressing serious concern over the deteriorating security situation in Kashmir, the party unit urged the government to take effective measures to prevent attacks on political persons and ensure their safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-seize-car-used-in-killing-of-3-bjp-workers-in-kulgam/story-77Oo1qdFKjToIChwpG80rL.html
31-10-2020||City||Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation likely to borrow ₹2,000 crore to continue operations, pay salaries||The cash-strapped Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which runs buses across the state, hopes to secure a loan of ₹2,000 crore to continue its operations. During the lockdown, MSRTC has suffered a loss of ₹5,500 crore. State transport minister Anil Parab said on Friday that MSRTC is seeking ₹3,600 crore from the state, but may also borrow from the market.“I have given a proposal to the state seeking ₹3,600 crore to pay salaries of state transport employees, and for basic operations. Looking at the state government’s [financial] condition, I will not be able to depend on the state alone. Therefore, we are looking at raising funds from the market,” Parab said.MSRTC officials said they have carried out a primary evaluation of assets, which could help them raise ₹2,000 crore in loans from domestic lenders. The corporation will keep its properties and assets as security, Parab said. “Mortgaging doesn’t mean handing over property or buses to the bank. It [property and assets] is evaluated and a proportionate loan is provided. If we mortgage something, it doesn’t become their property. We will assess everything and ensure nothing [property/asset] goes from our hand and only then borrow. The money we are going to borrow will be for our immediate needs like salary, fuel expenses, tyres, etc,” said Parab.The minister said MSRTC had sustained a loss of ₹5,500 crore during lockdown and employees’ salaries have not been paid for the last three months. Daily revenue from ticketing was ₹22 crore prior to the pandemic and has now dropped to ₹5 crore.“Salaries are pending for the last three months, so around ₹900 crore is needed for salaries. We are discussing how fast we can give these salaries, but the amount is also not small. The total loss of the MSRTC is ₹5,500 crore. Since the source of revenue has not gone up, the losses are mounting,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-state-road-transport-corporation-likely-to-borrow-2-000-crore-to-continue-operations-pay-salaries/story-C1LLwy2plBlBNJLchE3zfM.html
31-10-2020||City||Actor Urmila Matondkar may start second innings in politics as Member of Maharashtra Legislative Council||After an abrupt end to her political journey, actor Urmila Matondkar is set to begin her second-innings in politics. The 46-year-old actor is likely to be nominated by either the Shiv Sena or the Congress on one of the 12 Governor’s nominated seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government is expected to recommend 12 names to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for nominations to the upper house of the state legislature by early next week. As Matondkar is from the field of arts and entertainment, she fits into the criteria for the Governor-nominated seats. Matondkar had contested the Lok Sabha polls from Mumbai North constituency on a Congress ticket last year but lost to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Gopal Shetty. She later quit the party in September 2019, stating that her efforts to work for the betterment of the Congress did not find support and amid in-house politics. If Shiv Sena nominates the actor from its quota, it will have an additional resource to deliver its messages on a national level. Party insiders said that that Matondkar is a well-known face nationally, has a good social connect within Maharasthra and will become an additional voice for the party on issues. Currently, among the women faces, the Sena has Priyanka Chaturvedi, Neelam Gorhe and Manisha Kayande as spokespersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/actor-urmila-matondkar-may-start-second-innings-in-politics-as-member-of-maharashtra-legislative-council/story-0oslO3GB2dmpcjc0WKK4LI.html
31-10-2020||City||Omar-led PAGD delegation meets leaders in Dras, Kargil||A delegation of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Friday reached Dras and Kargil areas of neighbouring Ladakh to meet leaders there to discuss its agenda of restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s erstwhile statehood and know the latter’s stand on the issue.Last year after the abrogation of Article 370, J&K and Ladakh were declared separate union territories.National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah, who was leading the delegation comprising NC leaders Nasir Aslam Wani, PDP leaders Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura and Waheed Para, and Awami National Conference leader Muzaffar Shah, said people have endorsed PAGD’s agenda.“Warmly received by the people of Drass, who in one voice endorsed the agenda of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration,” Omar tweeted.Omar told a gathering that they are not ready to accept the order of August 5, 2019. “When other states were divided, the people were asked first and a decision was taken with their consent. In case of J&K, a unilateral decision was taken by the Centre which is not acceptable to the people of J&K and Ladakh.”Later, the PAGD delegation held closed-door meetings with the leaders of the Kargil Democratic Alliance.Omar told the media that their motive was connecting with the people of Ladakh and bring them on board. “We will fight politically, legally and most importantly peacefully. We have no intentions to vitiate peace in the region,” he responded when asked how the PAGD would approach its goal.Omar also said he would like the Kargil leaders to participate in PAGD meetings.“We were not in touch with Kargil leadership in the previous rounds. How could have we invited him unless and until we talked to them? We talked to them today and we now would like to see they send their representatives to PAGD meetings,” he responded to another query.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also welcomed the PAGD delegation’s visit to Kargil.“Glad to see all of you at Kargil to engage with the people. High time someone reached out to them since they too have grave apprehensions about the future,” tweeted Mehbooba.PDP youth president Waheed ur Rehman Para said that a multitude of narratives and political fractures in Ladakh reflect the unacceptability of August 5 decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/omar-led-pagd-delegation-meets-leaders-in-dras-kargil/story-pGel4VqK2USrtuC66m7ohL.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Munger violence an attack on Hindutva, why is BJP silent on it: Shiv Sena slams former ally||The Shiv Sena launched an attack on former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the firing incident at Bihar’s Munger city. One person was killed after the police allegedly opened fire, following a clash over a delay in the Durga Puja idol immersions at Munger on Monday night. Around 30 persons were also injured in the clashes between pandal organisers and the police. Terming the incident an attack on Hindutva, Sena parliamentarian and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Friday questioned the alleged silence by the Bihar Governor and BJP leaders on it. “This is an attack on Hindutva. If such an attack on Goddess Durga’s devotee had happened in West Bengal or Maharashtra, then I am certain that the Governor [of the respective states] and the BJP leaders would have immediately called the state governments anti-Hindutva governments and called for their dismissal and demanded President’s Rule in these states. BJP is also in power in Bihar. What happened in Munger, is it not against Hindutva,” Raut said while speaking to reporters. The Sena also slammed the BJP in an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana on Friday and said the national party has “put secular glasses” and is unable to see the insult of the idols of Goddess Durga by the police. “It is surprising that these hypocritical ravens don’t see the disrespect of Durga idols and firing as jungle raj. It seems that the BJP in Bihar has put on secular glasses, which is why it’s not seeing the anguish of Goddess Durga in Munger,” it said. Referring to the lynching of two sadhus and their driver in Palghar, the editorial also said that BJP had targeted the Uddhav Thackeray government over the incident. “Had this violence and firing happened in West Bengal or Maharashtra, then the bell tolling hollow Hindutvawadi would have started its vulgar dance... they would have demanded a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe in the matter. Why are you, the bell-ringing Hindutvawadi, silent on the firing at the Durga idol processions,” the editorial said. It also questioned how those who are calling for the reopening of places of worship in Maharashtra have chosen to remain silent over the Munger incident. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is BJP’s poll in charge in Bihar. BJP leaders in Maharashtra have staged agitation demanding reopening of places of worship in the state. “Those ringing bells to reopen temples, those threatening to break the locks of the temples are not concerned about the violence in Munger or the insult on Hindutva. This is Hindutva of convenience. Hindutva is lying in a pool of blood in Munger,” the editorial added. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant also questioned the BJP over its silence on the Munger incident. Sawant asked why have those, who had demanded Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s resignation after the Palghar lynching case, not uttered a word on the police firing incident during Durga puja festivities. Meanwhile, state BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/munger-violence-an-attack-on-hindutva-why-is-bjp-silent-on-it-shiv-sena-slams-former-ally/story-C9fhx1z0SunG6HRDDr13YP.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest 2 more people, including railway employee, for duping Gujarat businessman of ₹2.7 crore in tender scam||Mumbai crime branch unit 11 on Friday arrested two more people, including a 52-year-old section engineer posted with the Western Railway, for allegedly duping a Gujarat businessman of ₹2.7 crore on the pretext of helping him get tenders for projects related to the railways. The section engineer, Anil Kumar Ahirwar, is posted in EMU workshop at Mahalaxmi, and was arrested from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, while the other accused, Swapnil Gosavi, 33, was arrested from Nashik. On Wednesday, the police had arrested three other accused – Mayur Solanki, 34; Kiran Chauhan, 45; and Subhash Solanki, 42 – from Mumbai, and while probing them, learnt that Ahirwar was the mastermind of the racket. Based on Ahirwar’s mobile location, he was traced to Gwalior and later brought to Mumbai. All the five accused are now in police custody till November 6, said police inspector Sunil Mane of unit 11. According to the police, the complainant is a contractor and met Subhash, a Vile Parle resident, two years ago. Subhash told the businessman that he knew a person in Western Railways who can provide him a lucrative contract through which he would be able to earn a lot of money. The complainant was then introduced to the four other accused. They met on several occasions at Kandivli and Mahalaxmi and the accused assured the businessman that they would help him get a tender to supply hose pipes to link railway carriages. The accused demanded a commission and they first took Rs1.44 crore from the businessman to issue a purchase order and invoices. Later it was discovered that the purchase order and invoices were forged. The other documents had the logo of Indian Railways, watermark and stamps which were forged. They then demanded more money on various pretexts. The businessman paid a total of 2.7 crore between May and December 2019 in two to three instalments, said Mane. He waited for several months in the hope of getting the tender but the accused kept making excuses over the delay. The businessman then found something amiss and asked them to return his money. But the accused threatened to implicate him in a false case. The complainant then approached the police last week and the five were booked for cheating and forgery, along with other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-2-more-people-including-railway-employee-for-duping-gujarat-businessman-of-2-7-crore-in-tender-scam/story-MKvpSHjVTIR4AmQIx8RomL.html
31-10-2020||City||Thane civic transport conductor held for taping sex videos, uploading them on porn site for money||Milind Anil Zade, a 32-year-old who works as a conductor with the Thane civic transport department, has been arrested by the local crime branch (LCB), Boisar on Thursday for allegedly posting 63 clips on a porn site for ₹5 lakh between November 2019 and June this year. “Zade would watch porn while on duty and thought of making money by posting live sex video tapes on a porn site under a fake name,” said assistant inspector Bhimsen Gaikwad of LCB. Zade befriended the two complainants, one an 18-year-old from Waliv, Vasai and the other a 30-year-old from Vikramgad, by promising jobs at the municipal corporation, and demanded sex in return, said Gaikwad. When the victims complied, Zade would secretly record the act on video and then post it on the website and earned money, said the officer.In July, one of the survivor approached police after finding out that the act was recorded, following which a case of rape was registered against Zade under sections 376(n)(2), 452 (trespass) of the Indian Penal Code and section 67 of Information Technology Act. Zade was absconding at the time. In September, the other woman also filed a similar complaint with Waliv police after a relative informed her of her video on the website, said Gaikwad. “Zade kept changing his location and also did not attend work to evade arrest. We got information that he was hiding in the jungles at Pochade between Vikramgad and Jawhar, following which we arrested him on Thursday and handed him over to Vikramgad police,” said Gaikwad. Zade was produced before Dahanu court on Friday and has been remanded in police custody. The accused had also forced other women and made sex tapes of them, said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-transport-conductor-held-for-taping-sex-videos-uploading-them-on-porn-site-for-money/story-FDzFm1lrBs3igzQNATnztK.html
31-10-2020||Gurugram||Violators will have to bear the cost of demolition drives: DTCP||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday said that property dealers and owners of properties in unauthorised colonies will have to bear the cost of the demolition drive carried out in their colonies. The department said, apart from bearing the cost of operating the earth-moving machines, salaries of the enforcement staff and that of the police department personnel for the day will also have to be borne by the developers of such illegal colonies. Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner, said that directions have been issued to enforcement authorities in Gurugram, Rewari and Mahendergarh to expedite action against illegal colonies and also recover the cost of demolition from developers. “We have decided to accelerate action against illegal developers. Also the cost of the demolition drive would be recovered from the violators,” he said. In the last one year, the department has carried out nearly 100 demolition drives against illegal colonies, said officials, adding that DTCP had to bear a high cost for these drives. An official said that details of demolitions being carried out in the last one year is being prepared and the property dealers who were involved in their sale would be served notices regarding the payment. He also said that fresh notices have also been served to property owners in illegal colonies and that demolition drives would be initiated against them soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/violators-will-have-to-bear-the-cost-of-demolition-drives-dtcp/story-BAzEE7dXMay2cIsZwNI2IJ.html
31-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Marginal improvement in air quality, more respite expected over weekend||Air quality in Gurugram remained in the ‘very poor’ category for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, with the air quality index (AQI) at 367 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin. This was a slight improvement from the previous day’s AQI of 384, albeit in the same category. The level of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s primary pollutant, was 362.45µg/m³ on Friday, as per data recorded at the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. As per the CPCB’s classification, an AQI reading from 301 to 400 in categorised as ‘very poor’ and can lead to breathlessness and respiratory illnesses in cases of prolonged exposure. Experts attributed the slight improvement to faster wind. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to improve but remain in the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ categories on the weekend. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said that air quality would improve on Saturday. “Wind speed picked up Friday due to which we have seen improvement in AQI. On Friday, wind speed was around 12-15kmph whereas calm winds had prevailed on Thursday. On Thursday it was less than 5kmph, which led to the accumulation of pollutants in the atmosphere,” said Srivastava. “The wind speed will go beyond 15kmph on Saturday. We expect the air quality to remain better on Sunday as well,” he said, adding that AQI is expected to deteriorate from November 2 when wind speeds fall again. On Friday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 30.5 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12 degrees Celsius. Both the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to stay in a similar range, as per the IMD’s forecast. Clear skies will prevail till Monday, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-marginal-improvement-in-air-quality-more-respite-expected-over-weekend/story-R8lqlF5tMhjTgtD33ZqBlI.html
31-10-2020||Gurugram||Over one third govt school students surveyed in rural Haryana did not receive learning material||Nearly one-third of government schools students surveyed in rural Haryana did not receive any learning material during a reference period during the pandemic, findings of the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), 2020 (Rural) Wave 1 have revealed. According to the findings of the report, released Wednesday, only 67.7% of the government schools students had received any learning material in the week prior to the survey, while the figure was 72.2% for private school students, in rural areas.The phone-based survey was conducted in 627 villages and covered 2,442 students in the age group of 5-16 years in the state. The survey was conducted over a span of ten days in September. The week prior to the survey has been treated as the reference week. As per the survey, WhatsApp was used widely as a medium through which students received learning material. Around 92.2% of the surveyed students received learning material through WhatsApp in government schools. In private schools, 96.3% of students used WhatsApp for the same. About 3.3% of students in government schools received phone calls from teachers, 4.5% were personally visited by teachers, the survey added.The survey also sheds light on factors due to which students did not receive learning material from schools. Among government schools in rural Haryana, 40.1% students blamed the schools for not sending learning material, 10% said they did not have access to the internet, 46.8% said they did not have smartphones, and 2.6% cited connectivity issues. In Haryana, out of the surveyed children enrolled in government schools, 29.8% did not do any learning activity in the reference week. Further, roughly 14% of government school students in rural Haryana don’t have access to textbooks, while around 18% of students of class nine and above in government schools don’t have books. The survey has also shown that a greater number of children had access to smartphones now, when compared to 2018. In Haryana in 2018, 39.7% of children enrolled in government schools and 71% in private schools had access to a smartphone. This year, 77.2% of children enrolled in government schools and 87.4% of children enrolled in private schools had access to a smartphone. The state government had launched the ‘Ghar se Padhao’ campaign in April to ensure that teachers are in regular contact with parents and students through WhatsApp during the lockdown period, which began late March. The campaign is being monitored and operated by the Saksham Haryana cell. Rakesh Gupta, nodal officer, Saksham Haryana, said that the department had revised its strategy in the last month and roped in Shiksha Mitras for providing learning material to students who didn’t have access to smartphones. “Under Saksham Haryana, we already had a WhatsApp network in place which was expanded for carrying out remote learning. We were able to reach out to a good percentage of students, however, not all could be connected initially. As per our assessment, around 30-40% of students were not receiving learning material. To ensure that learning material reaches such students, we have appointed Shiksha Mitras who stay in regular touch with students and provide learning resources,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-one-third-govt-school-students-surveyed-in-rural-haryana-did-not-receive-learning-material/story-pUT27UsH7w74ZnY8Dv4KGM.html
31-10-2020||Gurugram||Revised RT-PCR cost, festival season likely to reduce Covid-19 testing||The Haryana health department’s decision to slash the Covid-19 testing cost to the lowest in the National Capital Region (NCR) may impact the overall testing rate in Gurugram, said representatives of private labs in the city. According to such labs, revised testing rates are unviable as it would eventually affect the process of sample collection. This is likely to be further impacted by the festival season, as many people might not turn up for testing due to festive fervour. Representatives of private labs on Friday approached the district health department to reconsider the revised testing cost. Haryana government on Thursday had brought down the cost of Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test to ₹900 from ₹1,200 and antigen test to ₹500 from ₹650. Private labs submitted a presentation to the chief medical officer (CMO) seeking reconsideration on the decision. “One of the prominent labs has even given in writing hat they won’ t conduct RT-PCR below ₹1,200,” said Dr Virender Yadav,CMO. “Private labs want the decision to be reconsidered by the state. They think it is unviable as it does not cover the total cost incurred in conducting the RT-PCR test. Since Covid-19 cases are rapidly rising, we have asked them to continue with tests and increase the volume,” said Yadav. Presently, there are six labs in Haryana approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19. Nearly five Delhi-based laboratories have tied up with Gurugram hospitals for Covid-19 sample collection. Impact on testingEarlier, private labs had expressed similar concerns when the state health department brought down the price from ₹1,600 to ₹1,200 in the first week of October. They complained that the revised charges did not cover the cost of ambulance, and consumables, such as personal protective equipment (PPE), and the cost of the kit used for testing. State health officials, however, have been saying the overall charge of conducting an RT-PCR test has been reduced taking into account several factors, besides the consent of the leading private laboratories. As per the orders issued by the state till now, testing charges include the cost of sample pick-up, packing, transportation of samples, documentation and reporting. “There are various associated costs with home collection which can’t be covered at the revised price. These include cost of sample collection, transport, logistics, skilled personnel and safety requirements like PPE kits among other. This makes home collection unviable in the current scenario,” said Mr Anand K, CEO, SRL Diagnostics.He said, “We will, however, continue to provide service to Gurugram customers through our drive-thru facility in Sector 29 and patient service centre in Sector 14 and DLF Phase-1,” said Anand.A doctor from private lab privy to the matter, who preferred anonymity, said, “The health department has asked to increase the testing despite the price cut. A peak in cases is expected next month. To handle the situation, we have been told to carry on with testing and make appropriate arrangements. We are working on our agreement with vendors who supply kits and reagents for tests. Testing can be increased once those terms are realigned.” Going by the health bulletin data, private labs and a government lab in Sector 10 together conduct more than 3,000 tests on an average every day. Of these, more than 85% is administered through RT-PCR, while the remaining tests are conducted through rapid antigen test. It is in the last two days rapid antigen testing has come down to less than 300. On Friday, a total 3,040 tests were administered, out of which 2,755 were RT-PCR and 285 antigen tests. According to Yadav, nearly 1,000-1,200 samples are collected in the government set up, while remaining in private diagnostics. Covid-19 peakAlthough labs are advised to ramp up testing, Yadav said that due to the festival season, testing can come down. “We are concerned that after Diwali there can be peak around November 20-21. The people might refrain from getting tested during the festival, the impact of it can be seen after Diwali. In all likelihood, people from other states would also be back to Gurugram which would lead to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases,” said Yadav. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “Gurugram is noticing the spike almost 15 days after the last unlock happened. This can continue if precautions are not taken during Diwali. There won’t be explosive outbreak but a rise in cases is expected. Therefore, testing should increase in government labs, if proportion of tests in private labs decline due to cost issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/revised-rt-pcr-cost-festival-season-likely-to-reduce-covid-19-testing/story-l6rA5tYVnL0yU4cPnFHPUO.html
31-10-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to clear payments by November 15 to facilitate road construction in developing sectors||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to remove all the bottlenecks for the construction of roads in the developing sectors of the city that has remained stuck for different reasons, including non-payment of compensation and a delay in the announcement of awards for payments. HSVP officials said that the deadline for making payments and announcements of awards has been fixed for November 15. The decision follows a meeting the authority held with different agencies, including the GMDA, which is responsible for the construction of road networks in the developing sectors. The issue of road networks in developing sectors has been repeatedly raised by both the residents of these sectors as well as by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who had asked the agencies concerned to expedite the construction of these roads. Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, on Friday, said that it had been decided to make payments and announcements of awards for the lands which have been acquired by the authority for construction of roads. “We will resolve all pending issues by November 15 pertaining to the payment of compensation or removal of other impediments,” said Yadav. HSVP officials said that a final decision on these matters will ensure that at least six important roads in the new sectors will become operational after hindrances are removed. Officials said that they have finalised the payment of ₹20 lakh, which will be paid to property owners, whose houses have been acquired for Sector 68/70 road. An award for acquisition of these properties will be announced before November 17, they said. Likewise, the authority will ensure the fast-tracking of the compensation for the owners of houses falling in sectors 71/72, 71/73 and 73/74 dividing roads, for which a payment of ₹36.50 lakh has been finalised. The authority will also make payment to owners in Begumpur Khatola, whose structures are falling on the alignment of Sector 73/74 dividing road. To expedite the construction of road in Sector 68/69 road, the authority has also decided to ensure payment of around ₹70 lakh to residents of Nurpur Jharsa village. To facilitate the construction of another key road in Sector 77/78, the HSVP has decided to pay compensation for structures to the landowners so that work on road can be completed. Yadav said that with resolution of these issues, the work on these sector roads will be completed soon. “The movement of residents will become easier once these roads become operational,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-clear-payments-by-november-15-to-facilitate-road-construction-in-developing-sectors/story-fd8daQOIPLsO0yEcWyWciK.html
31-10-2020||Gurugram||Man booked for abduction of a nurse in Nuh||A 27-year-old man, who works as an advocate, was booked on Thursday for allegedly kidnapping and threatening a woman employed as a nurse at a primary health centre at Punhana in Nuh, earlier this week. The victim’s father alleged that the woman had told him last month that the suspect was stalking her and forcing her to convert and marry him. The father, a resident of Mahindergarh, complained to the police on Thursday that his daughter, 24, was kidnapped from her work place on October 26 and that her mobile was found to be switched off since the incident. The police said the woman’s father lodged a complaint against a man identified as Muhammad Iqbal, a resident of Neemka village, after which a case under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 365 (kidnapping), 506 (criminal intimidation) and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act was registered at Bicchor police station in Nuh. Om Prakash, the father of the woman, said that his daughter was scared when she had visited them last month and had asked him to speak to the police as the suspect was stalking her and was threatening her to marry him. “The man was forcing her to convert and marry him. She has been refusing his moves for the last six months but he often intercepted her way and forced her to speak to him,” he said. Attar Singh, additional station house officer(SHO) of Bichhor police station, said on Friday that they had conducted aids at suspected locations but were yet to recover the victim. “We had gone to the village of the suspect. However, his father told us that although his son had come with a woman, they both left after staying in the village for a day. He has no idea where they have gone. We have taken the records of the call details of the suspect and the victim and are scanning them to get some leads in the case,” he said. The police said the last location of the suspect and victim were in Nuh. However, since October 27, their mobile phones have been switched off. Singh said they were questioning the staff members of the hospital and villagers to know the exact details of the abduction and if the woman was held hostage in the village before the suspect shifted her to another location. “We will add more sections once we record the victim’s statement. Based on her statement, it will become clear whether the suspect stalked her and forced her to convert,” he said. The police said six teams have been formed to conduct raids and have questioned nine family members. They are also tracking their call details to trace the suspect, if he ever tries to contact them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-booked-for-abduction-of-a-nurse-in-nuh/story-RWM1y26RHzsppczUosjEGP.html
31-10-2020||City||Delhi contractor abducted for R4 lakh ransom by employee and four others over payment dispute, three held||New DelhiThe Delhi Police on Friday said they have rescued a south Delhi-based 38-year-old floor polishing contractor from a forested area in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district, where he had been kept in confinement after being abducted from Lakhimpur Kheri by a group of four men on October 24. The alleged abductors and the mastermind of the crime, who worked for the contractor and had a dispute over pending wages, had been demanding R4 lakh from the family for his safe release, the police said.Three men, including the main conspirator, Irfan,26, have been arrested for the crime. The other two were identified as Aziz Ali,35, and Bablu,24. Irfan’s brother Vakeel,31, and their associate Samim,30, are still absconding. Irfan was only part of the planning. He was not involved in its execution because the contractor, Ramesh Chandra from Panchsheel Park in Malviya Nagar, would have identified him, police said.“Irfan said he used to do polishing of marble and stone flooring under Chandra in Delhi for the past 18 months. He alleged Chandra had not been paying his wages of R15,000. Chandra, however, have denied the allegations,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.DCP Thakur said that Irfan planned Chandra’s abduction to teach him a lesson. He conspired with his brother and four associates to execute the plan. Irfan took Chandra to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on the pretext of getting a big contract of floor polishing, he said.On October 23, Chandra left his home, boarded a bus and the next morning reached the Lakhimpur Kheri bus stand, where four men, including Irfan’s brother Vakeel, met him. The four men asked Chandra to sit in their Bolero car so that they could reach the construction site. However, they took him to a forested area, tied his legs and confined him in an abandoned hut at an isolated place, said the police.“The abductors made Chandra speak to his wife. The suspect later made her a couple of calls from different mobile numbers and demanded R4 lakh for her husband’s safe release,” said DCP Thakur.Chandra’s wife filed a police complaint. A case was registered and through technical investigation, the investigating team tracked the last location of Chandra’s cellphone to the forested area in Sitapur. Further probe pointed the needle of suspicion at Irfan. Accordingly, a team went to the forested area on October 28.“On seeing the police party, the abductors abandoned Chandra and fled. They were chased and three of them were caught. Chandra was safely rescued from the hut. All of them have been brought back to Delhi. Efforts are on to nab the absconding duo,” added Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-contractor-abducted-for-r4-lakh-ransom-by-employee-and-four-others-over-payment-dispute-three-held/story-Z5DcrZ3p5tp6HPNweOhVsK.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Names of all Delhi ration card holders struck off between March and October to be restored||Delhi food and supply minister Imran Hussain has issued directions to his department to restore all ration cards that had been cancelled since March, when the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed.In his letter to the department, which HT has seen, Hussain said, “It has been brought to my knowledge that some of the beneficiaries had gone to their home states during the period between March 2020 to October 2020 when the lockdown/ extended lockdown was imposed because of Covid-19. On their return to Delhi, they are unable to get their due ration as their names have been struck off the list.”“It is hereby directed that names of all such beneficiaries which were struck off… during lockdown from March 2020 to October 2020 be restored with immediate effect herewith,” he said in the order issued on Wednesday.The department is expected to file an action taken report by Monday.Delhi has more 1.7 million ration card holders which covers around 7.2 million beneficiaries. Names of beneficiaries are usually struck off if they do not avail ration for three consecutive months.The department, however, could not provide data on how many names had been struck off of since March 25, after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed to arrest the spread of the virus.The next few months witnessed large scale loss of livelihood and movement of people from Delhi to their hometowns and villages, even though the Delhi government made arrangement for temporary shelters and two meals a day. As the economy opened up, many of them have started returning to the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/names-of-all-ration-card-holders-struck-off-between-march-and-october-to-be-restored/story-PMpJDdIAA7z2vzTRKOyqII.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Thane has something to cheer about as Covid death rate drops to 1.03%||In what comes as a relief, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has not recorded a single Covid death in the last few days. The total number of deaths till now is at 1,206.In the month of October, the death rate has decreased to 1.03 per cent from 5.70 per cent in April.Strict measures implemented by the TMC to ensure timely treatment and proper care as per ICMR protocols have ensured a decrease in the death rate, claimed the civic authority.Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, TMC, said, “The death rate is gradually getting to lesser than one per cent. We have formed a team comprising chest physician, intensivist, consultant and health officer. We made surprise visits to private hospitals and did a detailed study of all the patients. Those who are in ICU are closely monitored. Through this, we could keep an eye out for those not following ICMR guidelines.“We also monitored if proper medication and treatment were followed. This process takes a while. So, every day the team manages to check three patients only. Repeated visits to a particular hospital with more Covid cases are also made. If any foul play is noticed, we do not wait for any inquiry. Immediately, notice is served and necessary action against the hospital is taken.”There are only 18 private hospitals with Covid status now and among these, 2,400 beds are vacant. Earlier, there were 24 dedicated Covid hospitals in the city.Dr Santosh Kadam, president, IMA, Thane, said, “Despite Unlock, the situation in the city is under control now. The number of deaths due to Covid has decreased drastically and within a month we have less than 1 per cent civic deaths. Earlier, even the medical staff were not well prepared to handle the pandemic. However, there is a protocol to be followed based on symptoms and age group of the patient. This has helped in providing timely care and proper treatment to patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-has-something-to-cheer-about-as-covid-death-rate-drops-to-1-03/story-qB16yJ29i4mJpGrATBL1LJ.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi air remains polluted despite stronger winds||Delhi’s air improved marginally on Friday as winds picked up speed and stubble fires from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana contributed less to pollution in the national capital. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that pollution levels will reduce further over the weekend. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) on Friday was 374, in the ‘very poor’ category, marginally better Thursday’s 395. However, on Thursday, the average hourly AQI for most of the day remained in the ‘severe’ zone. IMD scientists said strong winds helped clear accumulated pollutants, and the winds are expected to be favourable over the weekend. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the wind speed during the day remained in the range of 12-15kmph, which helped disperse pollutants. “For a brief period the wind speed had even touched 16kmph. On Saturday, the winds will pick up more and we are expecting that the air quality index can even reach the poor zone,” Srivastava said. He said that on Sunday too, weather conditions will remain favourable. Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the number of stubble burning cases in Punjab and Haryana had also dropped to 1143 from 2912 a day before, which also brought some respite to the national capital. “A significant improvement is forecasted for Sunday, when the AQI is likely to come down to the lower-end of very poor to poor category. The SAFAR synergized stubble fire counts significantly decreased and stood at 1143 on Thursday. Although the boundary layer winds direction is favourable for pollutant transport towards the region, improved ventilation conditions likely to bring down the concentration levels in Delhi,” the Safar summary said. It added, “The stubble burning share in PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) decreased and is estimated to be 19% for Friday. In summary, increased surface wind speed and faster dispersion are likely to significantly improve the situation by Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-air-remains-polluted-despite-stronger-winds/story-F3r29MtS83OWYeLm04mFIK.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Thane forest dept arrest 2 for smuggling, selling protected species of animals, birds||The Thane forest department have arrested two people and busted a racket smuggling and selling protected species. Around 88 different birds and animals species were seized from the two accused arrested. The accused came from Mumbai to sell the species in Thane.The officials said the two accused came near Jupiter hospital in Panchpakadi, Thane (W). They were caught on suspicion. On further investigation, the officials found three parakeets from them. Accordingly, a case has been registered.“On further investigation, the accused informed about the third accused who is absconding. We raided his residence in Mumbai and found 88 species which were seized,” said Narendra Muthe, Range forest officer, Thane.The different species included plum-headed parakeet, rose-ring parakeet, Alexendrine parakeet, Indian tent turtle, Indian black spotted turtle and Indian palm squirrel.The two have been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 for smuggling and selling the species, said S. Pawar, the forest officer of Thane.Pawar said that the names of the accused cannot be revealed as it will alert the other member of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-forest-dept-arrest-2-for-smuggling-selling-protected-species-of-animals-birds/story-UI8DlY7xs1I8EYv6rRWfxM.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||Enforcement under new ordinance could be tricky, warn experts||The process of penalising polluters in Delhi-NCR region under the union government’s Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance is likely to be a “tricky process”, officials from Delhi’s pollution control board and environment experts said on Friday. Senior officials of the Delhi Pollution Control Board (DPCC) said since the ordinance says the CAQM “shall prevail in all matters relating air pollution”, there is no clarity if DPCC can continue to levy fines over the set limit of R1 crore -- the maximum amount payable as fine for flouting pollution norms according to the Centre’s ordinance. DPCC is the capital’s primary air quality monitoring and enforcement body.The ordinance says polluters in Delhi-NCR can be fined up to Rs1 crore and/or face imprisonment up to a term of five years for violations. The officials said because of a likely confusion on whether their enforcement teams would be able to issue ‘on-the-spot’ fines or not , there is a possibility of violation of air pollution norms increasing this time. “We were issuing fines under the Air Act (1981), which does not have any such limit for penalties. However, technically now that the commission has been declared the sole authority for all pollution-related matters in Delhi-NCR, we are not sure to what extent will the state board be able to exercise this power,” another DPCC official said. Since October 15, when the winter segment of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) came into effect, DPCC teams have imposed two fines worth R1 crore on municipal agencies for garbage burning in the open. Fines ranging between R20 lakh and R50 lakh have also been issued to construction agencies for flouting dust-control norms in the city. Over 40 ready-mix concrete plants and illegally operating industries have been issued fines ranging from R5 lakh to R20 lakh. According to the new ordinance, if the commission wants to penalise a polluter, they will have to present the case before a first-class magistrate, who will probe the violation and order the penalty if the charge is proven in court. This can make the entire process more time consuming, giving a window to polluters to get away, experts said. Environment experts said while a fine up to R1 crore and/or imprisonment of up to five years may seem “progressive”, in reality it puts a limit on the fine that can be imposed, which is contrary to the polluter-pay principle. Environment lawyer Ritwick Dutta said since the commission is an executive body and not a judicial body, it can only issue directions. For instance, if an agency is found to be flouting pollution norms, the new body can direct it to stop operations but it does not have the power to directly fine it. “They (CAQM) will have to file a complaint case before a magistrate. An investigation will be called to prove the violation. It will be a judicial trial; it will not be an executive order for punishment. They can tell the court that they want to impose a fine but to get it implemented, they will have to prove that the violation was committed and this could take as much time as it does,” Dutta said. Dutta said the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) had the same power of imposing fines (earlier up to R1 lakh), but in its 22 years of existence they could not extract a single penalty. “This route has proved unsuccessful earlier, and we are resorting to same route again,” he said. Shibani Ghosh, an environmental lawyer and a Centre for Policy Research (CPR) fellow, said the provision for monetary penalties and imprisonment and the process of imposing such a penalty via courts is similar to what is available in the Air Act and the Environment (Protection) Act.“If you look at National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reports, convictions under the Air Act and EP Act are very low. The fear of criminal prosecution is only a deterrent if people notice that polluters are prosecuted and convicted. But it rarely happens. So, in that sense, I don’t see how the provision for criminal penalties in the ordinance could be an effective deterrence,” Ghosh said.Ghosh, however, said since the ordinance has only just been passed, the nuts and bolts of how things will work out with existing institutions will have to be seen once the commission starts functioning.A union ministry of environment, forest and climate change spokesperson said the commission will be constituted at the earliest and enforcement under it will be stricter against all kinds of air pollution-related violations. “This special body was formed because the action taken by the earlier teams was lacking in some way. This commission will ensure action is taken,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/enforcement-under-new-ordinance-could-be-tricky-warn-experts/story-bevJ7jJtT6t0aVeqjP0e9K.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Thane residents protest against France President||A day after Mohammed Ali Road in Mumbai saw posters of French President, Emmanuel Macron on the streets as a mark of protest, Thane residents also followed suit.NCP corporator Najib Mullah, along with the residents, put up posters of the French president on the lane leading up to the masjid in Rabodi on Friday. This was as a mark of protest against the cartoon row that has erupted and gone global.Mullah was joined by other residents as well soon after the evening prayer at the Jama Masjid Mosque in Rabodi.“Today is our Prophet’s birthday and we consider it to be a peaceful day. However, the French President and the media are making fun of the prophet and it is difficult to accept this. We have put up posters of the president all across the road and will be walking on those in protest,” said Mullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-residents-protest-against-france-president/story-yzkkp7FUViTV0LnSdNtWVO.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Garbage dumped on Thakurli road despite board asking not to||The waste dumped on the 90 Feet Road in Thakurli, even after a board put up by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) asking not to, has irked residents and commuters passing by.The KDMC has removed all the garbage bins in its vicinity and appealed to residents to give waste to Ghanta Gadis without dumping it anywhere in open.“There is a board that says that the garbage bins are being removed in order to make sure there is no dumping on the roadside. People ignore this board and dump waste below it. This road is otherwise very wide and clean. The dumping activity makes the road look dirty now,” said Rahul Shinde, 35, who takes the 90 Feet Road to reach Kalyan.Earlier, the residents in the vicinity of this road had complained about illegal parking of two wheelers on this stretch.“The waste has been dumped on the road since the last two-three days, and nobody has come to pick it up. The civic body should install CCTV cameras on such major roads to catch the violators and fine them on the spot,” said Mansi Pandit, 40, a resident of 90 Feet Road.An official from KDMC, requesting anonymity, said, “We will pay a visit to this road and take the necessary action without delay. Since we have eliminated the use of garbage bins, there are some spots where people have started dumping on the roads. We will keep a track on this and take action.”In KDMC, there are 113 ghanta gadis, 43 RCC van and six dumpers. Further, the civic body has plans to acquire two more ghanta gadis for each ward as per the requirement.“We do have enough workers for waste management but sometimes they remain absent. We are trying to resolve this issue through surprise visits and taking action against such employees. Once the workers remain present and do their job efficiently, there won’t be any such complaints regarding waste found on road,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/garbage-dumped-on-thakurli-road-despite-board-asking-not-to/story-IgffA34kDN0ILMB2SAAxkN.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over MCD functioning||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) over the issue of financial debts and their inability to pay salaries to doctors, which led to recent strikes by healthcare workers in the city.“The BJP has put a massive burden of debts on the residents of Delhi. They cannot even pay salaries to doctors. The BJP-ruled MCDs have to take Rs 18,000 crore from the central government and must return Rs 8,500 crore to Delhi government,” said AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.He said, “The MCDs have sealed Delhi’s big markets and illegally taken conversion fee and parking charges, yet shops are sealed, shopkeepers are devastated. They should hand over the charge of the civic agencies to the AAP. We can operate them with a surplus budget.”The Delhi BJP’s spokesperson said, “In 1994, the BJP has run Delhi government with a surplus budget. There is no debt burden on Delhi residents due to the MCDs. The sealing in a few markets faced by traders is due to failure of the Kejriwal government in terms of failure to issue appropriate notifications in the right time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-spar-over-mcd-functioning/story-fAtmoM1MZ04DhXmD5QpOXM.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||NGO report: MCD councillors skipped house meetings, asked fewer questions||The performance of municipal councillors in Delhi’s three civic bodies — North, South and East — had fallen in the year 2019-20 as compared to previous years in terms of attendance in House meetings, the number of questions asked and the relevance of issues raised, a report card released by Praja Foundation, a non-government organisation, said on Friday.The report titled “Delhi Councillor Report Card 2020” is prepared annually by the Praja Foundation where it rates elected representatives of the three civic bodies on the basis of data accessed through RTI and public accounts.The report suggests the attendance of the councillors in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled civic bodies — North Delhi Municipal Corporation, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) — has fallen compared to previous years. “The performance of councillors has fallen in all three corporations in 2019-20. The attendance score fell in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation from 75.32% in 2017-18 to 66.38% in 2019-20, in SDMC from 75.10% to 66.61% and in EDMC from 81.83% to 71.27%”, said Milind Mhaske, director, Praja Foundation. The attendance percentage of councillors in 2018-19 was 70% in North Corporation, 71% in SDMC and 76% in EDMC.Mhaske said the overall questions raised by councillors fell by 29% from 18,128 in 2017-18 to 12,879 in 2019-20. The highest fall was in north corporation, where the number of questions raised fell by 35%, followed by SDMC with a 27% fall and EDMC, which reported 16% fall. The report said 55 councillors (54%) in North DMC, 56 (54%) in SDMC and 37 (62%) in EDMC scored less than 50% in raising the issues of their areas (obligatory duties) and showed “poor quality of deliberation”. The report said seven councillors (3 north corporation, 3 SDMC, 1 EDMC) asked zero questions in 2019-20.The report gave scores to the councillors and ranked them on parameters of attendance in the House, number of issues raised, relevance of issues and their accessibility. Ravinder Kumar of Chandni Chowk (North Corporation), Satpal Kharwal of Vishnu Garden (SDMC) and BS Panwar of Shahdara North (EDMC) were given the first rank in their respective corporations.Anamika Mithilesh, south Delhi mayor, said she has not yet seen the report and refused to comment on it. Mayors of the north and east corporations also refused comment citing similar reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-report-mcd-councillors-skipped-house-meetings-asked-fewer-questions/story-fc5rPUmNKInbKYfXHkyGeP.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body to remove footpath encroachments in second drive from Nov 1||In a second big drive to keep the footpaths free on major roads, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will remove all the encroachments from November 1. The drive will continue for 15 days, in which the KDMC team will target illegal stalls, extensions of shops and hawkers on the footpath.In February this year, the KDMC had initiated such a drive in which most of the major footpaths were cleared with the help of the traffic police and ward office staff. However, the encroachments have returned to the footpaths all over again.“The footpaths, which are made for the pedestrians to walk freely, are mostly occupied with illegal encroachments. Before the drive, we have informed the shopkeepers and housing societies to make sure they themselves remove the encroachments from footpaths,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.The drive was initiated by the civic body since February 27. However, it came to a halt due to the lockdown imposed for Covid-19 pandemic across the Maharashtra state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kdmc-to-remove-footpath-encroachments-in-second-drive-from-nov-1/story-GPpk8Crwje5iAqrEavcniI.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||9-year-old boy dies in freak firecracker accident in North Delhi||In a freak accident in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Wednesday evening, a nine-year-old boy was killed by a steel tumbler that pierced his body after it was placed atop a fire cracker before setting it (the cracker off), the police said. While the police’s initial probe revealed that the firecracker that triggered the mishap was picked up by children from a Ramlila site, the boy’s family alleged that such crackers were being sold illegally at small general stores in the neighbourhood. This festive season, like last year, only shops licensed to sell green firecrackers are allowed to sell these . As of Thursday, only 138 such licences were issued by the Delhi Police. In the Outer North police district, where this mishap occurred, only five such shops have been granted licences. Still, as evident by the noise level last year during Diwali, when few crackers are supposed to have been available, a huge illegal trade of firecrackers does carry on, and not all of the explosives sold meet green norms as they are supposed to. Jitendra Kumar Meena, serving temporarily as the additional deputy commissioner of police of outer north district, said that the police were in the process of registering a first information report. “The death happened on Wednesday, but no one made a call to the police. The boy was brought dead to a hospital and his family then decided to take the body away,” said Meena, adding that the police got to know of the death only on Friday through social media.The boy, identified only by his first name, Prince, lived with his parents in Om Vihar Colony of Alipur. His father is a labourer and his mother works in a farm. His mother, Babita Devi, said that she and her husband were away at work on Wednesday evening when her son and his friends purchased firecrackers from a local shop. She said that no old firecrackers were stored in her house. According to another police officer who didn’t want to be identified, the boys decided to have some fun by placing a steel tumbler on a cracker before lighting it. When the cracker didn’t go off, Prince approached it to take a look. “It was at that moment that the cracker went off and the tumbler flew and pierced his stomach and chest. It stayed inside his body and the loss of blood killed him before he could betaken to a hospital,” said the officer. As per laws governing the issue of licences, firecracker shops should be located only in commercial areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-year-old-boy-dies-in-freak-firecracker-accident-in-n-delhi/story-BXs6Bh01LnQxQJopvBe7kN.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||ISBTS likely to reopen from November 1: Kailash Gahlot||Interstate bus services and ISBTS in Delhi are likely to reopen from November 1, even as senior Delhi government officials on Friday said they hoped the 20-passenger cap on buses would be lifted by next week.State transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the decision to resume interstate buses and reopen the city’s three ISBT’s was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in a meeting held on October 23. “The minutes of the DDMA meeting held on October 23 were issued on Thursday and received by the transport department today (Friday). The department is now preparing standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed in ISBTs and aboard inter-state buses. While the order will be issued by the transport department on Saturday, it is likely that resumption of interstate bus movement will be effective from November 1,” Gahlot said. The minister said no decision had been taken regarding lifting the restriction of 20 passengers in each of our Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses in the DDMA meeting. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had advised that the matter may be examined in light of the social distancing norms laid out for Covid-19 management. “We had sent a proposal to increase the capacity of buses to 40 per bus after the October 23 DDMA meeting. I am yet to receive the file,” Gahlot said. A senior official in L-G Baijal’s office said the LG has, in all likelihood, approved the proposal to increase the passenger capacity in DTC and cluster buses. The resumption of these services would mean that all three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in Delhi — in Anand Vihar, Kashmere Gate, and Sarai Kale Khan — will also reopen after being shut for more than seven months.In Delhi, interstate bus services were suspended on March 21. But before the onset of the pandemic, the three ISBTs saw a combined footfall of over 250,000 every day. At least 3,467 buses from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Chandigarh would ply through these ISBTs every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/isbts-likely-to-reopen-from-november-1-gahlot/story-JPWuXTdgXXvAQA5nacYaEP.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Man posing as police sub-inspector dupes women constables in Mumbai, arrested||Kalamboli police, on Monday, arrested a 28-year-old man who posed as a police sub-inspector (PSI) and conned Mumbai police’s women constables. The accused would befriend them on social media and often, on the pretext of marrying them, would ask them for money.The accused, Milind Deshmukh, a resident of Thane, would pose as PSI Ganesh More and send Facebook friend requests to women constables. In his latest con, Deshmukh sent a request to a 27-year-old constable attached to the Shivaji Nagar police station in Mumbai.The constable, a resident of Kalamboli village in Navi Mumbai, accepted the request on October 11. Her husband is stationed outside Mumbai while she lives alone.Deshmukh’s profile picture is in a police uniform, which he used to build trust with his victims, officials said.“As the constable was a little attentive, she picked up red flags in his behaviour and was able to identify his con. This helped bust his con within two weeks before he was able to dupe her of more money,” said an officer from Kalamboli police station.After the constable accepted his request, Deshmukh told her he was attached to the Thane police. While keeping his conversations friendly for over a week, on October 22, Deshmukh told her he had lost his wallet and was in need of money.As Deshmukh claimed he was stuck in Thane without money and cannot get back home, the next day, the woman agreed to give him ₹10,000. She transferred the amount using an online cash transfer application.Deshmukh had bragged about knowing two more women constables from Mumbai, with whom the complainant was acquainted. After the accused asked for more money from her under a different pretext, she decided to do a background check and contact the other constables. She learnt he had borrowed money from them as well.The woman then asked Deshmukh to meet him. They decided to meet at Kalyan railway station at 2 pm on Monday. While she was waiting for him, Deshmukh approached her. She was unable to recognise him, since he used a fake picture.Police said Deshmukh then allegedly confessed to having created a fake account and claimed his real name was Kailash. The woman constable brought him to the police station and after preliminary investigation, the police learnt his real name is Deshmukh.“We have learnt that he had at least two cases against him in Navi Mumbai where he posed as a sub-inspector. We suspect Deshmukh had conned more than three constables and have urged the victims to step forward with a complaint against him,” said Sanjay Sadigale, assistant inspector at Kalamboli police station.The accused has been remanded to police custody till Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-posing-as-police-sub-inspector-dupes-women-constables-arrested/story-uvZfLGAjwzmUKQKVhKHVyO.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||45 villages in Thane rural stay Covid free||The Mhasa village in Murbad taluka, Thane rural, one of the villages that never had a single Covid case, has fool proof system in place to maintain status quo. They allotted different days of the week for different kinds of shops to open so that all opened once a week. These included groceries, vegetable vendors, farming tools and seeds-related shops.This has helped in maintaining social distancing and ensuring that people do not step out in large numbers. Moreover, they conducted regular awareness drives and ensured isolation was strictly followed by those visiting the village.Like Mhasa, there are around 45 villages in Thane rural, mostly comprising villages from Murbad and Shahapur taluka that did not have a single Covid positive case till date.Apart from adopting all the practices shared by the zilla parishad, some of these villages have implemented proper health care facilities in advance that have helped the respective villages to manage well despite the pandemic.Sanjay Asawar, Gram Sevak, Mhasa village, said, “We kept a tab on each household. Teams were allotted to every area and they visited all the houses, met every family member to know their health. This helped keep a track on anyone with any illness. They were immediately taken to the health centre and related medication was provided. Everyone was told by the social service volunteers about the pandemic situation and the rules to be followed. They were even taught how to wash hands for 30 seconds.”Chandrakant Pawar, deputy chief executive officer, zilla parishad, Thane, said, “From regular sanitization to awareness and social distancing norms, everything has been the same for all villages within Thane zilla parishad. However, these 45 villages ensured to follow these norms in a more disciplined manner. They are now gaining the benefits as there isn’t a single positive case in these villages.“We did not adopt any inhuman practices like isolating outside the village for those coming in, awareness was created regarding the pandemic and the rules to be maintained. Strict isolation was followed by those who travelled to different places during this period. It was the cooperation of the gram sevaks, anganwadi teachers and volunteers who diligently conducted awareness and screening camps across the zilla parishad jurisdiction. We distributed sanitizers, soaps and arsenic tablets to every village, asked them to ensure that hygiene and cleanliness were followed in all villages,” added Pawar.Similarly, Vehlonde village in Shahapur taluka had a doctor visit it and conduct regular health camps. They also trained the anganwadi volunteers in screening and awareness camps. “We ensured that a regular temperature chart of every family member in each household was maintained. Temperature and oxygen levels were monitored regularly. Our village does not have any migrant population. Everyone has his own field for farming and a majority of the population involve tribals. So, mostly everyone is self-sufficient in his own household in terms of basic food essentials,” said Jitesh Vishe, deputy sarpanch, Vehlonde village.“Moreover, we have set up CCTVs across the village through which we ensure that social distancing norms are followed. We also have a centralised announcement system with speakers across the village. This helps in making announcements without going to every doorstep during the pandemic,” added Vishe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mhasa-village-in-thane-rural-sets-example-in-staying-covid-free/story-UYgVxFT9wbP4oFYLynZ3IJ.html
31-10-2020||Delhi||South, west districts worst mask offenders in Delhi||Amid a fresh surge in coronavirus disease cases, an analysis of Delhi Police’s data shows that south and west police districts are the worst in maintaining mask discipline with the maximum number of violations -- highlighting the difficulty in enforcing Covid-19 guidelines.According to data (updated until October 27) seen by HT, at least 47,795 people were fined for not wearing masks in the police’s south district that spreads from Ambedkar Nagar and Kalkaji to South Campus near Moti Bagh. Until two months ago, south district -- which also includes areas such as Defence Colony, Lodhi Colony, Greater Kailash, RK Puram -- did not figure in the top or even the second in the list of violators. In west Delhi, which stood second after south with 40,556 violations, Rajouri Garden police station reported the maximum number of people without masks. 5,123 people were prosecuted in Rajouri Garden. Also Read: Alarm over new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; Centre may step inThe maximum number of violations two months ago (data up to August 27) 22,136, were reported from Outer Delhi district, which includes places such as Mangolpuri, Aman Vihar, Sultanpuri and Kanjhawala. The west district was number 2 on the list then too with 16,772 people fined. The police data had then suggested that citizens in south Delhi were much better at following the mask rule compared to other districts.Earlier this month, a report prepared by the National Control for Disease Control (NCDC) had cautioned that the Capital needs to gear up to tackle a surge of up to 15,000 cases per day during winter and in the festival season.  In the backdrop of daily cases crossing the 5,000-mark, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday reiterated the importance of wearing masks. He said everyone should consider wearing a mask as a vaccine for Covid-19 for now. On Friday, 5,891 new positive cases were reported in Delhi, according to the government’s health bulletin.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe latest police data seen by HT shows that in south Delhi, the Kotla Mubarakpur police station registered the highest number of violations at 4,335, followed by CR Park with 4,192. A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “Every district DCP has been assigned the task of identifying a different area each day in each police station, where police have to strictly enforce the mask rule. It could be outside a temple, a mosque or at a market area.”Kotla Mubarakpur police station includes areas such as the South Extension markets, Ring Road, Sewa Nagar and Kidwai Nagar. Police said their focus in the festive season will be markets. They will also fine shopkeepers who allow shoppers inside without masks.The local MLA from Kasturba Nagar, Madan Lal, said he will launch a special drive to ensure residents adhere to the rule.“It is good the police are active and issuing challans to those not wearing masks or violating guidelines. The Delhi government has been creating awareness and appealed to people to always wear masks.”A police officer from the west district said their focus will be on markets such as Rajouri Garden, Tilak Nagar and Jankapuri, where people have started coming out for festive shopping. Police data shows West Delhi continuously featured among the top three districts with most violators. “We have started making public announcements in markets. People must wear mask at all times,” said a mid-level police officer from west Delhi. Dhanwati Chandela, MLA from Rajouri Garden, said, “ We are carrying out campaigns to raise awareness. The number must be high because many people from outside come to eateries here and flout rules.”An on-the-spot fine of Rs 500 is imposed for not wearing a mask, under a rule passed by the government in June. A drive to penalise those moving about in public spaces without masks was launched on June 14. Until October 27, Delhi Police fined 432,049 people for not wearing masks and collected at least Rs 21.60 crore in fines. Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine, AIIMS, said cases could reduce drastically if everyone adheres to the mask rule and ensure social distancing. “Festival or no festival, people should always wear masks in this pandemic. The problem in Delhi is most people think only those with comorbidities or age-related illnesses may catch it. People are letting their guard down. Wearing mask is a proven measure. But let me add that the rise in number of the cases is also because the government has started conducting a large number of RTPCR tests now.”According to the state government’s health bulletin, a total of 17,058 RTPCR tests were conducted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-west-districts-worst-mask-offenders-in-delhi/story-pbAOOmm21DvLLLSdKdvbaP.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||NGO gives Bhiwandi sex workers hope for respectable living||After being forced into prostitution 15 years ago, a 30-year-old woman from Nepal now has a hope to live life respectfully.The woman residing in Hanuman Tekdi, a red light area of Bhiwandi, lost business during the lockdown and is now learning skills like tailoring and making incense sticks among others to earn a living. More than 87 per cent of the women living in this area are now finding hope and looking for alternatives to earn a living.The lockdown might have been bad to most migrant workers and power looms in Bhiwandi. However, it came as a boon to the hundreds of sex workers residing in Hanuman Tekdi.Losing business in the initial months, though, seemed to be difficult. But, with the help of NGOs, these sex workers are now looking at a respectable living.The woman said, “I got married when I was barely 11 and was thrown into prostitution in Bhiwandi when I was 15 and had children. I used to send money to my family back in Nepal. Though I tried to leave the business, many a time I was scared of the world outside and had no support system.”She said that during lockdown, when she lost her income, NGO Shree Sai Seva Sanstha helped her find an alternate job. “They arranged shelter for us and gave us small jobs to earn a living,” she said.The NGO conducted a study on the sex workers in the area during the pandemic and started working on their welfare. They are training the sex workers in various skill-based programmes to provide a dignified source of income.Dr Swati Singh, founder of the NGO, said, “We found in the survey that prostitution came to a halt due to fear of transmission of the virus and the sex workers were sitting idle for more than seven months. The finding revealed around 60 per cent of the sex workers in Hanuman Tekdi have taken loans from friends in the neighbourhood, shopkeepers, local money lenders and their own brothel managers.“Hence, due to the lockdown, they were not able to repay the loan and the lenders were abusing them. With no business, they can’t even pay the room rent.”The red light area at present has around 500 sex workers including 56 per cent foreign nationals. Around 46 per cent women are from Bangladesh while 10 per cent are from Nepal. Only 4 per cent of them are from Maharashtra. The remaining are from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Kolkata.The NGO is at present training around 150 sex workers in different skills. They approached the women during the lockdown, provided them with food and medical aids and gained their trust.Singh said, “We started the session in May and had opened bank accounts for every one of them. Not everyone was interested in tailoring. Some were interested in education, a few in dance, some in packing agarbatti, making papad and many in social working. Accordingly, we train them.”She added that most of them did not have their paperwork in place and thus did not get loans from banks, and hence fell prey to the abuse of local money lenders. She said that government should have certain policies in place to help these people seek employment.S D Kokate, senior police inspector, Bhiwandi city police station under whose jurisdiction the red light area lies, said, “We often come to know about a minor or a woman lured and brought from some state or country and forced into prostitution in this area. We try to rescue them. Things are quiet since lockdown and it is good that the NGOs are helping these women to get their life back on track.”The survey found that the women were either trafficked across the borders or they migrated for work and eventually got trapped into the flesh trade.A majority of them are not into sex work by choice. About 78 per cent of them were either forced into prostitution by someone they knew like a relative, friend or even their husbands or trapped due to poor financial circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ngo-gives-bhiwandi-sex-workers-hope-for-respectable-living/story-gSwU75HvaDWwMMCQnBvvUL.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Special vigilance squads to monitor Covid-19 violations in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has formed special vigilance squads (SVS) for every ward in the city to strictly monitor and penalise violations of Covid 19 norms.The civic body has so far, through its ward level teams, been penalising residents who fail to wear masks in public or maintain social distancing at establishments. The stress has been on creating awareness. It has so far collected ₹49 lakh in fine from various violators.Explaining the need for the SVS, municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar, said “For the past two weeks, there has been a drop in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Though it is a relief, it is important that all precautions continue to be taken, especially in the upcoming festive season as the virus spreads fast and we still do not have a vaccine for it.”NMMC has set up an SVS in the jurisdiction of each of the eight wards in the city. While the ward committee will continue with its work, the SVS will concentrate on taking action against those indulging in violations concerning health security rules.Bangar said, “Each SVS will consist of two NMMC personnel and as many police personnel. The presence of the police personnel will ensure effective action against non-usage of masks and social distancing violations. Independent vehicles have been given to each of the eight SVS. We appeal to all the residents to cooperate with us and help fight the Covid menace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/special-vigilance-squads-to-monitor-covid-19-violations-in-navi-mumbai/story-SdxyO4l6sZL3TNy7yJilUP.html
31-10-2020||Noida||New police stations proposed in Airport area for better policing||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has requested the Uttar Pradesh government to set up six new police stations for better policing now that the new international airport and other mega projects are coming up under its jurisdiction. The work on airport project is expected to begin by mid-2021 and become operational three years later. In the meantime, Yeida is planning to develop the surrounding areas and investors who have bought land to set up factories, manufacturing units and other businesses are also expected to begin development soon. “We have sent a proposal to the state government for setting up the six new police stations to handle the policing in a better manner in this region. We have proposed a dedicated police station for the airport and other stations will be useful in their respective areas. The authority will provide required land and other resources as and when we get an instruction from the government on this issue,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of Yeida.The proposed police stations are in sectors 18 and 20 (allotted for residential projects), 22D, 21 (where the 1000-acre Film City is planned), 32 and near the Jewar airport. There are 22 police stations in Gautam Budh Nagar district to handle the law and order situation. Currently, Gautam Budh Nagar has 3,869 police personnel — 42 inspectors, 459 sub-inspectors, 972 head constables and 2,396 constables. Officers said with the proposed new system, an additional 1,600 personnel will be posted to Gautam Budh Nagar.“These and other resource enhancement measures are being comprehensively examined and will appropriately respond to City’s future requirements,’ said Alok Singh police commissioner Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-police-stations-proposed-in-airport-area-for-better-policing/story-4SyauKxQTL1er2aPelEbrJ.html
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man stabbed to death in Chandigarh’s Ram Darbar||A 58-year-old man was stabbed to death by three youths at his house in Ram Darbar in Chandigarh on Friday.Identified as Attar Singh, he worked as a sanitation worker with the health department. Police said Attar’s son Anil Kumar had stopped some youths from taking drugs on a street near his house in the afternoon, which had led to a scuffle. In the evening, three youths came to Attar’s house and attacked Anil. When Attar intervened, he was stabbed. Anil was also injured.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Sector-31 police station. No arrest has been made. Police were conducting raids till late at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-stabbed-to-death-in-chandigarh-s-ram-darbar/story-tfR8LpdqHELr0eBhtcvScL.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Yamuna Authority set to buy 150 acres land for developmental projects near Jewar airport site||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) is set to buy about 150 acres of land near the Jewar airport site for developmental projects. At least 80% of the owners have agreed to give their land, paving the way for direct land buying from each farmer, said officials of the Yeida. There are two ways to acquire land – one is through direct buying from farmers, and the other is to implement the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. However, direct buying is convenient because the acquisition through the Land Act takes longer.A team of Yeida officials on Wednesday met a group of farmers from the villages of Nagla Hukum Singh and Karoli Bangar at the Government Inter College for their consent to buy land directly. According to rules, if 80% of farmers, out of the total number of farmers from whom the land is sought, agree then the handover can be made directly from the farmers, said officials of the Yeida.“We will use this land for developing industrial plots to be allotted to those who want to invest in industrial projects near the Jewar airport site. Farmers are willingly offering their land for industries and other infrastructure projects,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The 150 acres fall in the Sector 29 area, where industrial plots are being sold to investors. This sector is in close proximity to Jewar, where the Noida International Greenfield Airport is scheduled to be developed. Switzerland Company Zurich International AG has signed an agreement with the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited to start work at the site from mid-2021, said officials.To attract investment, boost growth and create jobs, Yeida has floated an open-ended scheme to allot plots to those who want to set up businesses here. As per the scheme, anyone can apply to get a plot along the Yamuna Expressway.“For plots less than 4,000 square metres, the authority decides the allotment via lucky draw. For plots of above 4,000 square metres, the authority calls for an interview after evaluating the documents of the applicant to decide the allotment,” said Singh.The Yeida has taken 1,334 hectares of land from farmers for the airport so far for the first phase of construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-authority-set-to-buy-150-acres-land-for-developmental-projects-near-jewar-airport-site/story-2HFc9gmcYCOGf9A670OBSJ.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Researchers from Maharashtra develop first-of-its-kind artificial silicone-based prosthetic flipper for Olive Ridley turtle in India||A team of researchers under the Maharashtra forest department along with an architecture student developed and fitted first-of-its-kind silicone-based prosthetic flipper for an Olive Ridley turtle at Vengurla, Sindhudurg.Over the course of the past month, a team led by Dr Santosh Walvekar, veterinarian under the Kolhapur circle of the Maharashtra forest department, studied international methods on how to invent and non-surgically fit a 270 gram and 13-inch prosthetic flipper for the large turtle from scratch, and managed to succeed in their efforts. The team comprised veterinary students Vanshika Kamble and Sanika Sawant; zoologist Rushikesh Mestri; architect Chandrakant Halyal from JJ School of Architecture, Mumbai; and other volunteers.Maharashtra forest department and the Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), an international non-profit organisation working on turtle conservation, said this was the first such successful prosthetic flipper fitted on a turtle in India so far. TSA India is supporting the team with their counterparts from South Carolina, the Unites States for the rehabilitation of the turtle.Last month, a 12-year-old male Olive Ridley turtle was rescued from Vengurla coastline by Shashikant Vengurlekar, a local, after it was found stuck in the fishing net. “Three-fourth of the turtle’s left front flipper had been cut off while the hind flipper was also brutally damaged in the process of disentanglement from the net,” said Vengurlekar, adding that he contacted wildlife rescue group Konkan Wildlife Rescue Forum, which in turn contacted the forest department. Forest officers said they transported the turtle to their range office in Kudal but there was very little chance of its survival. “We contacted Dr Walvekar for help,” said an officer.Walvekar said emergency treatment was provided to the turtle for around 10 days at the transit treatment centre in Kolhapur. “Only then the turtle was stable and began self-feeding again. We were positive that the turtle would survive but were worried about its condition as its right hind flipper was badly injured while the front left one wasn’t there,” he said.Once sure that the turtle could survive, Walvekar gathered the team and began researching prosthetic flippers. “We came across social media videos where such experiments had been successful,” he said. Walvekar then got in touch with Halyal who drew up measurements of the prosthetic flipper based on a mirror image of its existing flipper. The team designed and developed two clay moulds. Then Walvekar met with silicone manufacturers and acquired the equipment required for the experiment. Following this, with the help of Krushnat Powar from a neighbouring dental lab, the team got an impression of the portion of the cut flipper. “We then placed the silicone by removing the clay from the mould, and finally attached two steel plates inside the silicone that would help the turtle move its flipper while swimming. The prosthetic flipper could be placed and used by the turtle as one fourth of the original flipper (stump) was still remaining. The fact that this turtle had a stump made it a special case,” said Walvekar.On October 27, the team placed the turtle in a large tank and the turtle was able to swim and stay afloat. “We realised our experiment had succeeded,” he said.Halyal then got in touch with TSA India and shared videos and images of the design. “Though there have been various efforts to fit prosthetic limbs, especially across south India, this is the first such successful experiment in India. We are evaluating how this animal can be rehabilitated with help from international veterinarians from TSA’s sea turtle centre in South Carolina, and we are proud to see India achieving this feat,” said Shailendra Singh, programme director, TSA India.V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest (Kolhapur), Maharashtra forest department, said, “For the first time an effort has been made by our veterinary team to treat the damaged limbs of an Olive Ridley turtle. The effort has been successful and the animal is recuperating.”DAHANU VETERINARIANS HAD SUCCESSFULLY FITTED TURTLES WITH FIBERGLASS PROSTHETIC LIMBS IN 2017While the state forest department and international conservation groups claimed that the silicone-based prosthetic limb was the first for India, Dr Dinesh Vinherkar, in-charge of the Dahanu marine animal rescue centre, had non-surgically fitted two turtles with prosthetic flippers made of fibreglass in February 2017. It was termed the Dahanu flipper, similar to the Jaipur foot for human stumps. “We must realise that these artificial flippers only help certain turtles with stumps. The prosthetic limb helps exercise the other three flippers through physiotherapy. However, such turtles should not be released with the artificial flipper as they cannot be used after a certain time and do not serve the larger purpose. We are now working on other methods for faster rehabilitation for such turtles,” said Dr Vinherkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/researchers-from-maharashtra-develop-first-of-its-kind-artificial-silicone-based-prosthetic-flipper-for-olive-ridley-turtle-in-india/story-Z99IDzKeAhXW3P8kUhD2gL.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Illegal construction thrives around upcoming Jewar airport||Ever since Zurich International AG signed the agreement to start work on the international airport project along the Yamuna Expressway in Jewar, illegal housing projects have mushroomed in this region. At times, developers who “buy” these plots, for high price considering that an airport and other related infrastructure is expected to come up here, do not know that it is illegal as it did not have approval from the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) that owns the land.On Thursday, the authority demolished illegal construction over 200,000 square metres of agriculture land in Tappal area in violation of rules. The estimated cost of this land, as per the market rate, was ₹200 crore. A day earlier, it had demolished at least five structures, including restaurants and shops, in Mathura along the expressway.“To make sure the illegal housing or other kinds of projects do not come up in our jurisdiction we are exercising zero tolerance and taking tough action against those involved in such unauthorised activities. Also, we appeal to general public not to buy plots or other property here without our authorisation,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida, which has the sole authority to plan or approve housing or other projects along the 165-km expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. “We have appealed to people that if they buy plots in such unauthorised projects then they will be held responsible. We have been warning people not to fall into the trap laid by the illegal developers. We will demolish all kinds of illegal construction coming up in our jurisdiction.”The modus operandi of fraudsters are relatively simple-- they construct an illegal boundary wall, carve out “residential plots” and offer them at a rate lower than Yedia’s.“And they claim that the project is approved by the authority. Later, the plot buyer has to face the trouble,” said Yeida official, not authorised to speak to media.Property consultants say that buyers must first check directly with Yeida to ensure that the land that they are offered was genuine.After the announcement that the work on airport likely to be started soon, land mafia is building illegal structures and also housing projects without approvals in place as the demand for property is on increase,” said Om Raizada property consultant based in Greater Noida. The Yeida has requested people to support the fight against illegal construction.“If anyone gets to know about any illegal construction activity or project they can file a complaint so that we can act,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/illegal-construction-thrives-around-upcoming-jewar-airport/story-p9BUbpeNZZbueYLUz5egoL.html
31-10-2020||Noida||2 minors apprehended for factory burglary||Noida Police on Friday arrested two persons and apprehended two minors in connection with a robbery case.According to police, the burglary complaint had been filed on Thursday.“The crime was reported from a factory that had been shut for the past few months. It was an electronics manufacturing firm and some goods like DVRs were still there. A security guard was on duty at the site and, though he could not be sure, he suspected that there had been a burglary,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The guard told police he had seen a few people hanging around the factory on several occasions. On Thursday night, he realised that there were men in the building after which he alerted police.“The suspects were nabbed from near the FNG road with two rucksacks filled with stolen goods like DVRs, fuse boards, CPUs, motherboards, hard disks etc. They had been going in the factory, stealing goods and then selling to a scrap dealer,” said the SHO.The suspects were identified as Shafiqul (22) and Saurav (24), both of who are residents of Surajpur. The two 17-year-old juveniles helped the suspects, said police. The scrap dealer is based out of Ecotech 3 and was absconding.“All the goods that were taken yesterday have been recovered. Some of the items which were stolen earlier and sold to the scrap dealer are yet to be accounted for. The guard did not know exactly how much went missing initially. We are working on identifying it all,” said Dikshit.A car used to transport the goods was also recovered. While the adults were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail which the minors were sent to a juvenile home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-minors-apprehended-for-factory-burglary/story-hhBu3WeSXu5DYfR39yHS2M.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Woman alleges harassment by brother-in-law||A 38-year-old woman has alleged that she was harassed by her brother-in-law multiple times over the past few weeks and filed a complaint with the Phase 3 police. Police said that the woman lived in a joint family under Phase 3 police station’s jurisdiction. The suspect, who is married, lived with them. “The woman’s husband had passed away a few months back. She said that for the past three to four weeks, her brother-in-law had been harassing her and would seek her out when no one else was around,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The 45-year-old suspect would also allegedly force his way to the woman’s room. When she could not take the harassment, she approached the police on Wednesday and filed a complaint.“The women safety wing of the police station conducted the initial investigation following which a case of harassment (section 354 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered against the man. He is absconding for now but we have information about his whereabouts and he will be nabbed soon,” said the SHO.Police said that the suspect also had an extensive criminal recrod and has gone to jail previously for robberies, loot and for peddling drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-alleges-harassment-by-brother-in-law/story-BGENj0M3xRlLrTLcMEYV9I.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Three persons including food delivery boy arrested for bike theft; 6 bikes recovered||Police on Friday arrested three persons of a gang and recovered five stolen high-end motorcycles from them in Greater Noida. The suspects were identified as 25-year-old Mainpuri resident Ashwini Kumar, 24-year-old Dankaur resident Kaushlendra Nagar, and 25-year-old Rohtak (Haryana) resident Hitesh Panchal who worked as a delivery agent for Zomato, said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida. “Panchal used to wear the company’s t-shirt, enter different residential societies and pass on information to his accomplices, who then stole the motorcycles,” said Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Sector Beta 2 police station. The SHO said that police team was conducting a checking drive in Sector Beta II area when they spotted Panchal and Kumar on two of these motorcycles. “They couldn’t produce the vehicles’ registration papers. On questioning , police found that they had tampered with the registration number plates too,” he said. The two suspects then allegedly admitted to the crime and revealed the names of the rest of the gang. “They used to sell these bikes to people at cheap rates and earned easy money. We will contact Zomato in connection with the case.”Upadhyaya said Nagar was an expert in tampering number plates.Police recovered four more motorcycles from their hideouts in Greater Noida and the vehicles were connected to five cases registered in Greater Noida. In one case, complainant Anmol Tyagi, a resident of Migsun Green Mansion, said he had placed an ad to sell his Yamaha R15 motorcycle. “A suspect contacted me on phone and reached Greater Noida. He took my bike for a test drive and then fled the spot,” he said. Tyagi had filed a complaint in Surajpur police station on September 11, 2020. Police have recovered three Yamaha R15, one Bajaj Pulsar, one Hero Splendor and a scooter from their possession. “We strongly condemn this act and have suspended the delivery partner from our platform. We have also offered our complete support to the authorities in the investigation,” said a Zomato spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-persons-including-food-delivery-boy-arrested-for-bike-theft-6-bikes-recovered/story-tOP0eINS4yJl2gm6LFxNOI.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Under-billing by meter readers causes heavy loss to discoms, consumers||Gurugram resident Sandeep Sharma owns a flat in Noida sector 51, which he had rented out. The tenant, during his 14 months’ stay, had always paid the electricity bill, which was roughly around ₹2,000 per month. “One month after my tenant vacated, the power distribution company (discom) Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) served me a bill of ₹1.8 lakh stating that the meter reader had been under-billing till now,” he said. Similarly, Rajeev Goyal received a bill of ₹5.5 lakh in October for his sector 22 house that he had rented to someone to run as a paying guest house facility. “When I enquired about it with the discom, they said that over 63,000 units had not been reported. It is obvious that the tenant, in connivance with the metre reader, paid less than the actual consumption. Now, when I am asking him to clear the dues, he is daring me to get him to vacate the house,” he said, adding that he is contemplating legal action.Goyal and Sharma’s stories are among the many that PVVNL, which distributes power to west UP districts, has unearthed during its drive to reduce revenue loss. The public sector company outsourced the meter reading duties to a private company. It has now come to light that people who read meters deliberately under reported the power consumption. Discom officials say that under billing has not only caused revenue loss, but is often believed to be line loss -- due to loss during transmission. Arvind Mallappa Bangari, the managing director of PVVNL, said that in the last six months, FIRs against over 200 meter-readers have been lodged in different districts falling. “Alarmed with poor revenue collection in some areas of these districts, we started checking the actual meter reading. Consumers in whose name the meter is now have no option than to pay it, even if it was the tenant who bribed the reader,” he said. “Since these meter readers are from private companies, we have intimated this to their top management. We are also creating awareness among the consumers that the better revenue collection will ultimately benefit them as it will reduce the power tariffs.” Under billing, however, will not carry any penal interest unlike late payment of bills, he added.Virendra Nath Singh, Noida divisional chief engineer of PVVNL, said that Noida division has achieved around 100% target of revenue collection in October. “We have so far disconnected power lines of around 12,000 defaulters, who have yet not cleared their power dues of over ₹25 crore. We have also recovered over ₹8 crore from nearly 5,000 consumers, who paid this amount in fear of disconnection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/under-billing-by-meter-readers-causes-heavy-loss-to-discoms-consumers/story-NwWr0JkHNobgSfDC72HrDI.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Respite soon for Noida residents as Air quality likely to improve, preventive measures intensified||Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida suffered “very poor” air on Friday,as per the central pollution control board (CPCB) bulletin at 4pm. However, throughout the day, different pockets of the cities even experienced “severe” levels of air pollution that could affect healthy individuals. If it not for meteorological conditions, the average air quality index (AQI) for the day could have been “severe”. Weather analysts predict some in the coming two days with wind speed likely to pick up. “The wind speed increased on Friday to an average of 10 kmph (which is the minimum speed required to disperse pollutants in the national capital region, NCR) in the north-westerly direction and brought in smoke and dust from stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana. For a short duration, the speed was even 15 kmph, allowing better ventilation,” said Mahesh Palawat, director of private weather forecasting agency Skymet. He added that on Saturday and Sunday the wind speed are likely to increase to an average of 15 kmph which will further help with dispersion. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), stubble burning accounted for 19 per cent of the day’s pollution, down from 36 per cent on Thursday. “Increased surface wind speed and faster dispersion are likely to significantly improve the situation by 1st November,” read the Safar forecast. Districts’ officials said that they have intensified the pollution control measures like intensive water sprinkling on the roads and discouraging stubble burning. According to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution control Board (UPPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 379 against 383 a day earlier. For Greater Noida the AQI was 394 against 412 a day earlier. For Ghaziabad it was 382 against 389 a day earlier. Loni in Ghaziabad, Knowledge Park-V in Greater Noida and Sector-62 in Noida were among the most polluted areas were AQI oscillated between 422 to 402 considered ‘severe’ on Friday. For Greater Noida, the PM10 589.02 was microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m³)and PM2.5 levels were 275.6 µg/m³. For Noida, the PM10 and PM2.5 levels were 459.99µg/m³and 240.05µg/m³respectively. For Ghaziabad, the PM10 level was 438.36µg/m³ and PM2.5 was 255.13µg/m³. The CPCB standard limit for PM2.5 is 40µg/m³while that of PM10 is 60µg/m³. Agriculture department distributes decomposers to discourage stubble burning As the stubble burning peaks, the officials at the district agriculture department said that they are distributing decomposers among the farmers to convert stubble into manure, and discourage stubble burning. “This is the peak time of the harvesting and therefore chances of stubble burning intensify. Thus the department is distributing decomposers among the farmers. It’s a liquid in small bottles that is mixed with about 200 litres of water and sprayed over the stubble. This converts stubble into manure and the farmers don’t have to burn the stubble to improve the fertility of farms,” said Manveer Singh, deputy director, Agriculture, Gautam Budh Nagar. He added that over 10,000 bottles of decomposers are being distributed among the farmers. Each bottle of decomposer has about 150 ml of decomposing chemicals that is mixed in 200 litres of water and converts stubble into fertiliser within seven days. “We are also intensifying the awareness drive to discourage stubble burning. The November first week is the peak of paddy harvesting as farmers have to meet the short window to prepare the fields for wheat by November end,” Singh added. Road washing intensified Meanwhile, the Noida Authority has intensified the mechanical sweeping, sprinkling and washing the roads as dust controlling measures. “We have also started washing the roads using machines as dust control measure. A total of 60 kilometres of road length across different parts of the city was washed at night. Apart from that 105 to 110 kms of road are being sprinkled with help of 75 water tankers and mechanical sweeping is being done acorss the length of 243 kms of road,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, health, Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/respite-soon-for-noida-residents-as-air-quality-likely-to-improve-preventive-measures-intensified/story-d00pfHoIezBYAK6KHuAr3J.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Load-testing exercise for Delhi-Meerut Expressway underway, traffic diverted||Ghaziabad: For the next two months, commuters travelling on the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) Phase 2 will have to deal with frequent diversions as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) starts with the load testing process for three major structures. The work, which will be taken up in a phased manner, is being conducted for the Hindon canal overbridge near UP Gate, river Hindon river overbridge near Chijarsi, and the flyover at Lal Kuan.Officials said that these three major structures, under the 19.2km Phase 2, have four sections each – two on each side of every stretch for traffic – between Delhi and Ghaziabad. For now, the NHAI has started load testing work for the Hindon canal overbridge (on the Ghaziabad to Delhi side) near UP Gate and traffic has been diverted with the help of the traffic police. “During the three days of the load testing exercise, vehicles going to Delhi will be diverted to the expressway lanes. Commuters can also use the underpasses to move to other localities on either side. Each of the four spans of the structures will take three days for load testing works. During these three days, we will place fully laden trucks in a formation and will assess the strength of the structures,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.Once work at the Hindon canal overbridge (near UP Gate) is over, NHAI will do the same at the Hindon river overbridge at Chijarsi, and then the Lal Kuan flyover. “To avoid inconvenience to motorists, load testing works will be taken up on different dates. For instance, the first part, at the Hindon canal overbridge near UP Gate, is being taken up for three days during the weekend. Likewise, the time frame for other structures too will be decided. The entire load testing exercise will go on till the end of December,” Garg added. Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), Ghaziabad, said that traffic has been diverted by putting up barricades near UP Gate. “The shutdown has been given for three days, after which one of the sections of the overbridge will be opened. The NHAI will provide us dates for load-testing at other structures. After this, suitable diversions will be put in place,” he added. Phase 2 is about 89% complete in terms of physical progress and is estimated to cater to about one lakh passenger car units once it becomes operational. It comprises 14 lanes with six internal lanes on each side dedicated to the expressway, which will have predefined entry/exit points, while the outer four-lanes on each side will be dedicated to highway lanes which will connect commuters to adjoining areas of Ghaziabad and Noida. “We have also received approval from NHAI headquarters for installation of automatic number plate readers at all entry/exit locations of the expressway lanes. The device will read the registration plates of vehicles at entry/exit points and calculate the fare based on distance travelled by the vehicle. It will have a provision whereby the fare will automatically get deducted from the wallet account of the commuter,” Garg added.The NHAI has proposed six entry/exit points over the 60km expressway route from Akshardham in Delhi to Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-load-testing-exercise-for-delhi-meerut-expressway-underway-traffic-diverted/story-IWWjdA4Ct2UgZGtIJkSW9N.html
31-10-2020||Noida||‘Desi’ breed search and rescue specialists, NDRF trains first lot of stray dogs||Blaze and Tiger are trainees at the National Disaster Response Force’s (NDRF) dog squad used ins search and rescue operations. However, they are not German Shepherds or Labradors but stray dogs. In all, the NDRF’s eighth battalion has four such strays adopted from the campus. Blaze and Tiger are the oldest aged about 17 months each, while two more puppies -- Tony and Lucky-- are aged about 50 days. Usually, India’s forces -- be it police, defence or even rescue teams -- preferred breeds that were naturally obedient and hence easier to train. But the stray dogs had other advantages -- they were already acclimatised to Indian situations, less bulky and hence can easily push themselves through gaps and have more stamina. So training the four strays-- sometimes called desi -- into a battalion that already has 20 well trained non-desi dogs was a unique experiment.“The Prime Minister had earlier this month had given a call to people to go for local brands this festive season to help local business. We were also directed by our directorate to explore roping in of stray dogs. Till now, we had been training and involving German Shepherds and Labradors as part of the dog-squad for search and rescue operation,”said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth NDRF battalion at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad. “The strays definitely have an edge in terms that they are already acclimatised with the local environment and require less care than the other breeds.” Both Blaze and Tiger have completed 40 weeks of training in which they underwent physical training and obstacle courses.“Now is the crucial aspect of how to perform search and rescue operations while teaming up with German Shepherds and Labradors. This will be tough as the desi breed is not friendly to the other breeds. But they will be trained,” said NDRF dog handler Sandeep Kumar. For now, both Blaze and Tiger are kept separate from their counterparts and have separate trainers. “The strays are very agile and sometimes it becomes difficult to get them to concentrate. But over a period, they have become attuned to the commands. The other breed dogs are more obedient, sincere and can be handled easily even by other handlers. Strays are more like to take commands from only their own handler,” Kumar, said. Over a period of time, dogs have become indispensable part of the NDRF always accompanying them on missions. Their training includes obedience and familiarisation with public places so that they keep their composure to do the job at hand. The dogs from the eighth battalion had proved their mettle during Tsunami rescue operations in Japan, earthquake in Nepal and have even served in different missions across the country. They have also taken part in local operations during Akash Nagar building collapse in Ghaziabad and Shahberi building collapse incident in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/desi-breed-search-and-rescue-specialists-ndrf-trains-first-lot-of-stray-dogs/story-50Z5Ex5ZVsMmfhqfJlcB8K.html
31-10-2020||Noida||Noida police gears to launch Eco-Friendly traffic awareness month – November||With air quality touching new lows every day, the Noida Traffic Police have planned a month-long traffic awareness programme beginning November 1 with special emphasis on environment friendly initiatives. On Thursday Noida recorded 383 AQI (very poor) and Greater Noida 412 AQI (severe). Ganesh Saha, DCP Traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “We will encourage fuel efficient driving, low emission vehicles and electric vehicles. People will be informed to keep the vehicle in good condition and regularly check pollution.” Saha said motorists would be advised to turn off their engines at traffic lights. “During peak hours, sometimes the waiting time is up to two minutes. Switch off the vehicle saves fuel,” he said. The traffic police will also seize polluting vehicles. The force has also set up a control room from where officials will call about 50 Noida residents everyday and seek their suggestions and feedback. “We will ask if they are satisfied with the traffic policing. If they inform us about a traffic jam or unauthorised parking, encroachment, etc. we will take necessary measures,” said Omkar Singh, a head constable at the control room.Residents can inform traffic police on – 9971009001 (call) and 7065100100 (WhatsApp only)The department has identified 35 black spots in the district where accidents have become frequent. Some of these black spots include Rajnigandha Chowk, Mahamaya Flyway, zero point of Noida-Greater Noida expressway, zero point of Yamuna Expressway, Gijhore intersection, Sector 137, NSEZ, Yamaha Chowk in Greater Noida, Jewar Toll Plaza, etc.  “We will audit these black spots done and then take necessary corrective measures,” Saha said.Gautam Budh Nagar has recorded a sharp fall in the number of road accidents amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. According to the data from the district transport department, the district witnessed 317 mishaps from March 1-September 15 this year as against 653 last year. The fatalities due to road accidents also went down this year, with the district recording 162 deaths during the period, while 278 deaths were reported during the same period last year.In 2019, the Noida traffic police had issued 6,99,708 challans and collected ₹14.76 crore fine from violators. From January to September 30, 2020, the Noida traffic department has issued challans to 339775 violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-gears-to-launch-eco-friendly-traffic-awareness-month-november/story-RslWNR2fQ9TxOSCRu6Zj1M.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks woman booked for abusing Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aditya Thackeray to appear before cyber cell||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed Sunaina Holey, a resident of Navi Mumbai, booked by the Mumbai and Palghar Police for posting offensive remarks on social media against chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and state minister Aaditya Thackeray in July, to appear before the cyber cell of Mumbai Police at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) on November 2. Holey had approached the HC to quash the first information reports (FIRs) against her.Earlier, the HC had directed a Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar, who was booked under similar charges, to cooperate with the investigation and appear before the cyber cell at BKC as well. A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, while hearing the application by Holey to quash the three FIRs registered against her, was informed by assistant public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the state government and police, that the FIRs were registered after several persons, including Rohan Chavan, a member of the Yuva Sena had lodged complaints against her for offensive remarks made against the CM and Aaditya.Apart from the offensive remarks against the CM and his son between July 25 and 28, Holey had also shared a morphed caricature of the father-son duo. Holey was booked under sections 505 (punishment for statements conducting public mischief) and 153 (A) (punishment for promoting enmity between different religious groups) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other provisions of the Information Technology (IT) Act.Yagnik submitted that though Holey had been issued notices under section 41-A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), she had not appeared before the concerned investigating officer at the BKC cyber police station in Mumbai. Hence, he sought directions of the court to make her do so at the earliest. Advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud who represented Holey, however, said that his client was unwell and could not appear on the earlier occasion, but was willing to report to the BKC cyber cell on November 2. The court accepted the same and asked her to be present at 11am. In September, Holey had moved the court seeking protection in the form of an application for pre-arrest bail. The court had, however, refused to grant her protection after police assured the court that she would not be arrested if she was willing to cooperate and report to the Azad Maidan and Tulinj police stations. After she failed to report to the said police stations, investigators sought her presence at the BKC cyber cell. After hearing the submissions and accepting an assurance of Holey, the court observed, “The job of police officers is difficult during these times. Sometimes they have more than 12-hour shifts. Then they have to do bandobast for morchas and processions. With all these odds, Mumbai Police is considered one of the best in the world after Scotland Yard.” In light of this, the bench observed that Holey was expected to extend cooperation, which Dr Chandrachud agreed to.The court posted further hearing on the plea to November 23 and said that if there was any urgency, the petitioner was at liberty to move to the appropriate court seeking relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-woman-booked-for-abusing-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-and-his-son-aditya-thackeray-to-appear-before-cyber-cell/story-xd9jnpMJv6GNBmRoxpPWoN.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government plans app, colour-coding mechanism to avoid crowding on Mumbai local trains||The Maharashtra government, which has proposed to open local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for all commuters, plans to use technology to prevent overcrowding at stations and in trains. The state government is developing a web-based application (app) to help commuters book tickets and decide the time slot during which they wish to travel. The government also plans to introduce a colour-coding mechanism, which will specify the time slot during which the ticket can be used to broad trains.“We will soon develop the app. We are also working on the colour-coding mechanism to restrict the number of passengers in suburban trains,” said Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department of the state government.An official, on condition of anonymity, said, the app and colour-coding mechanism will enable railway authorities to issue a stipulated number of tickets in a bid to prevent overcrowding in trains. Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) authorities had raised concerns about overcrowding given the number of services they run. The CR currently operates 706 daily services, while WR runs 704 services as against their regular of 1,774 and 1,367, respectively.The state government, however, has maintained that appropriate steps are being taken to prevent overcrowding in trains. “We have allowed 30% of private sector employees to travel by trains, which have reduced around 20 lakh daily commuters. Besides, another 20 lakh commuters have become less owing to closure of schools, colleges and other educational institutions. If the railway authorities operate at their full strength of 3,100 train services, no overcrowding will occur during peak hours. We have also suggested running a special train for women passengers every hour. The move is in line with encouraging staggered office hours. More ladies specials will help women commuters to travel during non-peak hours,” said a state government official, requesting anonymity. The official added: “We don’t want to impose more restrictions, but encourage passengers with staggered timings. Now, it’s up to the railway authorities to operate at their full strength.” Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the state administration would work out ways to ensure reopening of train service for all commuters at the earliest, despite the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-plans-app-colour-coding-mechanism-to-avoid-crowding-on-mumbai-local-trains/story-XQ9fBvFXayM5QDfu7IqkjK.html
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Teachers’ groups oppose 50% attendance mandate in SOPs, write to Maharashtra education department to withdraw rule||A day after the state education department released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for teachers and mandated 50% attendance, teachers from across the state have opposed the decision. On Friday, several teachers’ groups wrote to the education department, urging officials to withdraw the attendance rule. “Schools are shut, and teachers are imparting online education to students on a daily basis. The department has also planned to gradually reopen schools for students. So, what is the need to call teachers to school at this point,” asked Anil Bornare from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) teachers’ cell. Several principals from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) schools said that civic officials had asked them to take photographs daily as proof of teachers’ attendance. Teachers have also been asked to visit various localities and teach students as per their needs. “Teachers travel from all parts of the city and come to school. Now with restrictions on travel, they will have to shell out huge sums from their own pockets to come thrice a week. Besides, schools do not have the necessary infrastructure for online learning. Conducting online classes with so many issues is a big hurdle,” said a school principal, requesting anonymity. Rajesh Pandya of the Teachers Democratic Front, said, “Teachers are already burdened with online teaching, and to make things worse, they are being asked to report to school. It is an unfair step.” As per the SOPs released on Thursday, teachers from across the state can be called to their respective schools for work related to online learning or other academic duties. Schools have been asked to ensure that they sanitise their premises, get temperature checks done. Teachers have been asked to follow safety guidelines like wearing masks and follow social distancing. Schools need to also follow the policy of “staying home if unwell” for teachers who are not feeling well, especially those who have comorbidities or are above the age of 50 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-groups-oppose-50-attendance-in-sops-write-to-maharashtra-education-department-to-withdraw-rule/story-zCx0ftxLcQwurbTlV46VzN.html
