03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents can get tested for Covid-19 at private labs without doctor's prescription: UT Adviser Parida||UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Friday announced that people could get themselves tested in private laboratories for COVID-19 in Chandigarh.On the microblogging website, Parida revealed that people would not need a prescription to get themselves tested for the deadly disease, and that the test would cost around Rs, 2000."Good news.Any one can get himself tested in private laboratory for Corona,... no prescription needed now..Charges Rs 2000...," read the UT Adviser's tweet.Good news.Any one can get himself tested in private laboratory for Corona,... no prescription needed now..Charges Rs 2000..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-can-get-tested-for-covid-19-at-private-labs-without-doctors-prescription-ut-adviser-parida-108125
03-07-2020||Mohali||Four more positive Covid cases surface in Mohali||With the surfacing of four more positive coronavirus cases, the total count has gone up to 2,843 in Mohali district.The persons infected with the virus included a 52-year-old and 54-year-old male from Majat village, 50-year-old male from Dera Bassi and 43-year-old female and resident of Sector 104 near Saneta in Mohali district.Divulging the details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that persons from Majat village had travel history as they had returned recently from Uttar Pradesh.He said the third person from Dera Bassi was an ILI case. He said all the patients have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dr Manjit Singh said nine persons have been cured and discharged from the Gian Sagar Hospital.These include 40 (M) and 56 (M) from Zirakpur, 50 (F) from Daffarpur, 65 (M) from Dera Bassi, 35 (M) from Peer Muchalla, 22 (M) from Togan, 45 (M) from Bhabat, 43 (M) from Sector 116 and 56 (M) from Kharar.As of now there are 284 cases and out of these 212 have been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 68 active cases with four deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-positive-covid-cases-surface-in-mohali-108107
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Expect rain in Chandigarh, Punjab from tomorrow||Sultry weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Friday, with maximum temperatures hovering 3-7 notches above normal limits.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 39.1 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal limits, according to the Meteorological Department here.In Haryana, Hisar sweltered at a high of 44.1 degrees Celsius, five notches up against normal while Narnaul's maximum settled at 39.2 degrees Celsius.Ambala recorded a maximum of 39 degrees Celsius and Karnal 38.5 degrees Celsius, both four notches above the normal.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded near similar maximum temperatures of 41.4, 41.7 and 41.3 degrees Celsius, which were four, five and seven notches above the normal, respectively.There has not been much rainfall activity in Haryana and Punjab during the past 4-5 days making the weather hot and humid.The south-west monsoon hit the two states including Chandigarh over a week ago.However, the Meteorological Department here has forecast that monsoon rainfall activity is likely to improve in the two states, including Chandigarh from July 4. "Because of approaching monsoon system and eastward-moving western disturbance and moisture incursions from the Arabian sea and adjoining Gujarat coast monsoon rainfall is likely to improve in Punjab and Haryana including Chandigarh from July 4 for subsequent 48-72 hrs," Director of the MeT department here, Surinder Paul said.He further said, "light to moderate rainfall ( 1-3 cm) is likely to commence from Northwestern parts or districts of Punjab and Haryana, including Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Ambala, Panchkula, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar and adjoining areas of these districts in both the states from July 4.”He said the rainfall activity will increase in intensity and distributions during subsequent 48-72 hours with rainfall in almost all parts of Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh."Weather conditions also indicate heavy rainfall (more than 7cm) in northeastern districts of Punjab and one or two parts of south Haryana on July 5-6," he said.According to the MeT forecast, the rainfall activity is likely to be accompanied with thunderstorm/ lighting and gusty winds with wind speed exceeding 45 kmph at a time in north-western parts of Punjab and north and southern parts of Haryana on July 5-6. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-rain-in-chandigarh-punjab-from-tomorrow-108103
03-07-2020|| Chandigarh||Ambala reports 4 COVID-19 cases; district tally rises to 348||Ambala reported four COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the district's tally to 348. Civil Surgeon, Dr Kuldeep Singh, said the fresh cases, included a 57-year-old woman, a health staffer, posted in Barara, a 13-year-old girl from Ambala City—who has a travel history of Delhi—a 20-year-old youth in Ambala Cantonment, and a 49-year-old man in Naraingarh, both cases have Influenza-like showed (ILI) symptoms. After being cured, two more patients were discharged. At present, Ambala has 34 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-reports-4-covid-19-cases-district-tally-rises-to-348-108083
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration waives six months’ fees for Classes 9, 10||The Chandigarh Administration has announced waiver of annual and monthly fees for Classes 9 and 20 in government schools for the first six months of academic session 2020-21.An official order by UT Education Principal Secretary Arun Gupta reads: “In view of present situation due to COVID.19 and the economical background of the parents of students studying in Government Schools of Chandigarh, Annual and Monthly funds of class 9th and 10th students studying in Government Schools is hereby waived off for the first six months of academic session 2020-21 i.e. from April-2020 to September-2020 as one time measure.” The existing fee structure for Classes 9 and 10 includes annual charges of Rs 164 and monthly dues of Rs 152.No tuition fee is charged from girl students. Such waiver is also offered to boys from Scheduled Caste and Other Backward Classes category, as also wards of ex-servicemen, widow and physically challenged students with parental annual income less than Rs 1.5 lakh.Apart from tuition fee, all other monthly and annual charges are halved for boys and girls of SC category.  The development comes in the middle of an ongoing pandemic in the country, and is aimed at alleviating parents’ financial constraints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-waives-six-months-fees-for-classes-9-10-108075
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Palsora resident attacked, hurt||PU announces resultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared the results of ME (Information Technology) III semester, PG Diploma (Journalism and Mass Communication) I semester and BVoc (Textile and Fashion Tech) I semester. TNSDoctor’s Day celebratedPanchkula: National Doctor’s Day was celebrated at Drishti Eye Hospital, Panchkula, on Wednesday under the patronage of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (North Zone). Physical distancing, with appropriate use of PPEs, was observed at the event. It was attended by association’s north zone vice-president Dr Ashok Gupta and executive member Dr Neeraj Kumar among others. TNSMan arrested for house theftChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a man for theft at a house in Sector 22 here. The complainant, Parbhat Kiran, alleged that Sanjay Kumar had stolen three laptops, a mobile phone, a hard disk and a watch from his house on June 21. The police registered a case at the Sector 17 police station and nabbed the suspect. TNSWoman's gold chain snatchedMohali: Two motorcyclists snatched a gold chain from a Panchkula woman at a market in Baltana near Zirakpur on Thursday. In her complaint to the police, the victim, Mona Sahni, a resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, alleged that she was at Ekta Vihar in Baltana when two miscreants came on a motorcycle and snatched her gold chain.The miscreants thensped away on their bike, she said. The incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras. The Baltana police chowki in-charge, Hardeep Singh, said the police were checking the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market and initiated investigation. The miscreants would be arrested soon, he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/palsora-resident-attacked-hurt-107947
03-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Practitioners unhappy over shifting of yoga classes to dispensaries||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 2 As the Central Government approved shifting of the state-run yoga centres to dispensaries across the nation, local practitioners are unhappy over the decision. A representation in this regard has been submitted to the Director, Health and Family Welfare, by a group of yoga practitioners. They said at dispensaries, they would be at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19.  The State AYUSH Society was organising yoga sessions at various government schools during the morning hours. However, after the government’s advisory, it has been decided to shift these sessions to dispensaries. According to officials, these sessions are meant for medical purposes, but were initially organised for the general public. Meanwhile, a few of the yoga group members said the government should not have taken the step considering the situation at dispensaries. “We have been practising yoga at the Sector 35 government school for the past two years, but the government has suddenly shifted our venue to a nearby dispensary,” said Naresh Kumar Sood, one of the members of the group.  Another practitioner Kavita Bansal said: “We have attended two classes at dispensaries, but the space is unsatisfactory. We met the Director Health and he discussed the matter with the head of the dispensary, who also agreed to shortage of space at dispensaries. We demand that the classes should be held in schools only. Around 15 to 25 people practise yoga on a daily basis.”  “We are just following the government’s orders. We are working on providing a dedicated space in dispensaries. The programme was to be used for medical purposes and to help patients. We are against none, but we need some support. We are trying our best to solve the problem,” said Dr Manju Shree, Assistant Director, Government Homoeopathic Dispensaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/practitioners-unhappy-over-shifting-of-yoga-classes-to-dispensaries-107734
03-07-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||3 plastic products out of banned list in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Providing relief to some manufacturers, the UT Administration has moved three plastic products out of the list of banned items.In a partial modification of the notification issued in January this year, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has kept three items - plastic refill pouch having quantity less than 500 ml, straws attached with tetra packs and multilayered packaging used for food or snacks packing - under the extended producer responsibility (EPR), instead of the ban list.What’s EPRThe extended producer responsibility (EPR) makes it mandatory for companies to collect and recycle their plastic. Small manufacturers pay the local bodies to recycle plastic they produce. Medium and large manufacturers can hire producer responsibility organisations to recycle their plastic.The UT Administration had imposed a ban on several single-use plastic products in the city. However, the Administration had excluded these three products from the list of the banned items and gave some time to the manufacturers to find an alternative to these products. Ultimately, the ban on these three products was to be imposed from March 28, 2020, onwards.A senior officer in the Department of Environment, UT, stated that due to the nationwide lockdown, manufacturers could not find alternative to these products. On the request of the manufacturers, the Administration shifted these products to the EPR list. The disposal of these products would be the responsibility of the manufacturer.The products banned in the city include single-use plastic cutlery, thermocol or Styrofoam cutlery, single-use plastic containers, plastic (sold in the name of silver/aluminium) bag/pouch for packing food items, drinking water sealed glasses and plastic mineral water pouch, single-time use razors, single-time use pens, use of thermocol for decoration purpose and use of plastic material for decoration purpose such as wrapping sheets, frills, garland, confetti, party bloopers and plastic ribbons.The NGT had directed that any person who is found to be using, storing, purchasing, dealing with or distributing plastic bags, plastic plates or plastic glasses and such allied items will be liable to pay environmental compensation at the rate of Rs 5,000 per event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-plastic-products-out-of-banned-list-in-chandigarh-107747
03-07-2020||---||246 evacuees from Auckland, Kuwait arrive at city airport||Mohali, July 2  Two evacuation flights, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indians abroad, carrying 246 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today.  The first Air India flight number AI1317 carrying 71 passengers from Auckland via New Delhi arrived at the airport at 7.25 am. Another GoAir flight number G87230 carrying 175 passengers from Kuwait landed at the airport around 5.51pm. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.  The Health Department spokesman said officials took precautions while screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/246-evacuees-from-auckland-kuwait-arrive-at-city-airport-107729
03-07-2020||Graft case||Inspector fails to join probe||Chandigarh, July 2UT police Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who has been booked in a graft case by the CBI, has failed to join the investigation.The CBI had also asked the UT Police Department to direct Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who was suspended, to join the investigation. A departmental enquiry has also been marked against her by the Police Department.She remains untraceable as her mobile phone is switched-off. The CBI complainant, Gurdeep Singh, had alleged that the Mani Majra police station SHO, Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, had told him that Randhir Singh had filed a complaint against him mentioning that he had taken around Rs 28 lakh from the former to get his wife a government job.Gurdeep alleged that the SHO asked him to return Rs 28 lakh to Randhir or she would register a case against him. As per Gurdeep, the SHO allegedly demanded Rs 5 lakh bribe for closing the complaint and not registering an FIR.Gurdeep was told to pay bribe to Bhagwan Singh. It was alleged that Gurdeep gave Rs 2 lakh, first installment of the bribe, to Bhagwan in Sangrur on June 19. Later on, he complained to the CBI and Bhagwan was nabbed while accepting Rs 1 lakh bribe on June 29. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inspector-fails-to-join-probe-107730
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGI begins 3-yr course in interventional radiology||The PGIMER has started an advanced three-year doctorate of medicine (DM) course in interventional radiology from July 1. Prof MS Sandhu, Head of the Department of Radiodiagnosis, said, “This is the first such course being started in North India. Another hospital, which is currently offering this course in the country, is Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai.” Prof Sandhu said, “Interventional radiology is a very important subspecialty of radiology, wherein minimally invasive procedures can be done in a short span of time under minimal anaesthesia. Most of these procedures may be relatively painless and can be done on an out-patient basis. The department has been running an interventional radiology outpatient clinic on a daily basis for the past two years, which is also a unique concept for any government hospital in the country.” Treatment with interventional radiology is indicated in those cancer patients in whom surgery is not an option due to technical factors or due to the presence of comorbidities such as heart disease or advanced liver disease. The three-year course will involve hands-on training, didactic lectures and interactive learning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-begins-3-yr-course-in-interventional-radiology-107731
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bans sale of bottled correction fluid till Aug 31||The UT Administration has imposed a ban on production and sale of bottled correction  fluid and bottled thinners of any chemical composition, both for ink erasing purposes and for nail polish removers from July 3 to August 31. District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar ordered that the sale and production of bottled correction fluid and bottled thinners of any chemical composition was prohibited within the jurisdiction of the UT for 60 days. “Any breach of the order will invite action under Section 188 of the IPC,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bans-sale-of-bottled-correction-fluid-till-aug-31-107732
03-07-2020||---||3 held in ATM robbery case||Mohali, July 2The Lalru police have arrested three miscreants who had targeted an automated teller machine (ATM) of the PNB branch at Dappar and decamped with the cash dispenser containing Rs16 lakh on the intervening night of June 9 and 10.The arrested persons have been identified as Farman, a resident of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Gulsher, alias Kala, and Mustafa, both residents of Yamunanagar in Haryana. The vehicle used in the crime and the uprooted ATM had also been recovered from their possession. The trio was arrested from Uttar Pradesh.The suspects were produced before a court, which remanded them in four-day police custody.The police said five suspects involved in the crime were still absconding. Raids were being conducting by police teams to nab them.On the intervening night of June 9 and 10, the suspects broke open the metal door of the ATM with an iron rod. They uprooted the ATM by tying one end of the rope with the ATM and the other with the pickup van parked outside. They fled from the spot after committing the crime. The incident was captured in the CCTV camera. No security guard was present at the ATM booth at the time of the incident.SP (Rural) Mohali Ravjot Kaur Grewal said two teams were formed to crack the case. During interrogation, it was established that the suspects had carried out around six ATM robberies in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown. Most of their accomplices had already been arrested by the UP and the Haryana police.The Lalru police had registered a case under Sections 457, 380, 427 and 34 of the IPC.During interrogation, the arrested persons revealed that their accomplices were also involved in the crime and were still absconding. They had been identified as Inam, alias Pradhan, Sadiq, Rukam Din, Samsuddin and Jabir, all residents of Saharanpur district. Raids were being conducted to nab the absconding persons, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-in-atm-robbery-case-107733
03-07-2020||---||2 held for duping woman of Rs 36K||Mohali, July 2The Mohali police today arrested two youths for allegedly duping a woman of Rs36,000 by swapping her debit card.The suspects are Ajay Kumar, a resident of Balongi, and Satish Kumar, a native of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh who lives in Sector 38, Chandigarh.The incidentThe complainant told the police that her daughter was facing a problem in withdrawing cash at an ATM kiosk. An unknown man, who was standing behind her, offered help. He noted down the PIN of her card, then swapped it and left the place.Aasha Devi, a resident of Phase 1, told the police that one of the suspects had swapped the debit card of her daughter when she was withdrawing the money from an ATM. The incident took place on May 29. She said her daughter was facing problem in withdrawing cash and an unknown man, who was standing behind her, offered help. He had noted down the PIN of her card, then swapped it and left the place.The next day, the victim said her daughter received a message about withdrawal of Rs 36,000 from her account following which she blocked the card and approached the police.Later, Aasha Devi submitted a complainant to the Mohali SSP who marked it to the cyber cell DSP.A case was registered under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station in this regard.Ajay Kumar and Satish Kumar were traced by the cyber cell and were arrested last night. The duo was produced before a court today which sent them to two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-duping-woman-of-rs-36k-107718
03-07-2020||Mohali||Court junks plaint by Railways against Punjab minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||A local court has junked a complaint against Punjab Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu filed by the Railways alleging that the minister had obstructed the movement of trains. The complaint was dismissed as “the Railways had failed to file a complaint in stipulated time”.Balbir Singh Sidhu, along with 200 to 300 supporters, was accused of stopping trains at Lalru during a state-wide agitation in May 2015 for over two hours, causing loss to the Railways. The incident took place on May 2, 2015, but the complaint was filed in the court on May 24, 2019.After hearing the arguments of the defence and prosecution counsels, the court opined: “Accordingly, the present application seeking dismissal of the case is allowed and proceedings in the present case are ordered to be dropped against the accused.”It was observed by the court that the complaint filed on May 24, 2019, after more than four years of the alleged crime, is liable to be dismissed as the court was not competent to take cognizance of the offence in view of the restrictions under Section 468 of the CrPC.The court further observed: “Moreover, the present complaint is filed under Section 174 of Railways Act and prescribed limitation period for filing such complaints is three years and the prosecution has not sought any extension of time during the investigation or before filing of the complaint under Section 473 of the CrPC. So, there was no occasion for the court to extend the period of limitation as the prosecution has not properly explained or specified facts and circumstances due to which the filing of the complaint was delayed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-junks-plaint-by-railways-against-punjab-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-107719
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Learning fest for teachers||Tribune Model School, Sector 29, organised a 10-day festival of learning to ensure that teachers use technology with ease.Teachers participated with enthusiasm and the school staff delivered lectures on various topics. School teachers learned to use online platforms and explored different applications for enhancing their teaching skills. Activities such as dance, music and sharing of personal experiences regarding the change in the methodology of work were part of the festival. Participants were felicitated today during a virtual ceremony wherein Chand Nehru, Chairperson of school, shared a story with them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/learning-fest-for-teachers-107720
03-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||150 continue to stay in PU hostels||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Having no foremost reasons, around 150 Panjab University (PU) hostellers have been staying on the campus since March, putting financial and psychological burden on the authorities.Now that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the closure of universities till July 31, the PU authorities are convincing these students to go to their hometown.The list also includes around 22 women students, a majority of whom are from neighbouring states. The authorities had allowed them to stay on humanitarian grounds, but they have been asked to leave for home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier, they were allowed to visit the campus markets with an attendant, but after cases appeared, the exercise was stopped. Perhaps no other university in the region has allowed its hostellers to stay back.“Those from abroad have ensured to leave on July 15, whereas others will be go back in a day or so. I have personally visited all hostels and there have been many students from Haryana and Punjab,” said Prof Sukhbir Kaur, DSW (Women). “Even research scholars are contacting their guides online. I don’t know for what specific reasons these students are allowed to stay,” said Prof SK Tomar, DSW (Men).A majority of the hostellers said they were living for personal reasons.The students have been living in different hostels citing social distancing norms. Of the 20 hostels in the varsity, all boys’ hostels are open, while two girls’ hostels are open. The authorities have appointed multi-tasking staff, wardens and security guards to look after the students.The PGI authorities took over the PU’s international hostel. According to an official communiqué, the hostel has been reserved for doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/150-continue-to-stay-in-pu-hostels-107721
03-07-2020||---||‘Cong, AAP misleading farmers on ordinances’||Patiala, July 2The chief spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Punjab unit, Anil Sareen, today said the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were misleading farmers on recent ordinances passed by the Central Government.At a press conference in the city today, he said, “Statements of Congress state president Sunil Jhakhar and AAP leader Bhagwant Mann are ‘fabricated and malicious’.”“The BJP-led Central Government has given farmers the right to sell their produce to the highest bidder in the market,” he added.“The MSP for crops will not be discontinued. Farmers need not worry about not getting buyers for their crops. Market committees will function as before. We promise farmers of Punjab that the BJP is committed to protecting agriculture in the state,” he said.“The Government of Punjab has already incorporated three ordinances in its Mandi Act, 2017,” he added.Sareen also pointed out that the Central Government had provided enough packages to the Punjab Government to help people of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-aap-misleading-farmers-on-ordinances-107722
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Identifying fake, cloned journals||DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh, organised a webinar on ‘How to catch fake, predatory and cloned journals in academics’. Various ways to detect unauthentic journals were discussed. Dr Sumit Narula, Director, Amity School of Communication, Madhya Pradesh, was the resource person.  Narula highlighted fake journals sites vis-à-vis the role of the UGC Care List, Scopus and Web of Science. He discussed various measures through which academic community could publish their research work. He discussed points for identifying fake and cloned journals. He pointed out that some of them were using cloned websites with the same logo and ISSN number. “Check for UGC Care List and Scopus data before submitting your work to any journal,” said Dr Narula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/identifying-fake-cloned-journals-107723
03-07-2020||andigarh||NSUI protests hike in fuel prices||The  NSUI, Panjab University, launched a campaign to target Chandigarh MP  Kirron Kher over the hike in fuel prices.  During the campaign, 25 activists  distributed a ‘Missing MP’ pamphlet that announced a prize money of Rs1,100 “to the pesrson who will find the missing MP”. “It is shocking that  the fuel prices are increasing by the day and those responsible are nowhere  to be seen,” said Manoj Lubana, social media head of the NSUI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-protests-hike-in-fuel-prices-107724
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dhanas man alleges unknown persons ‘fire’ at his car||A resident of Dhanas has alleged that four unknown persons fired at his car from an Innova and two glasses of his vehicle were broken.The police are probing if gunshots were fired. The victim reported that he heard a loud noise after which two glasses of his car broke. However, he did not see any weapon.The victim, Vikram (43) of Aman Colony, was returning home from his in-laws’ house in Sector 39 (West) with his three-year-old daughter when the incident happened.The victim said he was on a road near dumping ground when the Innova coming from the rear side started honking. As the road was narrow, the victim claimed he could not give way to the SUV.When those riding in Innova overtook his car, he heard a loud noise after which two glasses of his vehicle broke. Suspects then stopped their SUV and came towards the complainant’s car following which Vikram fled the spot. He had then called the PC. Cops rushed to the spot and initiated an investigation after recording the victim’s statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-man-alleges-unknown-persons-fire-at-his-car-107725
03-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Functioning of District Courts remains restrictive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2The functioning of the District Courts, Chandigarh, continues to be restrictive as the District and Sessions Court has implemented the order of the Administrative Committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court regarding the former’s working. The Registrar General of the High Court in the order dated June 30, 2020, directed the District Courts that the order of the Administrative Committee dated June 10, 2020, should continue till further orders. The committee in its order decided to restrict the functioning of the courts in view of the pandemic.The committee has directed, “The District and Sessions Judge may allow filling of non-urgent cases, which don’t require immediate relief. However, while regulating filling of such cases the District and Sessions Judge shall ensure that there is no overcrowding in the court.” “The category of non-urgent cases, which are to be allowed for filling at the first instance or in a phased manner, shall be decided by the District and Sessions Judge keeping,” the committee stated.“The District and Sessions Judge shall depute requisite numbers of Judicial Officers and their staff as may be deemed necessary. The remaining officers and the staff shall work from home,” the committed directed.Meanwhile, in a representation to the District and Sessions Judge, the District Bar Association Chandigarh president, NK Nanda, requested to allow entry of clerks in the District Court complex.Nanda submitted that lawyers were facing hardship while filling cases single handedly in the absence of their clerks as the entry of the latter was banned in the court complex. Lawyers were at times were not aware of the filing process to which clerks were privy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/functioning-of-district-courts-remains-restrictive-107726
03-07-2020||---||10 more test positive in Panchkula, district tally 119||Panchkula, July 2Ten fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced in Panchkula today. Of these, six are from Panchkula, three from Chandigarh and one from Punjab. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 119.The patients include a 25-year-old man and a 59-year-old man from Sector 17, a 29-year-old man from Housing Board Colony, Kalka. All three are contacts of infected persons. The other patients are a 63-year-old man from Vishvakarma Colony, Pinjore. He was visiting the PGI for treatment. A 22-year-old man from Indira Colony and a 20-year-old woman from Marranwala village were also found positive for the virus. They both have a travel history to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, respectively.Now, there aee 27 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-test-positive-in-panchkula-district-tally-119-107727
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four contract infection in Chandigarh||Four fresh cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally of the UT to 450. Now, there are 55 active cases in the city.Those infected include three members of a family — 19-year-old, his 54-year-old mother, who is a private doctor, and 56-year-old father, from Shivalik Enclave in NAC, Mani Majra. Their one family member and five family contacts are being sampled.Another case is that of a 44-year-old man from Khudda Lahora. He has four family contacts. All of them are asymptomatic and are being sampled. The family had travelled to Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh) from June 14 to 16.21 discharged from hospitalA total of 21 patients were discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, Chandigarh, today.Of them, 15 have been shifted to a post-discharge quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala. Fourteen of them are from Mauli Jagran. Six others were discharged after they completed  their 10-day isolation period. They will self-isolate at home for the next seven days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-contract-infection-in-chandigarh-107728
03-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees four new cases||5 cured, dischargedDr Manjit Singh said five patients defeated Covid and were discharged from the Banur hospital. As of now, there are 73 active cases in the district. While 203 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals, four died due to the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-four-new-cases-107746
03-07-2020||Amit Bathla||74-yr-old woman first Covid fatality of Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 2A 74-year-old woman from Panchkula died of Covid-19 at Alchemist Hospital in Sector 21 here last night, making her the first person to have died of the disease in the district. The victim’s son has accused the hospital of negligence.Patient had comorbidities“The patient was also suffering from diabetes and had undergone a coronary bypass surgery in 2015. Despite all efforts, her condition deteriorated on Wednesday night and she breathed her last at 10.55 pm,” said Dr PS Mann, operations head of the Sector 21 hospital.He said: “My mother was admitted to the hospital for the past over 20 days before she developed Covid-19 symptoms. For the first five days, she was in the ICU. Later, she was shifted to a general ward. She might have contracted the virus at the hospital, maybe from the staff.”She was admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital on June 25 after she complained of breathlessness. She tested positive for Covid-19 on June 30. She was undergoing dialysis twice a week for long.Taking all precautions, says hospital“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the hospital management is taking all necessary precautions. All high-risk patients are being tested for Covid. We ensure proper sanitisation and fumigation at the hospital,” said the hospital in a statement.Show-cause notice to hospital: DCDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the Health Department had issued a show-cause notice to the hospital, seeking a reply within 48 hours.Panel’s findings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/74-yr-old-woman-first-covid-fatality-of-panchkula-107714
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Register pet or pay Rs 5,000||Now, the penalty for not getting pet dogs registered will be Rs 5,000 instead of the earlier Rs 500. The UT Administration today issued the final notification in this regard.The cost of the registration form has been raised from Rs200 to Rs500. The MC General House had approved the proposal for enhancing the penalty for non-registration of pet dogs in 2018.As per the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs Bylaws, 2010, it is mandatory for dog owners to register each pet at the Municipal Corporation office once the canine is four months old. Only two dogs are allowed per family.The owner needs to ensure that a collar with a metal token issued by the registering authority is tied around the pet’s neck.In case a dog defecates at a public place, the owner shall arrange to get the dog’s poop removed. Any registered dog straying at large will be seized and kept at a place set apart for this purpose.For a repeat violation, an additional fine will be imposed, which may extend to Rs200. The fine was Rs20 earlier.If the dog is detained under the bylaws, the owner will have to pay the maintenance charges of Rs1,000. Earlier, the charges for claiming one’s dog was Rs100 per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/register-pet-or-pay-rs-5-000-107715
03-07-2020||---||Chandigarh set for on-the-spot traffic challan payment||Chandigarh, July 2Almost nine years after the Chandigarh Police planned to introduce the e-challaning system, which enables violators to pay traffic fines on the spot, the department is finally going to launch the system.Those getting challaned for traffic offences in the city will no longer have to visit the Traffic Lines, Sector 29, to pay the fine as it will be collected by traffic cops on the spot. This will reduce the rush at the Traffic Lines and save people from the hassle of standing in long queues to pay the fine.Revamped websiteThe revamped website of the Chandigarh Traffic Police is also set to be launched.The traffic cops will be equipped with e-challaning mahcines, which will also produce the history of challans pertaining to the offending vehicles along with the payment status of the fine.“The payment of fine on the spot will be cashless as the fine will have to be paid with the help of a debit or credit card,” said a police official. The official said cops would need documents only if the violator “cannot pay on the spot”.The police are also going to launch the e-payment of fine for a traffic violation information slip (TVIS). A TVIS is issued after the violation is caught on a CCTV camera or pictures of violations are sent to the police by residents through WhatsApp, Facebook or Twitter.The TVIS is then sent on the violator’s postal address.The police said e-challaning machines worth around Rs 55 lakh had been sponsored by a private bank.Not for these offencesHowever, fines for non-compoundable offences, including drunken driving, speeding, red light jumping and driving while talking on mobile phone, will not be accepted on the spot. “Since the driving licence is recommended for suspension to the court, on-the-spot payment of challans will not be available for these offences,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-set-for-on-the-spot-traffic-challan-payment-107716
03-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab teenager spends Rs 16 lakh on PUBG||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2A Kharar-based teenager lost nearly Rs 16 lakh in a famous game, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG).He had allegedly purchased virtual ammunition, passes and artillery to master the game in a month.Boy now working at a scooter repair shopAfter the incident, the father has made his son work at a scooter repair shop. “I just can’t let him sit idle at home and cannot give him a mobile phone even for studying. He is working at a scooter repair shop so that he realises how hard it is to earn money. I am hopeless now as the money was saved for my son’s future.”According to his parents, the teenager told them that he was using mobile excessively for online study. The 17-year-old (name withheld) had access to three bank accounts that were used by him to upgrade his PUBG profile, for in-app purchases and for other users (his teammates) also.His parents came to learn about this from their bank statements. His father, who did not wish to be named, is a government employee and has a medical history. He said his son used his life’s savings kept for medical expenses. The teenager has also allegedly exhausted his mother’s Provident Fund (PF) amount and some from his own account.“I had saved the money for my medical needs and my son’s future. During the lockdown, I was staying at the place of my posting, while my son was staying with my wife here. He used her mobile phone to make all transactions and would delete the message regarding amount debited from account,” said his father.He further alleged that his son had all account details as he used to make online payments for his mother’s kitty party. “We never knew that he was using our accounts for playing a game. Even the police didn’t help us as my son had deliberately spent it,” added the aggrieved father. “He spent around Rs2 lakh of her mother’s PF amount which she transferred to the bank account recently. I had kept some amount in his personal account and a majority of the amount was in my non-salaried savings account. All of it was gone in no time.”His son also played smart by shuffling the amount from one account to another to avoid any doubts. “After we received details from the bank, I found that on several occasions, he shuffled amount from one bank to another to avoid nil balance. He was using his mother’s phone for quite sometime and she was not much vigilant to notice this.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-teenager-spends-rs-16-lakh-on-pubg-107717
