07-07-2020||Mohali||70-year-old dies of COVID-19 taking the death toll to 6 in Mohali||A 70-year-old man from Kharar, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at the GMCH Hospital in Patiala taking the death toll in Mohali district to six on Tuesday.The deceased was earlier admitted in a private hospital in Sector 68 with chronic disease and was to undergo surgery but was later shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala, where he died on Tuesday.  Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the body has been kept in the mortuary at the Patiala hospital and cremation will take place in Mohali on Wednesday as per protocol under the observation of health officials.He said they would collect the samples of his family members and will also trace contacts of the deceased.Meanwhile, five more cases were reported in Mohali district taking the total count to 323.The persons infected with the virus include a 40-year-old male from Zirakpur, 48-year-old male from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, 38-year-old male from Nayagaon, 50-year-old male from Baltana and a 28-year-old female from Mundi Kharar.Dr Manjit Singh said, all the patients were suffering from ILI and have been admitted in Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said the patient from Mundi Kharar was in contact with a positive case. He said health teams have been directed to take the samples of their family members on Wednesday.Dr Singh said that eight patients have recovered from the disease and discharged from the hospital.He said as of now there were 323 positive cases and out of these 237 have recovered while there were 80 active cases and six deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-taking-the-death-toll-to-6-in-mohali-109843
07-07-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Mohali, Machhiwara youths killed in road accident in Canada’s Vancouver||Two Punjab youths died in a road accident in Vancouver in Canada, according to a Punjabi Tribune report from Machhiwara in Ludhiana district.They have been identified as Gian Singh, 21, of Machhiwara and his friend from Mohali district.Gian Singh, son of Garden Valley International School, Machhiwara, trustee Gurbhagat Singh Namdhari, was studying mechanical engineering in Vancouver.Also read: ਕੈਨੇਡਾ ’ਚ ਸੜਕ ਹਾਦਸਾ: ਮਾਛੀਵਾੜਾ ਤੇ ਮੁਹਾਲੀ ਦੇ ਨੌਜਵਾਨਾਂ ਦੀ ਮੌਤHe went with his friend on an outing on Monday. When they were returning home their car collided with a truck resulting in their deaths.Police identified them from their ID cards and sounded their local guardians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-machhiwara-youths-killed-in-road-accident-in-canadas-vancouver-109798
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one death and five COVID-19 cases; UT's toll climbs to 7||Chandigarh reports another death and five fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the UT's death toll to 7. The city's tally stands at 492.An 80-year-old male from Sector 16 was admitted at NHE, PGIMER. He was kept on the ventilator. He was suffering from co-morbid conditions—chronic hypertension.However, a 35-year-old female, 24-year-old male, 49-year-old female, 14-year-old female, and a 55-year-old male tested COVID-19 tested positive.  Chandigarh reports 84 active cases. Recently, 21people, including three health workers, tested positive for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-death-and-five-covid-19-cases-uts-toll-climbs-to-7-109791
07-07-2020||Mohali||Except for tricity residents, no entry to Mohali without e-pass||As coronavirus cases surged in Mohali, the district administration on Tuesday disallowed entry into the area without an e-pass except for tricity residents. “No unauthorized entry would be allowed and a strict vigil would be maintained at all the five Border Check Posts in the district to ensure that everybody entering the district goes through proper procedures as laid out in the advisory regarding Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs),” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.However, this would not be applicable in the Tricity area as a significant number of people staying in Chandigarh and Panchkula, work in government offices or IT companies in Mohali and vice versa. The people would only have to show an ID card issued from their offices or residence proof to the police. Dayalan said that given the rising cases of coronavirus, the district administration would double up its efforts, which would include deploying police and health departments teams, to make sure that everybody coming to the district is made to go through proper medical screening. Three screening centres each will be set up at Siswan, Jharmari, Zirakpur, Bohra Khera Morh, and Nagal Morh border check posts. Only e-passes generated through Cova app would be accepted, he added.Dayalan said data entry operators would be deployed at every border check post for maintaining complete information about every person entering the district. Experts at each border post who would assist the people in downloading the Cova app. Besides, an ambulance service would also be kept on call to ensure its availability at short notice, he added. “Any person coming to Punjab via any mode—i.e. Road, rail or air— shall henceforth, and till further orders, would be medically screened when he/she enters Punjab and will be required to e-register himself/herself through any of the following means before starting his/her journey to Punjab. By uploading the Cova app on his/her mobile phone and then registering himself/herself and each member of his/her family travelling with him/her,” he added.The DC the e-registration slip would be pasted on the windscreen of vehicles. If travelling in public transport, the slip should be downloaded on the phone. Travellers could also login on to portalhttps://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration and then e-register all members of their family travelling with them to Punjab.He said in case any inbound traveller does not undertake the steps detailed above, then they would be asked at the border or rail, airport check post to cooperate with the team of the Punjab Government, who would undertake the data capturing process there at the spot itself. He further said that except for frequent travellers, all inbound persons will have to undertake a self-quarantine of 14 days in Punjab. They will have to update their health status daily on COVA app or would have to call 112 daily during this period. He further said that for international travellers, the quarantine would be institutional for the first seven days and home for the next seven days. Any violation of these instructions will make violators liable for penal action, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/except-for-tricity-residents-no-entry-to-mohali-without-e-pass-109774
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 health workers among 21 test +ve in Chandigarh||In a major surge in Covid-19 cases, 21 persons, including three health workers, tested positive for the virus in the city today, taking the tally to 487.A 30-year-old woman staffer of the PGI, residing on the campus, contracted the virus. She was deployed in the Covid ward of the Nehru Hospital Extension.6 patients dischargedSix Covid patients were discharged after defeating the virus. As of now, 401 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 80 active cases in the city.A 48-year-old doctor from the GMCH, Sector 32, also tested positive for the virus. The doctor, a resident of Sector 32, is the contact of a male nurse of the GMCH, who had tested positive earlier.A 40-year-old staffer of the GMCH-32 was also found infected. The staffer, a resident of Daria, is a contact of an already positive case of the hospital.Four workplace contacts of a previously diagnosed case of the UT Education Department, Sector 9, were also found positive for the novel coronavirus. They are a 34-year-old woman from Dadu Majra, a 44-year-old woman from Sector 40, a 37-year-old person from Behlana and a 25-year-old man from Sector 20.Four family contacts of a previously diagnosed case of Sector 30 also contracted the infection. They are four women, aged 22, 26, 16 and 55. A 61-year-old woman and a five-year-old boy were found suffering from the disease. They are the family contacts of a previously diagnosed case of Sector 21.Three family contacts of an already positive case of Daria were diagnosed with the disease. They are two girls, aged 15 and 11, and a 43-year-old man.A 67-year-old woman from Sector 38 also contracted the infection. She has nine family contacts and all of them are asymptomatic.A 39-year-old woman from Sector 15 was also found suffering from the contagion. Her two family members have tested negative.A 42-year-old man, who was working in Ambala with a travel history to Gurgaon, was found infected with the virus. He is a resident of Sector 32 and has four family members and a maid.A 64-year-old man from Khuda Lahora also tested positive for the virus. He is working in Punjab.A nine-year-old boy from Sector 31 also contracted the virus. He is the contact of an already positive case of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-health-workers-among-21-test-ve-in-chandigarh-109461
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t lunch in canteens, Chandigarh Administrator tells staff||As part of steps to check the spread of Covid-19, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today ordered that the practice of employees having lunch together in canteens or in office rooms should be discontinued in view of the social distancing norms.The order was issued after a sudden outbreak of Covid cases in the UT Education Department.At a review meeting, Badnore also ordered that teaching and non-teaching staff should not be asked to come to colleges and offices unless there was emergent work. He also ordered that employees should wear a mask and maintain social distance during the tea break to check the spread of the virus. With the rise in Covid-19 cases due to people visiting the city, the Administrator stressed on more vigorous contact tracing and screening of outsiders. The Administrator said in government and private offices, only minimum staff should be called and others should be encouraged to work from home.During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, expressed concern over medical cases, which can be treated at the district level, being sent to the PGI, thereby crowding the infrastructure.On this, the Administrator directed that the matter be taken up with the neighbouring states so that such patients could get proper treatment at local hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-lunch-in-canteens-chandigarh-administrator-tells-staff-109462
07-07-2020||Mohali||15 more contract virus in Mohali||With the surfacing of 15 more positive Covid-19 cases from various parts of Mohali, the district count has gone up to 318. Five patients were discharged today.Those found infected are a 52-year-old woman, a 27-year-old man and a 26-year-old woman from Sector 66, Mohali; a 32-year-old man from Kharar; a 65-year-old man from New Chandigarh, Mullanpur; a 46-year-old man from Sunny Enclave; a 29-year-old woman from Sector 80; a 37-year-old man from Sector 127 in Kharar; a 70-year-old man from Phase 11; a 23-year-old woman from Ballomajra; a 35-year-old man from Nayagaon and a 33-year-old man, a 20-year-old youth, a 45-year-old man and a 70-year-old woman from Majat village in the district.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the patients from Sector 66, Mohali, had a travel history to Kanpur, while the patients from Mullanpur and Phase 11, Mohali, were suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI), who were contacts of positive persons, while the rest of the patients, including the 29-year-old woman working with the UT Education Department, were also contacts of positive cases. He said all patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and health teams would collect the samples of their family members.Dr Manjit Singh said five patients had been cured and were discharged from the hospital today. Those discharged are a 48-year-old woman and a 20-year-old youth from Baltana, a 57-year-old man from Sector 71, a 28-year-old man from Mauli Baidwan and an 11-year-old girl from Kharar.The district has recorded 318 positive cases so far. While 229 patiens have recovered, there are 84 active cases. Five persons have died of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-109463
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police HQ shut to carry out sanitisation||The Chandigarh Police Headquarters in Sector 9 here was shut today for two days to carry out sanitisation after employees of the UT Education Department tested positive for Covid-19.The Education Department is situated in the Additional Deluxe Building, which is adjacent to the Police Headquarters.The SP (Headquarters), Manoj Kumar Meena, said since the employees of the Police Department and the Education Department share the same canteen, which is located in the Police Headquarters, there was a need to sanitise the building as a precautionary measure.“The building has been closed for sanitisation. It will open on Wednesday,” he said.Staff of the Police Headquarters had been asked to work from home. However, the police control room would work normally.“The control room will function normally. In case there is some emergent need, then other staff will also work from their office in the Police Headquarters,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-hq-shut-to-carry-out-sanitisation-109464
07-07-2020||Panchkula||3 more infected in Panchkula||Three fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today, taking the tally to 124. The affected persons are a 47-year-old man from Sector 7, a 33-year-old woman from Sector 18 and a 53-year-old man from Sector 16.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said all patients had been admitted to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-infected-in-panchkula-109465
07-07-2020||Mohali||No unauthorised entry into Mohali district: Deputy Commissioner||No unauthorised entry will be allowed into the district and strict vigil will be maintained at all five border check posts. Everyone entering the district will have to go through proper procedures as laid down in the advisory regarding SOPs, which will be applicable from tomorrow. This was stated by Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.Medical screening at all border check postsMohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in view of the rising Covid cases, the district administration would deploy teams from the Police and the Health departments to make sure that anyone entering the district was made to go through proper medical screening at all border check posts at Siswan, Jharmari, Zirakpur, Bohra Khera Morh and Nagal Morh.Only e-pass generated from the COVA app would be accepted, he said.Dayalan said data entry operators would also be deployed at all border check posts to maintain entire information about every individual entering the district. Experts at each check post will also assist people to download the COVA app.Dayalan said any person, whether major or minor, coming to Punjab via road, rail or air, till further orders, would be medically screened when he/she enters the state. People would be required to e-register themselves by downloading the COVA app on their cellphones and then registering themselves and each member of their family travelling with them.He said except for frequent travellers, all inbound persons would have to undertake a self-quarantine for 14 days. During this period, they would have to update their health status daily on the app or call 112. For international travellers, institutional quarantine would be for the first seven days and home-quarantine for the next seven days. Anyone found violating instructions would be liable for penal action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-unauthorised-entry-into-mohali-district-deputy-commissioner-109466
07-07-2020||Zirakpur||Man falls from 3rd floor of hotel, dies||A 32-year-old man died under mysterious circumstances after falling from the third floor of a hotel in Baltana. The deceased has been identified as Rahul Sharma, a resident of Regalia Towers in Basant Vihar, Dhakoli. His family has alleged foul play in the incident. The room was booked by Rahul and his friend Pradeep. Rahul jumped from the third floor of the hotel, said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-falls-from-3rd-floor-of-hotel-dies-109486
07-07-2020||Panchkula||Now, Kalka to have Municipal Council||City residents and politicians hailed the decision of the Haryana Cabinet for the separation of Kalka and Pinjore areas from the Panchkula Municipal Corporation.Ravinder Rawal, former president of the erstwhile Panchkula Municipal Council, said with this decision, a separate Municipal Council would be constituted for Pinjore-Kalka and the Panchkula MC would comprise Panchkula city and 21 surrounding villages.He said now it was anticipated that elections for councillors and mayor for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation and president and councillors for the Pinjore-Kalka Municipal Council would be conducted in the near future.The Panchkula Municipal Corporation was constituted in 2010 by merging the then Municipal Council, Panchkula, and the municipal committees of Pinjore and Kalka along with 42 panchayats.Expressing gratitude to the Haryana Government, Vijay Bansal, president and former chairman of the Shivalik Vikas Manch, said it was necessary to create a separate Municipal Council for Kalka as the area did not witness any development in the past decade. With the formation of the council, development in the area would be accelerated.Anil Aggarwal, a resident of Kalka, said now Kalka and Pinjore would get proper representation in the council. Earlier, there were only six councillors from the area in the corporation. Now, there would be 20 to 25 councillors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-kalka-to-have-municipal-council-109504
07-07-2020||Panchkula||Bollywood star Ayushmann Khurrana comes home||Local lad and Bollywood star Ayushmann Khurrana has come back home. The star, who was recently seen in Gulabo Sitabo alongside Amitabh Bachchan, has bought a house in his home town — Sector 6 in Panchkula — for Rs9 crore.Ayushmann was in the city today to get the registration of the house done in his and his wife Tahira’s name. He and Tahira visited the tehsil office at the Mini-Secretariat for this purpose.Ayushmann is no stranger to Panchkula as his father, P Khurrana, who is a known astrologer, lives in Sector 2 here. The actor, who had made his debut with Vicky Donor, had earlier paid the earnest money as well as the TDS. Today, at the time of getting the house registered in his name, he paid the remaining money to the sellers — Subhash and Veena Bindra. The total area of the house is 869.50 sq metre. Sector 6 is a posh area as several businessmen, IAS officers and IPS officers have built their houses here.The real estate sector in Panchkula had been facing a dismal scenario for the past few years. “However, after the spread of the pandemic, the rates have seen a little upswing as many people from Delhi and other affected places had purchased property here in the past three months,” said Arvind Kumar of Ishwar Property Consultants.As the news about Ayushmann’s presence in the tehsil office spread, hundreds of his fans gathered at the Mini-Secretariat. However, two bouncers accompanying the actor managed the rush.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bollywood-star-ayushmann-khurrana-comes-home-109505
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held for firing outside GMCH-32||A 24-year-old youth, who was allegedly involved in “brazen firing” outside the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, in January this year, has been arrested by the local police. This is the second arrest made in the case so far.The police said Dilpreet Singh, alias Billa, a resident of Ropar district, was arrested on July 5. The Mahindra Scorpio, which was used in the crime, was also recovered from the suspect.Earlier, Kamalpreet Singh Sidhu, a resident of Sunny Enclave, Sector 125, Kharar, was arrested on June 28.The police said three other co-accused — Nishan Singh Khera, Baljeet Chaudhary and Bhavjit Singh Gill — were yet to be arrested.The complainant, Jagtar Singh of Ludhiana, had stated that his friend Lovepreet Singh of Kharar had got injured and was admitted to the GMCH on January 10. He, along with his friend Samar Bhat, had come to the GMCH to meet Lovepreet in an i20 car, which they had parked near the Emergency.Samar had old enmity with a few persons over the issue of posting videos and comments on the social media. Jagtar Singh told the police that he was standing near the Emergency when five persons came there and shouted that they would eliminate Samar before opening fire at him. He saved his life by hiding behind a car.Gurdyal Singh, who was passing by, sustained a bullet injury on his arm and was admitted to the hospital. The attackers then sped away in three vehicles — a Mahindra Thar, a Mahindra Scorpio and a Chevrolet car. On Jagtar’s statement, an FIR was registered in this connection at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-firing-outside-gmch-32-109506
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||16 years on, motorist gets 2-year jail for cyclist’s death||Sixteen years after a man caused the death of a cyclist by rash driving, a city court has awarded him a jail term of two years. Holding the Punjab resident guilty of the offence punishable under Sections 279, 337, 304 (Part II) and 201 of the IPC, Rajesh Sharma, Additional Sessions Judge, sentenced him to two-year imprisonment.The incidentKamaljit Singh, a resident of Bhikhariwal village in Gurdaspur district, had hit the cyclist with his car in Sector 61 on February 20, 2004. When people gathered at the spot, he took the injured saying that he would admit him to a hospital. However, instead of admitting him to a hospital, he threw him on the road in the Industrial Area, Mohali, where the injured was found dead two days after the incident.The court also pronounced imprisonment of periods ranging from six months to one year under various Sections of the IPC. All sentences shall run concurrently. The court also imposed a fine of Rs2,500 for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 201 of the IPC.Kamaljit Singh, a resident of Bhikhariwal village in Gurdaspur district, had hit the cyclist with his car in Sector 61 on February 20, 2004.When people gathered at the spot, he took the injured saying that he would admit him to a hospital. However, instead of admitting him to a hospital, he threw him on the road in the Industrial Area, Mohali, where the injured was found dead two days after the incident.The police had registered a case on February 21, 2004, at the Sector 61 police post. Constable Baljit Singh was an eyewitness to the incident and had got his statement recorded. He had stated that a white Tata Sumo (PB 01 3358), which was being driven in a rash and negligent manner, came from the Chandigarh side and hit a cyclist, who fell and got injured.The driver stopped his vehicle, alighted and took the injured in his car. Two days after the incident on February 22, 2004, the police received information that a body was lying near the Asian Paints factory in Mohali.After verifying the facts, it transpired that the driver had not taken the injured to a hospital and threw him on the way. Though an FIR was registered against the accused on February 21, 2004, he evaded arrest. The court ruled that the accused had committed culpable homicide not amounting to murder without an intention to cause death but with the knowledge that it was likely to cause death, punishable under Sections 304 (Part II) of the IPC. The court heard the arguments through video-conferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-years-on-motorist-gets-2-year-jail-for-cyclists-death-109507
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||8 mid-day meal kitchens will be ready by September: Chandigarh to Centre||The UT Education Department has reportedly committed to the Centre that eight government schools will be ready with cluster-based mid-day meal kitchens by the end of September.Meal distribution in CityThree centralised kitchens – Dr Ambedkar Institute of Hotel Management, Sector 42, Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management, Sector 42, and Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), Sector 17 — prepare meals for 91 schools.Seven school-based cluster kitchens at government schools in Sector 10, 15, 26, 44, 47 and Government Model High School in Sector 38 and Sector 42 serve mid-day meal to 31 schools.The department had proposed the eight cluster kitchens in government schools under the Central Government’s Mid-Day Meal Scheme in October last year.A senior official said the work was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the construction would soon be resumed.The schools where kitchens have been proposed at are GMSSS, 20-B; GMHS, Karsan; Government School, Raipur Kalan (new building); GMHS, Pocket No 10, Mani Majra; GMHS, Sector 29; GMSSS, Sector 40-B; GMHS, Sector 12 and GMSSS, Dhanas.The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) had released an assistance of Rs 23.34 lakh for the construction of 10 kitchen-cum-stores in Chandigarh.Till December last year, the construction of seven kitchens was completed and work for three kitchen-cum-stores was in progress.Besides, the UT Administration has sanctioned five kitchens for Rs4.72 lakh from their own resources. The construction work of these five cluster kitchens is also in progress.During the Programme Approval Board (PAB) meeting held on June 16, the UT Administration had assured the Centre to complete the construction of all eight kitchens by September. The new kitchens will be cluster based and will also serve food to their own students and to a few neighborhood government schools.At present, there are seven school-based kitchens that are providing mid-day meal to students of government schools, along with three centralised kitchens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-mid-day-meal-kitchens-will-be-ready-by-september-chandigarh-to-centre-109508
07-07-2020||Mohali||Two women among 3 from  Nayagaon commit suicide||Three cases of suicide by Nayagaon residents, including two women, have surfaced in the past 24 hours.The victims have been identified as Parvati (20), Sonia (29) and Mahinder (35). The police have booked five suspects in the case of Mahinder’s suicide.In the first case, Parvati reportedly ended her life around 11 am today by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Kansal, Nayagaon. The victm’s husband, Krishan, stated that she was upset for the past few months due to domestic disputes.In the second case, Sonia reportedly committed suicide last night around 9 pm after hanging self from a ceiling fan at her house in Shivalik Vihar, Nayagaon. The victim’s brother, Naveen, said told the police that Sonia was stressed over huge losses in her husband’s business.No suicide notes were recovered from both victims and the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.In the third case, Mahinder allegedly committed suicide after jumping from the building of a shop in Nayagaon around 1 am last night. The victims’ wife, Ranjeeta, said told tha police that an acquaintance, Ajay, owed the victim Rs2 lakh and was not returning the money to him due to which Mahinder was stressed. She said Ajay and his accomplices had also assaulted Mahinder.Ranjeeta alleged that on Sunday, Ajay came to their house with four of his accomplices and abused Mahinder following which a scuffle broke out between them. Ajay and his accomplices fled after assaulting Mahinder. Few hours after this incident, Mahinder went outside his house and jumped from his shop. Mahinder was taken to the GMSH, Sector 16, Chandigarh, where doctors declared him brought dead. He is survived by his wife and two daughters.The police have also recovered a suicide note from his possession in which Mahinder mentioned that he took the extreme step due to Ajay and his accomplices.The Nayagaon police have booked Ajay and four unidentified persons under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-women-among-3-from-nayagaon-commit-suicide-109509
07-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||53-yr-old first Covid fatality from Fatehgarh Sahib district||The first death due to Covid-19 was reported from the district today.A 53-year-old resident of Sham Nagar, Mandi Gobindgarh, passed away at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. As per the health authorities, the patient developed fever on July 2 and on July 3, he was admitted to Asia Columbia in Patiala. On July 5, he was referred to Rajindra Hospital. The deceased had no travel history. The Health Department had traced his 12 close contacts and their samples were collected.Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said three new positive cases — two from Mandi Gobindgarh and one from Sirhind — surfaced in the district and one patient was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital. He said the tally of positive cases reached 127 of which 22 are active. He said 10,800 samples were collected and 10,410 tested negative and the test result of 262 is awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/53-yr-old-first-covid-fatality-from-fatehgarh-sahib-district-109510
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Look into inquiry report before taking action, High Court tells Panjab University||Four years after an inquiry report was submitted in an alleged sexual harassment case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Panjab University and another respondent to look into the report before taking necessary steps. For the purpose, Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul has set a two-month deadline.The direction came on a petition filed by a woman employee against Panjab University and other respondents for directions to the university for taking action on the inquiry report dated May 4, 2016, that was submitted by a committee on the university’s direction in terms of the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal), Act, 2013.Directions were also sought for imposing punishment in view of the recommendations made by the committee. It was further requested that a considerable compensation amount may also be ordered. “If any action contrary to the recommendations made in the inquiry report has already been taken by the university and another respondent, the same be quashed keeping in view the peculiar facts and circumstances of the instant case,” it was added.The counsel submitted that the petitioner would be satisfied if the petition was disposed of with a direction to the official respondents to look into the matter and take appropriate action, if required, on the inquiry report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/look-into-inquiry-report-before-taking-action-high-court-tells-panjab-university-109512
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Parents in Chandigarh want PUBG banned||After several cases of teenagers losing money by making purchases of virtual items in PUBG, parents are now demanding a ban on the game.Reports suggested that at a single time over one lakh users play the game in India. The game is available on different modes — mobile, PlayStation and computer.Recent casesA Kharar-based teenager lost nearly Rs16 lakhA Mohali-based boy allegedly spent over Rs2 lakhAs per the data, there are more than 8 lakh registered android and around 1.5 lakh IOS phones in the city and a majority of them had downloaded the game during the lockdown.“This is a serious concern and the government should either ban or put restrictions on it. My 10-year-old daughter used to play but after coming to know about a few cases, I have uninstalled it,” said Prabhat Sharma, a Mohali resident.“We have to think beyond blaming the children. The parents should also take the responsibility and stop their children from using such platforms,” said Jyoti Pandey, another resident.PUBG may put restrictionsHari Chand Arora, a lawyer of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had filed a PIL for banning the game. He said the process was under examination by the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology as directed by the court.According to him, PUBG operators have recently submitted that they would restrict gaming hours and seek consent of parents. The submission was made to the ministry. However, Arora said he wants a complete ban on the game.“The platform, PUBG, has offered to put restriction on the game, including one-hour break after every two-hour session, parents’ consent through an OTP after every session and five-hour maximum limit in a day,” said Arora.He added: “However, this will not solve the purpose. This platform is duping teenagers by selling ‘virtual’ weapons that are of no use. We are going to demand a complete ban on the game.”On December 9, 2019, the court had directed the Centre to take a decision on banning the game and the outcome is likely before the end of the month.“I have submitted the recent reports of The Tribune in this regard. They were acknowledged by the ministry and PUBG operators,” added Arora.“The company has been many facing cases in cities such as Mumbai and Gujarat and the government needs to take necessary steps,” said advocate VK Sachdeva.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-in-chandigarh-want-pubg-banned-109514
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh school lad shines||Adavya Bhutani, a student of Strawberry Fields High School, has topped the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP) with an exceptional score of 41 out of 45. He also scored an ‘A grade in his ‘math extended essay’.The top scorers of the IBDP also include Shireen Kang with 38 points and Tanay Singh with 37 Points. The overall school results have been encouraging with an average score of 32 points.The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme is a rigorous academic study programme with a broad and balanced curriculum that focuses on the academic and non-academic knowledge, skills and abilities important for success in the transition from secondary to tertiary education.Atul Khanna, Director of the school, said: “The IB programme has been very well accepted by our students. The rigour and study methodology that it follows makes learning more relevant and meaningful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-school-lad-shines-109515
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Widows get ration kits in Chandigarh||A ration distribution programme was organised by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation in which one-month ration kits were distributed among 44 widows on the doorsteps.This scheme was started by foundation president Sanjay Tandon and the programme is held on the first Sunday of every month. After the city went under the lockdown, the foundation has been delivering kits to widows on their doorsteps. As many as 1,986 families were also helped. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/widows-get-ration-kits-in-chandigarh-109517
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Municipal Corporation Chandigarh rakes in Rs18 cr from property tax in 2 months||More than 60 per cent people in the city are yet to pay property tax even as the last date for payment of property tax is July 31.As per the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) tax branch, currently, there are a total of 1.06 lakh residential and commercial tax payers in the city and 32,332 residential and 7,405 commercial property owners have paid tax so far.In two months during the lockdown, the cash-starved MC earned a revenue of Rs18 crore from the House and commercial property tax. Of this, Rs8.17 crore came from the House and Rs9.90 crore came from commercial tax. This includes arrears as well.“We have set a target of Rs48 crore in the current fiscal. Despite the Covid-19 restrictions, we could get Rs18 crore from tax. We hope more number of people will pay tax as the last date is approaching and almost everything is open now,” said an officer privy to the development.The civic body earned Rs53 crore from property tax in 2019-20.Till July 31, tax payers will get 20 per cent rebate on residential tax and 10 per cent on commercial tax. However, after the final date, there will be 25 per cent fine and 12 per cent interest on the amount. The corporation earlier extended the date of tax payment due to the lockdown.On the other hand, the issue of people getting notices for property tax already paid has not been resolved. “People are getting commercial tax notices for 2004 onwards. The authorities are asking them to show receipts in case they have made the payments. Who keeps the payment slips of 15 years ago. They should not send notices of more than four years,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of Opposition in the MC House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporation-chandigarh-rakes-in-rs18-cr-from-property-tax-in-2-months-109518
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to discuss ways to overcome crisis||The committee formed by the MC Mayor will a hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss ways to solve the issue of the current financial crisis.Other than seven councillors comprising former mayors Arun Sood and Davesh Moudgil, additional commissioner Anil Garg and the chief accounts officer will also be part of the meeting. Mayor Raj Bala Malik formed the committee after the MC House decided to deliberate on shortage of funds last week. The Mayor has asked the committee to submit its report by July 25.MC Commissioner KK Yadav had last week revealed that against the committed liabilities of Rs597 crore for the current financial year, the civic body had only Rs581 crore. With a deficit of Rs16 crore, the corporation was not in a position to undertake development and maintenance work, he had said.The former mayors have been taking up the matter of getting funds as per the recommendations of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission, but it did not happen. The Centre hasnot acted on it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-discuss-ways-to-overcome-crisis-109519
07-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali village borders likely to be sealed||After the detection of 11 Covid-19 cases in Behra village near Dera Bassi, the Health Department is contemplating sealing the boundaries of the village to prevent the further spread of the virus.Health teams, led by the Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, visited the village today to take stock of the situation. Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Daljit Singh Pradesi, SMO Dr Sangeeta Jain, nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur and consultant from WHO, Dr Vikram Gupta, were present on the occasion.Dr Manjit Singh said after reviewing the situation of the village, they had advised the Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, to seal the boundaries of the village completely to prevent the further spread of the virus.The Civil Surgeon accompanied the health officials to the village streets and gave necessary instructions to health and police teams.Dr Manjit Singh said, “A total of 22 workers of a meat factory near Behra village have been infected and area around the factory has already been made a containment zone. There is an urgent need to make the village a containment zone as most of the factory workers live in this village.”The Civil Surgeon said the health teams had completed the door-to-door survey of the village. A total of 141 samples of the family members and other contacts of the patients had been taken and the exact status of the spread of the disease in would be known after the reports, he said.Dr Manjit said the village sarpanch had been asked to start ‘thikri pehras’ (community policing) in the village and keep a strict vigil around the houses of the patients. He also asked the health and police teams to do their bit to prevent the spread of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-village-borders-likely-to-be-sealed-109520
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight held for violating  District Magistrate’s order||The UT police have arrested eight persons for allegedly violating orders of the District Magistrate.According to the police, six persons — Rajesh Kumar, Santosh Kumar, Akhtar, Sunil Kumar, Sehjad and Rahul — were found travelling in an auto near the Zirakpur barrier on July 5.All persons were booked under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 31 police station. They were arrested and later released on bail.Meanwhile, two persons were held for roaming in the city during restricted hours.Sah Alam Ansari was found roaming near a primary school in Mauli Jagran and Aman Kumar was found roaming near the Mauli Jagran chowk. Cases were registered against the duo at the Mauli Jagran police station. They were arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-held-for-violating-district-magistrates-order-109521
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||7 sacked Red Cross Society workers move Labour Department||As many as seven workers, who had been “wrongfully” sacked by the Red Cross Society early this year, have filed a case in the Labour Department under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.Puneet Chhabra, counsel for the applicants, stated that the case was filed against the Deputy Commissioner (Chairman of Red Cross Society), Additional Deputy Commissioner (Secretary of Red Cross Society), Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh, Infosys Red Cross Sarai, and Asmi Industries (dealing contractors of the workers).Applicants Akash, Babita, Jonny, Sokinder and Vikram stated that they joined the Red Cross Society on monthly wages of Rs15,000.On March 22, 2020, the applicants reached their office and requested the manager to provide them sanitiser and sanitation equipments as there were new Covid-19 patients coming every day. Instead of helping the applicants, the manager started yelling at the applicants and sacked them and that too without giving any prior notice and reason.Another two applicants, Sandeep Singh and Rupinder Singh, who were sacked in February this year, stated that they had been appointed by Asmi Industries on March 29, 2019. They stated that the manager of Indian Red Cross Society had made false accusation against them and harassed them. They said on February 26, 2020, they received a call from a contractor in Asmi Industries that the Infosys Red Cross Society has decided to discharge the applicants from their duties.The counsel stated that the Red Cross Society officials had conspired to harass and mentally torture the applicants by the sudden discharge of the applicants without providing them with proper notice.The applicants should be reinstated along with the claimed amount may kindly be computed and the directions may kindly be issued to the respondents to pay the amount of Rs30,000 along with the litigation charges of Rs20,000 to each applicant and to take strict disciplinary actions against the manager, submitted the counsel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-sacked-red-cross-society-workers-move-labour-department-109523
07-07-2020||Mohali||Migrant held for trying to rape two-year-old in Mohali||The Balongi police arrested a migrant labourer for allegedly trying to rape a two-year-old girl on Sunday night.The suspect has been identified as Shiv Sagar (35), a resident of Azad Nagar in Balogi. He was produced before a local court today which has sent him to four-day police custody.In a complaint to the police, the victim’s parents said on July 3, Shiv took the girl from near their house on the pretext of playing with her while her mother was inside the house. They alleged that the suspect took her behind the bushes near their locality and tried to rape her. In the meantime, they reached there and on seeing them, the suspect fled from the spot leaving the girl behind.The police conducted a raid at Shiv’s house yesterday and arrested him.Investigating officer ASI Bahadar Singh said, “The suspect tried to rape the girl, but she was saved at the right time. He is said to be mentally unstable and his wife had also left him. He was currently living with his cousin brothers.”A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 376, 511 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the POCSO Act at the Balongi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrant-held-for-trying-to-rape-two-year-old-in-mohali-109524
07-07-2020||Mohali||167 evacuees back from UAE||Fourteenth evacuation flight from the UAE, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 167 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today.The Spicejet flight number SEJ 9551 carrying 167 stranded Indians arrived at the airport at 5.18 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines. The Health Department spokesman said health officials took precautions while screening and the passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, andall were asymptomaticfor Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/167-evacuees-back-from-uae-109525
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||10 Chandigarh Housing Board allottees win monthly prize for online payment||To encourage online payments, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today held a computerised draw to give a reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions irrespective of the amount paid.The CHB had recently introduced the online payment facility for all kind of dues by visiting its website, www.chbonline.in.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said a total of 10 winners were decided for a reward of Rs1,000 each.Among the winners, the lowest deposited online payment was of Rs118 only and the highest deposited amount was of Rs19,699. Of the 10 winners, six persons had deposited less than Rs1,000. He said the prize money would be credited in the bank accounts of the winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-chandigarh-housing-board-allottees-win-monthly-prize-for-online-payment-109526
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||1,451 calls attended to till mid-June: Chandigarh to High Court||The UT Administration has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that as many as 1,451 calls were attended to till mid-June for anxiety and mental health-related issues following the Covid outbreak.61 migrant workers counselled, Bench toldThe Bench of Chief Justice Rajiv Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli was told that 61 migrant workers were counselled by a mental health team.The Bench of Chief Justice Rajiv Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli was also told that 61 migrant workers were counselled by a mental health team comprising a consultant psychiatrist and a clinical psychologist.The Bench was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Sumati Jund against the UT and other respondents. She was seeking directions to the respondents to provide access to adequate and affordable mental healthcare services, promote pro-active mental health initiatives and undertake extensive training for mental healthcare by professionals to address mental health issues faced by the public during the crisis induced by Covid-19.UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain, during the course of the hearing, told the Bench that psychiatric OPD services had to be temporarily suspended owing to Covid-19. But telemedicine services were available for all and every psychiatry-related issue. Taking up the PIL, the Bench asserted that the concerns raised by the petitioner were well-founded and her suggestions and inputs to combat the crisis were well-researched and for public good.“However, in the given situation when the authorities are, as it is, faced with an unprecedented situation and task, and to the extent feasible, every possible measure is being taken to reach out to the masses to provide medical attention, it would rather be inexpedient to interfere with their thought process and implementation of various initiatives on the ground,” the Bench added.Disposing of the petition, the Bench gave the petitioner the liberty to move the respondents with suggestions and inputs to help the authorities address the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-451-calls-attended-to-till-mid-june-chandigarh-to-high-court-109527
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||VP Singh Badnore launches vacancy management system||To fill up vacant posts, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today launched the Recruitment Rules and Vacancy Management System.Briefing about the features of the system, which was developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) for the Administration, SK Jha, secretary personnel, stated that it would allow the Heads of Departments (HODs) to monitor on their dashboards the information gap related to update of recruitment rules and vacancies, sending automated quarterly alerts to the branch in-charges to provide information.Jha said it would help the departments in filling up the vacancies expeditiously and, in turn, provide an opportunity of regular appointment to the youths. Filling up of the vacancies will also improve the quality of delivery of the Administration. It is important to note that because of the decision regarding retirement, larger number of people have retired from the Administration. The system will also capture a life cycle of the recruitment process. The system will provide timely reminders to the HODs to take action so that the posts do not lapse after lying vacant for two years. This will also help the cadre management in various cadres.The Administrator appreciated the efforts of the Personnel Department to devise a system which would address key challenges in the current system while providing opportunity of regular appointment to the youths. He wanted the features of the software to be utilised by the HODs by taking a holistic view to streamline the administrative machinery.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vp-singh-badnore-launches-vacancy-management-system-109528
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board allots 27 flats in draw||Hallo Majra Man held with liquorChandigarh: A Hallo Majra resident was arrested by the local police while illegally carrying six boxes of liquor in a car. According to the police, Pankaj Kumar, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, was arrested from Dariya. The police have registered a case. TNSSyndicate meet on July 13Chandigarh: The Panjab University Syndicate meeting will be held on July 13 at the seminar hall of the Golden Jubilee Guest House. TNSWork from home till July 31Chandigarh: The UT Education Department has directed work from home for the teaching and non-teaching staff of government and private colleges till July 31. However, principals of the colleges are asked to ensure that inline admission process and other activities should continue to function. For that purpose, the required staff can be called on duty, stated the orders. TNSSenior citizen duped of Rs6,000Zirakpur: A senior citizen, Brij Bihari Soni, was duped of Rs6,000 at the Bank of Baroda ATM near police station around 1:30pm. Soni, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar, had gone to the ATM to withdraw money where a passerby offered to help him, but after coming out of the kiosk, he said the machine was not functional. Two days later, Soni realised that the money had been fraudently withdrawn from his account. He has sought help from the police. TNSChain snatched in Peer MuchallaZirakpur: Miscreants snatched away a gold chain of a Victoria City resident, Rajrani, in Peer Muchalla. The victim was going home around 8 pm when two bike-borne youths snatched her chain. The police have been informed about the incident. TNSCharitable medical labZirakpur: A charitable medical laboratory in the memory of Lt Gen Daulat Singh was inaugurated in the Babhat area of Zirakpur. The tests for cholesterol level, blood sugar level and uric acid level would be done at very nominal rates, said the organisers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-allots-27-flats-in-draw-109531
