11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Doctors at Chandigarh's PGI battle burnout,as COVID-19 surge continues||Prof GD Puri has had several sleepless nights over these past months. The Dean (Academics) and Head at the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has been working long hours since the coronavirus pandemic broke out in March, and has been spending fewer and fewer hours with his family.It’s been 100 days since PGIMER got its first COVID-19 patient, and doctors and nurses are fighting a different kind of battle---that against pressure and mental exhaustion.The rising coronavirus cases, the long hours of work, the constant danger of contracting the infection and the challenge of dealing with patients, can take its toll---and does.  Says Prof GD Puri: “I don’t have time for myself, how can I have time for my family? There is constant round-the-clock remote monitoring of patients”.PGIMER has treated over 250 coronavirus patients of ages ranging from a month-old to 83, he says.“We have also treated more than 60 critically ill patients, of which only 16 were intubated and least overall mortality.”Sometimes, it is the weight of the patients’ fears that bog them down---especially with those patients still in denial.“There is a constant barrage of questions. The elderly talk the impossibility of their contracting the infection, because they’re so cautious. We’re dealing with the all of that but where do we go to vent out? Physical exhaustion is one thing but when you have no family support, it becomes really challenging,” Dr Neeti Dogra, an anaesthetic at PGIMER, says.Still, doctors say they are coping better now. Initially it was the fear of the unknown, says Dr Naveen Naik.“On the first day, there were lots of apprehensions. It’s human tendency to fear about something we know nothing of. But gradually, those fears settled and now we’re better equipped mentally to deal with it”.Anaesthetist Dr Shyam Meena agrees, but admits that news reports of the growing number of cases adds to the strain.“No doubt COVID is new to us but it is like disease is not new to us. Last night, I was at a surgery that began at midnight and carried on till 9 am this morning. Although working with PPE gets tough, but it is not very difficult. Other factors have been contributing to the mental fatigue, like the news reports of incessant surge,” he says.100 Days of COVID Hospital (March 30 to July 8)Admitted: 256Ratio (Male:Female)156:110 State-wiseChandigarh- 176Punjab: 42Haryana: 23Delhi: 2UP: 6HP: 3J&K: 1Maharashtra: 1 Deaths: 10Recovery rate: 81%Mortality rate: 3.94%Average length of stay: 17.04 daysLongest stay: 39 daysNo of surgeries: 9Ages of patients (in years)1-10: 3021-30: 2031-40: 6441-50: 4451-60: 5561-70: 3171-80: 7||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-at-chandigarhs-pgi-battle-burnout-as-covid-19-surge-continues-111555
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 8th coronavirus death, reports 13 new cases||Chandigarh recorded its eighth death from coronavirus on Saturday, officials said.A 40-year-old man from Sector 52 tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday at GMSH Sector 16. He was brought dead to the hospital and tested positive posthumously.He had an alcohol addiction, and was suffering from a chronic liver disease.Health authorities have taken swabs from five of his family members for testing.Besides him, 12 other people tested positive in the union territory, taking its tally to 549, a medical bulletin said in the evening.Four people---a 44-year-old woman, a 38-year-old man, and two teenagers, ages 17 and 13--- from Sector 44, a 26-year-old woman from Sector 52, and 20-year-old living on the premises of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research all test positive. All of these were contacts of already diagnosed cases. A 47-year-old man from Sector 37, a 59-year-old man from Sector 50, a 46-year-old woman from Sector 35, and three people of the same family in Sector 32---two women ages 42 and 40, and one 41-year-old man---were the other cases in the city.About 128 of the UT’s 549 cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-8th-coronavirus-death-reports-13-new-cases-111538
11-07-2020||---||Naman, Viha shine with 99.20%||Panchkula, July 10Naman Bhardwaj of Little Flower Convent School and Viha Singla of Saupin’s School here have shared the first position in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) Class X examinations in the tricity. Both scored 99.20 per cent. The results were declared today.I studied regularly and teachers’ advice helped me a lot. I kept myself away from the social media.—  Naman BhardwajNaman, who has opted for the non-medical stream in Class XI, says regular studies hold the key. His father works for a software company, while his mother is an accountant.I devoted five hours daily to study. Playing basketball and painting acted as stress busters.—  Viha Singla“I studied regularly and teachers’ advice helped me a lot. I synchronised my Class X preparations with the NTSE syllabus. I kept myself away from the social media throughout. It’s a big distraction,” he says.Outdoor activities are his best stress buster. He aspires to be a software engineer.Viha Singla says with focus and determination, one can achieve one’s goals.“I used to devote five hours daily to study. Playing basketball and painting would act as stress busters. It also helped me sharpen my focus,” says Viha, who wants to be an engineer.Her father is a retired Army officer, while her mother is a homemaker.She has opted for the non-medical stream in Class XI.Karan Garg secured the second position with 98.80 marks, while Saanvi bagged the third position with 98.60 marks. Both of them are from Little Flower Convent School.Karan says, “Regular interaction with friends helped me keep stress at bay throughout. I used the social media, but only within a limit. I studied for three hours each day, apart from school hours and coaching.”“It was a bit difficult, but I didn’t allow stress to take over,” says Saanvi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naman-viha-shine-with-99-20-111282
11-07-2020||---||Muskaan tops tricity with 99.25%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10Muskaan Saxena has topped the tricity in the Class XII Indian School Certificate (ISC) exams. The results were declared today by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi.The 18-year-old, a resident of the PGI campus, scored 99.25 per cent marks in the non-medical stream. Muskaan aspires to pursue data science and economics from Delhi University. She was a student of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26.Muskaan said she was relieved after the declaration of the results as Covid-19 had dashed students’ hopes. “I was anxious because of the pandemic and worried about my exam result,” she said.On her preparations, she said, “I studied regularly. I made handwritten notes of chapters that were difficult. This technique helps in understanding the subject when you write in your own words.”She added, “I would say that don’t focus only on studies but also engage in extra-curricular activities. I was actively involved in projects like menstrual hygiene and was into public speaking.” Her parents Akshay Kumar Saxena and Babita Ghai are doctors at the PGI. In humanities, Jasnoor Kaur of Yadavindra Public School (YPS), Mohali, topped the tricity by scoring 98.5 per cent marks. She said she was regular at school and studied for six to seven hours a day. A resident of Phase VII, Mohali, she wants to pursue BA (Honours) in psychology.She emphasised the importance of being actively involved in sports and other activities. Her mother Gurdeep Kaur is an educator and father Sumanpreet Singh works at the CII.The tricity has two toppers in the medical stream. Pavit Kaur Sidhu and Tanveer Singh Mangat, both from the YPS, scored 97.75 per cent marks.Pavit said her focus on studies without getting distracted by gadgets helped her sail through. Her father is a farmer and mother a homemaker.For Tanveer, paying attention in class and clearing all doubts with the teacher helped him score high in the final exams. His mother is an assistant professor at Punjabi University and father an IT executive.Sehajpreet Kaur, also from the YPS, scored 96.25 per cent to top the tricity in the commerce stream. Her father is a farmer. A resident of Ludhiana, she aspires to become a hospitality manager.Talking about her success strategy, she said, “Don’t take study as a burden, rather divide it into small tasks and strive to perform each task with zest.”Her favourite time pass was comedy shows. She loves to cook and dance during her free time. She said she would often bake cakes when she got bored of studies. Sehajpreet is inspired by her mother, a homemaker. “She toils all day at home and that’s what really inspires me,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/muskaan-tops-tricity-with-99-25-111283
11-07-2020||---||Dhakoli man dies of Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 10The district today saw its seventh Covid death and 22 new cases, raising the tally to 362.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said a 52-year-old man from Dhakoli, who died of Covid today, was already suffering from a chronic kidney disease and high blood sugar. The patient was admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and was on a ventilator.A 42-year-old woman and two girls, aged 12 and 20, from Sunny Enclave in Kharar were found positive for the virus today. Two men, aged 32 and 35, from Sector 116 and Phase 4, respectively, and a 45-year-old woman and a 22-year-old youth from Gillco Valley were also found infected.from page 1An 18-year-old boy, a 38-year-old man and a 25-year-old youth from Majat village, an 18-year-old boy, a 20-year-old youth, a 50-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village, a 19-year-old boy and a 50-year-old woman from Nayagaon village, two men, aged 30 and 57, from Dera Bassi, a 27-year-old youth from Mubarikpur, a 73-year-old man and a 19-year-old boy from Baltana and a 52-year-man from Banur were the other new patients.Meanwhile, three patients were discharged from hospital.They were a 19-year-old girl and a 35-year-old woman from Behda village and a 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur.The Civil Surgeon said the district had so far reported 362 cases. While 256 had defeated the virus, seven succumbed to it. There were 99 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-man-dies-of-covid-19-111317
11-07-2020||---||Dept begins fresh survey to detect asymptomatic cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10As a preventive measure, the UT Health Department has started a fresh house-to-house survey in the city to detect asymptomatic Covid-19 cases.During a review meeting, Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, UT, stated that as a first step, Sector 41 was being covered. “As many as 14 teams with doctors and paramedical staff will cover the entire sector comprising 5,000 household,” he said. Health Department advisoryAs a precautionary measure, the Health Department has issued an advisory that if a person has tested negative in reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, he or she may self-monitor his or her health for one more week. If any symptoms develop, he or she may report to a health facility. However, there is no need of specific home or institutional quarantine during this one-week period.In the meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed concern that several residents were not taking the threat of coronavirus seriously and were violating the guidelines. He stated that people must stay indoors and come out only when absolutely necessary. Residents must wear a face mask at public places and strictly follow social distancing norms. The Administrator warned that, if necessary, lockdown would again be imposed, especially on weekends, to contain the spread of virus.The Administrator directed the Director General of Police to ensure that curfew from 10 pm to 5 am was strictly enforced. It was also directed that all vehicles found moving during the curfew hours would be seized, unless the driver was able to prove that it was on essential duty.The Administrator directed Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to enhance surprise checks in parks/places, markets, etc., to penalise persons not following social distancing norms or not wearing face masks.The Administrator ordered that the PGI Director must hold a meeting immediately with the Director Health Services of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to discuss and finalise a protocol for admission of patients coming from other states, particularly when facilities for treating such patients are locally available. The Administrator clarified that patients of any state of India could not be denied treatment at the PGI, being a premier Central institute of the Government of India.A senior officer said the team would check residents with minor symptoms and motivate them to come forward for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dept-begins-fresh-survey-to-detect-asymptomatic-cases-111323
11-07-2020||---||PGI employee among 13 contract infection in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10Thirteen fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 536.Those infected with the virus include a 58-year-old woman, an accountant at the PGI, and a 76-year-old man from Sector 21. As many as 10 contacts of the PGI employee have been quarantined.A 60-year-old man and a 30-year-old man from Mani Majra also tested positive for the virus. They are the contacts of already positive patients.A 24-year-old man from Khuda Lahora and a 52-year-old woman from Sector 45 are the family contacts already positive cases of Khuda Lahora and Sector 45, respectively.A 64-year-old woman, an 82-year-old woman, a month-old girl and a 29-year-old woman also contracted the infections. They are the contacts of an already positive patient from Sector 55.A 34-year-old man from Ram Darbar was also found positive. He has four family members and all are asymptomatic.An 18-year-old woman from Sector 41 is the community contact of a positive case from Sector 55.A 61-year-old man from Mani Majra, Chandigarh, was also found infected.He has seven familymembers and all of them asymptomatic.Five patients dischargedMeanwhile, five patients were discharged after defeating the virus on Friday. They are a 60-year-old woman from Sector 29, a 36-year-old man from Mani Majra and a 39-year-old man, a 36-year-old woman and a 65-year-old woman, all from Sector 23.The total number of cured patients in Chandigarh has risen to 408.The number of active cases in the city now stands at 121 with seven deaths reported so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-employee-among-13-contract-infection-in-chandigarh-111324
11-07-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh waives 15-yr lock-in period for sale of freehold properties||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10Amending the Chandigarh Estate Rules, 2007, the UT Administration has provided the much-needed relief to the allottees of freehold properties. Now, there will be no restriction of 15-year lock-in period and liability of unearned increase in charges on transfer of the site building allotted on freehold basis, if the allottee/transferee has paid full consideration amount/price, dues, etc, of the site.A notification issued by the Finance Department, UT, states that these Rules may be called the Chandigarh Estate (Amendment) Rules, 2020.In the Chandigarh Estate Rules, 2007, the existing Rule 7, sub-rule (i), has been substituted with new Rules.Earlier, no site/building sold by way of allotment whether on leasehold basis or on freehold basis was allowed to be transferred before the expiry of 15 years from the date of allotment unless in exceptional circumstances.In case of transfer of site after the expiry of 15 years by the original transferee (allottee/lessee) by way of sale/gift/mortgage or otherwise of the site or any right, title or interest therein, one-third of the unearned increase in the value (difference between the price paid by the original allottee/lessee and the market value of the site, building at the time of permission of transfer) was to be paid to the government before registering such sale or transfer.“Through this notification, thousands of people will be benefitted. As the 15-year lock-in period has been waived, people now are not liable to pay unearned increase if they pay full consideration amount and price of the site allotted on freehold basis by the Administration,” said advocate Vikas Jain.An official at the Estate Office said most of these properties were located in Sector 33, 34, 35 and 36 where land was allotted mostly to defence personnel on concessional rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-waives-15-yr-lock-in-period-for-sale-of-freehold-properties-111325
11-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Fearing encounter, gangster Bishnoi seeks anticipatory bail||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 10The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma has issued a notice to the Chandigarh Police on an anticipatory bail application filed by notorious criminal Lawrence Bishnoi for July 13.Lawrence Bishnoi has filed an application alleging that the police might implicate him in the recent firing cases. He prayed that the police should be directed to issue a 15-day advance notice before his arrest. In case the Chandigarh Police want to arrest or produce him in any case in Chandigarh and whenever any production warrant against him is issued by the court, a direction should be given to the investigating officer to bring the petitioner by way of handcuffing as the petitioner apprehended that on way to court or any other place, the police could kill him in fake encounter.Terminder Singh, counsel for the accused, filed the application under Section 438 of the CrPC. Bishnoi is alleged to have been involved in the firing at the house of liquor baron Arvind Singla’s brother in Sector 33 and at a liquor vend in Sector 9, Chandigarh.Lawrance Bishnoi is currently lodged at the Bharatpur jail of Rajasthan. Terminder said Lawrence had no facility of phone or any other mode of communication at the Bharatpur jail and the facts could be verified from the jail authorities. He alleged that the Chandigarh Police implicated his name just to highlight the cases to earn fame.He requested the court to issue a handcuff to the investigation officer for the petitioner and said the latter should be guarded with special security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fearing-encounter-gangster-bishnoi-seeks-anticipatory-bail-111326
11-07-2020||Panchkula||Hospital staffer, six others found positive in Panchkula||A 34-year-old man working as a nursing supervisor at Paras Hospital was among seven people who tested positive for Covid-19 today. He lives in Sector 25 here.The other new patients were a 45-year-old man from Sector 26, a 64-year-old man from Marranwala, Kalka, a 29-year-old youth from Khera Sita Ram, Kalka, a 20-year-old youth from Gandhi Colony, Mansa Devi Complex, a 41-year-old man from Sector 27 and a 15-year-old boy from Abheypur. A 46-year-old man from Peer Muchalla was also found infected. His case will be added to Mohali’s tally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospital-staffer-six-others-found-positive-in-panchkula-111327
11-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali man rapes minor, arrested||The police today arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl. The suspect has been identified as Kedar, a resident of Phase VI here, and a native of Chamoli district in Uttarakhand.According to the police, Kedar allegedly raped the girl, a student of Class VII, while she was sleeping alone at her house last evening.In her complaint, the victim’s mother said she, along with her husband, left the house in the morning for work, leaving behind three children. When the girl was sleeping, the suspect entered the house and forcibly raped her. The suspect even threatened the girl of dire consequences if she disclosed the incident to anyone. The victim narrated the incident to her mother last night.Inspector Manphul Singh said: “We have arrested the suspect from his house in Phase VI here today. The suspect and the girl hail from the same village.” A case has been registered against him under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station. The suspect would be produced before a court tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-man-rapes-minor-arrested-111328
11-07-2020||Mohali||Boy found dead in bushes||A day after a seven-year-old boy went missing while playing with other children in Shakrullapur village near Kharar, his body was found in the bushes near the village here today.The victim’s father, Gurdev Singh, said his son, Harpreet Singh, went outside to play with other children. When he did not return home after several hours, they started searching for him.After they failed to trace the child, Gurdev lodged a missing report at the Gharuan police station yesterday evening.He said while searching for the child, they found his body in the bushes. Alleging that his son was killed by someone, he demanded the immediate arrest of his child’s killers.Kailash Bahdaur, SHO of the Gharuan police station, said the boy was not murdered. He might have died after being bitten by some poisonous creature. The exact cause of his death would be ascertained after the post-mortem report.The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-found-dead-in-bushes-111329
11-07-2020||Panchkula||Road mishap claims 2 lives||Two persons were killed after their two-wheeler was allegedly hit by a truck near Mattanwala village on the NH-73 at 10.30 am on Thursday. The police said one of the victims died on the spot, while another person was shifted to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.The victims, Om Prakash (28) and Sonu Kumar (24), hailed from Mani Majra. According to the police, the incident took place on a flyover near Mattanwala village. The victims were on their way to Barwala when a truck hit them from the rear. The truck driver, who fled the spot, was arrested later. He has been identified as Anmol (28) of Himachal Pradesh. A case has been registered against the truck driver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishap-claims-2-lives-111330
11-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI court rejects bail plea of suspended cop Jaswinder Kaur||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 10Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, Chandigarh, today rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur of the Chandigarh Police in a bribery case.The court pronounced the order after hearing the arguments of the counsel for Jaswinder Kaur and the CBI today.Public prosecutor KP Singh opposed the bail on behalf of the CBI.In response to Jaswinder’s bail application, the CBI filed a detailed reply opposing the bail of the accused on various grounds. Jaswinder was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, a Mani Majra resident, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.The CBI said Bhagwan Singh was caught red-handed while demanding and accepting an illegal gratification of Rs1,00,000 from the complainant in the presence of independent witnesses.The CBI also placed the alleged transcript of the conversation between Bhagwan Singh and Jaswinder Kaur before the court. In its order, the CBI said the at this point of time when the investigation was in progress, very clinching and important material had been pointed out by the public prosecutor appearing for the CBI.“The telephonic conversation on record speaks for itself, subject to the verification of its authenticity in the course of the investigation. As on date, there is no reason for me to disbelieve the case put up by the complainant. It would be too far-fetched for this court to take the view that Jaswinder has been falsely involved in the offence. Although the counsels for Jaswinder tried their best to persuade the court to believe that the FIR is false and the allegations levelled do not inspire any confidence, yet the materials on record do prima facie indicate the involvement of Jaswinder,” the order read.“The applicant being a public servant has been charged with the offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, which is a serious crime. No exceptional or special circumstances have been pointed out by the counsels for Jaswinder for the purpose of grant of extraordinary relief of anticipatory bail. In view of the above discussion, the present application for anticipatory bail is dismissed.” the order read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-suspended-cop-jaswinder-kaur-111331
