14-07-2020||---||Mohali district reports two deaths, 21 new Covid-19 cases||Mohali, July 14Mohali district reported two more deaths and 21 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the toll to nine. The Mohali district positive coronavirus tally stands at 444.Amongst the two deceased were a 48-year-old male from Jawaharpur and 65-year-old male from New Chandigarh. Both the co-morbid patients had been admitted to PGI since July 9 and July 5, respectively.The persons infected with the virus include three males aged 21, 21, 35 and 21-year-old female, all residents of Peer Muchhala; two males aged 7 and 12 from Dhakoli, three males aged 30, 24 and 30 from Dera Bassi, 50-year-old male from Jawaharpur, three males 4, 1, 3 and 30-year-old female from Phase 4, 28-year-old female and 33-year-old male from LIC Colony in Kharar, two males aged 36 and 6 from Kharar, 44 year male from Gilco Valley, Kharar; 56-year-old male from Sector 68 and 22-year-old female from Phase 9, Mohali.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all the patients have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said as of now, total cases reported in the district are 444 with 158 active cases and 279 have been discharged. Nine people have died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-reports-two-deaths-21-new-covid-19-cases-112861
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh||Two people died of COVID-19 and 12 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday in Chandigarh.The total number of cases has reached 600 of which 144 are active cases.A 50-year-old male resident of Dhanas, who was reported as positive for COVID-19 on July 3 died in PGIMER on Tuesday. He had a history of cancer and was on chemotherapy from PGIMER.A 52-year-old female resident of Sector 46 who was reported as positive on July 11 also died. She was a patient of severe diabetes and was in ICU for more than 15 days in Sohana Hospital before she was referred to PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-112860
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Watch: Nurses in Panchkula thrash Sector 6 civil hospital doctor for 'sexually harassing' junior||Women nurses and staff members of Panchkula’s civil hospital allegedly beat up a doctor over allegations of sexual harassment.The doctor allegedly sexually harassed a nurse in an isolation ward in the Sector-6 hospital late on July 11.The hospital’s female staff were holding protests near the chief medical officer’s room, where the doctor had been called for a departmental inquiry over the incident. They allegedly beat him up while he was sitting outside the room.    The nurses have been demanding immediate dismissal of the doctor. Protesters have also accused the hospital’s senior doctors of trying to cover-up the incident.Protesters also had some heated arguments with a police team that had been sent to the scene to calm the situation and had allegedly roughed up some cops while they were taking the doctor into custody for questioning. A policewoman is believed to have received some bruises in the exchange.Police registered an FIR in the case on Monday night.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said the hospital had instituted an inquiry after the victim had submitted a complaint about the incident."The internal committee on sexual harassment has taken the complaint seriously and initiated the inquiry while the doctor has been transferred out of the hospital," she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-nurses-in-panchkula-thrash-sector-6-civil-hospital-doctor-for-sexually-harassing-junior-112823
14-07-2020||Zirakpur||8-hr Power outage irks Zirakpur residents||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-hr-power-outage-irks-zirakpur-residents-112807
14-07-2020||---||Sehajpreet, Pragati, Harpreet top Mohali||Mohali, July 13Sehajpreet Kaur of Guru Nanak Foundation Public School and Pragati Sharma of Lawrence Public School bagged the top position in the district in humanities, while Harpreet Kaur Gill of Doon International School achieved the first position in medical in the Class XII examinations, the results of which were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Examinations (CBSE) today. The trio secured 485 marks (97 per cent) out of 500.Sehajpreet said she cleared the competitive exam of the National Institute of Fashion Technology and wanted to be a fashion stylist. Hard work and stay focused towards one’s goal were her success mantra.Harpreet said she wanted to become a doctor. Though it was important to study extra books other than recommended in the syllabi, it was also important to revise the syllabus in the NCERT.Khush Harman Singh Sekhon, a student of Doon International School, topped the district in the non-medical stream by securing 96.4 per cent marks. He wants to pursue software engineering. Khush said he wanted to move out of the country for higher studies. Hardik Singhal of Dikshant International School, Zirakpur, bagged the second spot with 95.4 per cent marks.In the commerce stream, Gurleen Kaur of International Public School, Kurali, and Harsimranjit Kaur Kaler of APJ Smart School, Mundi Kharar, stood first by securing 96.2 per cent marks. Harsimrat’s classmate Ramanpreet Kaur bagged the second spot with 96 per cent marks.In humanities Muskaan of Dishant International School, Zirakpur, bagged 96.2 per cent while Manmeet Kaur of DAV, Mohali, got 96.8 per cent marks.Specially abled students excelSpecially abled students of Dikshant International School, Zirakpur, also brought laurels. Jaya Narang with locomotor disability (dystonia with cerebellar symptoms) was the school topper in English with an average aggregate of 88 per cent. Riya Nagpal with intellectual learning disability secured 79.8 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sehajpreet-pragati-harpreet-top-mohali-112572
14-07-2020||Naina Mishra||Government school pass percentage up 9.81%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 13City government schools have recorded a pass percentage of 91.57 per cent — an increase by 9.81 per cent than the last year — in the CBSE Class XII results.As many as 9,601 students appeared for the examination for the 2019-20 session.Out of 40 schools, 24 schools have delivered above 90 per cent results. These schools include GMSSS-8, GGMSSS-18, GMSSS-19, GGMSSS-20B, GMSSS-20D, GMSSS-21, GMSSS-23, GMSSS-26, GMSSS-32, GMSSS-33, GMSSS-35, GMSSS-37B, GMSSS-37D, GMSSS-40, GMSSS-46, GMSSS-47, GMSSS-MHC, GMSSS and GSSS in Sarangpur, GMSSS-Mani Majra Town, GMSSS-Kaimbwala, GSSS-Mauli Jagran, GMSSS-Raipur Khurd, GMSSS-Behlana and GSSS-Khuda Ali Sher.Only one school — GMSSS-16 — produced 100 per cent result. A total of 765 students secured more than 90 per cent in the exams.From the medical stream, Muskaan Chugh, a student of GMSSS-MHC, has topped the government schools with 97.4 per cent. Kriti Mahajan, a student of GMSSS-MHC, has secured 98.4 per cent, topping the non-medical stream. Mohit Hooda (Sector 16 school) has topped the commerce stream with 97.4 per cent.In the humanities stream, Shreya Sharma and Anushka Kaushik from GMSSS-16 and Sarthak from GMSSS-37B are the top scorers with 97.8 per cent.Proposed schedule of admissionMeanwhile, the Education Department has decided to start with the centralised online admission process for Class XI (science, arts, commerce and skill courses) in 40 government schools from July 21 onwards for the 2020-21 session. The prospectus will be available at www.chdeducation.gov.in and www.nielit.gov.in/chandigarh. The last date to submit online registration form is July 30.The total number of seats available in all government schools under four streams is 12,500 approximately.How government schools fared in four yrsDates to rememberTo facilitate students in online filling of form and uploading the scanned documents, admission helpdesks have been set up at 20 government schools (which would function from 9 am to 1 pm on all working days). Keeping in view the norms of social distancing, physical interaction in the entire admission process has been eliminated. Students can visits helpdesks for guidance after taking prior appointment on phone.Help desk will function from 9 am to 1 pm at GGMSSS-20B; GMSSS-21; GMSSS-26; GMSSS-27; GMSSS-33; GMSSS-40; GMSSS-44; GMSSS-45; GMSSS-MHC; GSSS-Mani Majra Town; GMHS-24; GHS-38B; GMHS-41A; GMHS-42; GHS-47; GHS-53; GMHS-Dhanas, RC-II; GMHS-Mani majra; GMHS-Karsan; and GMHS-Mani Majra, PK-I.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/government-school-pass-percentage-up-9-81-112574
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Special pupils show the way||Braving all odds, students of the Institute for the Blind, Sector 26, excelled in the Class XII CBSE exams.Harleen Kaur, who stood first in the institution, scored 96.60 per cent in humanities. A resident of Patton village in Mohali, Harleen wanted to be become a teacher. Garima Narula of Ambala claimed the second position by scoring 96 per cent in the humanities stream. “I wanted to pursue a career in civil services,” said Garima.Both Khyati Bansal from Faridkot and Khushdeep scored 94.80 per cent to jointly claim the third position.“Our teachers have helped us a lot in following our routine,” said Khyati, who wants to become a music teacher.Meanwhile, Khushdeep said he would pursue BCA from Lovely Professional University, Phagwara. “I have taken admission in Phagwara as I want to do a PhD in computer science. I have been studying hard for these exams,” said Khushdeep. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-pupils-show-the-way-112575
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||9 violate social distancing , held||The owner of a restaurant in Sector 7 here and eight customers, including the son of a local BJP leader, were arrested after it was found that a hookah was being served to the customers and social distancing norms were violated at the eatery. They were later released on bail. The police said during a checking, it was found that a hookah was being served to the customers, which was illegal, and social distancing norms were flouted at the restaurant, The Reef. The police seized five hookahs from the restaurant. The police said action was taken against the restaurant owner, Ankit, and customers, namely Vishesh Gupta, Anmol Garg and Abhinav Chadda, all residents of Ambala, Jagjot Singh, Arshpratap Singh Randhawa and Surya Chauhan, all residents of the city, Rattan Chand Lubana and Saurabh Goyal, both residents of Panchkula.  Rattan Lubana, son of Bhajan Singh, a local BJP leader, was arrested in 2015 for allegedly extorting money from school students after befriending them.  The suspects were arrested and later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-violate-social-distancing-held-112576
14-07-2020||Mohali||Bike taken away at gunpoint||High drama was witnessed in the Phase X market here after an unknown person pointed a gun at a food delivery boy and snatched his motorcycle. The suspect also threatened a cop with his gun. According to information from former councillor Gurmeet Singh Walia, the miscreant was stopped by a PCR party in Phase X here this evening. The cop and the suspect exchanged heated arguments before the latter sped away in his Baleno car. After some time, the police again asked him to stop near the Phase X market. On seeing the cops, the suspect came out of his car and fled towards showrooms leaving the vehicle behind. Later, the miscreant pointed his gun at a food delivery boy and snatched his bike. When a policeman tried to nab him after a chase, he also pointed his gun at the cop and sped away on the bike. According to sources, the bike was later recovered from near Burail Jail. SP (Investigation) Harmandeep Hans said: “We are investigating the matter. The car is in the police custody. We are also rounding up some persons for questioning.” The police are scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bike-taken-away-at-gunpoint-112577
14-07-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh bags 17th spot in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 13Chandigarh has hit the 17th spot in the country with a pass percentage of 92.58 whereas Lakshadweep has topped with 100 pass percentage in the Class XII CBSE exams results declared today.A total of 17,621 students appeared for the exams in Chandigarh and 16,314 were declared pass. Chandigarh has shown an improvement by 7.7 per cent than last year’s pass percentage (84.81).Around 91.5 per cent students passed from government schools and 94.1 per cent students passed from private schools in the UT.Till last year, Chandigarh (UT) was part of the CBSE Panchkula region, along with Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. From 2019-20 session, Chandigarh region comprises Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Union Territory of Chandigarh whereas Panchkula region has Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Around 6,024 students have been placed in compartment in 2020 exams from the Chandigarh region, while 5,935 students have been placed in compartment from the Panchkula region. In both regions, Jammu and Kashmir stood first with 96.16 pass percentage, while Himachal Pradesh stood second with 94.24 pass percentage.From the last spot in 2018, Chandigarh has bagged the third spot in the region this year, followed by Haryana (92.36 per cent) and Punjab (91.52 per cent).Unfair means casesOut of 65 cases of use of unfair means, the highest — 13 — have been reported from the Panchkula region and five cases are from the Chandigarh region. Last year, the Panchkula region reported 21 cases of unfair means.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bags-17th-spot-in-country-112578
14-07-2020||---||Two suicides rock Dhakoli||Zirakpur, July 13 Two suicides were reported from Dhakoli here today. Jatin Singla (18) was found hanging from a ceiling fan by his aunt when she went to his room to give him the breakfast around 8.30 am. The deceased, a salesman, was a resident of the Kishanpura locality. His father Vinod Singla hails from Yamunanagar. No suicide note was found on him.  In another case, a 46 year-old businessman, Gopal Agarwal, a resident of Gulmohar Trend, Dhakoli, committed suicide by jumping off the fifth floor of his housing society. The deceased, a father of two daughters, was reportedly mentally distressed for the past some time and took the extreme step around 2.30 pm. No suicide note was found on him.  Ropar man ends his life Mohali: A 30-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his PG accommodation in Shahi Majra village here on Monday. The victim has been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Ropar. Sukhwinder was working with a private company at Phase 9 here. A suicide note was found from the victim’s room by the police in which he had stated that he was responsible for his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-suicides-rock-dhakoli-112579
14-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Syndicate to request UGC for reviewing decision on exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 13The Panjab University Syndicate today decided to send a request to the University Grant Commission (UGC) to review its decision regarding holding final-semester exams for various courses.The Syndicate formed a committee to look into the possibilities of conducting exams, online admissions and other academic aspects during Covid-19.The committee will be headed by the former Dean Student Welfare. Syndic Navdeep Goyal, along with other Syndics, DUI, Registrar and other officials will be a part of the committee.Committee members are likely to meet the PU Vice-Chancellor on Wednesday to decide the future course of action. The priority of the committee will be deciding the dates for online admissions and sessions.“The committee has been formed. Our priority is working on admissions and sessions. If things move in the right direction, we may take a decision tomorrow. Meanwhile, on the issue of conducting examination, the Syndics have decided to write to the UGC for reviewing its decision and we will take a decision soon. All these matters are likely to be resolved in a week. Any decision will be taken considering students’ interest,” said Goyal.Sources said the PU authorities were in favour of promoting students to avoid any kind of hassle in view of Covid-19. “Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases, the authorities are not in the favour of conducting exams. Though a lot depends upon UGC’s reply to the Syndicate’s request,” said one of the sources.DSW appointedThe Syndicate approved the appointment of Prof SK Tomar as the new Dean Student Welfare (DSW). Tomar, a faculty member of the Department of Mathematics, was earlier appointed as the interim DSW after the Syndics failed to reach a consensus on a name recommended by the Vice-Chancellor in the previous meetings. He has been appointed on the chair till May 31, 2021.Online payment for hostelsThe Syndicate also approved the minutes of a committee regarding modifications in the PU Handbook of Hostel Rules 2020-21. For this session, the mode of hostel, mess and canteen charges payment will be online for the convenience of residents.Colleges based in Punjab and affiliated to the PU have been asked to promote online mode of admissions. There are around 196 colleges in Punjab. However, Syndics decided not to take any decision on the proposal of dropping OCET entrance exam for admission to postgraduate courses.Other decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/syndicate-to-request-ugc-for-reviewing-decision-on-exams-112580
14-07-2020||Sanyam Gupta||Sportspersons make a mark||A student of St John’s High School, Sector 26, scored 90.6 per cent in the non-medical stream. He is national-level gold medallist in roller skating and a trainee of Rolling Tigers Academy. He has been inducted in a college of architecture in the UK.Saksham Bansal, SkaterA student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, scored 96.4 per cent in non-medical. A national level U-17 gold medallist, he was awarded Rs7 lakh by the Haryana Government. He trains under coach Chander Singhal.Arpita Malik, Badminton playerA student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, scored 93 per cent in humanities. She has represented the country in the Water Sports International Meet.Muskan, CricketerA student of Carmel Convent School, Sector 9, scored 94.2 per cent in the commerce stream. She had represented city’s U-19 and U-23 teams in state championships.Tripty Wig, CricketerA student of Scared Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, scored 95.4 per cent in the commerce stream. She represented the city in the U-19 state championship.Saumya Seth and Sanya Seth, Twin sistersStudents of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, scored 95.8 per cent and 95.6 per cent, respectively, in the commerce stream. Both of them have represented the nation in the Roller Skating Asian Championship and won a silver medal each. Last year, both of them featured in an Amazon web series as Bharatnatyam artistes.Dhriti Mahajan, Table tennis playerA student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Modern Complex, Mani Majra, scored 95.6 per cent in the medical stream. She is a national-level player and has won state championships.— By Deepankar Sharda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sportspersons-make-a-mark-112581
14-07-2020||---||Girl ends her life hours after result||Chandigarh, July 13An 18-year-old girl reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself a few hours after her Class XII result was declared today. Her parents have claimed that their daughter had told them that she had failed in a subject. However, the police said they were yet to verify it.The victim has been identified as Rajni, a resident of Attawa in Sector 42.Information about the suicide was received by the police around 8 pm.A police team reached the spot. However, by then, her parents had rushed her to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.The police visited her house and got the spot photographed.The police said the victim was a Class XII student at a private school in Sector 35.Her father, Krishan Kumar, an auto driver, told the police that his daughter had informed him that she had failed in a subject due to which she was disappointed. The victim was alone when she took the extreme step. "No suicide note was found from the spot," said a police official.The body has been shifted to a mortuary and samples for the Covid test will be taken after which the postmortem will be conducted. Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-ends-her-life-hours-after-result-112585
14-07-2020||Mohali||31-case spike takes Mohali count to 423, 6 discharged||Covid cases in Mohali crossed the 400 mark today with the district seeing the highest single-day spike of 31 cases, taking the count to 423. Six patients were cured and discharged from the hospital.Among those infected with the virus are an 82-year-old man, an 11-year-old boy, a 33-year-old woman and a 70-year-old woman from Dashmesh Nagar and a 51-year-old man from Sunny Enclave (all residents of Kharar). Among the other positive cases are a 60-year-old woman and a four-year-old boy from Sector 116, a 38-year-old man from Phase 3B1, an 80-year-old woman and a 59-year-old man from Phase 4 and a 22-year-old woman from Kumbra.Besides, two women, aged 67 and 35, from Sector 97, a 40-year-old man from Balongi village, three women, aged 55, 20 and 25, from Lalru, two women, aged 17 and 36, and four males, aged 20, 16, 16 and 35, all residents of Peer Muchalla, five men, aged 45, 19, 50, 19, and 52, from Avinash Colony, Dera Bassi, a 50-year-old woman from Sector 88, a 45-year-old man from Phase 3B2 and a 64-year-old man from Phase 6 have also been found infected.As many as 83 coronavirus cases have been reported during the past four days.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh, said all patients had been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital. He said six Covid patients had been cured of the disease and were discharged from the hospital. Those discharged were a 57-year-old man from Samgoli village, a 38-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, a 23-year-old youth from Kurali, a 26-year-old woman and a 47-year-old man from Sector 66 and a 31-year-old man from Dera Bassi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/31-case-spike-takes-mohali-count-to-423-6-discharged-112586
14-07-2020||Panchkula||9 fresh cases in Panchkula||Nine more cases of Covid were reported today, taking the district tally to 153.According to the Covid bulletin report, those infected are a 42-year-old man from Sector 25, a 31-year-old man from Sector 10, a 42-year-old man from Maheshpur, Sector 21, a 55-year-old man from Kalka, a 56-year-old woman from Sector 9, a 48-year-old man from Sector 7, an 18-year-old girl from Sector 26, a 28-year-old youth from Alipur village, Barwala, and a 60-year-old man from Sector 26.A 60-year-old woman from Chandigarh was also tested positive. Her case will be added to the UT tally. Meanwhile, four patients were reported to have been cured in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 117.Staff at BRS Dental College, Barwala, a Covid care centre, celebrated the birthday of a patient, who turned 18 today. Sanjeev Goyal, in-charge of the facility, said, “The patient was in tears when she reached the Covid care centre as it was her 18th birthday. To cheer her up, we decided to celebrate her birthday and a cake was arranged for her.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-112587
14-07-2020||---||29 more test +ve in city, count jacks up to 588||Chandigarh, July 13The city today recorded 29 new cases of Covid-19, with the tally rising to 588.The cases have been reported from Sector 21, 32, 45, 46, 50, 52, Dhanas, Ram Darbar and Mani Majra.The maximum cases have surfaced in Mani Majra. Seven of its residents have tested positive for the infection. They include four of family — three women, aged 23, 31 and 38, and a 22-year-old youth. They are contacts of a patient. Three others from the area to have got infected are two men, aged 47 and 60, and a 48-year-old woman. The source of infection in these cases is not known.Six residents of Sector 45 contracted the virus too. They include four members of a family —two men, aged 68 and 38, and two women, aged 67 and 36. Two others to have tested positive are a 43-year-old man and a woman of the same age.Six cases have surfaced in Sector 32. They are two girls, aged 14 and 17, two women, aged 63 and 39, and two boys, aged 11 and 12.From Sector 50, three cases have been reported. They are family contacts of positive cases from Delhi.Two family members of a patient from Sector 21, who live in the same house, have contracted the infection too. Similarly, two family contacts of previous positive cases from Sector 52 also tested positive.A case each has been reported from Sector 46, Dhanas and Ram Darbar.On May 24 too, the UT had recorded 29 new cases of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-more-test-ve-in-city-count-jacks-up-to-588-112590
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bhavan's Oshil tricity star with 99.4%||Oshil Bansal, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya in Sector 27 here and resident of Panchkula, topped the tricity in the Class XII Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams. She scored 99.4 per cent marks in the commerce stream. The board declared the results today.Oshil wants to become an economist and serve the Reserve Bank of India. She said, “One needs to believe in one’s capabilities to fetch good marks in the board examinations.” The achiever said she accorded special attention to English. “I would also make handwritten notes as it helps in the last-minute revision.”She scored a perfect 100 in four subjects – economics, accountancy, mathematics and business studies. Oshil has participated in various Olympiads and MUN among other activities.In the non-medical stream, Anirudh Garg of Stepping Stones School, Sector 37-D, topped the tricity with 98.8 per cent marks. He said, “One must focus on clearing concepts while studying as many questions asked this year were concept-based. As an exam strategy, I went through the previous years questions.”Anirudh is not active on the social media and likes to play cricket during free time. He wants to pursue computer science at an IIT.In the medical stream, Shruti Goel of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27 here, topped the tricity with 98.6 per cent marks. A resident of Sector 12 in Panchkula, she wants to join a good medical college to pursue MBBS. Her father is working in the private sector while her mother is a Panjab University employee. Fond of drawing and dancing, Shruti said one should not feel disappointed on not being able to score well and instead be regular in studies. Quality time management also helped her score well, she said.In the humanities stream, Aradhana Kumari and Krisha Sethi of St Soldier’s School and Bhavan Vidyalaya in Panchkula, respectively, shared the top position by scoring 99 per cent marks. An avid reader, Aradhana says reading novels helped her improve concentration.“I was disappointed when I got just 89.7 per cent marks in Class X. To improve my performance, I mainly focused on NCERT books and tested my preparation level by attempting question papers of previous years,” she added. She relied on self-study. She credited her parents and teachers for her success. She wants to pursue law at Delhi University and aims to crack the Civil Services exam.Krisha said it was important to maintain a healthy balance between curricular and extra-curricular activities to improve academic gradings. “I used to study regularly,” she said. — TNSOshil BansalKrisha SethiAradhanaAnirudh Garg Shruti Goyal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavans-oshil-tricity-star-with-99-4-112591
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Showers on the cards in tricity||Mason falls in peer muchalla, injuredZirakpur: A mason, who was working at the house of a Peer Muchalla resident, Raj Kumar, fell off and was seriously injured. The mason was rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh where his condition is stated to be serious. The police are investigating the matter. The investigating officer, Sub-Inspector Naib Singh, said, “His condition is serious. He has not given his statement yet.” TNSThree gamblers land in police netMohali: The police arrested three persons for gambling in the basement of a booth in the Phase 1 market here on Monday. The police recovered Rs 71,000 from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Sanjay, Manohar and Kamal, all residents of Mohali. Inspector Manphul Singh said: “Following a tip-off, we conducted a raid in the basement and nabbed the trio. We have nabbed 10 gamblers and recovered Rs 1.7 lakh in two cases this month.” A case has been registered. TNSAdmn’s new public prosecutorChandigarh: The UT Administration has appointed Ashu Mohan Punchhi as its public prosecutor to conduct criminal cases on its behalf before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. He replaces senior advocate RS Rai. Punchhi is the son of former Chief Justice of India, Madan Mohan Punchhi, and brother-in-law of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon. TNS141 evacuees back from SharjahMohali: Seventeenth evacuation flight carrying 141 stranded Indian passengers from Sharjah arrived at the Chandigarh international airport here today. The Air India flight arrived at the airport at 3.16 pm. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/showers-on-the-cards-in-tricity-112599
14-07-2020||---||Guard thrashed at GMCH, dies||Chandigarh, July 13A security guard at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, died after he was allegedly assaulted by four persons accompanying a patient last night.The victim, Shyam Sunder (41), was trying to stop them from thrashing another security guard, Kamaldeep Singh, with whom they had an altercation over entry to the emergency ward.Kamaldeep had stopped them from entering the emergency ward and asked them to wait outside.Kamaldeep said he was on night duty at the emergency ward when they arrived with a patient, who was injured in an accident. "I told them that only one person was allowed inside the ward with the patient after which they started arguing. They manhandled me and took me outside the emergency ward," he said.He said they started thrashing him following which Shyam Sunder intervened and tried to stop them.They then assaulted Shyam following which he got unconscious and fell. The victim was admitted to the emergency ward, where he later succumbed to the injuries.Kamaldeep and another security guard Darshan Singh were also injured in the incident.The security guards gathered at the spot and few suspects were rounded up by the police.A case on a complaint of Kamaldeep Singh has been registered under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 304 (1) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC against the suspects at the Sector 34 police station.The victim, a resident of Raipur Khurd, was the sole breadwinner.The body was shifted to the mortuary. The autopsy will be conducted tomorrow.Security guards staged a protest at the hospital and demanded compensation for the victim's family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guard-thrashed-at-gmch-dies-112601
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Vigilance Bureau begins probe into ‘illegal’ realty project in Nayagaon||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) has initiated a probe into the provisional regularisation of an illegal colony in Nayagaon.PROBING DISPARITYThe VB is probing how it has been mentioned that the colony was established before August 18, 2007, whereas the area under the colony was already delisted from the purview of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900After granting an approval to the 10-acre project ‘Hill View Estates’ of WWICS Estates Pvt Ltd in January this year, the Local Government Department had withheld its permission on certain objections raised by the Forest Department. The Local Government Department is now examining the case.Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said, “As soon as the case regarding discrepancies in the project came to my notice, I marked an inquiry. The Chief Vigilance Officer of the department had been asked to submit a report. I am yet to get the report.”On the basis of records of the department, the VB is probing as to how the year of establishment of the colony has been mentioned as before August 18, 2007 whereas the area under the colony was delisted from the purview of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, through a notification issued on August 13, 2010.Devinder Sandhu, promoter of the colony, said he was waiting for a response from the department regarding whether the area fell in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake or not.“Before 2007, we had sold the land to individuals but nothing existed as such on it. It can be verified from documents. There were a few existing structures that were a part of the Golf Course Resort. All our documents pertaining to the project are complete. The land was denotified by the Forest Department and commercial activity had been permitted in the area as per an affidavit given by state the government in the court,” Sandhu said.On the other hand, VB officials have been calling the authorities of the Local Government Department who have dealt with the case. The role of certain officials in the department is also being looked into.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-vigilance-bureau-begins-probe-into-illegal-realty-project-in-nayagaon-112609
