17-07-2020||---||20 fresh COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, July 17Twenty fresh cases of COVID-19 positive cases surfaced on Friday, taking the total count in the district to 492.Meanwhile, 16 patients were also cured and discharged from the hospital today.The health authorities have also sealed the Kharar Civil Hospital after a 52-year old woman staffer tested positive today. The authorities also sealed a private bank where a 25-year-old woman working as a cashier and a public sector bank in Zirakpur after a 43-year-old manager tested positive.The other positive patients include an 18-year-old woman of Phase-3, 28-year-old woman from Banur, 54-year-old woman from Sector 71, 28-year-old woman from Phase-1, 29-year-old man from Aerocity, 36-year-old woman from Kharar, 64-year-old man from Baltana, 23-year-old woman from Lalru, 75-year-old woman and 36-year-old woman from Kharar, 24-year-old man from Phase-5, 65-year-old woman from Zirakpur, 16-year-old boy from Kharar, 33-year-old woman and 37-year-old woman from Sector 80, 61-year-old man from Baltana and a 37-year-old woman from Mohali.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients have been admitted to the COVID Care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said 16 patients were cured and discharged from hospital today.The discharged patients include five women aged 20 years, 43 years, 12 years, 48 years and 22 years from Kharar, two men aged 38 years and 57 years from Derabassi, two men aged 20 years and 18 years from Jawaharpur, a 19-year-old man from Mohali, 73-year-old woman from Mohali, 25-year-old man from Dera Bassi, 43-year-old man from Mohali, 50-year-old man from Baltana, 48-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 30-year-old man from Sector-80.As of now, 310 have been cured to date and discharged from hospital.The active cases in the district stands at 173 while nine people have died from the virus so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-mohali-114296
17-07-2020||---||Badnore inaugurates e-challan system for Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 17Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday digitally inaugurated the state-of-the-art e-challan system from Punjab Raj Bhawan here. It is a comprehensive digital solution for enforcement of traffic rules delivered through an Android-based mobile application.E-challan is a pan-India project of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways developed by the NIC and provides a number of user friendly features, covering all major functionalities of traffic enforcement system, like issuance of traffic e-challan, on spot cashless payment, real time excess of Vahan and Sarathi database, access to previous records, integration with DigiLocker and mParivahan apps using hand-held device, said an official spokesperson. With e-challan, motorists will be able to pay fine at-the-spot using cashless means and from their homes using online payment gateway.  This project has been implemented in Chandigarh with zero cost to the department in association with NIC, SPIC and Axis Bank.Chandigarh is one of the first few states/UTs in the country that have introduced this modern traffic enforcement system.Chandigarh Traffic Police have made certain unique additions that have added immense value to this system. These add-ons have made the system more robust by keeping a tab on habitual offenders, initiating online process for suspension of license of erring drivers and digitally linking the courts, the spokesperson added.Meanwhile, Badnore also inaugurated the website of Chandigarh Traffic Police – https://chandigarhtrafficpolice – which is the first official website to be hosted on the NIC’s Chandigarh state cloud.This website provides citizen friendly online services such as payment of postal challans, driving history record and no entry permission.The website also has informative and educative material related to safe and responsible driving.The Governor also released the 10th edition of Annual Report on “Road Safety in Chandigarh-2019”, which is a systematic compilation of information about road accidents that have occurred in Chandigarh in 2019.Badnore appreciated the efforts put in by Chandigarh Traffic Police for introducing e-challan system in the UT.He was pleased to note that road accidents in Chandigarh in 2019 declined to the lowest ever in the previous decade.Badnore said the Chandigarh Traffic Police would now be in a position to honour digital transport documents such as registration certificate and driving license through authorised apps such as DigiLocker and mParivahan, which will obviate the requirement for citizens of carrying these documents in physical form.He also said the e-challan system had the capability of forward integration with the Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS), which would soon be introduced under the smart city project. This will truly make Chandigarh a model city with end-to-end automation in traffic rules enforcement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-inaugurates-e-challan-system-for-chandigarh-114274
17-07-2020||---||25 new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh tally to 660||Chandigarh, July 17Chandigarh on Saturday reported 25 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the caseload in the Union Territory to 660.The fresh case a 28-year-old man, 53-year-old woman and 29-year-old woman from Sector-45; a 55-year-old man from Sector-46; a 28-year-old man and 25-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony.Eight cases have been reported from Dhanas — 45-year-old woman, 35-year-old woman, 57-year-old woman, 59-year-old man, 62-year-old man, 21-year-old female, 48-year-old female, 65-year-old man.The remaining cases include two from Sector-29 — 23-year-old woman and 60-year-old man; 45-year-old woman from Ramdarbar, 75-year-old woman from Sector-44, 65-year-old woman from Sector-35, 46-year-old man from Burail, 32-year-old man from Sector-30, 52-year-old man from Sector-20.Two cases have also surfaced in Sector-63 — 14-year-old boy from and 43-year-old woman.With the addition of 25 more cases, the active cases in the UT have climbed to 169.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-660-114264
17-07-2020||---||Several options in the offing for Delhi-Chandigarh commuters||Chandigarh, July 16One of the projects likely in December 2022The 304-km trans-Haryana project from Ambala to Ismailabad to Kotputali is expected to be completed by December 2022, costing Rs 10,000 crore. It is expected to decongest National Highway (NH)-1 and NH-8.Of the 600-km Katra-Amritsar-Delhi road, about 135 km will fall in Haryana. A part of Bharatmala project, it is expected to cost about Rs 30,000 crore.With the trans-Haryana and Katra-Amritsar-Delhi road projects, more options will be available for people going from Chandigarh to Delhi. More options will reduce traffic and less time will be taken. The trans-Haryana project is a six-lane 304-km project from Ambala to Ismailabad to Kotputali. It is a green field project. It is expected to be completed by December 2022. It’s a Rs 10,000 crore project. It is expected to decongest National Highway-1 and National Highway-8.Another ambitious project is the Katra-Amritsar-Delhi road, which will be 600-km long. About 135 km will fall in Haryana. About Rs 30,000 crore will be spent on it. It is a part of the Bharatmala project. It is expected to be awarded in December 2022 and will take three years to complete.The Dwarka Expressway, which is also known as the Northern Peripheral Road, is coming up at a cost of Rs 8,667 crore and is expected to be completed by 2022. It will improve connectivity of Gurugram with Delhi and benefit those coming from the Delhi airport.“With the completion of new projects, there will be more options for people commuting from Chandigarh to Delhi. The Dwarka Expressway will improve connectivity for those coming from the Delhi airport,” said RP Singh, Regional Officer for Punjab and Haryana, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Web of highways in stateOn July 14, Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari inaugurated three big road projects worth Rs 2,240 crore. These included a 35-km four-lane Rohna-Jhajjar section costing Rs 1,183 crore, 70-km four-laning of road from Punjab border to Jind costing Rs 857 crore and 85.36-km 2-lane Jind-Karnal highway costing Rs 200 crore.He also laid the foundation stones for eight projects worth Rs 17,787 crore. These included 227-km six-lane access-controlled expressway from Ismailpur to Narnaul costing Rs 8,650 crore, 46.11-km four-lane Gurugram Pataudi-Rewari section costing Rs 1,524 crore, 14.4-km four-lane Rewari bypass costing Rs 928 crore, 30.45-km four-lane Rewari-Ateli section costing Rs 1,057 crore and 40.8-km six-lane Narnaul bypass costing Rs 1,380 crore.He also laid the foundation stones for 40.6-km four-lane Jind-Gohana section costing Rs 1,207 crore, 38.23-km four-lane Gohana-Sonepat section costing Rs 1,502 crore and 40.47-km four-lane Uttar Pradesh border to Rohna costing Rs 1,509 crore. According to the NHAI, the length of national highways in Haryana, which was 2,050 km in 2014, was 3,237 km now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/several-options-in-the-offing-for-delhi-chandigarh-commuters-114086
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Healthy environment need of the hour: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a healthy environment was the need of the hour and residential plots situated at a short distance from a sewage treatment plant may not be fit for human habitation due to continuous emission of foul smell and gases.Bench orders refund of allottees’ amountA Division Bench also directed the refund of the amount deposited by allottees for two plots in the vicinity of a sewage treatment plant in Mohali “without any deduction”. The direction came even as the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority and another respondent expressed readiness to refund the amount already paid by the petitioners, after making a 10 per cent deduction in accordance with the provisions of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act.A Division Bench also directed the refund of the amount deposited by allottees for two plots in the vicinity of a plant in Mohali “without any deduction”. The direction came even as the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority and another respondent expressed readiness to refund the amount already paid by the petitioners, after making a 10 per cent deduction in accordance with the provisions of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act.The developments took place before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh on a petition filed by Parminder Singh and another petitioner for directing the respondents to allot them some other plot in place of two residential plots in Gateway City, Sector 118-119, Mohali. In alternative, directions were sought to the respondents to refund the amount deposited by them for both the plots along with interest. The Bench was told that the petitioners visited both plots and came to know that they were situated at a distance of just about 55 and 45 ft from the boundary wall of the STP, rendering them unfit for human habitation.Referring to the state government policy, the petitioners added that the STP was required to be located away from potential population growth. The allotted plots could not be used for residential purpose as the foul smell emitted by the STP was a continuous source of nuisance and also a health hazard.After hearing counsel for the parties, the Bench observed that the STP was constructed using the latest technology and the project was approved by the Punjab Pollution Control Board, as per the respondents.“The fact that a buffer zone of green belt — dense trees with pleasant fragrance — is to be provided around the STP clearly shows that the process of sewage treatment in the plant is not odourless. The foul smell emitted by the STP is a health hazard. The stench must be pervasive and cause of permanent nuisance in the area,” the Bench added.Before parting with the order, the Bench added that the petitioners were not responsible for the pollution. It was not possible for them to reduce the pollution or the nuisance caused by the STP. In these circumstances, the defence taken by the respondents that the allotment of disputed plots cannot be cancelled as these were allotted to the petitioners on “as-is-where-is basis” is not tenable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/healthy-environment-need-of-the-hour-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-113892
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Stray cattle claims life of 25-yr-old biker||A 25-year-old youth died after the motorcycle he was riding reportedly hit a stray cattle in Sector 38 (West) here last night. The victim has been identified as Lalit, a resident of Sector 41.Sources said the biker was returning home when the incident took place near a petrol pump in Sector 38 (West).The police said a motorist took the victim to the GMSH, Sector 16, where he later succumbed to his injuries. The motorist also informed the victim’s family, which reached the hospital.The police said though the victim was wearing a helmet, he suffered head injuries. The body has been shifted to a mortuary and the autopsy will be conducted tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-cattle-claims-life-of-25-yr-old-biker-113894
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||No-honking stickers for traffic violators with postal challans in Chandigarh||With an aim to inculcate discipline among motorists who unnecessarily honk while driving, the UT police have now started sending no-honking stickers with postal traffic challans. The stickers can be pasted on the steering wheels of vehicles.The traffic police have been sensitising motorists to the importance of not honking for the past two and a half years. The motorists were also administered a pledge to support the campaign in a bid to make the city noise pollution-free.The police had also distributed stickers among motorists at light points, meant for steering wheels with “I will not honk” written on these.However, since Covid-19 has applied brakes to such campaigns, the traffic police have started sending these stickers to traffic violators along with postal challans.The postal challans are sent to traffic violators after the violations are caught on CCTV cameras or pictures of violations are sent on WhastApp or uploaded by people on the Facebook page of the traffic police or on the Twitter account.A traffic police official said sending the sticker with the challan helped in delivering a message about making the city free of noise pollution caused by unnecessary honking.Honking is already prohibited near the Sector 1 Capitol Complex, the PGI, Sector 12, Panjab University, Sector 14, and on roads near hospitals and educational institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-honking-stickers-for-traffic-violators-with-postal-challans-in-chandigarh-113895
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at temple in Sector 48||Jewellery and cash were stolen from a temple in Sector 48 here on the intervening night of July 15 and 16. The miscreants also took away the DVR of CCTV cameras.The incident came to light in the morning when the priest, Deepak, went to open the temple and found the locks of the main gate broken. Gold and silver jewellery and Rs40,000 were found missing from the donation box.The police visited the spot and found the DVR of the CCTV cameras missing.A complaint regarding the theft was submitted at the Sector 49 police station.This is the second such incident in the recent past. Earlier, two thieves had struck at a temple in Sector 8 and stole silver jewellery worth around Rs1 lakh on the intervening night of June 3 and 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-temple-in-sector-48-113897
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||0001 fetches Rs5.45 lakh at e-auction in Chandigarh||The 0001 vehicle number of the CH01 CB series fetched Rs5.45 lakh against the reserve price of Rs50,000.The 0007 number was brought for Rs2.89 lakh against the reserve price of Rs30,000. With the e-auction of vanity numbers, the Transport Department earned a revenue of Rs54 lakh.The department today conducted an e-auction of vanity numbers of the new series, CH01 CB, and the leftover vanity/special registration numbers of previous series, including CH01 CA, CH01 BZ, CH01 BY, CH01 BX, CH01 BW, CH01 BV, CH01 BU, CH01 BT and CH01 BS. Those who purchased vehicles on a Chandigarh address were eligible to participate in the e-auction.The 0002 number was bought for Rs1.05 lakh against the reserve price of Rs30,000, 0003 was sold for Rs2.09 lakh against the reserve price of Rs30,000, 0004 went for Rs72,000 against the reserve price of Rs30,000; 0005 for Rs1.10 lakh against the reserve price of Rs30,000; 0006 for Rs1.35 lakh, 0008 for Rs2.23 lakh and 0009 was auctioned for Rs2.20 lakh.The successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered as well as deposit the bidding amount within a month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10 per cent as well as interest at the rate of 10 per cent on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment or three months from the date of auction, whichever is earlier. Otherwise, the security amount will be forfeited on or after the expiry of the three-month period commencing from the date of the e-auction and the applicant will be debarred from participating in three consecutive auctions.So far, the highest bid for 0001 was made in 2012 when a resident of Sector 44 bought it for the CH01 AP series for Rs26.05 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/0001-fetches-rs5-45-lakh-at-e-auction-in-chandigarh-113898
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s green riders can now park easy at Sukhna Lake||Acting on a news report published in these columns on June 10 regarding the lack of a dedicated space for parking bicycles at Sukhna Lake, the UT Administration has now set up a dedicated parking lot for the purpose.The dedicated lot has a capacity to park over 70 cycles. Due to closure of gyms and fitness centres owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a significant increase in the number of people taking to cycling to stay fit in the city.Cycling enthusiasts were not able to find a proper parking space and were keeping their bicycles alongside grills, covering the entire pedestrian path near the entrance to the lake. Many a time, bicycles were seen parked at the lake arena near the police post in a haphazard manner.However, now with availability of a proper space, cyclists can park their bicycles at a safe place. Around 25 bays have been made on two sides so that cyclists can lock their bicycles.“This is a welcome step. Cyclists of different age groups come here both in the morning and evening. This facility will surely help them spend some good time,” said Divya, a local resident.The Chandigarh Master Plan-2031 lays emphasis on making the city pedestrian and bicycle-friendly. “Chandigarh is an ideal place for cycling enthusiasts. The city has dedicated cycle paths and even traffic signals, but the parking facility was lacking. On the same pattern, the UT should create bicycle-parking spaces at all sector markets,” said Sunil Vardhan, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-green-riders-can-now-park-easy-at-sukhna-lake-113901
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 staffer among 16 found infected in Chandigarh||Sixteen new Covid-19 cases were reported from the city today, taking the total count to 635. Five members of a family from Mani Majra contracted the virus. They are three men, aged 24, 26 and 52, and two women, aged 21 and 27. They are the contacts of an already positive patient in the family. Two other members of the family have tested negative.A 17-year-old youth from Mani Majra also tested positive for the virus. A 52-year-old woman staff member of the GMCH-32 was also found suffering from Covid-19. She has four family members. A 42-year-old man from Sector 52, a 26-year-old man from Sector 45, a 64-year-old man from Sector 27, a 42-year-old man and a three-year-old girl child from Sector 31, a 45-year-old woman and a 16-year-old youth from Sector 48, a 24-year-old woman from Sector 46 and a two-year-old boy from Dhanas were also found suffering from the contagion. Family members of almost all of them were already found positive.17 patients dischargedA total of 17 patients were discharged from health facilities after defeating the virus.Haryana Deputy CM’s residence sanitisedAfter a personal secretary of Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala tested positive for the virus, the latter’s house in Sector 2 here was sanitised. Entry of visitors was also restricted to the official residence of the Deputy Chief Minister. His personal secretary had tested positive in Sirsa.UT cop contracts virusUT police Inspector Dilbagh Singh has tested positive for Covid-19. The Inspector (Law and Order) was posted in the Police Headquarters, Sector 9, here. The cop is yet to be included in the UT tally. According to information, he was not attending the office for the past 12 days. His wife and daughter have been home-quarantined at their house in Sector 46. Some of his neighbours have also been home-quarantined. “We have asked the Police Department to home quarantine those cops who came in contact with him,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-staffer-among-16-found-infected-in-chandigarh-113903
17-07-2020||Panchkula||Four CRPF men among 19 test positive in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-crpf-men-among-19-test-positive-in-panchkula-113905
17-07-2020||Panchkula health officials attribute the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases to travellers from outside the district and a series of clusters. “In Panchkula||‘Clusters, travellers reason for spike in cases’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clusters-travellers-reason-for-spike-in-cases-113907
17-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees  16 new cases||Sixteen people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mohali today, taking the total number of cases to 472. The new patients are aged between six and 79.Those infected include a 45-year-old woman from Sector 66, a 40-year-old woman from Jhanjeri, a 43-year-old woman from Sector 125 and a 24-year-old woman from an unspecified location in Mohali. Five cases from Kharar are a 62-year-old man, a 58-year-old woman, a 32-year-old woman and a six-year-old girl from Shivalik City, and a 48-year-old man from an unspecified location.A 29-year-old man from Phase 1, a 41-year-old woman from Phase 4, a 68-year-old man from Gillco Towers and a 57-year-old man from Baltana also contracted the infection.Two men, aged 47 and 19, from Lalru and a 79-year-old man from Jharmeri also tested positive today.Seven persons were discharged in the district, bringing the number of active patients to 169.Those discharged are a 38-year-old man from Nayagaon, a 45-year-old man and a 14-year-old boy from Sector 114, a 22-year-old youth from Kumbra, a 65-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman from Kurali and a 28-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-16-new-cases-113908
17-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula residents see red in axe on green||Residents of Sector 11 here today submitted a memorandum to the Chief Administrator, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), after its horticulture wing tried to cut some old trees at a park in the residential colony.Rakesh Sukhija, a resident, said: “Around 10 persons claiming to be Horticulture Department officials reached the colony at 9 am today and tried to cut the trees at a park developed by residents. However, people intervened and asked them to show the orders. The officials said the HSVP Administrator had asked them to cut all trees at the park. However, they failed to show any written order and left the spot.”He said: “Chopping the trees, around 20-30 years old, unnecessarily makes no sense”. “Trees are like our children. How could they (HSVP) think of bringing these down,” said another resident.Mamta Sharma, HSVP Estate Officer, Panchkula, said they would cut around 10-15 trees for the purpose of allotment of five plots of 8 marla. An auction for the allotment of plots would start soon.“It is basically not a park, but HSVP land on which the trees are to be cut,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-see-red-in-axe-on-green-113910
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bapu Dham pocket off Perimeter tag||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-pocket-off-perimeter-tag-113912
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sports Department to come up with tentative calendar||The UT Sports Department will now to come up with a tentative sports calendar for the current session, which has been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The calendar will be followed whenever the Centre approves conducting tournaments or the situation gets better. With time till March 2021, the department is focusing on conducting major local championships so that local players can reap benefits.Some major annual national invitational championships, including the All-India Administrator’s Football Cup and All-India Invitational Handball Championship, are unlikely to happen this year. “We are planning to make a tentative schedule for organising local championships. It will be followed once things gets normal or government gives clearance for conducting championships,” said a senior officer of the department. The focus will be on organising championships that benefit players in a way or another. The invitational tournaments, which usually take place in July/August, are likely to stand cancelled. We still have eight months to conduct as many as championships for the current session,” he added.Sources said the department had sought details of sports calendars from neighbouring states, but have not received any reply so far. “Yes, we have written to the neighbouring states to seek their take on organising sports events so that we can also act accordingly. But so far, we have not received any reply,” said the officer.Last year, the department had organised a series of tournaments of a majority of the disciplines for all age groups, besides hosting a women’s sports festival, rural sports meet and a three-week high-altitude summer coaching camp for the trainees of football and hockey academies.The state-run football, hockey and cricket academies continue to remain shut. The trainees of these academies have not been called from their respective states, while the fresh batch is yet to be inducted in some disciplines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-department-to-come-up-with-tentative-calendar-113913
17-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||51K cases pending in Chandigarh District Courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 16With the functioning of the courts affected due to the outbreak of Covid-19 across the country, the number of pending cases in the Chandigarh District Courts stands at 51,101.As per the latest data available on the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) on July 13, out of the total pending cases, the number of the criminal cases is 32,194 and the number of civil cases is 18,907. Approximately 62 per cent —31,787 — of the pending cases were filed in the past one year. Around 15,694 (about 30 per cent) cases were filed in the past one to three years, 2,710 cases are between 3 and 5 years old, 841 cases were filed between 5 and 10 years and there are only 64 cases that fall in the category of 10 to 20 years old.The number of the appeal cases is 3,537 and the application cases are 4,406. The cases pending at the execution level are 3,796.The data also revealed 1,570 cases were instituted last month while 167 were disposed. Though the judicial authorities did take a number of steps to reduce the pendency in the District Courts, the restrictive functioning due to Covid for the past three months will further increase the number pending cases.NK Nanda, president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said the lockdown would increase the pendency of cases. He said keeping in view the problems of the lawyers and the litigants, the functioning of the courts should be started in a phased manner.Advocate Pankaj Chandgothia said there would be a spike in the number of cases once the court allows filing of all types of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/51k-cases-pending-in-chandigarh-district-courts-113914
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE reviews Chandigarh’s PISA preparedness||The CBSE today reviewed the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), which will be held in 2020, preparedness with officials of the UT Administration.An online meeting in this regard was held among Manoj Ahuja, Chairperson, CBSE, Dr Joseph Emmanuel, Director (Academics), and Dr Biswajit Saha, Director (Training and Skill Education). In Chandigarh, the meeting was chaired by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, along with Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director School Education, and SS Dahiya, Director, SCERT.A brief presentation was made by Director (Academics), CBSE, regarding the status of PISA preparedness of the UT. He shared the details of board results, assessment of CCT tests and a sample survey of schools of the city. He further informed that teacher energised textbooks (TET) and PISA primer for parents would soon be shared with the UT. Due to the pandemic, PISA examination has been pushed further and tentative dates for the field and main trials of PISA were also discussed.The Chairperson raised the issue of low participation of students of government schools in online assessment. He expressed concern about availability of smartphones and Internet with students belonging to the EWS families.The Adviser requested the Chairperson to supply the printed booklets (PISA primer) for parents so that these can be delivered at their houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-reviews-chandigarhs-pisa-preparedness-113915
17-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||13 test +ve  in Fatehgarh Sahib||Thirteen more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Fatehgarh Sahib today.Four members of the family of a goldsmith, who had earlier tested positive, are among the cases that surfed today.Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said 13 new cases were reported today. He said the infected persons include a 30-year-old woman from Amloh town, 55-year-old woman from Aman Colony in Sirhind, a 68-year-old from Fatehgarh Sahib, a 31-year-old employee of the Khamano SDM office, 36 and 50 years old from Bassi Pathana, a 16-year-old from Mandi Gobindgarh, a 43-year-old woman from Samsher Nagar in Sirhind and a 39-year-old from the Zirakpur area. He said 282 samples were collected today. So far, the district has reported 191 positive cases of which 59 are active and two deaths have been reported. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-test-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-113916
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bhai Jaitajee Foundation students excel||Of the 31 students of Bhai Jaitajee Foundation, an associate of St Soldier School, Sector 28, and AKSIPS, Mohali, 27 have scored more than 90 per cent in the CBSE Class XII exams.Five students have scored more than 95 per cent. The students have brought cheer to families facing economic challenges across Punjab. “The feature of their achievement is tackling the double challenge of preparing for IIT/JEE/NEET and also performing exceptionally well in their board examination. These students are from small towns and villages of Punjab where quality education and coaching for competitive exams is non-existent. Bhai Jaitajee Foundation has endeavoured to fulfil this need and is committed to making Punjab standout in competitive exams,” said of the members of the foundation. Every year, 30 students are selected for free residential schooling and high-quality coaching for two years. — TNSChamps in academics tooClass XIIManav Singh BhinderA student of Vivek High School, Sector 38, who has been afflicted with high-functioning autism (Asperger’s syndrome), Manav scored 91.5 per cent in the CBSE Class XII exams. He had performed in national and international events, said mother Sharmita Bhinder.Aarushi BhandariAarushi of Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, scored 95.8 per cent in the commerce stream. She has represented the city in the U-19 baseball championship. She aims to become a chartered accountant.KiranKiran of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, scored 95.8 per cent in arts. She is a national-level gold medallist in baseball and has performed well in state championships.Akshita KambojAkshita of GMSSS, Sector 35, scored 91.6 per cent in arts. She has represented the city in the school national softball championship and won a gold medal in a state championship.AarshiAarshi of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, scored 90.2 per cent in arts. She has represented the city in school national softball championship and is a state gold medallist.Class X Haren ChaudharyHaren of Gurukul Global School, Mani Majra, scored 94.4 per cent in the CBSE Class X examinations. He is national gold medallist in roller skating and has won over 400 medals. He wants to pursue non-medical and aims to study at one of the IITs.Karamveer SinghKaramveer of GMSSS, Sector 35, scored 81.6 per cent in Class X. He is a national-level silver medallist in baseball.Manmeet SinghManmeet Singh, a student of Tribune Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 29, scored 92 per cent in the CBSE Class X examination. He is also the sports captain of the school. Last year, he was awarded with the Ashok and Sneh scholarship from the school for his meritorious achievements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhai-jaitajee-foundation-students-excel-113927
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on value-based education||Senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon today addressed a webinar on value-based education that was organised by SUS Panjab University Constituent College, Ferozepur district. The session was attended by around 250 youngsters and education professionals. “Money comes and goes, morality comes and grows. Education without value is literacy and only literacy cannot shape the future of self, the society or the nation,” said Tandon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-value-based-education-113946
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Non-bailable warrants against suspended Chandigarh woman cop||Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special Judge, CBI court, has issued a non-bailable arrest warrants against suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur of the Chandigarh Police in a bribery case.Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, a Mani Majra resident, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.Graft caseJaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, a Mani Majra resident, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.SS Rathore, CBI Inspector, ACB, Chandigarh, filed the application in the court with the assistance of public prosecutor KP Singh. In the order, the CBI court said a non-bailable warrants of arrest should be issued against Jaswinder Kaur returnable on July 20.In its application, the CBI said that accused Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO, Mani Majra, Chandigarh, and Bhagwan Singh, an alleged conduit¸ were booked under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption PC Act, 1988, on the charges of seeking Rs5-lakh bribe from Gurdeep Singh.Later, the CBI had laid a trap on accused Bhagwan Singh, who was caught red-handed while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs1 lakh on behalf of former SHO Jaswinder Kaur.The CBI said Jaswinder deliberately and intentionally absconded and did not join the CBI investigation in order to avoid her confrontation with accused Bhagwan Singh.She even created a false evidence by making a false entry in the DDR at the Mani Majra police station vide DDR No. 32 dated June 30 at 11.38 am for going to join CBI investigation and another entry dated June 30 at 2.42 pm for her return to the police station.The complainant, Gurdeep Singh, alleged that his signature was taken on a blank paper under pressure by Jaswinder Kaur. Raids were conducted at the residence of Jaswinder, but she could not be found and her mobile phone was found switched off. Letters were also sent to the senior officers of the Chandigarh Police for directing Jaswinder to join investigation.It was informed by the Chandigarh Police that Jaswinder was transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26, Chandigarh, but she had not reported for duty there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-bailable-warrants-against-suspended-chandigarh-woman-cop-113947
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 minor girls go missing in Chandigarh, one returns home||Three minor girls went missing from the city today. One of the girls later returned home.A nine-year-old girl went missing from Dhanas following which her parents informed the police and a case of kidnapping was registered at the Sarangpur police station. Later, the girl returned home. The investigation revealed that she was scolded by her mother following which she left home. Later, she returned in the night as she was scared of the dark.Meanwhile, a 15-year-old girl, a student of Class IX,went missing from Maloya on Tuesday night following which a case of kidnapping was registered. Another 11-year-old girl went missing from Mauli Jagran. Her family members have a suspicion that she has been kidnapped following which a case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.The police said that efforts were being made to locate the missing girls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-minor-girls-go-missing-in-chandigarh-one-returns-home-113948
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Clear dues, Chandigarh Housing Board warns allottees||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has requested the allottees to clear pending dues without any further delay to avoid cancellation of their units.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer (CEO), CHB, said details of outstanding dues against the allottees had been uploaded on the website, www.chbonline.in. He said the payment could be made either online or offline.The CEO said online payments could be made by visiting the website without any additional charges through debit card, credit card and online banking. It was a better way of payment and to further encourage online payments, a computerised draw was being held every month to give a reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions, he added.For offline payment, the allottees may generate a challan by visiting the CHBwebsite and then makethe payment (through cash/cheque/draft) in any of the HDFC branch within the city. For generation of such challan, the basic data of the allottee will be fetched from the database provided by the CHB to avoid any mistake and early credit of the payment.The manually filled challans are not accepted by the bank while accepting payment for the CHB. However, to facilitate those allottees, who did not have internet facility or who were facing any difficulty in generation of challan, the Sector 9-D, 22-B, 37-D and Industrial Area Phase I & II branches of the bank have been identified for assistance.The CEO said all allottees were requested to make online payments. For any reason, if offline payment was made through cash/cheque/draft, then a challan needed to be generated from the CHB website to make payment in any branch of HDFC bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-dues-chandigarh-housing-board-warns-allottees-113949
17-07-2020||Mohali||JCB machine used in illegal mining seized||Officials of the Mining Department today conducted a raid at Gocher village in the Majri block of Kharar and found that 5,000 cubic feet of gravel was excavated. A JCB machine was also seized by the officials.“We are trying to find out illegal activities being carried out in the adjoining villages with the help of GPS. Soon, the owners, will be sent notices and hefty fines will be imposed on the violators,” said Gurpreet Pal Singh Sandhu, mining officer of the district.The fine for sand and gravel was Rs60 per tonne, whereas for ordinary earth, it was Rs10 per tonne, the officer said.On July 6 this year, former DGP Paramdeep Singh Gill, along with 44 farmers, was booked by the Majri police for allegedly allowing illegal mining on a land in Saini Majra under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jcb-machine-used-in-illegal-mining-seized-113950
17-07-2020||Mohali||183 evacuees from Kuwait reach Chandigarh||The second evacuation flight from Kuwait, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Centre, arrived at the Chandigarh international airport with 183 passengers here today.The GoAir flight arrived at the airport via New Delhi at 6 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives. Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with efforts of all authorities/agencies involved — Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh governments, CISF, immigration, customs and the Punjab Police.The Health Department spokesman said during the screening of passengers, health officials took precautions and passengers maintained social distance.He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough and cold. He said all passengers were impressed upon by the Health Department teams deployed at the airport to take precautions such as cover their face with a mask, use hand sanitisers, washing hands and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/183-evacuees-from-kuwait-reach-chandigarh-113951
17-07-2020||Zirakpur||Zirakpur residents complain of inflated, erroneous power bills||Residents here complained of receiving inflated and erroneous bills due to which they are forced to stand in long queues and make multiple rounds of the PSPCL office despite the Covid-19 pandemic.The residents are also irked as they received power bills for the past four months. Long queues with complete disregard to social distancing could be seen at the office as residents jostle to get their bills corrected.A total of 88,000 consumers are registered with the PSPCL, Zirakpur, which has been divided into four groups for the billing process. The common complaint of most of the residents was that they had paid the bill in January, but this month’s bill was showing the amount in arrears.“I received a bill of Rs65,000 for 1,640 units for a domestic connection this time. I do not know how they have generated the bill,” said a resident who came to the office to get it rectified.Gursharan Singh, a senior citizen, who came to clarify adjustments in the bill, said: “There are only three officials here. However, more than 100 people are standing in the queue. Staff members do not clarify the things properly. In some cases, they resort to misbehaviour.”SDO (Commercial) Ishant Bansal said: “Readings could not be taken due to the lockdown. Now, it is being done as per the procedure. The entire process is software driven and there is no chance of erroneous bills. If there is any confusion, people can come to the office to get it clarified.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-residents-complain-of-inflated-erroneous-power-bills-113952
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Smart City firm shelves placemaking project||The placemaking project under Chandigarh Smart City Limited has been shelved.Smart City officials said getting clearance due to the city’s heritage status was the main hindrance. The project was planned initially, but the idea has been dropped now.“In sectors such as 17 and 22, we would have faced issues in creating such spaces due to their heritage status. It would not have been possible to build such spaces in accordance with the heritage status norms there. Also, we thought to give priority to other important projects,” stated a senior Smart City official.Dirty vacant spaces in various parts of the city were to be transformed into nice and active urban spaces.The project was aimed at making the city more desirable for tourists as well as for the natives by using public areas in the best way possible.The Area-Based Development (ABD) areas of Smart City were to undergo a special treatment for the transformation of under-utilised spaces into nice and active urban spaces. The spaces were to be used to add more glitter to the city by adding more facilities. The spaces would have got playful items, colourful lights, small fountain, swanky place to sit and much more. On this, RK Garg, president of the Second Innings’ Association, a senior citizens’ body, said, “Rather than creating more beautification sites, they need to clean, repair and maintain the existing ones.They make plans on papers and if these doesn’t materialise according to them, they abandon these. Only a few are taken to their logical end.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-city-firm-shelves-placemaking-project-113953
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic police go all out to create Covid awareness||The road safety team of the Chandigarh traffic police has been holding awareness drives through public announcements to educate people on Covid-19.Police officials said since May, around 22,000 persons had been educated on Covid. They said a total of 119 activities had been held in various parts of the city. “The residents are being sensitised on the symptoms of the virus and measures to be taken to keep them safe by following social distancing, wearing face mask,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-police-go-all-out-to-create-covid-awareness-113954
17-07-2020||Mohali||Powercom staff booked for flouting Covid norms||A day after members of the Powercom and Transco Contract Employees’ Union, Punjab, staged a protest at Labour Bhawan, Phase X, Mohali, the police registered a case against them for violating social-distancing norms.A case has been registered against the protesters under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and 51 of the Disaster Management Act at the Phase 11 police station.According to the police, around seven persons, including union president of the state, Balihar Singh, general secretary Virinder Singh and vice-president Rajesh Kumar, have been booked. Inspector Jagdeep Singh, Station House Officer at the Phase 11 police station, said, “We have registered an FIR in this regard as the protesters flouted the social-distancing norms.”Around 150 persons took part in the protest yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/powercom-staff-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-113955
17-07-2020||Mohali||Nonagenarian undergoes aortic valve replacement||A 94-year-old man has become the oldest patient in the country to have undergone successful transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).Dr Puneet K Verma, director and chief interventional cardiologist, who performed the surgery last month, said the patient was discharged after four days of stay in the hospital. Dr Puneet said the patient, HS Dhillon, a resident of Sector 70, was so active that he couldn’t wait to play golf again. Two months ago, the nanogenarian had developed symptoms of congestive heart failure and severe aortic stenosis (narrowing of aortic valve, outlet valve of the main pumping chamber of the heart).“A critically narrowed valve can lead to debilitating symptoms ranging from chest pain, dizziness, loss of consciousness and breathlessness, leading to heart failure. Being an elderly patient, the risks of performing valve replacement surgery were very high,” said Dr Puneet. Dhillon said, “I am totally fine now. After the surgery, I had to walk with the support of a stick. But for the last few days, I can walk on my own.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nonagenarian-undergoes-aortic-valve-replacement-113957
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unit for patients  with organ failure||A high-dependency unit was inaugurated at ESIC Hospital, Industrial Area, Phase 2, Chandigarh, by Regional Director S Gunasekaran for patients with organ failures and post-operative patients who have under gone major surgeries.Medical Superintendent Sangeeta Mathur reiterated that the addition of the facility would be a step forward in making the hospital self-sufficient. Dr Sunil Dutt Sharma, Head, Orthopaedics Surgery, ESIC Hospital, stated that the level-II facility has seven beds with advanced vitals monitoring systems, infusion pumps and life-saving equipment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unit-for-patients-with-organ-failure-113958
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for snatching mobile||Man outrages modesty, heldChandigarh: A Sector 56 resident has been arrested for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman. According to the police, the victim alleged that Zafir Ahmed of Sector 56 caught hold of her and outraged her modesty near her house. The police were informed following which the suspect was arrested and a case under Sections 354 and 323 of the IPC registered against him at the Sector 39 police station. TNSProstitution racket bustedPanchkula: Three persons were arrested after the police busted a prostitution racket at a hotel in Morni here. The suspects have been identified as Balraj, a resident of Hansi, Dharambir Singh, a resident of Behlana, Chandigarh and Nar Bahadur of Nepal. The police said acting on a tip off, they raided the hotel. A case was registered at the Chandimandir police station. TNSImmunity booster medicines givenChandigarh: The Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, distributed immunity booster homeopathic medicines and masks among members of the association, safai karamcharis and horticultural workers to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Association presidentKamaljit Singh Panchhi and general secretary LC Arora thanked BJP leader Sanjay Tandon for providing the medicines to the association for distribution among the public. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-snatching-mobile-113960
