19-07-2020||---||Gharuan police post sealed as two SI and head constable test positive||Mohali, July 19In a first of its case in Punjab, Gharuan police post, falling under Kharar police station (Rural) in the district, was sealed on Sunday as three cops, including two Sub-Inspectors and a head constable tested positive for COVID-19.Three policemen, who have been infected with the virus include two Sub-Inspectors — a 30-year-old woman and 29-year-old man and a head constable aged 52.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the Gharuan police post had been sealed and would be sanitised on Monday. He added that the health teams had also taken the samples of 12 more policemen, who had filed fever.A 46-year-old female staff nurse working at Mohali Civil Hospital has also been tested positive for the virus.Other patients, who tested positive today, include a 59-year-old man from Phase-3A, 41-year-old man from Sector 80, 38-year-old man and 38-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave, 40-year-old woman from Sante Majra, 50-year-old woman from Sector 127, two-and-a-half year old girl and 22-year-old woman from Kharar,  29-year-old man, 36-year-old woman and 36-year-old man from Dera Bassi, 40-year-old man from Zirakpur, 31-year-old man from Phase-9, 47-year-old woman from Zirakpur and 63-year-old woman from Zirakpur.Dr Manjit Singh said all patients had been shifted to the COVID Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.As of now, there are 531 coronavirus positive patients in the districts, of which, 318 have recovered, 202 are active and 11 died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gharuan-police-post-sealed-as-two-si-and-head-constable-test-positive-115112
19-07-2020||---||Chandigarh reports 26 new COVID-29 cases; tally crosses 700||Chandigarh, July 19Chandigarh on Sunday reported 26 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 717.Meanwhile, three patients were also discharged today. With three more cured and discharged, the number of cured patients in the UT has climbed to 488.The fresh cases reported today include a 48-year-old man from Daria, 32-year-old man from Sector-32, 48-year-old woman from Sector-7, 45-year-old man from Sector-45, 48-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran, 52-year-old and 56-year-old men from Sector-39, 33-year-old woman and 36-year-old man from Sector-42 and 78-year-old woman from Sector-48.Eight cases surfaced from Dhanas — 13-year-old boy, 32-year-old man, 45-year-old man, 57-year-old woman, two 10-year-old boys, 32-year-old woman and 34-year-old woman — all are contacts of an already positive patient.Two cases were also reported from Sector-46 — 54-year-old woman and 25-year-oold woman. They are also contacts of an already positive case from Sector-46.The remaining cases include a 56-year-old man from Sector-45, 30-year-old and 58-year-old old from Sector-30, 67-year-old man from Sector-19, 10-year-old boy from Sector-39 and 50-year-old man from Sector-20.The number of active cases in the Union Territory has climbed to 217 while 12 people have died so far of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-26-new-covid-29-cases-tally-crosses-700-115098
19-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 8 Covid-19 cases; district tally stands at 251||Panchkula reported eight more COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the district tally to 251.The infections include three men—24-year-old, 42-year-old and 55-year-old—from Ashiana Complex in Industrial Area Phase 1.A 50-year-old woman, from the same locality, also tested positive for the deadly disease.Meanwhile, to check the spread of Covid-19, Panchkula health officials will start using antibody kits for testing in containment zones and Haryana government offices.This comes in the wake of the sudden spike in cases in the district, mainly detected from clusters such as ITBP in Bhanu, CRPF in Pinjore, Ashiana Complex in Sector 19 and Department of Medical Education and Research in Sector 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-8-covid-19-cases-district-tally-stands-at-251-115028
19-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Non-functional CCTVs at police stations, two cops face action||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 18The Chandigarh Police have initiated disciplinary action against two inspectors, including the SHO of the Sector 39 police station, after it was found that the CCTV cameras installed at the stations were dysfunctional due to which the police failed to collect footage required in a case.Dr Gagan Geet Kaur, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, ordered for securing the footage after an accused filed an application for placing the CCTV footage before the court to prove his points in an NDPS case.The accused filed the application for preservation of CCTV footage of Sector 31, 34 and 39 police stations and of Sham Mall, Sector 34, dated June 18 and June 19, for the purpose of his defence in the case. The accused is the main witness in the bribery case in which the CBI arrested a Sub-Inspector of the UT Police.On his application, the Additional Sessions Judge on July 4 directed the officials concerned to secure the CCTV footage of places and timings as mentioned in the application. In compliance with the directions, the SSP and the SP (Headquarters), UT, informed the court that in pursuance of the directions, except Sector 34 police station, preservation of CCTV footage of other police stations (SHO room and reporting room of Sector 31 police station) could not be secured due to non-functioning of the cameras installed there.The police said the CCTV cameras of the SHO room and the reporting room of the Sector 31 police station took five days to repair. The CCTV cameras of the Sector 39 police station had not been working since May 4 and this came to the knowledge of the SHO only on July 4 when the court ordered to preserve the same.Considering it a very serious lapse, the SSP, Chandigarh, was directed to look into the matter and ensure proper functioning of CCTV cameras in all police stations. After the court’s rap, the SP (Headquarters), UT, said in case of the Sector 31 police station, an explanation had been sought from the inspector of the communication wing.It was informed that in case of the Sector 39 police station, no complaint was received in wireless workshop regarding the defective cameras there, but on July 4, when the technical team from wireless workshop visited the police station to preserve the footage, it was found that the CCTV cameras were working properly, but no recorded data was available. The technical team then reset the system and the system started recording again. The SP (Headquarters) said the disciplinary authority had already been requested to take disciplinary action for lapse on the part of the SHO at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-functional-cctvs-at-police-stations-two-cops-face-action-114793
19-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Process to issue gradation certificates to begin soon||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 18 As the results of various classes are out, the UT Sports Department is all geared up to start the process of conducting interviews for issuing gradation certificates.  The first interview will be held on July 27, then on August 4, August 10, August 17, August 24, August 31 and September 7, subject to the date of filing for the certificate — from July 20 to 22, July 27 to 29, August 3 to August 5, August 10 to 12, August 17 to August 19, August 24 to 6 and August 31 to September 2. Earlier, the authorities were avoiding conducting such interviews owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Under this programme, achievements of local sportspersons gets graded by the department — starting from April every year— so that they can apply for admissions in local schools/colleges/ Panjab University under sports quota. In a notification, issued earlier this year on April 6, the department had announced to postpone the interviews and since then, local players were eagerly waiting for it. Every year, over 500 sportspersons apply to get gradation certificates.  “The process will start this month only. Since the results are out, it’s our duty to grade certificates so that local sportspersons apply for the sports quota seats,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, UT Director Sports. “To avoid large gatherings, players will be called in small batches. The players have to apply for gradation online and we are also trying to examine their certificates and issue grades in the same manner (online). The planning will be completed in a few days,” added Saini.  The policy As per the policy, meritorious sportspersons of the city who excel in various state/national/ international-level championships of archery, athletics, badminton, baseball, basketball, boxing, canoeing/ kayaking, cricket, cycling, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, kho kho, rowing, shooting, softball, skating, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, volleyball, weightlifting and wrestling are issued gradation certificates (A, B, C, D) on the basis of their achievements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/process-to-issue-gradation-certificates-to-begin-soon-114794
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration s nod to renew contracts of outsourced power staff||The Electrical Workmen Union has decided to withdraw their proposed protest after the UT Administration gave an approval for the renewal of contract of more than 300 outsourced workers in the Electricity Department. Rakesh Kumar, general secretary of the union, said they thanked the Administration for the renewal of the contracts and withdrew the protest to be held on August 10. He said the decision was taken during a working committee meeting of the union held under the chairmanship of Varinder Singh Bisht. Kumar said the working committee members expressed happiness and thanked AK Sinha, Secretary, Engineering; Mukesh Anand, Special Secretary, Engineering; and Ranjit Singh, Superintending Engineer, Electrical, for their efforts in getting the approval for the renewal of the contract of outsourced workers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-s-nod-to-renew-contracts-of-outsourced-power-staff-114795
19-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Promote students to next class: Panjab University panel||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 18  The Panjab University Syndicate committee, which was recently formed to look into the admissions/examinations proceedings, has recommended promoting students, except for those in the final year, to next classes. The recommendations for upcoming academic calendar were later approved by the Vice-Chancellor office.  The procedure of giving marks/grades to the students promoted will be decided soon. The decision regarding admission to postgraduate classes will be taken after finalising the assessment for undergraduate classes.  Classes on the campus will start after the government’s permission. The committee decided that the admission process for the ongoing classes shall begin from July 27 to August 8 while the commencement of online classes in teaching department and regional centres will start from August 3.  Recommendations on admissions  It has been decided that the admission process for undergraduate (I year) of the departments shall be from August 12 to 22 while the classes will start from September 1. The late admissions, with permission from heads concerned, will include a late fee of Rs560 from August 24 to September 7 and Rs2,040 from September 8 to 30 with permission from the Vice-Chancellor. Academic term The academic term-I is recommended to be held from August 3 to November 28, wherein all Saturdays will be working days. The examination (final semester) will end in 20 days, including all Saturdays, from December 2 to 24, whereas the vacations have been shortened to nine days from December 25 to January 2, 2021. The academic term-II is recommended to begin from January 4, 2021, to May 7, 2021, followed by conducting exams within 21 days from May 10, 2021, to June 2, 2021. The summer vacations have been recommended from June 3, 2021, to July 7, 2021. UGC reply awaited Sources said the committee had not recommended anything on conducting or not conducting final-year exams as the Syndics have already sent a request to the University Grant Commission (UGC) to review its decision regarding holding final-semester exams for various courses.  For affiliated colleges  The new admissions will be held from August 3 to 22 while classes will be start from September 1. The rest of the calendar will remain the same.  Sources said the authorities might change the calendar if required, as per the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/promote-students-to-next-class-panjab-university-panel-114796
19-07-2020||---||Panjab University to upload exam data on depository||Chandigarh, July 18Panjab University examination branches would upload the examination data on National Academic Depository (NAD) for awarding online degrees and DMCs to students, said Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination.He said reasonable measures had already been taken, including legal agreement and registration of candidates from affiliated colleges and teaching departments.He said it was the need of the hour to initiate the online mode of issuance of degree/DMCs to all eligible PG students as well as PhD scholars, for which NAD registration was must.Till date, the data of 35,000 students has been uploaded on NAD for postgraduates and PhD students of the academic sessions 2018-19 and 2019-20. More than 800 research scholars have enrolled and about 110 scholars have already downloaded their degrees.Parvinder Singh said online degrees and DMCs issued by the PU would not only bring a big relief to the students but was also an endeavour to reform the credibility of the examination system.NAD is a round-the-clock online store house of all academic awards. It provides students convenient access to their degrees without the risk of losing, spoiling or damaging their certificates. The PU has signed an agreement with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL). Students have to register themselves on NAD where all their documents will be made available for easy retrieval in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-upload-exam-data-on-depository-114799
19-07-2020||ibune News Service---||Elderly man’s body found at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, July 18 The body of a 70-year-old man was found at Sukhna Lake here this afternoon. The victim, a resident of Sector 22, was reportedly into depression due to the lockdown. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot. The police received information about a body in the lake near stair number 3 at 2.55 pm. Cops rushed to the spot and pulled the body out of the lake. It was shifted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The victim was later identified as Yashvir, a resident of Sector 22. The police contacted the victim’s son, Tarun, who reached the hospital. Tarun told the police that his father had left the home around noon. The police said the victim’s son disclosed that his father was under depression due to the lockdown. The victim had retired from the Food Corporation of India. The police said prima facie, nothing suspicious had been found as there were no injury marks on the body. The body has been kept at the mortuary and the autopsy would be conducted tomorrow. Meanwhile, inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-mans-body-found-at-sukhna-lake-114801
19-07-2020||---||75-yr-old former pilot shoots self in Sector 51||Chandigarh, July 18A 75-year-old retired pilot reportedly committed suicide by shooting himself in the head with his licensed revolver.The police said the victim, Shivaji Ahluwalia of Police Society in Sector 51, was depressed over some illness for the past two weeks. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. The police said the victim was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 where doctors declared him brought dead.The incident came to light around 5 am when the victim’s servant went to the elderly man’s room to give him tea. He saw the victim lying in a pool of blood.The victim lived with his daughter. “Since, the air conditioner was on, nobody heard the sound of the gunshot,” said a police official.Meanwhile, inquest proceedings have been initiated into the incident at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-yr-old-former-pilot-shoots-self-in-sector-51-114802
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wife arrested for strangling man in Sector 41||Four days after a man was found dead under mysterious circumstances on the stairs of his house in Sector 41, the UT police arrested his wife for allegedly strangling him. The victim had a quarrel with his wife following which she strangled him.The victim, Gurdev Singh, aka Happy, a resident of AG Colony, Sector 41, was found dead on the stairs of the second floor of his house in the morning of July 14.The complainant, Bahadur Singh, who is the victim’s neighbour and president of the RWA, Sector 41-C, had stated that on the day of the incident, the victim’s wife, Harpreet Kaur, had told him that her husband was lying unconscious. The complainant thought that since Gurdev used to consume drugs, he might have died due to drug overdose. He informed the victim’s parents about the death.While the victim’s family members were preparing for the last rites, they noticed marks on the victim’s neck following which the police were informed and an investigation was initiated.Police officials said in the autopsy report, doctors mentioned that in their opinion the cause of the death was asphyxia due to manual strangulation. A case of murder was registered at the Sector 39 police station.The police then grilled the victim’s wife, who revealed that she had a fight with her husband on the stairs following which she strangled him and came home. “The victim used to quarrel with his wife frequently after consuming drugs,” said a police official. The suspect was arrested by the police. She was produced in a court, which sent her in judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wife-arrested-for-strangling-man-in-sector-41-114803
19-07-2020||Amit Sharma||Most fatal mishaps took place from 6 pm-9 pm in Chandigarh last year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18The evening hours between 6 and 9 witnessed the maximum number of fatal road accidents in the year 2019.According to a report of the Road Crash Analysis Cell of the Chandigarh Traffic Police, a total of 100 fatal mishaps were reported from the city last year, claiming 104 lives. Of these, 21 per cent were reported between 6 pm and 9 pm.The report reveals that 16 per cent accidents that claimed lives took place between 6 am and 9 am and 15 per cent between 9 am and noon. Thirteen per cent of the fatal accidents reported last year occurred between 3 pm and 6 pm, followed by 12 per cent each between midnight and 3 am and 9 pm and midnight.The lowest number of fatal mishaps (3 per cent) took place between 3 am and 6 am.A police official said the evening hours were the peak hours when there was a lot of traffic on the city roads, which increased the chances of accident. The report further states that of the total deaths in road accidents in the city, 66 took place during day and 38 at night. Meanwhile, 170 people were injured in the road accidents reported during day and 105 at night.The report of the cell further reveals that the maximum number of accident deaths (14) was reported in December, followed by August and October with 13 deaths each.Meanwhile, 11 deaths each were reported in January, May, July and November.The report further reveals that 43 people were killed when vehicles were hit from behind and crash from the sides proved fatal for 27. Head-on collisions claimed 25 lives while three persons died when vehicle overturned. Two persons died in hit-and-runs. Four deaths took place in accidents due to other reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/most-fatal-mishaps-took-place-from-6-pm-9-pm-in-chandigarh-last-year-114804
19-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Social distancing violations galore in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18Though UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had strictly asked residents to wear a face mask and follow social distancing norms, several people were today seen violating the guidelines.Badnore had warned of more restrictions and even curfew if it was found that residents were not following the guidelines issued by the UT Administration to contain the virus.During a visit to various areas in the city, it was found that some of the people were not following the laid down guidelines at a time when the UT is witnessing a surge in Covid cases. The city has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the tricity.At the crowded Sabzi Mandi in Sector 17, it was noticed that people had pulled down their face mask and were roaming around freely. Due to the rush, there was hardly any social distancing.“There are a large number of vendors and visitors here. So, social distancing is not possible here. It can be implemented here if specific spaces are marked and there is a strict vigil,” said Mahesh Kumar, a customer. No one was present there to keep a check or manage the crowd.Some people were also spotted at the Sector 22 mobile market without wearing a face mask. “I think local residents are following the norms. Most of the people coming from outside do not wear a face mask as the authorities are not strict there like in Chandigarh,” said a shopkeeper.Social distancing was hardly witnessed at the underground mobile market in Sector 22. The market has narrow stairs and a number of people huddle together without waiting for others.“Even if five per cent people are not wearing a face mask in a public place, they can infect many. Police or volunteers/marshals should be deployed on a permanent basis, at least in the main markets. MC’s enforcement staff, who are present in the market, can also be given powers to challan violators,” said Mandip Kumar, a visitor to Sector 22.Similar scenes were witnessed at other public places, too. “People are not following social distancing. Initially, circles were drawn outside shops to maintain social distancing and people used to follow them. Now, people seemed to have forgotten about social distancing. In offices such as banks, there is not much space to follow social distancing,” lamented RK Garg, president of a senior citizens’ association.Narender Singh Rinku, president of the Sadar Market, Sector 19, said: “We ensure that all customers and shopkeepers wear a face mask. The police are also active here. They issue a challan if anyone is found violating the norms.”DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, PRO, UT Police, said teams formed by the UT Administration were keeping a check and the police were challaning people for not wearing a mask.“We will intensify our drive to penalise the violators. The government alone cannot enforce everything. People must voluntarily obey therules for their own safety,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-violations-galore-in-chandigarh-114806
19-07-2020||Amarjot Kaur||International mails limited to 35 countries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18The restrictions on international flights in view of Covid-19 have dampened the spirit of Raksha Bandhan for those looking forward to mail rakhis to their siblings abroad.According to the Chandigarh Postal Division, the number of countries where ‘rakhis’ (or any mail) can be sent by Speed Post this year has been reduced from 104 to 35. One can send international speed post to the US, the UK, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and China but not to Sri Lanka, Nepal, Pakistan, UAE and Saudi Arabia.January onwards, the division has sent 13,369 international posts so far.“Because of Covid and restrictions on international flights, the speed post is being sent via cargo planes and the flights are few and far between. The list of countries for international speed post has been decided by the Centre,” said Manoj Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Post Office, Chandigarh Division.This year, instead of ordinary post or registered posts, rakhis can only be sent to foreign countries via Speed Post. A 20-gram epistle to Australia costs Rs1,026 via Speed Post, while one had to shell out Rs25 for an ordinary post and Rs97 for registered post outside the country. The same epistle to Canada costs Rs1,392 through Speed Post while to the UK it can cost Rs1,640.List of countriesAustralia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Mexico, Myanmar, Netherland, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, UK, Ukraine, USA and Vietnam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/international-mails-limited-to-35-countries-114807
19-07-2020||---||Rain likely till July 21: Meteorological Department||Chandigarh, July 18Monsoon is expected to be active again in the tricity from the intervening night of July 18 and 19 till July 21.“In view of the expected influence of western disturbance, active monsoon conditions are likely in the tricity from the night of July 18 till July 21. Moderate rainfall (2-4 cm) is likely in many parts of the region. Some areas may see heavy to very heavy rainfall (more than 12 cm),” read a press release issued by the Meteorological Department.The spell of rain is likely to be accompanied by thunderstorm/lighting and gusty winds. Wind speed could be exceeding 45 kmph at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-likely-till-july-21-meteorological-department-114808
19-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Extensive sampling, contact tracing afoot in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 18Taking no chances in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the rate of sampling has been intensified and extensive contact tracing is afoot by the Mohali administration so as to curtail the spread of the virus.With the sudden spurt in the Covid-19 cases, the administration sought more employees from other departments to serve as support staff to strengthen the control room and record the date of inbound travellers.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We have seen a surge in the coronavirus cases in the past two weeks. So, we felt the need for more support staff. We have increased the workforce and called employees from other departments to serve as support staff to strengthen the control room and record the data of inbound travellers”.Dayalan said they had ensured that none of the departments could call back employees on its own. They would have to take permission from the Chief Secretary.Recently, departments such as PUDA, GMADA, MC, Public Health, Education and Excise had called back their employees, who were attached with the Mohali administration as support staff for carrying out day-to-day affairs during the pandemic.Dayalan said the need of the hour was to identify those persons who were hiding after coming from other districts so that they could be put under isolation or quarantine.They need to do extensive sampling, especially in areas where a large number of fresh cases were emerging. Door-to-door checking and sampling would be done for which extra support employees were required.Private hospitals, including Fortis and Max in Mohali, were extending home care plans. Hotels that have made available rooms for self-isolation are Hotel Wood Crest, Zirakpur, JD Residency, Mohali, Rockland, Zirakpur, Black Diamond, Zirakpur, Royal Park, Zirakpur, Arista, Kharar, and Hotel Zodiac, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extensive-sampling-contact-tracing-afoot-in-mohali-district-114809
19-07-2020||---||Telecom operator fined Rs10K for deficient service||Chandigarh, July 18The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed a private telecom operator to pay Rs10,000 to a local resident for deficiency in service.In a complaint, Payal Garg, a resident of Sector 48-B, Chandigarh, submitted that she was using a mobile connection of Airtel. Vodafone Idea Limited (opposite party) floated an advertisement that if any consumer would pay Rs499 per month in the post-paid connection then the company would issue the insurance of their handset for 12 months. Accordingly, the complainant ported her connection from Airtel to Idea and started using its services since September 16, 2018.The handset of the complainant stopped functioning and accordingly, the father of the complainant approached the opposite party on March 2, 2019, with a request to consider the handset under insurance. At that time, the representative of the opposite party told the father of the complainant that the handset was covered under the Nirvana plan and requested him to wait for 2-3 days and in the meantime, they would send their technical expert to collect the defective handset.The father of the complainant waited sufficiently, but to no avail.In reply, the opposite party pleaded that there was a set process of subscribing to the Idea Phone Secure service and the complainant never completed the said process of registration on the Idea Phone Secure App. The opposite party was only a medium between the insurer (New India Assurance Company Limited), the insured and the beneficiary/user.The forum observed, “If the opposite party can charge the amount for the purpose of alluring its customers to get them ported from any other portal to their own, it was the foremost duty of the opposite party only to get in touch with its consumer (complainant herein) whether she has been properly registered with the insurance company or not.”The complainant was never in touch with the insurance company rather the services were provided by the opposite party only, stated the forum and directed it to pay Rs10,000 on account of deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment to the complainant and to pay Rs7,000 as cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/telecom-operator-fined-rs10k-for-deficient-service-114810
19-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Overflowing sewage, congress grass bane of Phase X residents||Tribune News Service Mohali, July 18 Residents of Phase X fear an outbreak of vector-borne diseases as sewage in front of their houses has been overflowing for the past around two weeks.  Harpreet Singh, a resident, said car repair shops had kept broken cars and bikes in the parking lot of the area, thereby causing inconvenience to the residents. He said shop owners also washed cars of their customers, resulting in stagnation of water, which could further pose a health risk. He said heaps of garbage, including plastic bags and other material, had accumulated at the spot and congress grass and other weeds had completely taken the green space.  Harpreet said they had planted two gulmohar plants in the area, which had now been uprooted by employees of car repair shops.  The residents claimed that they had even complained to former municipal councillor Gurmeet Singh Walia, but nothing had been done so far.  However, Walia said he also lived in the same locality and no one had complained to him in this regard.  Sarabjit Singh, another resident, said, “Eating joints in front of our houses have made the situation from bad to worse as people come in their cars and after eating food, leave the leftover in the area. This has led to stray dog menace because of which women and children can’t go out.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overflowing-sewage-congress-grass-bane-of-phase-x-residents-114811
19-07-2020||---||Mohali wins 5 gold certificates in Mission Fateh warrior contest||Mohali, July 18 With the active involvement of district heads of all departments, Mohali has been successful in enrolling Mission Fateh warriors in the district.  Additional Deputy Commissioner Aashika Jain said as many as 24,711 Mission Fateh warriors from Mohali had enrolled on COVA app and were engaged in awareness generation on Covid-19 safety protocols. She said the volunteers had bagged five gold, 10 silver and 38 bronze certificates in the contest.  Aashika said the Mission Fateh warriors’ contest aimed at roping in maximum volunteers to spread awareness on checking the spread of Covid. The contest, which was launched on June 17 for a period of one month, has now been extended by two months and a next higher level of diamond certificate had been introduced. During this two-month period, the Punjab Chief Minister shall continue to award weekly bronze certificates, fortnightly silver certificates and monthly gold certificates. Motivating the volunteers to carry on awareness generation with full vigour, Aashika said that the government could not contain the pandemic alone. People’s support was a must, so they should make united efforts to stem out the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-wins-5-gold-certificates-in-mission-fateh-warrior-contest-114812
19-07-2020||---||Panchkula to use antibody kits in containment zones||Panchkula, July 18 To check the spread of Covid-19, Panchkula health officials will start using antibody kits for testing in containment zones and Haryana government offices. This comes in the wake of sudden spike in cases in the district, mainly detected from clusters such as ITBP in Bhanu, CRPF in Pinjore, Ashiana Complex in Sector 19 and Department of Medical Education and Research in Sector 16. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “By using antibody kits, we intend to identify the infected quickly to prevent the spread of the virus. We have received 500 antibody serum immunoglobulin kits to detect proteins to examine whether the body has tried to fight the virus.” She said containment zones would be their focus. Antibody kits will be used in Haryana government offices that are majorly attributing to Panchkula’s case load.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-use-antibody-kits-in-containment-zones-114813
19-07-2020||---||Chandigarh reports biggest single-day spike with 31 fresh infections||Chandigarh, July 18A 55-year-old woman of Ram Darbar tested positive for Covid post-death, raising the UT toll to 12. The city also recorded its biggest single-day spike in cases today with 31 persons being found infected with the virus. Earlier, the biggest jump in Covid count was reported on July 13 when 29 fresh cases were reported from the UT.The Ram Darbar woman was brought dead at the GMCH-32 on July 16. She was sampled and has tested positive for Covid. She had undergone abdominal surgery a few years ago. She developed a severe abdominal pain for which she was taken to the GMCH-32.Among the fresh cases, three were reported from the PGI. Two men, aged 64 and 58, who live on the PGI campus, and a 42-year-old staffer, who lives in Sector 37, were found infected with the virus. While the PGI residents are contacts of a previously positive case of the hospital, there is no confirmation about the source of infection in case of the Sector 37 resident, a nursing officer posted in the Blood Bank. He has been placed under home isolation. The 58-year-old is an electrical technician with the engineering department of the PGI.A 58-years-old man from Mani Majra and an 11-year-old girl of Sector 44 also tested positive for Covid. Three members of a family residing in Sector 25 too contracted the virus. They are a 55-year-old woman, an 11-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy.In Sector 29, six persons of a family had contracted the virus. They are two men, aged 45 and 60, two youths, aged 26 and 22, and two women, aged 45 and 55.Four persons living in a house at Sector 32 also tested positive for Covid. They are an 18-year-old girl, a 21-year-old woman, an 18-year-old boy and a 40-year-old man.Three members of a family residing in Sector 27 — a 22-year-old youth, a 62-year-old woman and a one-year-old girl — too tested positive for the virus.A 37-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman of Dhanas, two women of Ram Darbar, aged 40 and 68, a 69-year-old man of Sector 35, two men of Sector 41, aged 36 and 59, a 52-year-old man of Sector 33 and a 68-year-old man of Daria were the other patients.Most of the cases are family contacts of previously diagnosed patients.Over a rise in the Covid cases, UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said testing had increased. He added that people were not caring about social distancing and since markets had opened, contacts had increased.Five recoverFive patients defeated the virus and were discharged from different health facilities in the city. They recuperated at the PGI, Sood Dharamshala and Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-with-31-fresh-infections-114822
19-07-2020||21 new cases||Two fatalities in Mohali, one in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 18Mohali saw two Covid-19 fatalities today, raising the toll to 11. Besides, 21 fresh cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 513.A 43-year-old man, a resident of Preet Colony, Zirakpur, died of Covid at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh. He was diabetic. An 82-year-old man of Kharar died at the PGI, Chandigarh. He was admitted to the PGI on July 12 with acute hypertension and had tested positive for the virus.The district health authorities today sealed both Sohana Multi-Specialty Hospital and Eye Care Hospital after seven staff members of the hospitals tested positive for the infections.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the staffers found infected were five women, aged 27, 22, 23, 26 and 50, and two youths, aged 22 and 29. Yesterday, four staff members of the hospital were found infected, he added.Dr Manjit Singh said two men, aged 34 and 48, a 17-year-old girl and a 20-year-old woman of Sector 125, Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 55-year-old man of AOM Enclave, a 52-year-old man of Motia Regal, Dhakoli, a 65-year-old man of Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, a 30-year-old woman of High Land Park, Zirakpur, two women, aged 29 and 49, and a 27-year-old youth of Sector 69, a 35-year-old man of Mohali, a 25-year-old youth of Kharar and a 39-year-old man of Peer Muchalla were others to test positive for the virus.The Civil Surgeon said eight patients were cured of the virus and discharged from the hospital, taking the total recoveries in the district to 318. There are 184 active cases in the district.Meanwhile, some patients, who have been quarantined, alleged that they were being harassed and threatened by some unidentified callers. They said screenshots of their reports had gone viral and the unidentified miscreants were making threatening calls on their landline phones.The Civil Surgeon said the lab test reports were being received from 35 centres and the staff had been directed not to reveal the identity of anyone. He said patients should not worry about the calls and take proper treatment and rest to get cured. They should take it as social stigma, he added.Two more contract virus in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two more persons tested positive for Covid on Saturday, taking the district tally to 243. A 27-year-old youth of Sector 15, who works at the office of HARTRON in Sector 2, and a 32-year-old employee of the Haryana Public Service Commission, Sector 4, contracted the virus. The youth is said to have got the infection at the HARTRON office in Sector 17, Chandigarh, where he had gone to attend a meeting. Meanwhile, partial but “larger” areas in Maheshpur and Ashiana Complex in Sector 19 have been sealed to prevent the virus spread. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fatalities-in-mohali-one-in-chandigarh-114823
19-07-2020||---||Chandigarh Railway Station gets mask, sanitiser dispenser||Chandigarh, July 18The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) has installed a digital Covid-19 precaution kiosk for automatic vending of masks, sanitisers and gloves at platform number 1 of the Chandigarh railway station.IRSDC Chief General Manager Balbir Singh said the machine had been installed at all five railway stations, which are being developed by the corporations, across the country. “The idea is to make Covid-19 precaution gear available to passengers and Railway staff, whosoever visits the platform,” he said.The machine has been installed on a licence fee basis to a Maharashtra-based vendor - M/s Ladder 2 Rise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-railway-station-gets-mask-sanitiser-dispenser-114828
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man falls from third floor, dies||Plantation drive by rotary clubChandigarh: The Rotary Club, Chandigarh, organised a plantation drive, in association with the Citizen Association, Sector 21, on Saturday. The purpose of the drive is to promote plantation of trees in other sectors also. Rotary Club president Pradeep Chopra said they had planted 500 saplings of various herbal/medicinal and flowering plants. Several rotarians participated in the event. TNS97 units of Blood donated at campChandigarh: The Thalassaemic Charitable Trust, PGIMER-GMCH, Chandigarh, organised a blood donation camp at the PGI, under the guidance of Dr Ratti Ram Sharma, Head, Department of Transfusion Medicine. Rajinder Kalra, member secretary of the trust, said 97 units of blood were donated during the camp and 23 prospective blood donors were rejected by doctors for not meeting prescribed fitness standards. Some blood donors came from far off places in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Kalra thanked and honoured all voluntary blood donors. He appealed to the public at large to come forward for donating blood to save the lives of thalassaemics and other needy patients. TNSCHC, Dhakoli, gets ambulanceZirakpur: Community Health Centre, Dhakoli, has been provided with an ambulance for the convenience of local residents. It has been a longstanding demand of the residents. Dera Bassi MLA donated the ambulance. tnsNew in-charge at Dhakoli police postZirakpur: Inspector Ashok Kumar has replaced Sumit Mor as the Station House Officer of the Dhakoli police station. He was earlier posted at Nayagaon. tnsTheft at furniture shop in BaltanaZirakpur: A shopkeeper in Baltana’s furniture market has complained to the police that Rs 35,000 have been stolen from the cash counter of his shop. CCTV footage showed that a youth escaped with the money when the shopkeeper had gone out. The police are investigating the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-falls-from-third-floor-dies-114829
