24-07-2020||---||19 new COVID cases in Mohali, tally up to 662||Mohali, July 24The total count of coronavirus cases in Mohali went up to 662 with the addition of 19 new cases even as 22 patients have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital on Friday.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 19 persons infected with the virus include a 57-year-old man from Phase 10, 50-year-old woman of Mauli Baidwan, 65-year-old woman of village Sohana, 63-year-old man from Sunny Enclave (Kharar), three men aged 24, 39 and 38 from Dhakoli, two men aged 32 and 38 from Derabassi, 41-year-old woman from Saidpura, 56-year-old woman of Sector 78, 23-year-old woman from Mullanpur, 46-year-old woman of Sector 70, 35-year-old woman of Banur village, 35-year-old woman of Park View Street (Kharar), and two men aged 38 and 62, a 4-year-old boy and a 57-year-old woman, all from Mundi Kharar, . Those discharged from the hospital include four men aged 42, 58, 67 and 32, a 52-year-old woman and a 6-year-old girl from Kharar.Three women aged 23, 64 and 28, and two men aged 50 and 34 from Derabassi, two men aged 52 and 49 from Nayagaon, 63-old-man from Sector 65, 58-year-old woman of Shivalik City (Kharar), two men aged 34 and 37 from Sector 80, 29-year-old man of Phase 1, three boys aged 4, 1 and 3 of Phase 9, and 53-year-old man from Jawaharpur.Dayalan also said that health teams have been deputed to take the samples of family members of positive patients and to trace their contacts. He said the patients infected with the virus had been admitted to the hospital.As of now there are 228 active cases in Mohali. The district has also registered 13 deaths, while 421 patients have recovered from the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-new-covid-cases-in-mohali-tally-up-to-662-117462
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||23 people test positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh||Twenty-three new coronavirus cases reported on Friday took Chandigarh’s infection tally to 823, officials said.More than a quarter---275---of Chandigarh’s cases are still active.Twelve of Friday’s cases---four of a family from Sector 30 and Sector 19, two people from Sector 42, one each from Sector 45 and 19---were all contacts of already diagnosed cases.Three of those who tested positive were in the high-risk age category, that is, over 60.  One was a child of 10.  Four people were released after recovery---three from Sector 50 and from Sector 25.The UT has recorded 13 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-people-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-117430
24-07-2020||Mohali||Gangster injured in encounter in Mohali's Kharar; three others arrested||Punjab Police’s Organized Crime Control Unit (OCCU) said they had arrested five gangsters after a brief shootout at Kharar’s Aman Homes.One of the suspects, Navdeep Singh, who also goes by the names Navi and Johan Butter---a native from Butter Kalan in Moga---was wounded in the encounter after police shot him twice on the leg.A police team that was led by AIG Gurmeet Singh Chauhan also found six weapons---a 9mm pistol, .30 revolver and some countrymade pistols---from the alleged gangsters. Police said later that they were tipped off about the suspects hiding in a flat in the area. The shootout lasted about 25-30 minutes, police said. AIG Gurmeet Singh Chauhan said that the suspects began to fire at them after they reached the place.Navdeep Singh was first taken to Kharar’s civil hospital, which then sent him to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, sources said.   Chauhan said Navdeep Singh was wounded when police fired in self defence. Navdeep Singh is believed to be a member of a gang led by Gagandeep Gagna and is suspected of being involved in a recent firing incident. He faces some 30 criminal charges---murder, extortion, robbery, escaping police custody and firing at a police officer---besides, and was declared a proclaimed offender in a 2012 case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-injured-in-encounter-in-mohalis-kharar-three-others-arrested-117406
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||JJP's office in Chandigarh's Sector 3 closed after cook tests positive for COVID-19||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) temporarily closed its headquarters here on Friday after a cook tested positive for COVID-19.Family members of the cook and some other staffers are also being tested, according to a party spokesperson.The cook has tested positive for COVID-19. He will be admitted to hospital for treatment, the spokesperson said.The party's headquarters in Chandigarh's Sector 3 have been closed for the time being, he said, adding that the entire premises are being sanitised.The spokesperson said the COVID-19 test report of the cook's son, who assisted his father, has come back negative. A clerk and another staff member have also tested negative.The cook's wife, a sweeper and his wife will also be tested, he said.He said the party is providing all assistance to the cook's family. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jjps-office-in-chandigarhs-sector-3-closed-after-cook-tests-positive-for-covid-19-117392
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Army jawan shoots self at Behlana||A 41-year-old Army jawan reportedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle at Behlana here last night.The victim has been identified as Sepoy Manoj Kujur, a native of Jharkhand.The police said the victim was on guard duty when he shot himself with an INSAS rifle. His colleagues rushed to the spot on hearing the gunshot. The victim was taken to the Command Hospital, Chandimandir, where doctors declared him brought dead.The UT police were informed about the incident in the morning. Meanwhile, his samples for Covid test were taken. The autopsy will be conducted at the GMCH-32 after the Covid test report. The police have initiated an investigation. “The motive behind the extreme step is yet to be established,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-jawan-shoots-self-at-behlana-117115
24-07-2020||---||Teenager held for raping 15-yr-old girl||Mohali, July 23 The police arrested a 17-year-old boy for allegedly raping and assaulting a 15-year-old girl here last night. The suspect is a resident of a village here. The victim’s brother, in his complaint to the police, stated that the suspect raped his sister several times and also assaulted her. The complainant said he left the house for work on July 20. When he returned home, he found his sister, a student of Class VI, lying unconscious in the room. Blood was oozing out of her forehead. The victim was shifted to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here. Yesterday, the victim told her brother that the suspect raped her for the first time on June 12. He again raped her on July 20 when she was walking in a park. The suspect also assaulted the girl after raping her. He threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anyone. Inspector Manphul Singh, SHO of the Phase 1 police station, said: “The suspect was arrested from his house last night. He was produced before a court, which sent him to a juvenile home. We are interrogating him.” A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 376, 323 and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teenager-held-for-raping-15-yr-old-girl-117117
24-07-2020||---||Axe on trees, PGI residents fume||Chandigarh, July 23 Residents of the PGI have objected sharply to the axing of trees near the workshop road (B Block) on the campus.  A resident said several trees were either being pruned or axed in the name of beautification. The drive to axe the trees was halted today, but it again began in the evening.  “Officials claim that they have permission to cut trees. In the name of beautification, the trees are being axed,” said Gaurav Shoeran, a resident and student. The officials concerned were not available for comments on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/axe-on-trees-pgi-residents-fume-117118
24-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees 13th death; 33 +ve||A 52-year-old man from Mohali died of Covid-19 here today, taking the district toll to 13.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the 52-year-old man, a resident of Sector 66, was admitted to Indus International Hospital on July 21. He was suffering from blood sugar. His samples were collected post-death and the report came out positive today.The district health authorities also sealed the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office in the District Administrative Complex, Mohali, after an employee, a resident of Sector 32, Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19.Confirming it, Sukhwinder Kumar, Regional Transport Officer, said the office had been sealed and sanitised. Other staff members of the department had been sampled. If their reports came out negative, they would open the office on Monday.Meanwhile, 33 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the total count in the district to 643.A 20-year-old man from Kharar, a 60-year-old man from Phase 3B1, a 52-year-old man from Sector 66, a 48-year-old man from Kishanpura, Dera Bassi, two women, aged 20 and 40, and a 17-year-old boy from Mundi Kharar, a 23-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman from LIC Colony, Kharar, and a 51-year-old woman from Malakpur contracted the infection.A 30-year-old man from Landran Road, Kharar, a 24-year-old man and a 20-year-old girl from Sector 66, a six-year-old girl and two men, aged 14 and 47, from Phase 3B2, a 36-year-old man from Phase X, a 57-year-old woman from Phase V, a 52-year-old man from Sector 68 and a 12-year-old boy from Phase VIII were found suffering from the contagion.A 35-year-old man and a 14-year-old girl from Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, a 35-year-old woman from Mohan Nagar, Dera Bassi, a 64-year-old man, an eight-year-old boy and two women, aged 64 and 42, from Gulmohar Extension, Dera Bassi, a 39-year-old man and a 19-year-old boy from Jawaharpur, a 28-year-old man from Phase 3A, and three men, aged 22, 38 and 14, from Sector 126, SBP Homes, were diagnosed with Covid-19.As of now, there are 643 positive cases in the district. While 399 patients have been cured and discharged, there are 231 active cases. Thirteen persons have died of the disease in the district.20 patients dischargedTwenty patients were discharged from the hospital after defeating the virus on Thursday. They are a 49-year-old man from Nayagaon, a 28-year-old man from Phase 1, a six-year-old girl and three women, aged 42, 32 and 50, from Kharar, a 29-year-old man and a 38-year-old woman from Phase 3B1, a 16-year-old boy from Peer Muchalla, a 60-year-old woman and a four-year-old boy from Mohali, a 25-year-old man from Kharar, a 27-year-old man from Mubarikpur, two men, aged 23 and 62, from Baltana, a 52-year-old man from Badala, a 59-year-old man from Phase 4, a 22-year-old woman from Kumbra, a 35-year-old woman from Sector 97 and a 50-year-old man from Sector 88. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-13th-death-33-ve-117120
24-07-2020||---||Lid off fake luxury car insurance policies||Chandigarh, July 23The UT police have arrested a Sector 25 resident, who used to allegedly prepare fake insurance policies of luxury cars.The police suspect the fake insurance policies were used to get vehicles registered with the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), Sector 17.A team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, nabbed the suspect, Suraj Pal (36), a resident of the Sector 25 colony. The police said Avneet Saini of Sector 44 had informed that he got his car’s insurance done from a person after paying him Rs 2,000. The suspect gave him an HDFC insurance, which he later found to be fake.Acting on the information, the police nabbed the suspect from outside the RLA office.The police seized 12 RCs of luxury cars, three fake insurance policies and a counterfeit stamp of a woman doctor of the GMCH, Sector 32.Luxury car owners used to approach the suspect to get fake insurance done in a bid to avoid high insurance costs.The police said they suspected that fake insurance policies were also used to get vehicles registered with the RLA.A case under Sections 420, 468, 472 and 474 of the IPC has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station. He was produced in a court today and remanded in one-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lid-off-fake-luxury-car-insurance-policies-117121
24-07-2020||---||20 more infected in Chandigarh, tally reaches 800||Chandigarh, July 23The city Covid tally today touched the 800 mark with 20 fresh cases. There are 256 active cases.The new cases include a 73-year-old woman of Mauli Jagran. She has three family members and two of them have been sampled. A 21-year-old youth of Sector 40 also tested positive for the virus. He has four family members. Three members of a family from Ram Darbar also contracted the infection. They are two girls, aged 12 and 14, and a 51-year-old man. They are family members of a previous positive case.A 43-year-old man of Sector 32 was also tested positive for Covid. He has seven family members and a maid, who have been sampled.Besides, five residents of Bapu Dham Colony — a 22-year-old youth, two women, aged 23 and 80, and two men, aged 52 and 62 — contracted the virus. They are family members of a Covid patient. A 63-year-old woman of Sector 61 too contracted the virus.She is a family member of an infected person. Three family members of a 23-year-old woman of Mani Majra were sampled after she tested positive. A 28-year-old youth of Dhanas is among the new Covid patients.Besides, a 40-year-old man of Sector 42, a 35-year-old woman and a five-year-old boy of Sector 32 and a 41-year-old woman of Sector 21 were found infected. They are family contacts of Covid patients.A 30-year-old man of Mani Majra is among the new patients. He is a workplace contact of patient from Panchkula. A 50-year-old man of Sector 38 also tested positive. He is a workplace contact of a positive case of Mohali and has three family members. Meanwhile, five patients were discharged from the hospital today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-more-infected-in-chandigarh-tally-reaches-800-117122
24-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Sportspersons await cash awards||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 23 The UT Sports Department has failed to release a single penny of awards declared for meritorious sportspersons in 2015. The decision was taken to prevent the local sportspersons from shifting to neighbouring states that offer higher prize money. It was announced that city players, who participate in Olympic Games, Hockey World Cup, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, Youth Olympic Games, Youth Asian Games, Youth Commonwealth Games and Afro-Asian Games, would be awarded higher amount than Punjab or Haryana on the day of achieving any position or participation. It was further announced that achievements in various events, including mountain climbing, trekking to the North/South Pole and many other activities of equal stature, would be considered for a cash reward on a case-to-case basis with the approval of the Adviser to the Administrator-cum-president of the Chandigarh Sports Council. For an Olympic gold, the cash prize was increased from Rs5 lakh to Rs6 crore and for national championships, the cash incentive for a gold medal was increased from Rs20,000 to Rs2 lakh. “I had applied in 2017 and waiting for the reward till date. Had it been some other state, this could have been one of the biggest lapses on the part of the authorities. The announcement was made in 2015 and was implemented in the same year. The following year, players started applying for it, but no one received anything from the authorities,” said a local sportsperson.  It was also announced that the local coaches, who did well at the international level, would get Rs1 lakh, Rs75,000 and Rs50,000 for gold, silver and bronze medal, respectively. The coaches performing well at the national level were to be awarded with Rs50,000, Rs30,000 and Rs20,000 for attaining the first three positions, respectively. Besides, the department also announced cash prizes to the players playing special, masters and paragames. “Since there has been no sports policy for Chandigarh, the only way to encourage coaches is with such kinds of cash awards. But the UT Administration fails even at this front. It’s been nearly two decades that the local coaches have been asking for a way to get promotions, but there’s no ray of hope. If the players were to be awarded on a par with Haryana and Punjab, it should have been approved first,” said a coach.  Sources said more than 12 sportspersons had applied under this programme.  A meeting of the executive committee of the Chandigarh Sports Council was held today. Sources said the matter to award players under the scheme was deferred by the panel. It had been proposed to consider and approach the Centre before taking a final call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sportspersons-await-cash-awards-117123
24-07-2020||---||Prepare auction notice for dhobi ghats, MC panel directs engineers||Chandigarh, July 23 Members of a committee constituted by the MC to generate revenue from dhobi ghats today visited various ghats in the city.  They were headed by councillor Shakti Parkash Devshali and accompanied by other officials. During the visit, the panel took stock of the infrastructure available at dhobi ghats, including those at Sectors 7, 15, 19 and Sector 22.  During the visit to the Sector 22 dhobi ghats, Ravi Kant Sharma, Senior Deputy Mayor, accompanied the panel.  The members suggested that the assessment report of repair and renovation be prepared and put up in the next meeting of committee. The panel found that all dhobi ghats are being run by societies, excluding the Modern Dhobi Ghat in Sector 15.  They found that out of eight dhobi ghats, only Modern Dhobi Ghat was paying monthly rent to the Municipal Corporation.  While other dhobi ghats being run by the societies are only paying electricity and water bills. No service rate list was found in these dhobi ghats.  The committee asked the engineers concerned to prepare an auction notice for these dhobi ghats situated at prime location in the city through e-tendering to generate revenue to the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prepare-auction-notice-for-dhobi-ghats-mc-panel-directs-engineers-117124
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||CSIO transfers technology for two products||The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here has developed two technologies to help mitigate the spread of Covid-19 infection through contaminated objects. These were transferred to the industry today for commercial manufacture and marketing. The first product is a ‘contactless automated hand sanitiser dispenser’, which will be manufactured by a Gurugram-based firm, Sukriti Lifesciences Private Limited, while the other is an ‘ultraviolet-c based disinfection system’ that will be made by DICCI Sahayog Enterprises Private Limited, Pune. The contactless sanitiser dispenser developed by Dr Paromita Guha, Kailash Chand and GD Bansal is claimed to be different from existing products as it is fireproof. The ultraviolet system developed by Kota Srinivas and Dr Robert Sam has the capability to produce accurate intensity of UV for effectiveness. It has four different models depending on the size of the objects to be disinfected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-transfers-technology-for-two-products-117125
24-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Motorists harried as beggars pester them sans precautions||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 23 A number of beggars functioning without any medical screening at various light points and junctions in the city is becoming a cause of concern for daily commuters amid the spike in Covid-19 cases. A majority of the commuters believe that beggars not only touch hundreds of vehicles, but also come in contact with drivers. The beggars are also not taking any precautions regarding Covid-19.  While it’s mandatory to wear a mask at public places, beggars are apparently paying no heed to this. The violations are taking place right under the nose of the UT Administration and the Chandigarh Police.  “The UT Administration should come forward to solve the problem. On one hand, residents are being asked to take precautions and on the other hand, the authorities have failed to spot groups that are coming in contact with hundreds on a daily basis,” said Prof Gurcharan Singh Gill. Meanwhile, senior officials of the UT Administration were unavailable for comment on the issue.  Among major affected by this problem are the junctions of Sector 45/51, Sector 35/34, Sector 17/18, Kisan Bhawan, Sector 29/30 and others.  “We have been watching these beggars working here on a daily basis and no one is really bothered. They stay on a nearby footpath and also cook their food in open. They have been more exposed to the danger of Covid-19, but no one has come forward to raise the issue,” said Preeti Vashisht, who daily commutes to Sector 35. The beggars are taking support of their toddlers, children and youngsters to carry out their activity.  “These beggars carry their toddlers to gain people’s sympathy despite the fact that children are more vulnerable. The authorities should give them a place or set up shelters for them and they should be screened in a proper manner,” said Deepti Gupta, a resident.  Notably, there has been no official data on the number of beggars in the city.  Not only beggars, but persons selling various goods at these junctions were also caught taking near to no precautions that are otherwise mandatory for all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motorists-harried-as-beggars-pester-them-sans-precautions-117126
24-07-2020||---||Hotel Mountview reopens today||Chandigarh, July 23 After four months, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) will reopen gates of its five-star Hotel Mountview for guests from tomorrow onwards. CITCO Managing Director Jasvinder Kaur said: “We are getting more cautious about our patrons and guests visiting coffee shop and banquets. We have put in all our efforts to make the property 100 per cent sanitised and safe for visitors to offer them an altered yet memorable service.” The new normal at the coffee shop and the banquets includes temperature check, change in the seating arrangement at restaurants and comprehensive disinfection mechanisms. While the coffee shop will remain open from 7 am to 10 pm, the banquets will be opened to hold gathering up to 50 persons. Amid coronavirus crisis, CITCO has revamped all service protocols to welcome guests with much fervour and keenness. Keeping pace with the present times, Hotel Mountview will strictly adhere to standard operating procedure to provide greater care to guests. The SOPs include temperature check on arrival for all residential and non-residential guests, masks are essential to proceed for check-in facility, luggage will be disinfected on arrival and guests will be encouraged to use online check-in facility. The entire hotel team members will be geared with safety masks, gloves and personal protection suits for the complete safety of guests. The entire hotel has already been disinfected and it will be done on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hotel-mountview-reopens-today-117127
24-07-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Fatehgarh Sahib reports 9 new Covid cases||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 23 Nine persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Fatehgarh Sahib today. The patients include a newly married couple of Mandi Gobindgarh, who voluntarily gave samples as they were supposed to go on honeymoon, two others from Mandi Gobindgarh, a doctor from Khamano, who works at Apollo Hospital, Ludhiana, another Khamano resident, one from Sirhind, one from Nandpur Kalour and one from Khera village. Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said all patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital.  He said the samples of all contacts of those found positive would be collected. He said the total positive cases in the district were 252 and only 67 were active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-reports-9-new-covid-cases-117128
24-07-2020||---||Chandigarh Sports Council doubles grants of sports assns||Chandigarh, July 23The Chandigarh Sports Council has decided to double the grants being given to various sports associations.This was decided at a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Chandigarh Sports Council held under the chairmanship of UT Adviser Manoj Parida to discuss various agendas.At the meeting, the council decided to increase the grant of sub-junior, junior and senior-level championship from Rs15,000 to Rs30,000, international tournaments from Rs2 lakh to Rs4 lakh, national tournaments from Rs1.5 lakh to Rs3 lakh and the North Zone All-India Championships from Rs50, 000 to Rs1 lakh.The council also decided to increase the kit money for the employees of Chandigarh Administration participating in the All-India Civil Services Tournament from Rs800 to Rs1,600.To recruit and retain good coaches, a decision has been taken to give performance-linked incentives, along with wages. It was finalised that new junior coaches will be recruited on a contract basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-council-doubles-grants-of-sports-assns-117129
24-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court begins process to declare cop a proclaimed offender||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23The CBI court has initiated the process to declare suspended inspector Jaswinder Kaur of the Chandigarh Police a proclaimed offender in a bribery case.The court, in the order issued today, said the accused was deliberately absconding and concealing herself to evade arrest despite having the knowledge of the proceedings initiated against her in the case. The court issued the order after the CBI moved an application to initiate proceedings against her under Section 82 of the CrPC.Public Prosecutor KP Singh told the court that despite issuing fresh non-bailable warrants, Jaswinder Kaur could not be traced and remained incommunicado. The court said in view of this, a proclamation under Section 82 of the CrPC should be issued requiring the accused to appear before it on August 29 at 11 am. For this purpose, a CBI official is directed to publish proclamation on or before July 27.The court said Jaswinder Kaur had also filed an anticipatory bail with the court, which was dismissed on July 10. She also filed an anticipatory bail application before the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the same was also dismissed vide order dated July 21.Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, a Mani Majra resident, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-begins-process-to-declare-cop-a-proclaimed-offender-117130
24-07-2020||Naina Mishra||Parents unwilling to send kids to schools: Chandigarh Education Department  tells MHRD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23In response to suggestions sought by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) from parents about reopening of schools, the UT Education Department has submitted that parents in the city are unwilling to send younger children to school.However, parents whose wards are studying in Classes X and XII have given their consent to allow their children to be called to schools in small groups anytime between August 15 and 31.On July 17, the Union Ministry had written to the education secretaries of all states seeking feedback of parents regarding reopening of schools. The ministry had asked the respective State Education Departments to tell the likely period when parents will be comfortable with reopening of schools – August, September or October? The states were asked to submit reply to the Union Ministry by July 20.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director School Education, UT, said: “As we were running short of time, we asked school principals to take suggestions from parents rather than collating feedback from them individually. The parents suggested that they are unwilling to send younger children to school. However, parents have agreed that students of Classes X and XII can be called to schools in small groups by mid-August. We have also proposed to the Ministry of Home Affairs to start these classes by August 15. We will decide as per the Centre’’’’s directions.”Arvinder Sharma, a parent, said: “Students below the age of 13 are more vulnerable to Covid-19. So, they should not be allowed to come to school. Their online classes are going on efficiently.”Sanjay Verma, another parent, said: “Schools should be opened once the government gives an affidavit that Covid-19 is no more an epidemic and no student will get affected in the school.”Parents of class x, xii students willing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-unwilling-to-send-kids-to-schools-chandigarh-education-department-tells-mhrd-117131
24-07-2020||---||Bidders can pay online for e-tenders||Chandigarh, July 23 In order to bring transparency in the e-tendering process, the UT Administration has introduced an online payment option for all e-tenders.  The process allows the bidders to deposit the earnest money of all e-tenders floated by the Administration online. An official said the system had been developed by the National Informatics Centre  to integrate the online payment system with the e-tendering process. Earlier, the tenders were floated online and details were also available online, but the bidders had to deposit the earnest money physically. Now, the bidders will not have to make any demand draft to deposit the earnest money, but they will be able to submit it online with the click of a mouse. By depositing the earnest money physically, the identity of the bidders was exposed and it was easy to find out how many bidders had come to participate in the tendering process, said the official. He said in several cases, it had come to notice that many bidders were pressured to withdraw their bids after their identity was revealed.  To protect the identity of the bidders, the Administration had decided to stop this process and start online deposit of the earnest money, he added.  Under the new process, all papers will also be submitted online. Earlier, several documents along with the tenders were deposited physically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bidders-can-pay-online-for-e-tenders-117132
24-07-2020||Mohali||2,500 litres of pure spirit seized in Dera Bassi||The district administration and the Excise Department in a joint operation recovered 2,500 litres of pure spirit stored illegally in a godown in Dera Bassi this evening. During a search, a team of the Excise Department recovered 12 barrels each containing 200 litres of pure spirit stored in the godown. The Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner said the owner of the godown failed to produce the requisite documents and the licence for the storage of pure spirit. The department seized the barrels and informed the police about it. The Excise Department suspects that the illegally stored pure spirit was to be supplied for manufacturing country-made liquor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-500-litres-of-pure-spirit-seized-in-dera-bassi-117133
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Home Guards volunteer attempts suicide||A Home Guards volunteer of the UT police reportedly tried to commit suicide by taking poison at Sarangpur today.The police reached the spot and rushed the voulnteer, identified as Harvinder Singh, to the PGI where his condition is said to be serious. He is currently posted at the Sarangpur police station.He had earlier worked under Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who was recently booked by the CBI in a graft case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-guards-volunteer-attempts-suicide-117134
24-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali man booked for cheating friend of Rs 55L||The police have booked a person for allegedly duping his friend of Rs55 lakh on the pretext of seeking financial help. The suspect has been identified as Balvir Singh, a resident of Phase I, Mohali.Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 20, Chandigarh, in his complaint to the police, stated that Balvir was his good friend for the past 15 years. The suspect sought Rs50 lakh from him on the pretext of sending his daughter abroad. He stated that he had to show funds in his bank account for the purpose.Pradeep said he gave money to Balbir in instalments, but he did not return it despite requests. Balbir again sought Rs5 lakh from the complainant on the pretext of getting a bank loan. He assured him of returning the entire amount (Rs55 lakh) once the loan was sanctioned, but to no avail.The complainant alleged that Balvir later stopped responding to his calls. When he tried to contact his family members, they too threatened him of committing suicide, if he demanded money from them.On May 13, the suspect also signed a self-declaration form in which he mentioned that he would return the entire amount till July 2, but to no avail.Pradeep submitted a complaint to SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, following which a case was registered against him under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station.Inspector Manphul Singh said: “A raid was conducted on the house of the suspect, but he was not present there. Balvir, who is at large, will be arrested soon. It came to fore that another cheating case was also registered against him in the past.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-man-booked-for-cheating-friend-of-rs-55l-117138
24-07-2020||Panchkula||Biker run over in Panchkula||Two nominated to PU SenateChandigarh: M Venkaiah Naidu, Vice-President of India and Chancellor of Panjab University, has nominated Dr Suresh Tandon, former vice-chairman, Punjab School Education Board, and Prof Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council, as PU fellows for the present term of the Senate. The terms of the current Senate will end on October 31. They have been nominated against vacant seats after Prof Shelly Walia and Prof Amita Rishi resigned. TNSPetroleum dealers want vat reducedMohali: Petroleum dealers in Mohali on Thursday urged the Punjab Government to bring VAT rates on a par with Chandigarh and other states. They held a condolence meet for dealer GS Chawla, who reportedly committed suicide on Wednesday. Ashwinder Singh Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association, said the reduced VAT would help in the revenue growth for the Punjab Government and the beleaguered petroleum trade shall revive. Chawla had been fighting a battle for VAT equalisation in petroleum products on a par with neighboring states for the past 15 years with successive governments. TNSRemove mobile towers: MC chiefChandigarh: KK Yadav, MC Commissioner, on Thursday ordered the removal of four towers put up by a mobile company in the city. “The company has erected various towers illegally without taking prior permission from the MC. A notice was issued to the company for removing its towers and the last date for removal is July 23, but no action has been taken by the company so far,” read the order issued by Yadav. Thus, the towers erected are liable to be removed. They have been put up at the Industrial Area Phase I, near Elante mall, near pumping station in Sector 28 and Kishangarh community center. The committee set up to remove the towers has been directed to demolish them in three days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-run-over-in-panchkula-117139
24-07-2020||---||Mohali bizman ends his life at Red Bishop Hotel||Panchkula, July 23A 75-year-old resident of Mohali, Gurkirpal Singh, owner of Chawla petrol stations in the tricity, reportedly committed suicide last evening by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at Red Bishop Hotel in Sector 1 here.The matter came to light after he stopped responding to calls from his driver accompanying him, who eventually had to break the door to enter his room.The hotel staff said he was staying in room number 2 and checked in the hotel around 7.40 pm and paid the accommodation amount through a credit card.The police claimed a suicide note was recovered from the spot in which the victim alleged harassment at the hands of senior officials of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and stated that he was suffering losses in his business due to them.Sub-Inspector Rakesh Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 7 police post, said, “He ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan though the actual reason of death will be confirmed after the post-mortem. Family members told us he was depressed over financial woes. Our investigation into the matter is on."Ram Niwas, the receptionist at the hotel, said, “The driver was constantly receiving calls from the victim’s family members, who wanted to know his whereabouts. The restlessness was apparent on the driver’s face. Suddenly, he went to check up on him. He knocked at the door, but the victim didn’t respond.A worried driver came to the reception and narrated the ordeal.“We tried to contact the victim through intercom, but again met with no response. I informed my in-charge (manager). We informed the police. However, the driver couldn’t wait for the police to arrive. He broke open the door and found the victim’s body hanging from a ceiling fan,” he said.The body was handed over to the family after the autopsy at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC was registered in the matter and an investigation is on.Had sought ‘nod for suicide’ in September lastThe Mohali-based businessman had, in September last year, written to the Punjab Governor and UT Administrator seeking “permission to commit suicide” as he had suffered losses due to disparity in the fuel prices in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. He had said the successive reduction in VAT by the Chandigarh Administration had resulted in the loss of 80 per cent of his business. In this regard, he had also sent a complaint against the UT Administration to the President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India, Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana, Punjab Chief Minister and other important functionaries of the central and state governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-bizman-ends-his-life-at-red-bishop-hotel-117142
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||City lad in Kashmir FC||Local lad Arshdeep Singh will now play for Lonestar Kashmir FC in the upcoming domestic football season.According to the 26-year-old midfielder, he is training hard to gain his peak form before the start of the I-League. “During this lockdown, I am training hard,” said Singh.He had missed the previous seasons due to a knee injury.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-lad-in-kashmir-fc-117143
24-07-2020||---||12 fresh cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, July 23Twelve fresh cases of Covid were reported from the district today.The new patients include a 30-year-old man of Sector 25, a 33-year-old man of Saketri, a 35-year-old man of Sector 7 and a 37-year-old woman of Sector 21. Two residents of Sector 20 — a 25-year-old youth and a 24-year-old woman — also tested positive.Two men aged, 30 and 32, two women, aged 45 and 30, a 15-year-old girl and a four-year-old boy of Pinjore also contracted the virus.The reports of 12 persons from outside the district also came positive today.Confusion over Covid countThe daily Covid bulletin stated that Panchkula now has 369 cases, leaving room for confusion. Yesterday, the tally stood at 349 while 12 fresh cases were reported today.The CMO, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “The numbers have gone up due to reconciliation of the Covid data by an ISDP team. Hopefully, today’s data will be the baseline for future count.”DM orders testing of officialsDistrict Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today issued an order for conducting random sampling and testing of government employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-117215
