29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases; reports 44 new infections||Chandigarh reported 44 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday---the biggest single-day spike yet for the union territory---an evening medical bulletin showed.  Twenty-eight of the 44 who tested positive were contacts of already diagnosed cases---mostly family members. Six of these cases came from Khuda Lahora, five from Sector 44, two from Sector 20, four from Dhanas, two from Sectors 47 and 41, one each from Sectors 7, 42, 22, 19, and Kishangarh. Apart from this, contacts of previously diagnosed cases also tested positive in Dhanas and Sector 32.Eight of those who tested positive were over 60---of these, five over 65 and three over 70.Of the remaining cases, three of a family tested positive in Sector 46. Sectors 16, 23, 26, 40, 41, 42, 45, 49, 55, Raipur Khurd, Khuda Jassu and Ram Darbar all reported a case each.Chandigarh now has 978 cases, more than a quarter of which (353 cases) are now active. The UT has reported 14 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-biggest-single-day-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-reports-44-new-infections-119554
29-07-2020||Panchkula||Kalka man loses battle to virus, Panchkula toll two||The district reported one more Covid-19 fatality last night, taking the death toll due to the deadly virus in Panchkula to two.The deceased has been identified as a 58-year-old man from Kalka. He was shifted to Alchemist Hospital from the General Hospital, Ambala, on July 25. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said the patient was on ventilator and was also suffering from pneumonia.Meanwhile, four ITBP personnel were among 14 fresh cases reported from the district today, taking the count to 452.While three ITBP personnel who contracted the virus are aged 31, the age of the fourth is 30. Among the other patients are a 70-year-old woman and two males, aged 78 and 12, from Maheshpur, a 44-year-old man from Surajpur, a 52-year-old woman from Kalka, an 18-year-old boy from Bir Ghaggar and a 21-year-old woman from Sector 23, Panchkula.The Civil Surgeon said all patients had been admitted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. She said the process of isolating the family members of the infected patients was on. She said health teams had been deputed to trace the contacts of the infected patients so that they could also be isolated after taking their samples for testing.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said there were now 228 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-man-loses-battle-to-virus-panchkula-toll-two-119208
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two doctors of PGI, GMCH among 24 new cases in Chandigarh||Sector 22, 46 and 48, Mauli Jagran, PGI and Sarangpur have reported two cases each.Five cases surfaced in Sector 15 and one each in Sector 23, 32, 40 and 61, Hallo Majra, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas.Ten of the new patients are contacts of infected persons. Four work at hospitals in the city. Two of them are at the PGI — a 24-year-old youth, who is a junior resident of Internal Medicine, and a 52-year-old woman, an attendant. A 26-year-old male doctor at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 and a 53-year-old woman staffer at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 also contracted the virus. Four of the new cases are above 60 year of age — one of them is 85 years old.Meanwhile, 24 more patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total Covid recoveries in the city to 599. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-doctors-of-pgi-gmch-among-24-new-cases-in-chandigarh-119209
29-07-2020||Mohali||School board Controller of Examination’s office sealed||The office of the Controller of Examinations (CoE) of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has been sealed as the Controller has tested positive.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the staff of the controller had been home-quarantined. He said teams had been deputed to take samples of the Controller’s family members and contacts in the office. Dr Manjit Singh said 24 fresh positive coronavirus cases had surfaced in Mohali, taking the total count to 771. Five patients had been cured and were discharged from the hospital, he said.SDM recovers from virus, joins dutyMohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal and Extra Assistant Commissioner (under training) Deepankar Garg have defeated the virus and rejoined their offices. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Both officers were found Covid positive two weeks ago. They have fully recovered and have resumed their duties.”Those infected with the virus are a 20-year-old woman from Mubarikpur, a 22-year-old youth from Amlala, a 51-year-old man from Kharar, a 47-year-old man from Paras Panorama, Kharar, a 57-year-old man from Skynet Enclave, Zirakpur, a 28-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man from Mohali, three youths, aged 24, 29 and 23, from Dera Bassi, a 23-year-old youth from Kheri Jattan, Mohali, a 36-year-old man from Motiya City, Zirakpur, a 27-year-old youth from Dhakoli, a 34-year-old man from Mullanpur, a 43-year-old woman and two boys, aged 8 and 5, from Phase 2, Mohali, a 70-year-old man from Phase 7, Mohali, a 23-year-old youth from Sector 82, a 47-year-old man from Sector 127, a 30-year-old man from Padiala, a 78-year-old man from Phase 3B2, Mohali, a 50-year-old man from Baltana and a 25-year-old youth from Malakpur.The five patients who were discharged from the hospital were a 52-year-old man from Mundi Kharar, a 29-year-old youth from Boor Majra, a 24-year-old youth from Dera Bassi, and a 53-year-old man and a 47-year-old woman from Zirakpur.The district has so far seen 771 positive cases of coronavirus. While 470 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital, there are 287 active cases now. Fourteen persons have died of the disease in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-board-controller-of-examinations-office-sealed-119210
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh allows home isolation till test result||Now, suspected patients going for the Covid-19 test in the city laboratories will not be mandatorily isolated in the hospital as the UT Administration has changed the protocol for such cases. The revised protocol is aimed at ramping up testing in the city.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “As the number of cases is rising, we have decided to let patients choose home isolation after the Covid test rather than isolating them in a hospital.”Under the previous practice, those undergoing the Covid test were admitted to the hospital and were isolated in the communicable disease ward until their reports came. The process took at least one day and hence, slowed down the testing capacity of the UT.Mohali, on the other hand, was sending patients home after taking their samples. This also resulted in increased testing in Mohali as compared to Chandigarh. Testing in Chandigarh also slowed down due to the limited number of isolation beds in hospitals for suspected Covid patients.In the contingency plan, the UT Administration had talked about ramping up the sampling facilities in case of peak infection (3,000 cases) in the city.The UT had decided that in the case of peak infection, sampling facility would have isolation beds, preferably independent rooms, for about 12 hours between collection of the sample and receipt of the testing report.Under the new protocol, the examinee opting for home isolation will have to give an undertaking that he or she has space for isolating self at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-allows-home-isolation-till-test-result-119211
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rising crime raises safety concerns in Chandigarh||Post-lockdown, the city has witnessed various crime incidents, including two ATM thefts and a daylight gunpoint robbery, that has raised questions over security in the city.The daylight robbery of Rs3 lakh from a Western Union branch owner in Sector 27 has instilled fear among businessmen in the city.The incident has raised several questions over the safety of residents. The city has also witnessed two incidents of ATM theft, including an unsuccessful bid. The police are still groping in the dark in both cases.In June, an unidentified miscreant with his face covered had stolen Rs7.65 lakh from an ATM of the Union Bank of India. The suspect had opened the machine and stolen the money.A few days later, an attempt was made to break open an SBI ATM at the Sector 44 market on the intervening night of June 24 and 25.The miscreants had sprayed paint on a CCTV camera installed inside the ATM booth and had cut the alarm wire. However, they failed to break open the machine.The police are yet to make a headway in the recent crime incidents reported after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. A spokesperson for the UT police, DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, said police teams were working on all cases. “Whether these incidents are a fallout of a financial crisis due to the lockdown can only be established once the suspects are arrested,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rising-crime-raises-safety-concerns-in-chandigarh-119238
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sec 61 police post in-charge transferred||Two days after a prostitution racket was busted at Kajheri in Sector 52, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Sector 61 police post, the UT Police Department today transferred Sub-Inspector Mini Bhardwaj, in-charge of the police post, to the Police Lines. The transfer orders were issued by SSP Nilambari Jagadale.A prostitution racket was recently busted at a hotel in Kajheri after the ASP (South) got a tip-off following which a raid was conducted and 10 women were rescued. The local police were unaware about the prostitution racket being operated from the area.Meanwhile, Inspector Sri Parkash, who was posted in the traffic wing, has been transferred to the Economic Offences Wing. Inspector Gurjeet Kaur was transferred from the Police Lines to the traffic wing. Their transfer orders were issued by SP Manoj Kumar Meena. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-61-police-post-in-charge-transferred-119249
29-07-2020||Zirakpur||Ex-IAF officer falls to death||A retired Indian Air Force officer died after falling from the sixth floor of a housing society, Hollywood Heights-2, here today.The victim, Balwant Singh, 64, a resident of flat number 601, Tower A, fell off the balcony of his house around 8 am.In a statement to the police, the victim’s son, Karambir Singh, said his father was suffering from multiple ailments, including blood pressure. He was in mental stress for some time. In the morning, he felt dizzy while standing in the balcony of his house, fell down and died on the spot.The police handed over the body to the family members after post-mortem examination. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-iaf-officer-falls-to-death-119250
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Golden gesture: Eatery owner returns purse with Rs4L jewellery in Chandigarh||A 31-year-old Good Samaritan found a purse containing gold worth Rs4 lakh and returned it to its owner.Amandeep Singh, who runs Pizza Sailorz, a restaurant in Sector 23 here, saw a purse lying unattended outside the eatery on Sunday afternoon. He asked one of his workers to get the purse and decided to open it in front of the CCTV camera installed outside the restaurant and in the presence of other shopkeepers.There were nearly 75 gm of gold ornaments in the purse, he said, adding that he immediately asked jewellers in the market if they had any information about the owner of the ornaments. Several persons claimed to be the owner of the purse, but they could not give the exact number of the items in the purse, he said.Finally, a resident of Dadu Majra, an artisan who works with a goldsmith, reached his restaurant around 6 pm and gave the exact details of the items found in the purse, including Rs35 that were lying in it. In the presence of members of the Market Association, Amandeep handed over the purse to its owner, who had lost it while shopping in the market. The restaurant owner said, “I am relieved that I did a good job as taught by my parents.”Naresh Mahajan, president of the Sector 23 Market Association, said Amandeep had set an example for others. The association issued a letter of appreciation to the businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golden-gesture-eatery-owner-returns-purse-with-rs4l-jewellery-in-chandigarh-119251
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested for house thefts in Chandigarh||Two persons have been arrested for thefts reported from three houses in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, in June, when the residents of the houses were in institutional quarantine.The thefts had come to light on June 19 when a few residents, who returned home after completing their 14-day institutional quarantine period, noticed the locks of their houses broken. One of the residents had complained to the police that around Rs70,000, gold and other valuables were stolen from the house. The police had registered a case at the Sector 26 police station.The police nabbed one of the suspects, identified as Karan, a resident of the colony, on July 26. He was in the possession of some stolen items.The police came to know that one Suraj was also involved in the thefts. “Suraj was arrested recently in a case registered at the Mani Majra police station and was lodged at Burail jail, following which he was brought on production warrant,” said a police official. Both the suspects are on police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-house-thefts-in-chandigarh-119252
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University inter-college championship from November||Though the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) did not release any calendar to organise the north zone and all-India inter-university championships, the Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, announced to start organising inter-college championships from November.As per the schedule, inter-college (A-division) competitions of men and women for swimming, diving and water polo (men) will be organised during the first week of November, along with the competitions in archery, badminton, baseball (men), chess and cross-country races.In the second week of November, basketball, boxing, bridge, canoeing and kayaking, cricket, football, shooting, soft tennis, squash racquets and table tennis tournaments are scheduled for both men and women.During the third week of November, inter-college athletics, tennis and volleyball are scheduled to be organised, followed by judo and national-style kabaddi events in the fourth week.At the beginning of December, the authorities had decided to conduct circle kabaddi, cycling (road), cycling (track), fencing artistic gymnastic and rhythmic (women), kho-kho, hockey, freestyle wrestling and Greco roman (men) and freestyle wrestling (women) will be organised. In the second week, tournaments of handball and karate for both men and women have been slotted.After exams, the championships will re-start during the third week of January 2021 wherein in rowing, rugby, sepak takraw and taekwondo have been scheduled for the men and women category. The action will back in February as inter-college championships of netball (women), pencak silat, roller sports, softball (women), weightlifting and wushu have been scheduled for the first week. In the third week, two championships — gatka and golf — will be conducted, followed by yoga competitions in the first week of March 2021.B-Division and C-Division c’shipsFor the B-Division, the athletics championships will be conducted in the third week of November, followed by volleyball, basketball, football, kabaddi (national style) and cricket — all in the men’s category. Hockey and kabaddi (circle style) competitions will be conducted in December. The women’s basketball championship will be held in November, followed by other tournaments, including badminton, volleyball and table tennis. Inter-college kho-kho is scheduled for December, while yoga competition has been scheduled for March 2021. Meanwhile, in the C-Division, the competition of athletics will be organised in November, while all other tournaments have been scheduled for the second week of March 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-inter-college-championship-from-november-119279
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University admissions: 8K register for UG courses||Till date, 8,425 students have registered for taking admission to Panjab University undergraduate (UG) courses and 9,549 registered for postgraduate (PG) courses.In the undergraduate courses, 2,390 candidates have submitted their forms while 1,808 candidates have deposited the fee. As many as 582 candidates have completed their forms but not deposited the fee. A total of 1,032 registered for BA (Hons) (economics) and 507 of them deposited the fee, 1,313 registered for BCom (evening studies at Multi Disciplinary Research Centre) of which 454 have deposited the fee. For BA/BEd, 678 applied and 361 deposited the fee, for BA (evening studies) at Multi-Disciplinary Research Centre, 744 have applied and 347 have deposited the fee. In BA (Hons) five-year integrated programme, 620 have registered and 329 deposited the fee.For postgraduation courses, 2,443 have submitted their forms. As many as 514 have completed their form, but did not deposit the fee, whereas 1,930 have deposited their fee. For MA (psychology), 382 have registered and 247 submitted the fee. For MA (political science), 324 registered and 186 deposited the fee. MPharma (pharmaceutics) (regular course) has recorded 219 registrations and 143 have deposited the fee.MPharma (pharmacology) (regular course) reported 208 registrations of which 140 deposited the fee. In MA (sociology), 235 registered and 122 confirmed their seats by paying the fee.6K apply for collegesChandigarh: As many as 6,528 applications were received by the Director Higher Education (DHE) for admission to various colleges on Day 2 of the online admissions. For centralised courses, 3,080 applications were received and for other courses, 3,448 applications were received. A total of 1,636 applications were received for admission to BA courses in four government colleges, whereas for BCom, 1,524 applications were received. Around 640 students applied for BBA, 420 for BCA, 191 for BSc (non-medical) and 73 for BSc (medical). The cut-off for the courses will be decided later. The last date for the submission of forms for all courses is August 3 (Monday). The list of all applicants will be displayed on August 5 by 4 pm, while the submission of discrepancies by applicants will be allowed till August 7 by 1 pm. The list of eligible applicants will be displayed on August 8 by 4 pm. The list of colleges allotted to applicants will be displayed on August 13 by 5 pm. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-admissions-8k-register-for-ug-courses-119282
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||9 sports centres to open in Chandigarh||The UT Sports Department has decided to open nine coaching centres in Chandigarh.As per the orders issued today, the Secretary (Sports) approved opening football, hockey, basketball, cricket, gymnastics, handball, squash, skating and volleyball coaching centres.The coaches and managers at these centres have been asked to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) and other guidelines related to avoiding gathering or maintaining proper distance at these centres.According to officials concerned, the coaches have been asked to promote solo skill and fitness drills. The players, coaches and other staff will undergo thermal screening before entering the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-sports-centres-to-open-in-chandigarh-119283
29-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||13 +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib||Thirteen more persons tested positive for Covid in the district today.As many as 15 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, said Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal.Eight persons from Mandi Gobindgarh, two from Nand Pur Kalour, two from Bassi Pathana and one from Amloh town tested positive today. He said all positive patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital. He said the Health Department had started tracing the contacts of the patients. He said the area from where more than five cases were being reported was declared a micro-containment area and house-to-house survey was conducted in that area and samples of the residents of the area were collected. He said that till today, 16,725 samples had been collected and 298 had tested positive. He said that at present, only 86 were active in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-119285
29-07-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Wife among 4 held for murder in Fatehgarh Sahib||The Fatehgarh Sahib police claim to have solved the murder case, which took place on the intervening night of July 25 and 26 at Badali Ala Singh village. The wife and the brother of the deceased, along with their two accomplices, have been arrested.Amneet Kondal, SSP, told the media that the wife got her husband murdered due to her illicit relations with the brother of the deceased.She said on July 26, a body was found lying on a road. She said the police team, led by Bassi Pathana DSP SS Chauhan, reached the spot and the deceased was identified as Tarsem Singh (43) of Brass village. She said the police collected some evidence from the spot and a special team, consisting of SP (D), Bassi Pathana DSP and SHO Badali Ala Singh SHO, investigated the murder and solved the case in 48 hours.The SSP said during interrogation, it was revealed that the brother of the deceased, Sukhwinder Singh, and his wife Paramjeet Kaur had extra marital relations and they had planned to eliminate him. They also involved three other persons and promised them to pay Rs 50,000. She said the four suspects in the murder case have been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wife-among-4-held-for-murder-in-fatehgarh-sahib-119286
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Ramakrishna is CSIO Director||Dr S Anantha Ramakrishna joined as the Director, Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO), here today.Prior to this, he was a professor with the Department of Physics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur.Besides being conferred the Bhatnagar Award, he also has been honoured with the Swarnajayanti Fellowship, INSA Young Scientist Medal and Homi Bhabha Prize.Dr Ramakrishna said it was a privilege to lead the premier national laboratory dedicated to research, design and development of scientific and industrial instruments.He said he would strengthen the existing capabilities of the CSIO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-ramakrishna-is-csio-director-119287
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended cop Jaswinder Kaur seeks separate cell in jail||Suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur has filed an application before the CBI court, seeking directions to the Burail jail Superintendent to keep her separate from other prisoners whenever she is sent to judicial custody in the case.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will produce Jaswinder Kaur before the court tomorrow as her four-day remand comes to an end. In the application, Kaur said she had been working in the Police Department for the past 20 years and had been an investigation officer in cases against several inmates of the jail and they might plan taking a revenge or harming her in any manner.Jaswinder Kaur had surrender before the court after her bail applications were rejected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-cop-jaswinder-kaur-seeks-separate-cell-in-jail-119289
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Prostitution racket busted in Burail||The UT police have busted a prostitution racket operating from a hotel in Burail, Sector 45. The police rescued three girls from the hotel.The police said they got a tip-off regarding a prostitution racket operating from Hotel City Heart, following which a raid was conducted on the intervening night of July 27 and 28.The police first sent a decoy customer. As soon as the decoy customer made the payment, the police raided the hotel.Police officials said three girls, aged between 19 and 22, were rescued from the hotel.The police said two persons, identified as Pardeep Poodar and Jawahar Poodar, residents of EWS Colony, Dhanas, who used to operate the hotel on lease, two agents Puneet Kumar and Raju Kumar, both natives of Uttarakhand, who arranged the customers, and a pimp named Heena, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir, were arrested.All suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody. The girls were released after investigation. A case of immoral trafficking has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.This is the second racket busted by the police in less than a week. Earlier, a prostitution racket was busted in Kajheri, Sector 52.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prostitution-racket-busted-in-burail-119290
29-07-2020||Mohali||Labour shortage hits Kharar flyover work||Shortage of migrant labourers has hit the completion of the Mohali-Kharar flyover, which had missed several deadlines in the past.However, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) say they would meet the deadline as they have pushed in heavy machinery to meet labour shortage.Work delayed due to lockdownThe work has been delayed due to the lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the migrant workers returned to their native places after the work on the project halted. The district administration gave permission to the NHAI to restart the work on April 19.The National Highways Authority of India had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen & Toubro that began construction in November, 2015. It was to be completed by December 2018.After around four years, only 85 per cent of the work has been completed. The deadline to complete the work on the Kharar flyover has been extended by two more months to November.The work has been delayed due to the lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the migrant workers returned to their native places after the work on the project halted. The district administration gave the permission to the NHAI to restart the work on April 19.NHAI project director KL Sachdeva said: “The work is now going on at a fast pace despite the fact that we are facing labour shortage. Now, we have pushed in heavy machinery to make up for the time lost. Workers are working day and night to meet the deadline”.Sachdeva said earlier the work on the project was hampered due to the delay in the shifting of high-tension power cables. The power cables were shifted a month ago, which helped them in speeding up the work.The National Highway where the flyover is coming up connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck, with around 50,000 vehicles crossing the stretch daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labour-shortage-hits-kharar-flyover-work-119292
29-07-2020||Mohali||150 evacuees back from Sharjah||Twenty-sixth evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indians abroad, carrying 150 stranded Indian passengers from Sharjah arrived at the Chandigarh international airport today.The Air Indian flight carrying the stranded passengers arrived at the airport at 4.23 pm. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport. A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough or cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He said all passengers were asked by the Health Department teams deployed at the airport to take all precautions such as covering their face with a mask, using hand sanitisers, washing hands as much as possible and observing social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/150-evacuees-back-from-sharjah-119293
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panel to meet on August 4 to decide rates||The wait for employees of the UT Administration to own a house in the city may end soon. On the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, a meeting of the six-member committee to resolve the issue of rates of the UT employees housing scheme has been fixed for August 4.Dharmender, general secretary of the UT Government Employees’ Housing Welfare Society, said the issue of rate of the self-finance housing scheme was hanging fire for the past more than a decade.On a petition, the High Court had directed the Union Home Secretary to convene a meeting with the UT Adviser and the chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board to make efforts to resolve the issue and submit the report by next date of hearing. The High Court had also directed that three representatives of the petitioners may also be associated in the proceedings. The next hearing in the case has been fixed for September 1.The High Court had also made it clear that in case the court has ultimately to adjudicate upon the matter, it shall also examine the question whether responsibility of certain officers has to be fixed for creating the imbroglio. In such eventuality, it would order punitive action.Accordingly, a meeting has been fixed for August 4 to decide the issue, he said adding that Dr Brahma Prakash Yadav, Balvinder Singh and he himself would attend the meeting as nominees of the petitioners.The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful.Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built on land measuring 61.5 acres. Around 3,000 flats have to be constructed in Sectors 52, 53 and 56. Later, the scheme was shelved. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher. But the Ministry of Home allowed the Administration to transfer land to the CHB with the current collector rates.This has enhanced the cost of the flats manifold. The rates of the flats have been fixed at Rs50 lakh for Category D, Rs1 crore for Category C, Rs1.64 crore for Category B and Rs2.08 crore for Category A. When the scheme was announced the rates were only Rs34.70 lakh for Category A, Rs24.30 lakh for Category B, Rs13.53 lakh for Category C and Rs5.76 lakh for Category D.The employees then moved the High Court alleging that the Chandigarh Housing Board was charging five times the initial price for land after the launch of the scheme for UT Administration employees.Dharmender said they sincerely hoped that the meeting with the Home Secretary would yield fruitful results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-meet-on-august-4-to-decide-rates-119294
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Centre to provide 25 ventilators to PGI for Covid-19 ICU wards||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has decided to give 25 ventilators to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, for Covid-19 ICU wards.The institute has only 20 ventilators in the Nehru Extension Hospital, a designated Covid hospital for critically ill patients, whereas 18 patients are presently receiving intensive care treatment in ICUs.Out of the 18 patients in the ICUs, two are intubated, two on nasal prongs, one on ventilatory support, three on high flow nasal cannulas and one each on non-invasive ventilation, venti mask and ventilatory support.PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said: “The Centre has asked us about the need for ventilators. We had requested it in this regard. The Union Health Ministry has agreed to give 25 ventilators to the institute. These ventilators are of good quality and will be used in the Covid ward.”The PGI Director said: “The institute has around 180 ventilators for non-Covid serious patients. No more ventilators can be spared from any of the department as all of them are occupied. There are more than 85 serious patients in the Nehru Extension and at least 20 are in the ICU ward. It can get stressful if condition of patients on oxygenation deteriorates and they need ventilator support.”ICU provides intensive monitoring and intensive therapy. A ventilator is one part of intensive therapy. Initially, oxygenation is improved by giving non-invasive treatment. A ventilator is used when the heart and lungs have grown weak to perform the usual function.The PGI had recently received 10 ventilators from the UT Administration under the PM Cares Fund. The institute had reported certain faults with the ventilators provided by the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-to-provide-25-ventilators-to-pgi-for-covid-19-icu-wards-119295
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gaushalas seek civic body aid||As Covid-19 fear is keeping devotees away from city gaushalas, their managements have turned to the Municipal Corporation for financial help to run their operations.The MC is going to help the gaushalas through cow cess. The corporation has proposed to give Rs60 per cattle per day to Shirdi Sai Samaj to maintain the Maloya gaushala for three months due to the Covid pandemic. At present, it is getting Rs30 per cow per day.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said: “The Maloya management told us that due to the Covid pandemic, a few people are coming to the temple from where they are also operating the gaushala. So, we have proposed to give Rs60 per cattle per day to them for a temporary period. We are also giving Rs30 per day per cow to the Sector 45 gaushala. Cow cess is there for this purpose.”This agenda will be tabled at the MC House meeting for approval on July 30.Vinod Kumar, vice-president, Gauri Shankar Seva Dal, which is running the Sector 45 gaushala without any charges, said: “We got MC’s financial help for only one month. Like Maloya, we should also be provided help. Our volunteers have been visiting door to door in the city and Punjab for donation.”The MC runs two gaushalas in the Industrial Area and spends a huge amount on them.Opposition leader Devinder Singh Babla has been highlighting in MC House meetings that these gaushalas should be given to NGOs like in Sector 45 so that they run it without any charges.On this, the Commissioner said: “The Maloya gaushala management has told us that unlike Sector 45, they have locational disadvantage and less number of people come there. So, we have been giving them Rs30 per day per cow. While as far as our gaushalas in the Industrial Area are concerned, we will do the needful once we have our Raipur Kalan gaushala ready.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gaushalas-seek-civic-body-aid-119296
29-07-2020||Ambala||Ambala man, others stuck in Uzbekistan||Jasbir Singh (37), a resident of Suhana village of the Mullana segment of Ambala, reportedly got stuck in Uzbekistan, where he landed in March earlier this year to earn livelihood. Now, his family is seeking support from the Centre to bring Jasbir back to India.Gurnam Singh, Jasbir’s elder brother, said: “Jasbir, who works as a plumber, went to Uzbekistan to work on a project through a Mumbai-based company in February. After the shutdown there, he, along with other people, got stuck there. Jasbir has four children who are living with his wife. Earlier, he had worked in Saudi Arabia for three years and he returned last year. After staying here for four months, he got work in Uzbekistan. They are not getting food and water properly. The number of Covid patients is on the rise, but no one is paying attention towards them. There are around 1,400 Indians. They have prepared and shared a list of 229 persons with their passport and mobile numbers. They have not received salaries for the past two months.”“Earlier, they kept requesting the embassy there. After getting no response, they have now started seeking help from the authorities in India. I met Kurukshetra BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini on Monday and requested him to help my brother and other people stuck there. He has assured me to raise the matter with the higher authorities,” he said.A video is also being shared on the social media platform in which some men who are stuck there are seeking help from the Indian Government. In their appeal, the men claim: “We are trapped in Enter Engineering Company in Uzbekistan and we were sent through a Mumbai-based firm. Covid cases are on the rise here and nobody is listening to us. We don’t have any medical facility here. Nearly 10 people are staying in a room. We have no idea who is Covid positive among us. We also contacted the Indian embassy in Uzbekistan, but to no avail. We haven’t received any support. There are 1,400 Indians here from various states, including Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Kerala. The main management of the company has left. We have no idea whether we will get food or not in the coming days. We request the Indian Government to rescue us so that we can meet our families.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-man-others-stuck-in-uzbekistan-119297
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panel finds 25K tonnes of waste at processing plant||Residents of Dadu Majra and the neighbouring areas have a reason to worry as a committee of the MC has found 25,000 metric tonnes of legacy waste lying at the processing plant and has proposed to throw it at the garbage dumping site.The committee was constituted by MC Commissioner KK Yadav to monitor the day-to-day functioning of the waste processing plant.Committee findings to be tabled at meetingThe findings of the committee meeting, which was chaired by MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Kumar Arora, will be tabled at the House meeting on July 30.Rajesh Kalia, a committee member, councillor and former Mayor, said: “It will not be a problem as bio-mining of waste is being done at the dumping ground. Besides, we will not throw the entire 25,000 metric tonnes of legacy waste in one go. We can throw 500 or 1,000 metric tonnes of waste in a day. It will be done in a month’s time.”However, residents are against the move. “We are already facing inconvenience due to the foul smell emanating from the dumping ground. If this much of waste is dumped here, it will add to our woes. It should have been processed inside the processing plant,” said Harjinder Singh, chairman of a Resident Welfare Association.The committee also found a huge quantity of RDF and compost lying inside the plant. It is hampering the processing of waste due to the shortage of space. Jaypee Group, which was earlier running the plant, used to sell it to various agencies. Thus, these should be sold through e-auction.Besides, compost generated at the plant will be sold there only and also at a counter in the MC office, Sector 17. MC’s Horticulture Wing will also use it. The possibility of home delivery will also be explored. There was also a need to repair processing machines, the committee report said.The findings of the committee meeting, which was chaired by MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Kumar Arora, will be tabled in the House meeting on July 30.The committee was set up after the corporation took over the Jaypee Group-run waste processing plant in Sector 25 on June 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-finds-25k-tonnes-of-waste-at-processing-plant-119298
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman’s chain snatched||Snatchers target another womanChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a woman in Sector 21 on Tuesday evening. Sources said the 62-year-old woman was having an evening walk when the miscreants snatched her chain. The police were informed, who said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area would be scrutinised. TNSMC Singh is BSNL GM for cityChandigarh: MC Singh, an Indian Telecom Services (ITS) officer, has taken over the charge of the General Manager Telecom, BSNL, Chandigarh. Earlier, he was working as the General Manager Telecom, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh Telecom Circle, for the past six years. In 2016, he was honoured with a prestigious award, “Vishisht Sanchar Seva Padak”. TNSTubewell to be installedZirakpur: The proposed installation of a tubewell in Dhakoli village is set to get underway next week, ending the drinking water woes of around 20,000 residents here. Dashmesh Colony, Krishna Enclave-I, II, and nearby colonies in the village will get clean drinking water. TNSMan arrested under Excise ActPanchkula: The police have arrested a Hallo Majra resident, Satbir Singh, with 13 cartons of countrymade liquor in Sector 17 here on Tuesday. A case under the Excise Act has been registered at the Sector 14 police station. TNSTwo POs land in police netPanchkula: Two proclaimed offenders, Sagar Singh of Khadak Mangoli village and Virender of Bijalpur, were arrested on Tuesday. TNSOne nabbed in land grab casePinjore: The police have arrested a Manakpura Nanak Chand resident, Bahadur Singh, in a land grab case. Complainant Sunita Sharma, a resident of Lohgarh, Pinjore, stated that the suspect grabbed her plot and threatened her in February, 2018. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-womans-chain-snatched-119299
29-07-2020||Lalit Mohan||Poor Palampur youth needs Rs 10 lakh for surgery in Chandigarh||Tribune news serviceDharamsala, July 28Anchit Awasthi (26), who works as a labourer and is the sole bread earner in the family, is striving to collect Rs 10 lakh to save his life. A resident of Tetehal village, near Palampur, he is suffering from renal failure and requires immediate kidney transplant.Sole bread earnerAlthough his father has volunteered to donate one of his kidneys, the PGI, Chandigarh, is not taking patients due to the Covid-10 pandemic and the family is now forced to take treatment from Fortis, a private entity.Lalit Awasthi, uncle of Anchit, said earlier, they had approached the PGI, Chandigarh, as the treatment was cheap there. However, they were told by the hospital authorities that Anchit could not be operated upon for another three months due to the pandemic. “We had to take Anchit to Fortis, Chandigarh, which demanded Rs 8 lakh for kidney transplant. We have already spent Rs 1 lakh on tests for matching parameters of the father-son duo for the transplant,” he said.Lalit Awasthi said Anchit worked as a painter and was the sole earner in his family. “Since his family cannot afford costly treatment, we have appealed to residents of adjoining villages to extend help. We have managed to collect some money to pay initial expenses of the hospital,” he said.Satish Sharma, a social activist from Panchrukhi, has launched a social media campaign to raise funds for the treatment of Anchit.He said local BJP MLA Ravi Dhiman had assured to arrange Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh from the CM relief fund for Anchit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-palampur-youth-needs-rs-10-lakh-for-surgery-in-chandigarh-119274
